Governance: board performance report After the event, copies of speeches and presentations given at the Governance and the role of our board AGM are available to download via www.
com, together with the outcome of voting on the resolutions.
Governance is the system by which the companys owners and their The chairman and the board committee chairmen were present during representatives on the board ensure that the company pursues its dened the 2006 AGM.
Board members also met shareholders informally after purpose and only allocates resources to that purpose.
It is neither a the main business of the AGM.
In 2006, voting levels at the AGM process of compliance nor an additional level of management.
The increased to 64%, up from 62% in 2005. boards activity is focused on this task as the representative of BPs owners and it discharges this through actions that promote long-term Election of directors shareholder interest.
All directors stand for re-election each year, with new directors being BPs approach to governance is based on the connection between subject to election at the first opportunity following their appointment.
good governance and maximizing shareholder value.
We believe that good All the names submitted to shareholders for election are accompanied governance involves both clarity of roles and distinct skills and processes.
by a biography and an outline of the skills and experience that the The BP board governs the company on behalf of shareholders, while company feels are relevant in proposing them for the ofce of director.
management is delegated to the group chief executive through the board Voting levels from the 2006 AGM demonstrated continued support governance policies.
These policies use a coherent, principles-based for all our directors.
approach that ensures our board and management operate within a clear and efficient governance framework that places long-term shareholder interest at the centre of everything the company does.
How the board governs the company In maximizing long-term shareholder interest, the board exercises judgement when carrying out its work in policy-making, monitoring The boards governance policies describe its relationship with executive action and active consideration of group strategy.
While being shareholders, the conduct of board affairs and the boards relationship responsible to shareholders, the board also recognizes the need to be with the group chief executive.
The policies recognize the boards responsive to the interests of those with whom the company interacts.
separate and unique role as the link in the chain of authority between the shareholders and the group chief executive.
It is this unique task that gives the board its central role in governance.
Shareholders The board governance policies address the dual role played by the group chief executive and executive directors as both members of the Accountability board and leaders of executive management.
The policies require a The board, principally through the AGM, is accountable to shareholders majority of the board to be composed of independent non-executive for the performance and activities of the entire BP group.
To assure the integrity of the governance process, the takes steps to understand shareholder preferences and to evaluate relationship between the board and the group chief executive is governed systematically the financial, social, environmental and ethical matters by the non-executive directors, particularly through the work of the board that may inuence or affect the interests of our shareholders.
The board focuses on those tasks that are unique to it as a board, Dialogue reserving to itself the making of broad policy decisions.
It delegates Throughout the year, the chairman has regular meetings with institutional detailed consideration to either board committees and ofcers for board shareholders to discuss issues of governance and high-level strategy.
processes or to the group chief executive in the case of management of Shareholder dialogue is also undertaken by the group chief executive and the companys business activities.
The board governs BP through setting other directors, the company secretarys ofce, investor relations and general policy for the conduct of business and, critically, by clearly other teams within BP on wider issues relating to the operation and articulating its goals and by monitoring its implementation by the group financial performance of the company.
Presentations given by the chief executive.
company to the investment community are available on the Investor To discharge its governance function effectively, the board has laid section of www.
down rules for its own activities in a governance process policy.
Responsibility for implementing this policy is placed on the chairman.
Reporting This policy covers: BP uses a number of different reporting channels to provide feedback The conduct of members at meetings.
and accountability on the companys performance to shareholders.
These The cycle of board activities and the setting of agendas.
include the Annual Report and Accounts which now includes a business The provision of timely information to the board.
review, Annual Review, Annual Report on Form 20-F and announcements Board ofcers and their roles.
made through stock exchanges on which BP shares are listed, as well as Board committees, their tasks and composition.
BP seeks to promote the use of electronic communications Qualications for board membership and the process of the within its reporting methods, so all these documents are available via our nomination committee.
The evaluation and assessment of board performance.
The remuneration of non-executive directors.
AGM and voting The process for directors to obtain independent advice.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and use the opportunity The appointment and role of the company secretary.
to ask questions and hear the resulting discussion about BPs The delegation of authority from the board to the group chief executive performance.
However, given the size and geographical diversity of the and the expectations and limitations on that authority are set out in three companys shareholder base, we recognize that this may not always be separate board governance policies, which enables the board to shape practical and shareholders who are unable to attend are encouraged to BPs values and standards: use proxy voting on the resolutions put forward.
Board-executive linkage policy, which outlines how the board delegates in person or by proxy at shareholder meetings, is counted, because votes authority to the group chief executive and the extent of that authority.
on all matters except procedural issues are taken by a poll.
The company It also sets out how the performance of the group chief executive will has introduced a vote withheld option on the proxy form in order to be monitored.
comply with the revised UK Combined Code.
Board goals policy, which claries what the board expects the group vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of chief executive to deliver.
votes for and against a resolution.
Executive limitations policy, which defines the boundaries on how the group chief executive can achieve these results and requires that any Board independence executive action taken in the course of business considers internal controls, risk preferences, nancing, ethical behaviour, health, safety, Part of the qualication for board membership of BP is the requirement the environment, treatment of employees and political considerations.
that non-executive directors be free from any relationship with the companys executive management that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In the boards view, the nonAccountability in our business executive directors full this requirement and the board has determined that those who served during 2006 were independent.
All non-executive The group chief executive describes to the board how the expected directors are now subject to annual election and to date have received outcome and goals are intended to be delivered through regular business overwhelming endorsement at successive AGMs.
plans, which also encompass an assessment of the groups risks.
Sir Ian Prosser joined the board in 1997.
It is the view of the board that, During the year, the board receives updates on progress towards these despite having served for more than nine years, he remains independent.
outcomes through actual and forecasted results.
His experience and long-term perspective on BPs business have provided The group chief executive is obliged to review and discuss with the a valuable contribution to the board, given the long-term nature of our board all strategic projects or developments and all material matters business.
The board has specically requested that he remain chairman currently or prospectively affecting the company and its performance.
of the audit committee for the time being through the retirement of This key dialogue specically includes any materially under-performing Dr Byron Grote.
business activities, actions that breach the executive limitations policy Those directors who joined the BP board in 1998 after service on the and material matters of a social responsibility, environmental or board of Amoco Corporation Messrs Bryan, Massey and Davis are ethical nature.
considered independent since the most senior executive management The board-executive linkage policy also sets out how the group chief of BP comprises individuals who were not previously Amoco employees.
executives performance will be monitored and recognizes that, in the While Amoco businesses and assets are a key part of the group, the multitude of changing circumstances, judgement will always be involved.
scope and scale of BP since its acquisition of the ARCO, Burmah Castrol The systems set out in the board-executive linkage policy are designed to and Veba businesses are fundamentally different from those of the manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the goals or former Amoco Corporation.
observe the executive limitations policy.
They provide reasonable, rather The board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the than absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
independence of those directors who serve together as directors on the boards of outside entities or who have other appointments in outside entities.
Where necessary, our board ensures appropriate processes are The board: structure and skills in place to manage any possible conict of interest.
The board is composed of the chairman, nine non-executive and seven executive directors.
In total, four nationalities are represented on the Board directors: terms of appointment board.
The names and biographical details of the directors are provided on pages 65-66.
The chairman and directors of BP stand for re-election each year and, The board is actively engaged in orderly succession planning for both subject to BPs Articles of Association, serve on the basis of letters executive and non-executive roles, to enable the boards composition to of appointment.
Executive directors of BP have service contracts with be renewed without compromising its continued effectiveness.
Details of all payments to directors are reviewed in the Lord Browne will retire as group chief executive and from the board directors remuneration report on pages 68-75. on 31 July 2007.
Dr Tony Hayward will become group chief executive on BPs policy on directors retirement is as follows: the service contracts 1 August 2007.
Mr Michael Wilson stepped down from the board at of executive directors are expressed to expire at a normal retirement age the end of February 2006 and Mr Michael Miles retired in April 2006. of 60 subject to age discrimination, while non-executive directors Sir William Castell joined the board in July 2006.
Mr Andy Inglis joined ordinarily retire at the AGM following their 70th birthday.
It is the boards the board on 1 February 2007 as chief executive of the exploration and policy that non-executive directors are not generally expected to hold production segment in succession to Dr Hayward.
At the 2007 AGM, ofce for more than 10 years.
Mr John Bryan will retire from the board.
In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, directors are granted The efficiency and effectiveness of the board are of paramount an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result importance.
Our board is large but this is necessary to allow both of their ofce, to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of those liabilities sufficient executive director representation to cover the breadth and for which directors may not be indemnified, the company maintained a depth of the groups business activities and sufficient non-executive directors and ofcers liability insurance policy throughout 2006.
This representation to reect the scale and complexity of the company and to policy has been renewed for 2007.
Although their defence costs may be staff our board committees.
A board of this size also allows systematic met, neither the companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the succession planning for key roles.
event that the director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
We believe that our non-executive directors bring a broad range of relevant skills and experience to the work of the board and its Board and committees: committees.
Not only do they contribute international and operational experience, but they also provide an understanding of the economies and meetings and attendance world capital markets in which the group operates and an appreciation of the health, safety and environmental and sustainability issues the group The board requires all members to devote sufficient time to the work faces.
Our executive directors bring a further perspective to the work of of the board to discharge the ofce of director and to use their best the board through their deep comprehension of the companys business.
In addition to the AGM which 14 directors attended, the board met nine times during 2006: six times in the UK, twice in the US and once in Turkey.
Two of these meetings were two-day strategy discussions.
A number of board committee meetings were held during the year: for details of these and their attendance by board members please see the following table.
The board is considering the output from the evaluation.
Induction Separate evaluations of the audit and the safety, ethics and Following their appointment to the board, new directors undertake environment assurance committees took place during the year and are an induction programme that is tailored to their specic needs.
This reported in the committee reports on pages 79-81.
The remuneration programme covers matters such as the operation and activities of the committeewill bereviewingits 2006performance inthe rsthalfof2007.
group including key financial, business, social and environmental risks to The potential use of external providers in the context of board evaluation the groups activities, the role of the board and the matters reserved for is being kept under review.
its decision, the tasks and membership of the principal board committees, the powers delegated to those committees, the boards governance policies and practices and the latest financial information about the group.
The chairman and the senior The chairman is accountable for the induction of new board members and independent director is assisted by the company secretarys ofce in this role.
Training BPs board governance policies require that neither the chairman nor the On appointment, our directors are advised of the legal and other duties deputy chairman is employed as an executive of the group.
During 2006, and obligations they have as directors of a listed company.
The board the posts were held by Mr Sutherland and Sir Ian Prosser, respectively.
regularly considers the implications of these duties under the board Sir Ian also acts as our senior independent director and is available to governance policies.
In addition, non-executive directors also receive shareholders who have concerns that cannot be addressed through ongoing training specic to the tasks of the particular board committees normal channels.
on which they serve in order to update their skills and knowledge and The chairman is responsible for leading the board and facilitating enhance their effectiveness during their tenure.
He ensures that the governance principles and processes of Our directors are updated on BPs business, the environment in which the board are maintained and encourages debate and discussion.
The it operates and other matters throughout their period in ofce.
chairman also leads board and individual director performance appraisals.
He represents the views of the board to shareholders on key issues, Outside appointments not least in succession planning for both executive and non-executive As part of their ongoing development, our executive directors are appointments.
Shareholders views are fed back to the board by permitted to take up an external board appointment, subject to the the chairman.
agreement of the BP board.
Generally, outside appointments for The company secretary reports to the chairman and has no executive directors are limited to a single company board only, although executive functions.
His remuneration is determined by the our current group chief executive, by exception, serves on two outside remuneration committee.
Our board is satisfied that these appointments do not Between board meetings, the chairman has responsibility for ensuring conict with his duties and commitments to BP.
Executive directors retain the integrity and effectiveness of the board executive relationship.
any fees received in respect of such external appointments.
This requires his interaction with the group chief executive between Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside boards, board meetings, as well as his contact with other board members provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to and shareholders.
discharge their duties to BP effectively.
The nomination committee keeps The chairman and all the non-executive directors meet periodically as the extent of directors other interests under review to ensure that the the chairmans committee reported on page 81.
The performance of the efcacy of our board is not compromised.
chairman is evaluated each year, with the evaluation discussion taking place when the chairman is not present.
Evaluation The board continued its ongoing evaluation processes to assess its performance and identify areas in which its effectiveness, policies and processes might be enhanced.
The governance process policy allocates the tasks of monitoring executive actions and assessing performance to certain board committees.
These Committee activities in 2006 tasks prescribe the authority and role of the board committees.
Financial reports Reports for each of the committees for 2006 follow.
In common with During the year, the committee reviewed all annual and quarterly the board, each committee has access to independent advice and counsel financial reports before recommending their publication to the board.
as required and each is supported by the company secretarys ofce, The committee also examined the application of new financial which is demonstrably independent of the executive management of standards, critical accounting policies and judgements.
Internal controls and risk management Audit committee report In the course of 2006, the audit committee reviewed reports on risks, Membership and meeting schedule control and assurance for all the BP business segments exploration The audit committee consists solely of independent non-executive and production, rening and marketing and gas, power and renewables, directors.
Its membership is selected to provide a broad set of together with BPs trading function.
Reviews were also carried out on financial, international and commercial expertise appropriate to full BPs long-term contractual commitments and the manner in which the the committees duties.
risks and control systems for these contracts were being managed.
Members of the audit committee include Sir Ian Prosser chairman, Key regulatory issues are discussed throughout the year by the Mr D J Flint, Mr E B Davis, Jr and Mr J H Bryan.
During 2006, Mr M H committee as part of its standing agenda items.
These include a quarterly Wilson and Mr H M P Miles retired from the committee and Sir William review of the companys evaluation of its internal controls systems as Castell joined as a new member.
The company secretarys ofce ensures part of the requirement of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The new committee members receive briengs on the committees tasks and committee also examines the effectiveness of BPs enterprise level process before taking up their roles.
controls through the annual assessment undertaken by the companys The board has determined that Mr Flint possesses the financial and internal audit function.
audit committee experience as dened by the Combined Code guidance In addition to the recurring items on the agenda, the audit committee and the US Securities and Exchange Commission and has nominated him considered a range of other specic topics during the year, including a as the audit committees financial expert.
review of tax planning and provisions, an evaluation of the companys At the request of the audit committee chairman, each meeting is pension and post-retirement benefit assumptions and an assessment attended by the lead partner of the external auditors Ernst & Young, the of BPs oil and gas reserves methodology.
BP general auditor head of internal audit, the group chief financial officer, the chief accounting officer and the group controller.
Relationship with external auditors The audit committee met 12 times during 2006.
As outlined above, the lead audit partner from Ernst & Young attends all meetings of the audit committee at the request of the committee Role of audit committee chairman.
Other audit partners are also invited to attend meetings to The tasks of the audit committee include gaining assurance on the participate in discussions relating to their areas of expertise, for example, financial processes of the group and the integrity of its reports and during business segment reviews.
On behalf of the board, it monitors observance of the executive During the year, the committee held two private meetings with the limitations policy relating to financial matters.
The committee reviews the external auditors without the presence of executive management, in order management of financial risks and the internal controls designed to to discuss any issues or concerns on the part of both the committee and address them.
The committee believes that it meets each of the tasks that are The performance of the external auditors is evaluated by the audit outlined in the Combined Code as falling within the remit of an committee each year.
Central to this evaluation is scrutiny of the audit committee.
external auditors independence, objectivity and viability.
To maintain the independence of the external auditors, the provision of non-audit services Agenda and information is limited to tax and audit-related work that fall within specic categories.
Central to the operation of the audit committee is the meeting agenda.
This work is pre-approved by the audit committee and all non-audit Forward agendas are set at the start of each year to determine a highservices are monitored quarterly.
Fees paid to the external auditors level work programme for the committee.
Agendas are constructed from during the year for audit and other services were $73 million, of which regular items, including those that are required by regulation, and items 16% was for non-audit work see Financial statements Note 20 on reecting the boards desire to review group risks.
Non-audit services provided by Ernst & Young have been meetings, the chairman reviews any issues that arise with the group signicantly reduced over recent years but, reecting regulatory and chief financial officer, the external auditors and the BP general auditor reporting developments in the UK and US, audit fees have increased and items may be added to the next committee meeting agenda substantially.
In addition to the restrictions on non-audit work, the objectivity and The committee receives information on agenda items from both independence of the external auditors are augmented by the rotation of internal and external sources, including the chief financial officer, the audit staff on a regular basis.
A new lead audit partner is appointed every internal auditor and BPs external auditors.
Presentations are made by five years and other senior audit staff are moved every seven years.
It is a wide cross-section of the groups business and financial control the policy of the company that no partners or senior staff connected with management.
Where relevant to a particular business or functional the BP audit may transfer to BP.
review, additional Ernst & Young audit staff attend and contribute.
After considering both the proposed fee structure and the audit In addition, the committee meets both the external auditors and BP engagement terms for 2007, the audit committee has recommended general auditor in private sessions where the executive management are to the board that the reappointment of the auditors be proposed to not present.
In common with other BP board committees, the audit committee can access independent advice and counsel if it requires, on an unrestricted Internal audit basis.
Further support is provided to the committee by the company BPs internal audit function advises the committee on the companys secretarys ofce and, during 2006, external specialist legal and regulatory identication and control of risk.
The general auditor contributes widely advice was provided to the committee by Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
to the committees discussion of the companys framework of internal controls and the effectiveness of their application.
The audit committee agreed the work programme to be undertaken by internal audit during the BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 79 year and obtained satisfaction that the proposed work plan appropriately forward agenda at the beginning of each year, the committee pays responded to the key risks facing the company and that internal audit had particular attention to the review of group risks conducted by the general adequate staff and resources to complete its work.
auditor and risks identied in the companys business plans.
In addition to regular observations and updates at each committee Forward agendas also include regular or standing agenda items.
meeting, internal audit made two written reports of its findings to the Standing agenda items are those that enable the committee to monitor committee in 2006.
These reports contributed to the committees view and assess how the executive limitations policy is being observed for on how effective the companys system of internal controls had been example, compliance and ethics and health, safety and environment and formed the basis of its recommendations to the board.
reports and review the specic non-financial risks that are identied in the During the year, the committee met privately with the head of internal companys annual plan for example, in performing regional risk reviews.
audit the BP general auditor, without the presence of executive The chairman of the committee will also review the forward agenda management.
It also evaluated the performance of the internal against any emerging issues or developments that may arise during audit function.
the year and amend as necessary.
The committee receives information relating to agenda items from Fraud reporting and employee concerns whistleblowing both internal and external sources, including internal audit, BPs external The committee received a quarterly report from internal audit on instances auditors, the group compliance and ethics function and external market of actual or potential fraud or concerns relating to the financial accounting and reputation research.
In common with other BP board committees, of the company.
In addition, the group compliance and ethics function the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee can access reported on issues raised via the employee concerns programme, independent advice and counsel if it requires, on an unrestricted basis.
OpenTalk, together with other topics arising from the companys annual The activities of the safety, ethics and environment assurance certication process.
committee and any issues that have arisen are reported back to the main board by the committee chairman following each meeting.
Performance evaluation The audit committee conducts a yearly evaluation of its performance.
Committee activities in 2006 The review for 2006 involved a survey of committee members and other HSE performance individuals who had regularly attended the committee.
The results of The committee received reports on both the companys overall HSE the review were fed back to the committee in November.
No significant performance, including an examination of key metrics, and on individual process changes were identied but the committee did determine to take topics such as human resources capability, employee health and HSE in additional time in private session at the end of each meeting and to hold TNK-BP.
Progress in safety and operations management since the a joint meeting with the safety, ethics and environment assurance incident at the Texas City renery has been reviewed regularly.
committee each year to review the general auditors internal controls and risk management report.
These adjustments were incorporated in the Regional risk reviews forward agenda and work plan for 2007.
While most of the board-level monitoring is undertaken through business The audit committee plans to meet 12 times during 2007. segments or functions, risks that require management at a country or regional level are also scrutinized by the committee.
During the year, risk Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee report reviews were carried out for North America, Russia and the Caspian.
Membership and meeting schedule The committees members consist solely of independent non-executive Compliance and ethics directors and include Dr W E Massey chairman and Mr A Burgmans.
The group compliance and ethics function reports to the committee During 2006, Mr M H Wilson and Mr H M P Miles retired from the on a quarterly basis.
During 2006, the compliance and ethics reports committee and Sir William Castell and Sir Tom McKillop joined as new covered the results of the 2005 certication process, progress on the members.
The company secretarys ofce ensures new committee implementation of the companys code of conduct and the operation members receive briengs on the committees tasks and process before of OpenTalk.
In addition to the members above, each meeting is attended by the Performance evaluation lead partner of the external auditors Ernst & Young and the BP general The committee conducts an annual review of its process and auditor head of internal audit at the invitation of the committee chairman.
This years review was discussed at the committees Reports and presentation to the committee are led by the executive November meeting and has led to enhancements in the committee director with functional accountability for safety and the environment process going forward, including the incorporation of reports from the Mr Iain Conn and the committees dialogue includes meeting with the new group operations risk committee and an increase in time allotted to relevant senior managers and functional experts for each of its agenda agenda items to enable further in-depth discussion.
In 2006, the group chief executive attended one meeting.
The safety, ethics and environment assurance committee plans to The safety, ethics and environment assurance committee, created in meet seven times during 2007.
1997, has increased the frequency of its meetings in recent years from four per year in 2003 to seven in 2006.
This has reected both the Remuneration committee report increased breadth of the companys business for example, expansion into Membership and meeting schedule new geographies such as Russia and the committees additional work in The remuneration committee consists solely of non-executive directors, monitoring the executive managements response to incidents including who are considered by the board to be independent.
Committee the Texas City re and explosion and the oil spills in Alaska.
members include Dr D S Julius chairman, Mr J H Bryan, Mr E B Davis, Jr, Sir Tom McKillop and Sir Ian Prosser.
The chairman of the board also Role of the committee attends meetings of the committee.
On behalf of the board, the committee monitors observance of the The committee met five times during 2006 and is independently executive limitations policy that relates to the environmental, health and advised.
safety, security and ethical performance and compliance of the company.
During 2006, the committees name was amended.
Having reviewed Role of remuneration committee its agendas over the past few years, it was considered by the board that The committees main task is to determine the terms of engagement and the addition of safety to ethics and environment assurance provided a remuneration of the executive directors.
better reection of the committees work.
Further details of the committees role, authority and activities during the year are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 68-75, Agenda and information which is the subject of a vote by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
The tasks of the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee are particularly broad as they cover all non-financial risks.
In constructing its 80 Chairmans committee report B.
1.4 The amount of fees received by executive directors in respect Membership and meeting schedule of their service on outside boards is not disclosed since this The chairmans committee comprises all the non-executive directors and information is not considered relevant to BP.
is chaired by the board chairman.
2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is xed by the board as a The committee met four times during the year.
whole rather than the remuneration committee within the limits set by shareholders, since the chairmans performance Role of chairmans committee is a matter for the whole board.
The task of the committee is to consider broad issues of governance, including the performance of the chairman and the group chief executive, succession planning, the organization of the group and any matters referred to it for an opinion from another board committee.
Internal control review The board, through its governance policies, has established a process by Committee activities in 2006 The main focus of the committee was on the task of ensuring an orderly which the effectiveness of the system of internal control can be regularly succession plan for the group chief executive role.
In that respect, the reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
committee formed a working group comprised of the chairmen of each of The process enables the board and its committees to assess the the boards standing committees, which has taken forward the detailed system of internal controls being operated for managing significant risks, work necessary to ensure a best-practice process to identify a new group including social, environmental, safety and ethical risks, throughout the chief executive.
The working group met six times during the year.
The process did not extend to joint ventures or associates.
The committee took external advice as appropriate and benchmarked As part of this process, the board and the audit and safety, ethics and all the candidates against the external market.
environment assurance committees requested, received and reviewed The committee concluded its work by making a unanimous reports from executive management, including management of the recommendation to the board that Dr A B Hayward be appointed as business segments, at their regular meetings.
the next group chief executive.
In considering the system, the board noted that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Nomination committee report business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Membership and meeting schedule assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The nomination committee consists of non-executive directors.
Its The BP general auditor presented reports to a joint meeting of members include Dr D S Julius, Sir Ian Prosser and Dr W E Massey the committees in January 2007 to support the board in its annual and the committee is chaired by the board chairman, Mr P D Sutherland.
The reports described how significant All members of the nomination committee are considered by the board risks were identied and embedded within business segment and to be independent.
function plans across the group: the effectiveness of executive controls: The committee met six times during the year.
and the continuing development of the systems in place to identify and manage risks.
Role of nomination committee The reports also highlighted future risks of potential signicance The task of the nomination committee is to identify and evaluate that had been reviewed by the board as part of the companys candidates for appointment and reappointment as director or company planning process.
The committees engage with executive management during the year on a regular basis to monitor the management of risks.
significant Committee activities in 2006 incidents that occurred and managements response to them were As a result of the committees processes, Sir William Castell joined considered by the committees during the year.
As is disclosed elsewhere in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006, the board in 2006.
The committee continues to keep under review the skills and the company has recently received reports that were previously background that the board requires to perform its various tasks.
The commissioned relating to the US renery system and trading operations.
committee recognizes that, with the forthcoming retirements of directors, The company has accepted the recommendations of those reports at least one new non-executive director will need to be appointed to the and is in the process of determining the appropriate actions required board each year for the next three years.
The committee is currently to implement those recommendations.
The committees will monitor evaluating candidates with a North American background.
managements actions in respect of these reports over the coming year.
Subject to this, the board is satisfied that, where significant failings or weaknesses in internal controls were identied, appropriate remedial Combined Code compliance actions were taken or are being taken.
In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to enable BP complied throughout 2006 with the provisions of the Combined Code it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, except in the in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors in following aspects: the CombinedCode Turnbull.
4.4 Letters of appointment do not set out xed time commitments since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to change according to the exigencies of the business.
All directors are expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
b Includes 61,186 shares held as ADSs.
d Includes 40,155 shares held as ADSs.
e Held as ADSs, except for 94 that are held as ordinary shares.
f Interest as at 1 February 2007 on appointment as a director.
The above gures indicate and include all the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of each director of the company in shares of the company or calculated equivalents that have been disclosed to the company under the Companies Act 1985 as at the applicable dates.
In making these disclosures, the directors did not distinguish their beneficial and non-beneficial interests.
Executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such shares of the company held from time to time by the BP Employee Share Ownership Plan No.
2 to facilitate the operation of the companys option schemes.
No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of the company, or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
