Performance review BP sold its Innovene operations in December 2005.
In the Selected financial and operating information circumstances of discontinued operations, IFRS require that the profits earned by the discontinued operations, in this case the Innovene This information, insofar as it relates to 2006, has been extracted or operations, on sales to the continuing operations be eliminated on derived from the audited financial statements of the BP group presented consolidation from the discontinued operations and attributed to the on pages 93-175.
The selected information should be read in conjunction continuing operations and vice versa.
This adjustment has two offsetting with the audited financial statements and related Notes elsewhere herein.
elements: the net margin on crude rened by Innovene, as substantially The financial information for 2005 and 2004 has been restated to reect all crude for its reneries was supplied by BP and most of the rened the following, all with effect from 1 January 2006: a the transfer of three products manufactured by Innovene were taken by BP: and the margin on equity-accounted entities from Other businesses and corporate to sales of feedstock from BPs US reneries to Innovenes manufacturing Rening and Marketing following the sale of Innovene: b the transfer of plants.
The profits attributable to individual segments are not affected by certain mid-stream assets and activities from Rening and Marketing and this adjustment.
This representation does not indicate the profits earned Exploration and Production to Gas, Power and Renewables: c the by continuing or Innovene operations, as if they were standalone entities, transfer of Hydrogen for Transport activities from Gas, Power and for past periods or those likely to be earned in future periods.
Under US Renewables to Rening and Marketing: and d a change to the basis of GAAP, Innovene operations would not be classied as discontinued accounting for certain over-the-counter forward sale and purchase operations due to BPs continuing customer supplier arrangements with contracts for oil, natural gas, NGLs and power.
For a full description of the differences between IFRS and Note 2 on page 109 for further details.
US GAAP, see Financial statements Note 53 on page 179.
See Financial statements Note 5 on page 111.
Under US GAAP, Innovene is not treated as a discontinued operation.
b There were no significant acquisitions in 2006 or in 2005.
Capital expenditure in 2006 includes $1 billion in respect of our investment in Rosneft.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions for 2004 includes $1,354 million for including TNKs interest in Slavneft within TNK-BP and $1,355 million for the acquisition of Solvays interests in BP Solvay Polyethylene Europe and BP Solvay Polyethylene North America.
With the exception of the shares issued to Alfa Group and Access-Renova AAR in connection with TNK-BP 2004-2006, all capital expenditure and acquisitions during the last five years have been financed from cash flow from operations, disposal proceeds and external financing.
c The number of ordinary shares shown have been used to calculate per share amounts for both IFRS and US GAAP.
d Under US GAAP, Innovene is not treated as a discontinued operation.
As such, the results of Innovene are included within revenues and profit for the year, as adjusted to accord with US GAAP.
Production and net proved oil and natural gas reserves The following table shows our production for the last five years and the estimated net proved oil and natural gas reserves at the end of each of those years.
b Includes 23 million barrels 29 million barrels at 31 December 2005 and 40 million barrels at 31 December 2004 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
c Includes 179 million barrels 95 million barrels at 31 December 2005 and 127 million barrels at 31 December 2004 in respect of the 6.29% minority interest in TNK-BP 4.47% at 31 December 2005 and 5.9% at 31 December 2004. d Includes 3,537 billion cubic feet of natural gas 3,812 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2005 and 4,064 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2004 in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
e Includes 99 billion cubic feet 57 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2005 and 13 billion cubic feet at 31 December 2004 in respect of the 7.77% minority interest in TNK-BP 4.47% at 31 December 2005 and 5.9% at 31 December 2004.
During 2006, 329 million barrels of oil and natural gas, on an oil equivalent basis mmboe, were added to BPs proved reserves for subsidiaries excluding purchases and sales.
After allowing for production, which amounted to 963mmboe, BPs proved reserves for subsidiaries were 13,163mmboe at 31 December 2006.
These proved reserves are mainly located in the US 44%, Rest of Americas 20%, Asia Pacic 10%, Africa 9% and the UK 8%.
For equity-accounted entities, 1,306mmboe were added to proved reserves excluding purchases and sales, production was 479mmboe and proved reserves were 4,537mmboe at 31 December 2006.
Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet bcf 1 million barrels.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 11 possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or non-renewal of Risk factors contract rights.
We buy, sell and trade oil and gas products in certain regulated commodity markets.
The oil industry is also subject to the We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
If any paymentofroyalties andtaxation, which  of these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of those payable in respect of other commercial activities, and operates in operations could suffer and the trading price and liquidity of our securities certain tax jurisdictions that have a degree of uncertainty relating to the could decline, in which case you could lose all or part of your investment.
interpretation of, and changes to, tax law.
As a result of new laws and Our system of risk management provides the response to enduring regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail or cease risks of group signicance through the establishment of standards and certain operations, or we could incur additional costs.
Inability to identify, assess and respond to risks through this and other controls could lead to inability to capture opportunities, Ethical misconduct and non-compliance threats materializing, inefficiency and legal non-compliance.
Our code of conduct, which applies to all employees, defines our The risks are categorized against the following areas: Strategy, commitment to integrity, compliance with all applicable legal Compliance and ethics, Financial control and operations.
requirements, high ethical standards and the behaviours and actions we expect of our businesses and people wherever we operate.
Incidents of Strategic risks non-compliance with applicable laws and regulation or ethical misconduct Access and renewal could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value.
Multiple Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on implementing events of non-compliance could call into question the integrity of activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
The challenges to renewal our operations.
of our upstream portfolio are growing due to increasing competition for access to opportunities globally.
Inability to complete planned disposals Financial control risks and or lack of material positions in new markets could result in an inability Liquidity, financial capacity and financial exposure to capture above-average market growth.
The group has established a financial framework to ensure that it is able to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and to Prices and markets constrain the level of assessed capital at risk for the purposes of positions Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and taken in financial instruments.
Failure to operate within our financial demand.
Political developments especially in the Middle East and the framework could lead to the group becoming nancially distressed leading outcome of meetings of OPEC can particularly affect world supply and to a loss of shareholder value.
Commercial credit risk is measured and oil prices.
In addition to the adverse effect on revenues, margins and controlled to determine the groups total credit risk.
Inability adequately to profitability from any future fall in oil and natural gas prices, a prolonged determine our credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
Crude oil prices period of low prices or other indicators would lead to a review for are generally set in US dollars, while sales of rened products may be in impairment of the groups oil and natural gas properties.
This review a variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in exchange rates can therefore give would reect managements view of long-term oil and natural gas prices.
rise to foreign exchange exposures, with a consequent impact on Such a review could result in a charge for impairment that could have a underlying costs.
significant effect on the groups results of operations in the period in which it occurs.
Liabilities and provisions Rening profitability can be volatile, with both periodic oversupply and Changes in the external environment, such as new laws and regulations, supply tightness in various regional markets.
Sectors of the chemicals market volatility or other factors, could affect the adequacy of our industry are also subject to uctuations in supply and demand within the provisions for pensions, tax, environmental and legal liabilities.
petrochemicals market, with consequent effect on prices and profitability.
Operations risks Socio-political Operations safety and operations We have operations in developing countries where political, economic Process safety and social transition is taking place.
Some countries have experienced Inherent in our operations are hazards that require continual oversight political instability, changes to the regulatory environment, expropriation and control.
There are risks of technical integrity failure and loss of or nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material at operating insurrections.
Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or terminate sites or pipelines.
Failure to manage these risks could result in injury or our operations, causing our development activities to be curtailed or loss of life, environmental damage and or loss of production.
terminated in these areas or our production to decline, and could cause us to incur additional costs.
Personal safety We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and aspire to Inability to provide safe environments for our workforce and the public contribute to a better quality of life through the products and services we .
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or advancing the economic and social progress of the communities in which we operate, Environmental our reputation and shareholder value could be damaged.
If we do not apply our resources to overcome the perceived trade-off between global access to energy and the protection or improvement of Competition the natural environment, we could fail to live up to our aspirations of no or The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
There minimal damage to the environment and contributing to human progress.
is strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the Product quality home.
Competition puts pressure on product prices, affects oil products Supplying customers with on-specication products is critical to marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit maintaining our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
Failure to meet product quality standards throughout the value chain could lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
Compliance and ethics risks Regulatory Drilling and production The oil industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are throughout the world in such matters as the award of exploration and subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those relating production interests, the imposition of specic drilling obligations, to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas eld.
The cost of environmental protection controls, controls over the development and drilling, completing or operating wells is often uncertain.
We may be decommissioning of a eld including restrictions on production and, required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of a 12 variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or Forward-looking statements accidents, adverse weather conditions and compliance with governmental requirements.
In order to utilize the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, BP is providing the following Transportation cautionary statement.
This document contains certain forward-looking All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons contain inherent risks.
A loss statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations of containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material could occur and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives of BP with during transportation by road, rail or sea.
This is a significant risk due to respect to these items.
These statements may generally, but not always, the potential impact of a release on the environment and people and given be identied by the use of words such as will, expects, is expected to, the high volumes involved.
should, may, objective, is likely to, intends, believes, plans, we see or similar expressions.
In particular, among other statements, i Operations planning and performance management certain statements in Performance review pages 10-60 with regard to Investment efficiency management aims and objectives, future capital expenditure, future Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options hydrocarbon production volume, date or period s in which production is and investing in the best options.
Ineffective investment selection could  oraproject oractionis lead to loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
scheduled or expected to be completed, capacity of planned plants or facilities, the timing of divestments and impact of health, safety and Major project delivery environmental regulations: ii the statements in Performance review Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on implementing pages 14-47 with regard to planned expansion, investment or other the activities to deliver the major projects over the plan period.
Poor projects and future regulatory actions: and iii the statements in delivery of any major project that underpins production growth and or a Performance review pages 47-60 with regard to the plans of the group, major programme designed to enhance shareholder value could adversely cash ows, opportunities for material acquisitions, the cost of future affect our financial performance.
remediation programmes, liquidity and costs for providing pension and other post-retirement benets: and including under Liquidity and Capital Reserves replacement Resources with regard to future cash ows, future levels of capital Successful execution of our group plan see page 14 depends critically on expenditure and divestments, working capital, future production volumes, sustaining long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are not the renewal of borrowing facilities, shareholder distributions and share progressed to proved reserves in a timely and efficient manner, we will buybacks and expected payments under contractual and commercial be unable to sustain long-term replacement of reserves.
commitments: are all forward-looking in nature.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty Operations enterprise systems, security and continuity because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or Digital infrastructure may occur in the future and are outside the control of BP.
Actual results The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to may differ materially from those expressed in such statements, maintaining our business applications availability.
A breach of our digital depending on a variety of factors, including the specic factors identied security could cause serious damage to business operations and, in some in the discussions accompanying such forward-looking statements: the circumstances, could result in injury to people, damage to assets, harm to timing of bringing new elds on stream: future levels of industry product the environment and breaches of regulations.
supply, demand and pricing: operational problems: general economic conditions: political stability and economic growth in relevant areas of Security the world: changes in laws and governmental regulations: exchange rate Security threats require continual oversight and control.
Acts of terrorism uctuations: development and use of new technology: the success or otherwise of partnering: the actions of competitors: natural disasters and that threaten our plants and ofces, pipelines, transportation or computer systems would severely disrupt business and operations and could cause adverse weather conditions: changes in public expectations and other harm to people.
changes to business conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: and other factors discussed elsewhere in this report including under Risk Business continuity and disaster recovery factors above.
In addition to factors set forth elsewhere in this report, Contingency plans are required to continue or recover operations those set out above are important factors, although not exhaustive, that following a disruption or incident.
Inability to restore or replace critical may cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those capacity to an agreed level within an agreed timeframe would prolong expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
the impact of any disruption and could severely affect business and operations.
Statements regarding competitive position Crisis management Crisis management plans and capability are essential to deal with Statements referring to BPs competitive position are based on the emergencies at every level of our operations.
If we do not respond or are companys belief and in some cases rely on a range of sources, including perceived not to respond in an appropriate manner to either an external or investment analysts reports, independent market studies and BPs internal crisis, our business and operations could be severely disrupted.
internal assessments of market share based on publicly available information about the financial results and performance of Operations people management market participants.
People and capability Employee training, development and successful recruitment of new staff are key to implementation of our plans.
Inability to develop the human capacity and capability across the organization could jeopardize performance delivery.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 13 Economic Co-operation and Development OECD countries, with just Information on the company under 40% of our xed assets located in the US and around 25% located in the UK and the Rest of Europe.
General We believe that BP has a strong portfolio of assets in each of its main Unless otherwise indicated, information in this document reects 100% segments: of the assets and operations of the company and its subsidiaries that In Exploration and Production, we have upstream interests in 26 were consolidated at the date or for the periods indicated, including countries.
In addition to our drive to maximize the value of our existing minority interests.
Also, unless otherwise indicated, gures for business portfolio, we are continuing to develop new profit centres.
Exploration sales and other operating revenues include sales between BP businesses.
and Production activities are managed through operating units that The British Petroleum Company p. l. c. incorporated in 1909 in England are accountable for the day-to-day management of the segments and Wales, became known as BP Amoco p. l. c. following the merger with activities.
An operating unit is accountable for one or more elds.
profit Amoco Corporation incorporated in Indiana, US, in 1889.
The company centres comprise one or more operating units.
profit centres are, or subsequently changed its name to BP p. l. c. are expected to become, areas that provide significant production and BP is one of the worlds leading oil companies on the basis of market income for the segment.
Our new profit centres are in Asia Pacic capitalization and proved reserves.
Our worldwide headquarters is located Australia, Vietnam, Indonesia and China, Azerbaijan, North Africa at 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK.
Telephone 44 0 20 Algeria, Angola, Trinidad & Tobago and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico: 7496 4000.
Our agent in the US is BP America Inc. 4101 Wineld Road, and in Russia Kazakhstan including our operations in TNK-BP, Sakhalin Warrenville, Illinois 60555.
Telephone 1 630 821 2222. and LukArco, where we believe we have competitive advantage and which we believe provide the foundation for volume growth and Overview of the group improved margins in the future.
We also have significant midstream BP is a global group, with interests and activities held or operated through activities to support our upstream interests.
subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates established in, and In Rening and Marketing, we have a strong presence in the US and subject to the laws and regulations of, many different jurisdictions.
We market under the Amoco and BP brands in the Midwest, interests and activities cover three business segments, supported by a East and Southeast and under the ARCO brand on the West Coast of number of organizational elements comprising group functions or regions.
the US, and under the BP and Aral brands in Europe.
We have a longThe three business segments are Exploration and Production, Rening established supply and trading activity responsible for delivering value and Marketing and Gas, Power and Renewables.
Exploration and across the crude and oil products supply chain.
Our Aromatics and Productions activities include oil and natural gas exploration, development Acetyls business maintains a manufacturing position globally, with and production upstream activities, together with related pipeline, emphasis on growth in Asia.
We also have, or are growing, businesses transportation and processing activities midstream activities.
The elsewhere in the world under the BP and Castrol brands, including activities of Rening and Marketing include oil supply and trading and the a strong global Lubricants portfolio and other business-to-business manufacture and marketing of petroleum products, including aromatics marketing businesses aviation and marine covering the mobility and acetyls, as well as rening and marketing.
We continue to seek opportunities to broaden our activities Renewables activities include marketing and trading of gas and power: in growing markets such as China and India.
marketing of liqueed natural gas LNG : natural gas liquids NGLs : and In Gas, Power and Renewables, we have a growing marketing and low-carbon power generation through our Alternative Energy business.
trading business in the US, Canada, UK and continental Europe.
Our The group provides high-quality technological support for all its businesses marketing and trading activities include natural gas, power and NGLs.
through its research and engineering activities.
Our international natural gas monetization activities identify and capture Group functions serve the business segments, aiming to achieve worldwide opportunities for our upstream natural gas resources and coherence across the group, manage risks effectively and achieve are focused on growing natural gas markets, including the US, Canada, economies of scale.
Each head of region ensures regional consistency of Spain and many of the emerging markets of the Asia Pacic region, the activities of business segments and group functions and represents notably China.
We have a significant NGLs processing and marketing BP to external parties.
In 2005, we established BP Alternative The groups system of internal control is described in the BP Energy, which aims to extend signicantly our capabilities in solar, management framework.
It is designed to meet the expectations of wind, hydrogen power and gas-red power generation.
Alternative internal control of the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code in the UK Energy has solar production facilities in US, Spain and India and and of COSO committee of the sponsoring organization for the Treadway Australia, wind farms in the Netherlands and a substantial portfolio of Commission in the US.
The system of internal control is the complete set development projects in the US.
We are advancing development of of management systems, organizational structures, processes, standards hydrogen power plants and are involved in power projects in the US, and behaviours that are employed to conduct the business of BP and UK, Spain and South Korea.
The design of the management Through non-US subsidiaries or other entities, BP conducts or has framework addresses risks and how to respond to them.
Each conducted limited marketing, licensing and trading activities and technical component of the framework is in itself a device to respond to a particular studies in certain countries subject to US sanctions, in particular in Iran type or collection of risks.
and with Iranian counterparties, including the National Iranian Oil The group strategy describes the groups strategic objectives and the Company NIOC and afliated entities, and has a small representative presumptions made by BP about the future.
It describes strategic risks ofce in Iran.
BP believes that these activities are immaterial to the group.
that arise from making such presumptions and the actions to be taken In addition, BP has interests in, and is the operator of, two elds outside to manage or mitigate the risks.
The board delegates to the group chief Iran in which NIOC and an afliated entity have interests.
However, BP executive responsibility for developing BPs strategy and its does not seek to obtain from the government of Iran licences or implementation through five-year and annual plans the group plan that agreements for oil and gas projects in Iran and does not own or operate determine the setting of priorities and allocation of resources.
The group any reneries or chemicals plants in Iran.
chief executive is obliged to discuss with the board, on the basis of the strategy and group plan, all material matters currently or prospectively Acquisitions and disposals affecting BPs performance.
In 2006, there were no significant acquisitions.
BP purchased 9.6% of As the groups business segments are managed on a global, not on a the shares issued under Rosnefts IPO for a consideration of $1 billion regional, basis, geographical information for the group and segments is included in capital expenditure.
This represents an interest of around given to provide additional information for investors but does not reect 1.4% in Rosneft.
Disposal proceeds were $6,254 million, which included the way BP manages its activities.
$2.1 billion on the sale of our interest in the Shenzi discovery and around We have well-established operations in Europe, the US, Canada, $1.3 billion from the sale of our producing properties on the Outer Russia, South America, Australasia, Asia and parts of Africa.
Currently, Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico to Apache Corporation.
around 70% of the groups capital is invested in Organisation for 14 In 2005, there were no significant acquisitions.
Disposal proceeds between BP and Sinopec.
Based on the existing service station network were $11,200 million, which included net cash proceeds from the sale of Sinopec, the 30-year dual-branded joint venture has plans to build, of Innovene to INEOS of $8,304 million after selling costs, closing operate and manage a network of 500 service stations in Hangzhou, adjustments and liabilities.
Innovene represented the majority of the Ningbo and Shaoxing.
Also during 2004, BP China and PetroChina Olens and Derivatives business.
Additionally, disposal proceeds included announced the establishment of BP-PetroChina Petroleum Company proceeds from the sale of the groups interest in the Ormen Lange eld Limited.
Located in Guangdong, one of the most developed provinces in in Norway.
China, the 30-year dual-branded joint venture is intended to acquire, build, On 2 November 2004, Solvay exercised its option to sell its interests operate and manage 500 service stations in the province within three in BP Solvay Polyethylene Europe and BP Solvay Polyethylene North years of establishment.
The initial investment in both joint ventures America to BP.
Solvay held 50% of BP Solvay Polyethylene Europe and amounted to $106 million.
See Rening and Marketing on page 31 for 51% of BP Solvay Polyethylene North America.
On completion, the two further details.
entities, which manufactured and marketed high-density polyethylene, Disposal proceeds in 2004 were $4,961 million, which included became wholly owned subsidiaries of BP.
The total consideration for the $2.3 billion from the sale of the groups investments in PetroChina and acquisition was $1,391 million.
These two entities were subsequently Sinopec.
Additionally, it included proceeds from the sale of various oil and included as part of the sale of Innovene to INEOS see above.
gas properties, the sale of our interest in Singapore Rening Company During 2004, BP China and Sinopec announced the establishment Private Limited, the sale of our specialty intermediate chemicals and of the BP-Sinopec Zhejiang Petroleum Co. Ltd, a retail joint venture Fabrics and Fibres businesses and the sale of two NGLs plants.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 15 Operations in Argentina, Bolivia, Abu Dhabi, Kazakhstan and the Exploration and production TNK-BP and Sakhalin operations in Russia, as well as some of our operations in Indonesia and Venezuela, are conducted through equityOur Exploration and Production business includes upstream and accounted entities.
midstream activities in 26 countries, including the US, the UK, Angola, The Exploration and Production strategy is to build production with Azerbaijan, Canada, Egypt, Russia, Trinidad & Tobago Trinidad and improving returns by: locations within Asia Pacic, Latin America and the Middle East.
Focusing on nding the largest elds, concentrating our involvement Upstream activities involve oil and natural gas exploration and eld in a limited number of the worlds most prolic hydrocarbon basins.
Our exploration programme is currently Building leadership positions in these areas.
focused around the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Angola, Egypt, Russia and Managing the decline of existing producing assets and divesting assets Algeria.
Major development areas include the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, when they no longer compete in our portfolio.
Azerbaijan, Algeria, Angola, Egypt and Asia Pacic.
During 2006, This strategy is underpinned by a focused exploration strategy in production came from 22 countries.
The principal areas of production are areas with the potential for large oil and natural gas elds as new profit Russia, the US, Trinidad, the UK, Latin America, the Middle East, Asia centres.
Through the application of advanced technology and significant Pacic, Azerbaijan, Angola and Egypt.
investment, we have gained a strong position in many of these areas.
Midstream activities involve the ownership and management of crude Within our existing profit centres, we seek to manage the decline through oil and natural gas pipelines, processing and export terminals and LNG the application of technology, reservoir management, maintaining processing facilities and transportation.
Our most significant midstream operating efficiency and investing in new projects.
We also continually pipeline interests include the Trans Alaska Pipeline System, the Forties review our existing assets and dispose of them when the opportunities Pipeline System and the Central Area Transmission System pipeline, both for future investment are no longer competitive compared with other in the UK sector of the North Sea, and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, opportunities within our portfolio and offer greater value to another running through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
Major LNG activities are operator.
located in Trinidad, Indonesia and Australia.
Further LNG businesses with In support of growth, total capital expenditure and acquisitions in 2006 BP involvement are being built up in Egypt and Angola.
Capital Our oil and gas production assets are located onshore or offshore and expenditure in 2006 included our investment in Rosnefts IPO of $1 billion.
include wells, gathering centres, in-eld ow lines, processing facilities, There were no significant acquisitions in 2006 or 2005.
Acquisitions in storage facilities, offshore platforms, export systems e. g. transit lines, 2004 included some $1.4 billion of additional investment in TNK-BP.
pipelines and LNG plant facilities.
Capital expenditure in 2007 is planned to be around $13 billion.
This increase reects the investment we have profit before interest and tax from been making in our new profit centres and the development phase of continuing operations 29,629 25,502 18,085 many of our major projects.
We may do this alone bc Average BP liquids realizations 59.23 48.51 35.39 or, more frequently, with partners.
BP acts as operator for many of Average West Texas Intermediate these ventures.
oil price 66.02 56.58 41.49 Our exploration and appraisal costs in 2006 were $1,765 million, Average Brent oil price 65.14 54.48 38.27 compared with $1,266 million in 2005 and $1,039 million in 2004.
These costs include exploration and appraisal drilling expenditures, which are $ per thousand cubic feet -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- capitalized within intangible xed assets, and geological and geophysical b Average BP natural gas realizations 4.72 4.90 3.86 exploration costs, which are charged to income as incurred.
About 41% b Average BP US natural gas realizations 5.74 6.78 5.11 of 2006 exploration and appraisal costs were directed towards appraisal activity.
The principal areas of activity were d Average Henry Hub gas price 7.24 8.65 6.13 deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Angola, Egypt, the UK North Sea, Trinidad and Profit before interest and tax from continuing operations includes profit after interest Russia outside TNK-BP.
and tax of equity-accounted entities.
Total exploration expense in 2006 of $1,045 million 2005 $684 million and2004$637million includedthe  drilling a With effect from 1 January 2006, we transferred the Phu My Phase 3 combined activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico $343 million, in Trinidad cycle gas turbine plant in Vietnam to the Gas, Power and Renewables segment.
The 2005 and 2004 data above has been restated to reflect this transfer.
$85 million, in Turkey $80 million, onshore North America $44 million b The Exploration and Production business does not undertake any hedging activity.
Consequently, realizations reflect the market price achieved.
Realizations are based In 2006, we obtained upstream rights in several new tracts, which on sales of consolidated subsidiaries only this excludes equity-accounted entities.
c Crude oil and natural gas liquids.
include the following: d Henry Hub First of Month Index.
In the Gulf of Mexico, we were awarded 101 blocks BP 100% through the Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sales 198 and 200.
Our activities are divided among existing profit centres our operations in In India, we were awarded BP 100% the Coal Bed Methane block Alaska, Egypt, Latin America including Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia BB-CBM-2005 III located in the Birbhum district of West Bengal.
and Venezuela, Middle East including Abu Dhabi, India, Sharjah and In Pakistan, we were awarded three new blocks BP 100%, covering 2 Pakistan, North America Gas onshore US and Canada and the North Sea approximately 20,000 km of the offshore Indus delta.
UK, Netherlands and Norway : and new profit centres our operations in In early 2007: Asia Pacic Australia, Vietnam, Indonesia and China, Azerbaijan, North In Oman, we signed a production-sharing agreement to appraise and Africa Algeria, Angola, Trinidad and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico: and develop the Khazzan Makarem gas elds.
Russia Kazakhstan this includes our operations in TNK-BP, Sakhalin In 2006, we were involved in a number of discoveries.
In most cases, and LukArco.
reserves bookings from these elds will depend on the results of ongoing 16 technical and commercial evaluations, including appraisal drilling.
Our reserves base undergoes central review every two years and more than most significant discoveries in 2006 included the following: 90% is reviewed every four years.
In Angola, we made further discoveries in the ultra deepwater For the executive directors and senior management, no specic portion greater than 1,500 metres in Block 31 BP 26.7% and operator with of compensation bonuses is directly related to oil and gas reserves Urano, Titania and Terra wells, bringing the total number of discoveries targets.
Additions to proved reserves is one of several indicators by which in Block 31 to 12. the performance of the Exploration and Production business segment In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we made a discovery with the is assessed by the remuneration committee for the purposes of Kaskida well.
determining compensation bonuses for the executive directors and senior management.
Other indicators include a number of financial and Reserves and production operational measures.
BP manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major categories: BPs variable pay programme for the other senior managers in the prospect inventory, non-proved resources and proved reserves.
When a Exploration and Production business segment is based on individual discovery is made, volumes usually transfer from the prospect inventory performance contracts.
Individual performance contracts are based on to the non-proved resource category.
The resources move through agreed items from the business performance plan, one of which, if they various non-proved resource sub-categories as their technical and choose, could relate to oil and gas reserves.
commercial maturity increases through appraisal activity.
Details of our net proved reserves of crude oil, condensate, natural Resources in a eld will only be categorized as proved reserves when gas liquids and natural gas at 31 December 2006, 2005 and 2004 and all the criteria for attribution of proved status have been met, including reserves changes for each of the three years then ended are set out in an internally imposed requirement for project sanction or for sanction the Supplementary information on oil and natural gas section beginning on expected within six months and, for additional reserves in existing elds, page 196.
We separately disclose our share of reserves held in equitythe requirement that the reserves be included in the business plan and accounted companies jointly controlled entities and associates, although scheduled for development, typically within three years.
Where, on we do not control these entities or the assets held by such entities.
occasion, the group decides to book reserves where development is All the groups oil and gas reserves held in consolidated companies scheduled to commence beyond three years, these reserves will be have been estimated by the groups petroleum engineers.
Of the booked only where they satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved equity-accounted volumes in 2006, 17% were based on estimates status.
Internal approval and final investment decision are what we refer prepared by group petroleum engineers and 83% were based on to as project sanction.
estimates prepared by independent engineering consultants, although At the point of sanction, all booked reserves will be categorized as all the groups oil and gas reserves held in equity-accounted companies proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently be recategorized are reviewed by the groups petroleum engineers before making the from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence of development assessment of volumes to be booked by BP.
When part of a wells reserves depends on a later phase of Our proved reserves are associated with both concessions tax and activity, only that portion of reserves associated with existing, available royalty arrangements and production-sharing agreements PSAs.
In facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first PD bookings will occur a concession, the consortium of which we are a part is entitled to the at the point of first oil or gas production.
Major development projects reserves that can be produced over the licence period, which may be the typically take one to four years from the time of initial booking to the life of the eld.
In a PSA, we are entitled to recover volumes that equate start of production.
Changes to reserves bookings may be made due to costs incurred to develop and produce the reserves and an agreed to analysis of new or existing data concerning production, reservoir share of the remaining volumes or the economic equivalent.
As part performance, commercial factors, acquisition and divestment activity and of our entitlement is driven by the monetary amount of costs to be additional reservoir development activity.
recovered, price uctuations will have an impact on both production BP has an internal process to control the quality of reserves bookings volumes and reserves.
Fifteen per cent of our proved reserves are that forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
The main countries in which we operate under process to manage reserves bookings has been centrally controlled for PSAs are Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Indonesia and Vietnam.
more than 15 years and it currently has several key elements.
At the end of 2006, BP adopted the SEC rules for estimating reserves The first element is the accountabilities of certain ofcers of the for all accounting and reporting purposes.
Previously, BP applied the UK company to ensure that there are effective controls in the proved accounting rules contained in the Statement of Recommended Practice reserves verication and approval process of the groups reserves Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, Production and estimates and the timely reporting of the related financial impacts of Decommissioning Activities UK SORP.
These changes are explained in proved reserves changes.
These ofcers of the company are responsible Financial statements Note 3 on page 110.
The companys proved for carrying out verication of proved reserves estimates and are reserves estimates for the year ended 31 December 2006 reect independent of the operating business unit to ensure integrity and year-end prices and application of SEC interpretations of SEC regulations accuracy of reporting.
relating to the use of technology mainly seismic to estimate reserves in The second element is the capital allocation processes whereby the reservoir away from wellbores and the reporting of fuel gas i. e. gas delegated authority is exercised to commit to capital projects that are used for fuel in operations on the lease within proved reserves.
consistent with the delivery of the groups business plan.
A formal review Consequently, these reserves quantities differ from those that would process exists to ensure that both technical and commercial criteria are be reported under application of the UK SORP.
The 2006 year-end met prior to the commitment of capital to projects.
marker prices used were Brent $58.93 bbl 2005 $58.21 bbl and 2004 The third element is Internal Audit, whose role includes systematically $40.24 bbl and Henry Hub $5.52 mmBtu 2005 $9.52 mmBtu and examining the effectiveness of the groups financial controls designed 2004 $6.01 mmBtu.
The other 2006 movements in proved reserves to assure the reliability of reporting and safeguarding of assets and are reected in the tables showing movements in oil and gas reserves examining the groups compliance with laws, regulations and internal by region in Financial statements Supplementary information on oil standards.
The fourth element is a quarterly due diligence review, which is Total hydrocarbon proved reserves, on an oil equivalent basis and separate and independent from the operating business units, of proved excluding equity-accounted entities, comprised 13,163mmboe at reserves associated with properties where technical, operational or 31 December 2006, a decrease of 6.1% compared with 31 December commercial issues have arisen.
Natural gas represents about 55% of these reserves.
This reduction The fifth element is the established criteria whereby proved includes net sales of 227mmboe, largely comprising a number of assets reserves changes above certain thresholds require central authorization.
in Latin America, the UK and the US.
Furthermore, the volumes booked under these authorization levels are The proved reserves replacement ratio, excluding equity-accounted reviewed on a periodic basis.
The frequency of review is determined entities, was 34% 2005 68% and 2004 78%.
The proved reserves according to eld size and ensures that more than 80% of the BP replacement ratio also known as the production replacement ratio is the extent to which production is replaced by proved reserves additions.
This BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 17 ratio is expressed in oil equivalent terms and includes changes resulting developed reserves replacement ratio including both sales and purchases from revisions to previous estimates, improved recovery, extensions, of reserves-in-place was 70% 2005 63% and 2004 70%.
discoveries and other additions, excluding the impact of sales and Additions to proved developed reserves in 2006 for equity-accounted purchases of reserves-in-place and excluding reserves related to entities were 936mmboe.
This included some reserves that were equity-accounted entities.
The proved reserves replacement ratio, previously classied as proved undeveloped.
The proved developed including sales and purchases of reserves-in-place but excluding reserves replacement ratio including both sales and purchases of equity-accounted entities, was 11% 2005 40% and 2004 64%.
nature, there is always some risk involved in the ultimate development Our total hydrocarbon production during 2006 averaged 2,629 thousand and production of reserves, including but not limited to final regulatory barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d for subsidiaries and 1,297mboe d approval, the installation of new or additional infrastructure as well as for equity-accounted entities, a decrease of 3.3% and an increase of 0.1% changes in oil and gas prices and the continued availability of additional respectively compared with 2005.
For subsidiaries, 36% of our production development capital.
For equity-accounted entities, 75% of In 2006, net additions to the groups proved reserves excluding production was from TNK-BP.
sales and purchases of reserves-in-place and equity-accounted entities Total production for 2007 is expected to remain broadly the same as amounted to 329mmboe, principally through improved recovery from in 2006 after allowing for the impact on 2007 of divestments made in existing elds.
Of the reserves additions through improved recovery from, 2006.
This estimate is based on the groups asset portfolio at 1 January and extensions to, existing elds and discoveries of new elds, 2007, expected start-ups in 2007 and Brent at $60 bbl, before any 2007 approximately half are associated with new projects and are proved disposal effects and before any effects of prices above $60 bbl on undeveloped reserves additions.
The remainder are in existing volumes in PSAs.
developments where they represent a mixture of proved developed and The anticipated decline in production volumes from subsidiaries in proved undeveloped reserves.
Major new development projects typically our existing profit centres is partly mitigated by the development of take one to four years from the time of initial booking to the start of new projects and the investment in incremental reserves in and around production.
The principal reserves additions were in the UK Devenick, existing elds.
We expect that this overall decline in production from Foinaven, the US San Juan, Seminole, Great White, Horn Mountain, subsidiaries in our existing profit centres will be more than compensated Mars and Angola Rosa, Greater Plutonio.
for by strong increases in production from subsidiaries in our new profit Total hydrocarbon proved reserves, on an oil equivalent basis centres over the next few years.
Production in our equity-accounted joint for equity-accounted entities alone, comprised 4,537mmboe at 31 venture TNK-BP is expected to remain broadly constant to 2009.
December 2006, an increase of 17.2% compared with 31 December The most important determinants of cash ows in relation to our oil and 2005.
Natural gas represents about 14% of these reserves.
The proved natural gas production are the prices of these commodities.
At constant reserves replacement ratio for equity-accounted entities alone was 272% prices, cash ows from currently developed proved reserves are expected 2005 151% and 2004 114% and the proved reserves replacement ratio to decline in a manner consistent with anticipated production decline for equity-accounted entities alone but including sales and purchases of rates.
Development activities associated with recent discoveries, as well reserves-in-place was 239% 2005 141% and 2004 170%.
as continued investment in these producing elds, are expected to more Additions to proved developed reserves in 2006 for subsidiaries were than offset this decline, resulting in increased operating cash ows over 675mmboe, including sales and purchases.
This included some reserves the next few years.
Cash ows from equity-accounted entities are that were previously classied as proved undeveloped.
The proved expected to be in the form of dividend payments.
See Liquidity and capital resources on page 54.
We disclose our share of reserves held in joint ventures and associates that are accounted for by the equity method although we do not control these entities or the assets held by such entities.
b In certain deepwater fields, such as fields in the Gulf of Mexico, BP has claimed proved reserves before production flow tests are conducted, in part because of the significant safety, cost and environmental implications of conducting these tests.
The industry has made substantial technological improvements in understanding, measuring and delineating reservoir properties without the need for flow tests.
The general method of reserves assessment to determine reasonable certainty of commercial recovery that BP employs relies on the integration of three types of data: 1 well data used to assess the local characteristics and conditions of reservoirs and fluids: 2 field scale seismic data to allow the interpolation and extrapolation of these characteristics outside the immediate area of the local well control: and 3 data from relevant analogous fields.
Well data includes appraisal wells or sidetrack holes, full logging suites, core data and fluid samples.
BP considers the integration of this data in certain cases to be superior to a flow test in providing a better understanding of the overall reservoir performance.
The collection of data from logs, cores, wireline formation testers, pressures and fluid samples calibrated to each other and to the seismic data can allow reservoir properties to be determined over a greater volume than the localized volume of investigation associated with a short term flow test.
Historically, proved reserves recorded using these methods have been validated by actual production levels.
As at the end of 2006, BP had proved reserves in 22 fields in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico that had been initially booked prior to production flow testing.
Of these fields, 18 have been in production and two, Atlantis and Thunder Horse, are expected to begin production by the end of 2007 and by the end of 2008 respectively.
Two other fields are in the early stages of development.
c Includes 23 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
d Includes 179 million barrels of crude oil in respect of the 6.29% minority interest in TNK-BP.
e Includes 3,537 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 30% minority interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC.
f Includes 99 billion cubic feet of natural gas in respect of the 7.77% minority interest in TNK-BP.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19 The following tables show BPs production by major eld for 2006, 2005 and 2004.
c In 2006, BP divested its producing properties on the Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico and its interest in the Statfjord oil and gas field in the UK.
Our interests in the Boqueron, Desarollo Zulia Occidental DZO and Jusepin projects in Venezuela were reduced following a decision by the Venezuelan government.
TNK-BP disposed of its non-core interests in the Urdmurtneft assets.
In 2005, BP divested the Teak, Samaan and Poui assets in Trinidad and sold interests in certain properties in the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, BP exchanged the Gulf of Mexico deepwater Blind Faith prospect for Kerr McGees interest in the Arkoma Red Oak and Williburton fields.
TNK-BP disposed of non-core producing assets in the Saratov region.
In 2004, BP agreed with AAR to incorporate their 50% interest in Slavneft into TNK-BP, an equity-accounted entity.
BP also acquired minor additional working interests in Canada and the US.
BP diluted its working interests in Kings Peak and divested the Swordfish assets in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
Additionally, BP sold various properties including its interest in the South Pass 60 in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf, various assets in Alberta, Canada and the Kangean PSA in Indonesia.
d Volumes relate to six BP-operated fields within ETAP.
BP has no interests in the remaining three ETAP fields which are operated by Shell.
e Includes 55 thousand net barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d of NGLs from processing plants in which BP has an interest 2005 58mboe d and 2004 67mboe d. f The BP group holds proportionate interests, through associates, in onshore and offshore concessions in Abu Dhabi expiring in 2014 and 2018, respectively.
b In 2006, BP divested its producing properties on the Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico and its interest in the Statfjord oil and gas field in the UK.
d Includes 4 million and 7 million cubic feet a day of natural gas received as in-kind tariff payments in 2005 and 2004 respectively.
e Natural gas production volumes exclude gas consumed in operations within the lease boundaries of the producing field, but the related reserves are included in the groups reserves.
per day mmcf d decreased 7% compared with 2005. significant events were: Crude oil production decreased 63mb d from 2005, with production Drilling continued during 2006 on the Wamsutter natural gas expansion from new projects being offset by divestments and natural reservoir project.
The multi-year drilling programme is expected to increase decline.
The NGLs component of liquids production remained essentially production signicantly by the end of 2010.
We are currently testing at compared with 2005, with a slight decline of 2mb d. Gas production horizontal fracturing technology and carrying out wireless seismic was lower 170mmcf d because of divestments and natural reservoir studies on the reservoir.
In January 2007, we announced our investment of up to $2.4 billion Development expenditure in the US excluding midstream during over the next 13 years in the Coal Bed Methane Field development 2006 was $3,579 million, compared with $2,965 million in 2005 and project in the San Juan Basin of Colorado.
The project includes the $3,247 million in 2004.
The annual increase is the result of various drilling of more than 700 wells, nearly all from existing well sites, and development projects in progress.
the installation of associated eld facilities.
On 19 April 2006, BP announced the sale of its producing properties on In October 2006, we completed the sale of five onshore properties in the Outer Continental Shelf of the Gulf of Mexico to Apache Corporation South Louisiana to Swift Energy for approximately $160 million.
The major part of the sale was completed in June 2006 after receiving regulatory approval.
In the third quarter of 2006, we Alaska completed the sale of our remaining Gulf of Mexico Shelf assets that In Alaska, BP net crude oil production in 2006 was 224mb d, a decrease were subject to pre-emption rights.
BP retained certain decommissioning of 16% from 2005, due to mature eld decline and operational issues obligations related to the disposed assets.
associated with transit pipelines described below.
Our activities within the US take place in three main areas.
significant BP operates 13 North Slope oil elds including Prudhoe Bay, Northstar events during 2006 within each of these are indicated below.
and Milne Point and four North Slope pipelines and owns a significant interest in six other producing elds.
Our 26.4% interest in the Prudhoe Deepwater Gulf of Mexico Bay natural gas resource is a large undeveloped source of natural gas.
Deepwater Gulf of Mexico is one of our new profit centres and our largest Developing viscous oil is an important part of the Alaska business.
We area of growth in the US.
In 2006, our deepwater Gulf of Mexico crude oil are continually looking to develop viscous oil production in various elds production was 195mb d and gas production was 323mmcf d. through the application of advanced technology.
significant events were: significant events were: Offshore repair work on the Thunder Horse platform BP 75% and BP, along with ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips and the Executive Branch operator was completed during 2006.
However, tests conducted of the State of Alaska, reached agreement on a gas pipeline scal during the commissioning of the platform revealed metallurgical contract.
Two special sessions of the legislature called by the former failure in components of the subsea system.
In September 2006, we governor ended without legislative ratication of the contract.
The announced our plan to retrieve and replace all the subsea components change of governor, which took place in December 2006, has we believed could be at risk.
We currently estimate that this will cost temporarily delayed continued negotiations with the State of Alaska around $650 million BP net.
Production is expected to start up by the until a clear process leading to ratication of the gas pipeline scal end of 2008. contract is dened by the new administration.
BP stands ready to The Mars platform BP 28.5% suffered heavy damage from Hurricane execute a modied scal contract that is agreeable to all the parties.
Production resumed in May 2006 and was The State of Alaska signicantly increased production taxes by 190mboe d gross by September 2006, a 20% increase over preadopting a new Petroleum Production Tax PPT bill on 19 August Katrina rates.
The key terms of the PPT include a Expansion of the Mars and Na Kika elds also continued during 2006 22.5% oil tax rate with capital credits and a clause whereby the oil tax and first production from these projects is expected in 2007. rate increases as the net margin rises above $40 bbl.
Progress continued on the Atlantis project BP 56% and operator On 27 November 2006, the State of Alaska Department of Natural during 2006.
The semi-submersible platform will be the deepest Resources DNR issued a decision regarding the Plan of Development moored oating production facility in the world in approximately POD submitted by ExxonMobil on behalf of the Point Thompson Unit 7,100 feet of water.
First oil is expected by the end of 2007. owners BP 32% on 18 October 2006.
The DNR decision was to reject On 31 August 2006, we announced a significant oil exploration the modied POD, deny the proposed settlement of the expansion discovery on the Kaskida prospect in approximately 5,900 feet of water.
lease acreage and terminate the Point Thompson Unit.
BP, along with Development of the King Subsea Pump project BP 100% and the other owners, is studying options available in response to this operator continued during 2006, with first production expected by the decision.
BP intends to pursue vigorously the retention of its interest in end of 2007.
This is the first subsea multi-phase pump application in the Point Thompson Unit and remains committed to its development in water depths greater than 3,000 feet.
conjunction with our broader gas strategy and the proposal to construct In July 2006, we completed the sale of our 28% interest in the Shenzi a gas pipeline from Alaska, through Canada, to the Midwest US.
discovery to Repsol for $2,145 million.
Alaska viscous and heavy oil assets produced their 100 millionth barrel gross in November 2006.
West Sak 1J Phase 1 viscous project has Lower 48 states drilled more than half the planned 31 development wells, Milne Point In the Lower 48 states Onshore, our 2006 natural gas production was is planning the NW Schrader Bluff winter appraisal programme and 1,920mmcf d, which was up 2% compared with 2005.
Liquids production the Orion Phase II sanction in Prudhoe Bay is expected in the first was 125mb d, down 4% compared with 2005 as a result of normal eld quarter of 2007.
Orion Phase II completes GC-2 viscous oil facility decline.
In 2006, we drilled approximately 330 wells as operator and modications and develops eight additional producer wells and 22 continued to maintain a level programme of drilling activity throughout injector wells: first oil is planned for 2009. the year.
On 2 March 2006, a transit pipeline in the Western operating area of Production is derived primarily from two main areas: the Prudhoe Bay eld was discovered to have spilled approximately In the Western Basins Colorado, New Mexico and Wyoming, our 4,800 barrels of crude oil over approximately two acres.
The processing assets produced 218mboe d in 2006. facility that feeds into the transit line was immediately shut down.
An In the Gulf Coast and Mid-Continental basins Kansas, Louisiana, investigation team determined that the leak was caused by internal corrosion.
Spill clean-up was completed and business operations Oklahoma and Texas, our assets produced 183mboe d in 2006.
The development of recovery technology continues to be a resumed in April 2006 using a separate bypass line.
See also fundamental strategy in accessing our North America tight gas Environmental Protection Health, Safety and Environmental resources.
Through the use of horizontal drilling and advanced hydraulic Regulation on page 42.
22 On 7 August 2006, an orderly and phased shutdown of the Eastern Rest of Europe Operating Area of the Prudhoe Bay oil eld began following the Development expenditure, excluding midstream, in the Rest of Europe discovery of unexpected corrosion and a small spill from a Prudhoe was $214 million, compared with $188 million in 2005 and $262 million Bay oil transit line.
In September, we determined that the oil in 2004. transit lines in the Eastern Operating Area of Prudhoe Bay could be returned to service for the purposes of in-line inspection.
By the end of Norway October we had returned to service all three ow stations previously In 2006, our total production in Norway was 66mboe d, a 20% decrease shut down.
This decrease in production was driven by natural decline.
Current production from Prudhoe Bay is more than 400,000 barrels of significant activities were: oil and natural gas liquids per day gross.
BP has a 26.4% interest in Progress on the Valhall BP 28.1% and operator redevelopment the Prudhoe Bay eld.
A new platform is scheduled to become In response to the recent corrosion discoveries, BP has decided to operational in 2010, with expected oil production capacity of 150mb d replace the main oil transit lines 16 miles in both the Eastern and and gas handling capacity of 175mmcf d. Western Operating Areas of Prudhoe Bay.
In addition, BP plans to Drilling continued through 2006 on the Valhall ank development spend over $550 million net over the next two years on integrity and water injection projects.
The ank drilling programme was management in Alaska.
BP has retained three eminent corrosion completed in September 2006 and water injection drilling will continue experts to evaluate independently and make recommendations for during 2007. improving the corrosion programme in Alaska.
BP has also asked an In March 2006, we reached agreement for the sale of our interest in independent ombudsman to undertake a review of worker allegations the Luva gas discovery, in the North Sea.
This sale was completed in raised on the North Slope of Alaska since the acquisition of ARCO the second quarter of 2006. in 2000 to determine whether the problems have been addressed and rectied.
Netherlands In February 2007, BP temporarily shut down its Northstar production In May 2006, we announced our intention to sell our exploration and facility to repair welds in the low pressure gas piping system.
BP is production and gas infrastructure business in the Netherlands.
This currently nalising inspections and has begun repairs.
includes onshore and offshore production assets and the onshore gas supply facility, Piek Gas Installatie, at Alkmaar.
The sale was completed United Kingdom on 1 February 2007 to the Abu Dhabi National Energy Company, TAQA.
We are the largest producer of oil and second largest producer of gas in the UK.
BP remains the largest overall producer of hydrocarbons in the Rest of World UK.
In 2006, total liquids production was 253mb d, a 9% decrease on Development expenditure, excluding midstream, in Rest of World 2005, and gas production was 936mmcf d, a 14% decrease on 2005.
This was $4,522 million in 2006, compared with $3,735 million in 2005 decrease in production was driven by the natural decline, operational and $3,082 million in 2004. issues and lower seasonal gas demand.
Our activities in the North Sea are focused on safe operations, efficient delivery of production Rest of Americas and midstream operations, in-eld drilling and selected new eld Canada developments.
Our development expenditure excluding In Canada, our natural gas and liquids production was 57mboe d in midstream in the UK was $794 million in 2006, compared with $790 2006, a decrease of 10% compared with 2005.
The year-on-year million in 2005 and $679 million in 2004. decrease in production is mainly due to natural eld decline.
significant events were: BP has been successful in obtaining new licences in British Columbia Drilling continued during 2006 on the Clair Phase 1 development BP and Alberta land sales.
The acquired acreage will form part of the Noel 28.6% and operator programme and is scheduled to continue through tight gas development project in north-eastern British Columbia.
The 2008. project will involve drilling up to 180 horizontal wells and innovative In September 2006, BP reached an agreement, subject to Department fracturing technology to develop the remainder of the resources.
of Trade and Industry DTI approval, to acquire acreage in the UK Central North Sea that contains two discovered elds and further Trinidad exploration potential.
In Trinidad, natural gas production volumes increased by 14% to BP and its partner approved the front end engineering and design for 2,265mmcf d in 2006.
The increase was driven by higher demand due the Harding Area Gas Project BP 70% and operator in July 2006. to the ramp-up of Atlantic LNG Train 4.
Liquids production declined by This represents the first stage of a development project to allow the 2mb d 5% to 38mb d in 2006. production of gas from the Harding area and prolong the life of the eld Cannonball BP 100%, Trinidads first major offshore construction beyond 2015. project executed locally, started production in March 2006.
Production Progress continued during the year on the Magnus Expansion Project increased during the year and the asset is currently providing gas for BP 85% and operator, with first oil achieved in October 2006. the Atlantic LNG trains.
The UK government approved the North West Hutton BP sanctioned the development projects for Red Mango BP 100% in decommissioning programme in April 2006.
BP, on behalf of the April 2006 and for Cashima BP 100% in August 2006.
First production owners of North West Hutton BP 26% and operator, awarded a is expected by the end of 2007 and in 2008 respectively.
contract in October 2006 for the offshore removal and onshore recycling of the installation.
Detailed engineering work for removal Venezuela has begun.
Platform removal is expected to start in 2008 and to be In Venezuela, our 2006 liquids production reduced by 25mb d completed by the end of 2009. compared with 2005, mainly as a result of the enforced reduction of our In December 2005, the UK government announced a 10% interests in the non-BP-operated Jusepin property and the Boqueron supplemental tax increase on North Sea oil profits, taking the total and Desarollo Zulia Occidental DZO reactivation projects, which BP corporate tax rate to 50%.
This tax increase became law in July 2006, operated until 31 March 2006 under operating service agreements on with effect from 1 January 2006. behalf of the state oil company, Petroleos fide Venezuela S. A. PDVSA.
In March 2006, we reached agreement for the sale of our 4.84% In August 2006, BP signed conversion agreements to co-operate with interest in the Statfjord oil and gas eld.
This sale was completed PDVSA in setting up incorporated joint ventures in which PDVSA would in June 2006. be the majority shareholder.
The structures for the incorporated joint ventures were established in December 2006 and these are now the operators of the Boqueron and DZO properties.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 23 In December 2006, BP, in common with the other partners in the December 2006.
Development on the Rosa project, a tie-back to the Jusepin property, reached agreement with PDVSA for compensation Girassol hub, continued, with first production expected by the end in return for the relinquishment of our interest in the property.
Cerro Negro is a non-BP-operated property that is a heavy oil project In Block 18 BP 50% and operator, work has continued on the Greater from which production is sold directly by BP.
The Venezuelan Plutonio development in line with expectations to commence government has communicated its intention of converting this strategic production by the end of 2007. association to an incorporated joint venture.
It is too early to determine In Block 31 BP 26.7% and operator, three additional discoveries were the effect of this.
There have been a total of 12 discoveries that are at In 2005, changes were made by the Venezuelan government to various stages of assessment of commercial viability.
increase corporate income taxes from 34% to 50% on those We are participating in the Angola LNG project BP 13.6%.
companies operating under operating service agreements.
Changes were also made in 2006 to the taxation of oil extraction companies, Egypt such as Cerro Negro.
From 1 June 2006, a new extraction tax at a In Egypt, the Gulf of Suez Petroleum Company GUPCO BP 50%, a maximum rate of 33.33% was introduced the existing royalty of joint venture operating company between BP and the Egyptian General 16.67% can be offset against the new extraction tax and, on Petroleum Corporation, carries out our operated oil and gas production 25 September 2006, the corporate income tax rate was raised from operations.
GUPCO operates eight PSAs in the Gulf of Suez and 34% to 50% with effect from 1 January 2007.
Western Desert and one PSA in the Mediterranean Sea, encompassing more than 40 elds.
Colombia The Temsah redevelopment project was completed and production In Colombia, BPs net production averaged 50mboe d. The main part of achieved in the second quarter of 2006. the production comes from the Cusiana, Cupiagua and Cupiagua South Progress continued on the Saqqara eld BP 100% development Fields, with increasing new production from the Cupiagua extension project, with first production expected in the first quarter of 2008. into the Recetor Association Contract and the Floren a and Pauto elds In June 2006, the Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Corporation EGAS, in the Piedemonte Association Contract.
In March 2006, cumulative BP, SEGAS and Eni signed a framework agreement marking a major production from the BP-operated elds reached 1 billion barrels gross step forward for the development of the second liqueed natural since operations began in 1992. gas LNG export train at the Damietta site on the Egyptian In December 2006, the corporate income tax rate was reduced from Mediterranean coast.
its current rate of 35% to 34% from 1 January 2007 and to 33% from 1 January 2008.
Asia Pacic Indonesia Argentina and Bolivia BP produces crude oil and supplies natural gas to the island of Java In Argentina and Bolivia, activity is conducted through Pan American through its holding in the Offshore Northwest Java Production Sharing Energy PAE, in which BP holds a 60% interest, and which is Agreement BP 46%.
accounted for by the equity method since it is jointly controlled.
In During 2006, progress continued on the Tangguh LNG project BP 2006, total production of 145mboe d represented an increase of 7% 37.2% and operator.
The project development includes offshore over 2005, with oil increasing by 4% and gas by 10%.
The main platforms, pipelines and an LNG plant with two production trains.
increase in oil production came from the continued focus on drilling and First LNG is expected by the end of 2008. wateroods in Golfo San Jorge in Argentina, where oil production was 60mb d, compared with 58mb d in 2005.
The eld is now producing Vietnam at its highest level since inception in 1958 and further expansion BP participates in the countrys largest project with foreign investment, programmes are planned.
PAE also has interests in gas pipelines, the Nam Con Son gas project.
This is an integrated resource and electricity generation plants and other midstream infrastructure assets.
infrastructure project, including offshore gas production, pipeline In November 2006, PAE and all other oil and gas companies with transportation system and power plant.
In 2006, natural gas production operations in Bolivia entered into agreements with the state-owned was 392mmcf d gross, an increase of 13% over 2005.
This increase oil company Yacimientos Petrolferos Fiscales Bolivianos YPFB that was mainly due to higher demand resulting from continuing growth establish governmental control over the countrys hydrocarbon in the economy.
Gas sales from Block 6.1 BP 35% and operator are resources.
The agreements have been approved by the Bolivian made under a long-term agreement for electricity generation in Congress.
YPFB will be responsible for marketing all hydrocarbons Vietnam, including the Phu My Phase 3 power plant BP 33.33%.
produced in Bolivia and for determining the terms of sales contracts.
China Africa The Yacheng offshore gas eld BP 34.3% supplies, under a long-term Algeria contract, 100% of the natural gas requirement of Castle Peak Power BP, through its joint operatorship of In Salah Gas with Statoil and the Company, which provides around 50% of Hong Kongs electricity.
Algerian state company, Sonatrach, supplied 300bcf gross of gas Some natural gas is also piped to Hainan Island, where it is sold to markets in Algeria and southern Europe during 2006.
The carbon to the Fuel and Chemical Company of Hainan, also under a longdioxide CO capture system, part of the In Salah project BP 33.15%, term contract.
2 is one of the worlds largest CO capture projects.
2 BP, through its joint operatorship of In Amenas with Statoil and Australia Sonatrach, completed the development of the In Amenas project We are one of six equal partners in the North West Shelf NWS BP 12.5%.
First production was achieved in June 2006. venture.
Each partner holds a 16.7% interest in the infrastructure and From 1 August 2006, a windfall profit tax was announced that applies oil reserves and a 15.8% interest in the gas reserves and condensate.
to certain producers when the monthly average price of a barrel of oil The operation covers offshore production platforms, a oating exceeds $30.
At present, the only asset of BP affected by this is the production and storage vessel, trunklines and onshore gas processing In Amenas project.
The NWS Venture is currently the principal supplier to the domestic market in Western Australia.
During 2006, progress Angola continued on the construction of a fifth LNG train 4.7 million tonnes In Block 15 BP 26.7%, development of Kizomba C commenced in the a year design capacity, with first throughput expected in 2008. first quarter of 2006.
Development of Kizomba A Phase II continued, with first production planned for the end of 2007.
In Block 17 BP 16.7%, development activities were completed and the FPSO moored on the Dalia project.
First production commenced in 24 Russia Other TNK-BP In July 2006, BP purchased 9.6% of the shares issued in Rosnefts IPO TNK-BP, a joint venture between BP 50% and Alfa Group and for $1 billion.
This represents an interest of around 1.4% in Rosneft.
Access-Renova AAR 50%, is an integrated oil company operating in Russia and the Ukraine.
The TNK-BP groups major assets are held in Other OAO TNK-BP Holding.
Other assets include the BP-branded retail sites Azerbaijan in Moscow and the Moscow region, OAO Rusia Petroleum and the BP, as operator of the Azerbaijan International Operating Company OAO Slavneft group.
The workforce is about 70,000 people.
AIOC, manages and has a 34.1% interest in the  BPs investment in TNK-BP is held by the Exploration and Production ACG oil elds in the Caspian Sea, offshore Azerbaijan.
Phase 2 of business and the results of TNK-BP are accounted for under the equity the Azeri project delivered first oil from the West Azeri platform to method in this segment.
Sangachal terminal on 3 January 2006 and was completed on TNK-BP has proved reserves of 6.1 billion boe including its 49.9% 21 October 2006 with the delivery of first oil from the East Azeri equity share of Slavneft, of which 4.8 billion are developed.
In 2006, platform to Sangachal, four months ahead of schedule.
Phase 3 of the average liquids production was 1.9mmboe d, a decrease of just over project, which will develop the deepwater Gunashli area of ACG, 2% compared with 2005, reecting the disposal of the Urdmurt and remains on schedule to begin production in 2008.
The production base is largely Construction and the Stage 1 pre-drill programme of the project to centred in West Siberia Samotlor, Nyagan and Megion, which develop the Shah Deniz natural gas eld BP 25.5% and operator were contributes about 1.4mmboe d, together with Volga Urals Orenburg completed in 2006, with first gas in December 2006. contributing some 0.4mmboe d. About 50% of total oil production is currently exported as crude oil and 20% as rened product.
Middle East and Pakistan Downstream, TNK-BP owns five reneries in Russia and the Ukraine Production in the Middle East consists principally of the production including Ryazan and Lisichansk, with throughput of 0.6 million barrels entitlement of associates in Abu Dhabi, where we have equity a day 28 million tonnes a year.
In retail, TNK-BP operates more than interests of 9.5% and 14.7% in onshore and offshore concessions 1,600 lling stations in Russia and the Ukraine, with a share of the respectively.
In 2006, production in Abu Dhabi was 164mb d, up 11% Moscow retail market in excess of 20%.
from 2005 as a result of capacity enhancements.
During 2006, four of TNK-BPs licences were extended by 25 years, In Pakistan, BP is one of the leading foreign operators, producing 22% including two key licences covering the Samotlor eld and the of the countrys oil and 6% of its natural gas on a gross basis in 2006.
In July 2006, BP was awarded three offshore blocks in Pakistans In October, TNK-BPs subsidiary Rusia Petroleum received a letter from offshore Indus Delta.
The blocks cover an area of approximately 2 the Russian authorities alleging a number of violations of the conditions 20,000km and include the right to operate any commercially related to a licence covering part of the Kovykta eld in East Siberia.
In February 2007, the status of the licence was reviewed by the In January 2007, we were awarded development rights to the Khazzan authorities, who we anticipate will issue formal findings shortly.
Rusia Makarem elds in Oman.
These provide access to a significant volume Petroleum continues to discuss this matter with the authorities in order of tight gas resource in place, which we believe can be developed to address any outstanding concerns.
using the same technology as we are currently deploying at our In November, following a review of the results of an inspection by Wamsutter eld in the US.
the licensing authorities, regional prosecutors made a request for revocation of the two licences held by TNK-BP subsidiary Rospan India International on grounds of violation of licence conditions and In November 2006, BP signed a PSA with the Indian government to applicable legislation.
Following discussion with the licensing explore for coal bed methane in the Birbhun district of Indias eastern West Bengal state.
authorities, renewal was granted of certain documents associated with the licences for which TNK-BP had previously applied.
In addition, Rospan presented a plan to rectify the licence non-compliances, Midstream activities following which the licensing authorities have granted a six-month Oil and natural gas transportation period to full this plan.
The group has direct or indirect interests in certain crude oil transportation On 23 October 2006, TNK-BP received decisions from the Russian systems, the principal ones being the Trans Alaska Pipeline System tax authorities in relation to the tax audits of certain TNK-BP group TAPS in the US and the Forties Pipelines System FPS in the UK sector companies for the years 2002 and 2003, resulting in a payment by of the North Sea.
We also operate the Central Area Transmission System TNK-BP of approximately $1.4 billion in settlement of these claims.
CATS for natural gas in the UK sector of the North Sea.
At the present time, BP believes that its provisions are adequate for BP, as operator, manages and holds a 30.1% interest in the its share of any liabilities arising from these and other outstanding tax Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC oil pipeline, which was fully commissioned in decisions not covered by the indemnities provided by our co-venturers July 2006.
BP, as operator of AIOC, also operates the Western Export in respect of historical tax liabilities related to assets contributed to the Route Pipeline between Azerbaijan and the Black Sea coast of Georgia joint venture.
and the Azeri leg of the Northern Export Route Pipeline between In August 2006, TNK-BP completed the sale of its interest in OAO Azerbaijan and Russia.
Our onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and related In January 2007, TNK-BP announced the acquisition of Occidental transportation assets are included under Rening and Marketing see Petroleums 50% interest in the West Siberian joint venture, page 27.
Revenue is earned on pipelines through charging tariffs.
The transaction is expected to close gas marketing business is included in our Gas, Power and Renewables during the first quarter of 2007, subject to Russian regulatory segment see page 35. approvals.
On completion of the purchase, TNK-BP will own 100% Activity in oil and natural gas transportation during 2006 included: of the Vanyoganneft asset.
Alaska Sakhalin BP owns a 46.9% interest in TAPS, with the balance owned by four BP participates in exploration activity through Elvaryneftegas BP 49%, other companies.
Production transported by TAPS from Alaska North an equity-accounted joint venture with Rosneft in Sakhalin, where Slope elds averaged 748mb d during 2006. three discoveries have been made.
Exploratory drilling continued in The use of US-built and US-agged ships is required when transporting 2006 and preliminary work is under way to prepare for development Alaskan oil to markets in the US.
In September 2006, BP completed if commercial reserves are discovered.
Further drilling is planned the replacement of its US-agged eet with the delivery of its fourth during 2007. ship, the Alaska Legend.
BP had contracted for the delivery of four 1.3  double-hulled tankers for use in transporting BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 25 North Slope oil to West Coast reneries.
BP took delivery of the first pipeline.
CPC is a 1,510-kilometre pipeline from Kazakhstan to the three tankers between August 2004 and November 2005.
As existing Russian port of Novorossiysk and carries crude oil from the Tengiz eld ships were retired, the replacements were constructed in accordance BP 2.3%.
In addition to our interest in LukArco, we hold a separate with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990.
For discussion of the Oil Pollution 0.87% interest 3.5% funding obligation in CPC through a 49% Act of 1990, see Environmental Protection Maritime oil spill holding in Kazakhstan Pipeline Ventures.
In 2006, CPC total throughput regulations on page 44. reached 31.2 million tonnes.
During 2006, negotiations continued Work progressed during 2006 on the strategic reconguration project between the CPC shareholders towards the approval of an expansion to upgrade and automate four pump stations.
This project will install plan.
The expansion would require the construction of 10 additional electrically driven pumps at four critical pump stations, combined with pump stations, additional storage facilities and a third offshore increased automation and upgraded control systems.
Start-up of the mooring point.
first pump station is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2007, with the  of2007.
The remaining Liqueed natural gas two recongured pump stations are expected to come online Within BP, Exploration and Production is responsible for the supply of sequentially after 2007.
LNG and the Gas, Power and Renewables business is responsible for There are a number of unresolved protests regarding intrastate tariffs the subsequent marketing and distribution of LNG.
See details under charged for shipping oil through TAPS.
These protests were led Gas, Power and Renewables Liqueed natural gas on page 36.
BPs between 1986 and 2003 with the Regulatory Commission of Alaska Exploration and Production segment has interests in four major LNG RCA.
These matters are proceeding through the Alaska judicial and plants: the Atlantic LNG plant in Trinidad BP 34% in Train 1, 42.5% in regulatory systems.
Pending the resolution of these matters, the RCA each of Trains 2 and 3 and 37.8% in Train 4 : in Indonesia, through our has imposed intrastate rates effective 1 July 2003 that are consistent interests in the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38%, which supplies natural gas with its 2002 Order requiring refunds to be made to TAPS shippers of to the Bontang LNG plant, and Tangguh PSA, BP 37.2%, which is under intrastate crude oil.
construction: and in Australia through our share of LNG from the NWS Tariffs for interstate and intrastate transportation on TAPS are natural gas development BP 16.7% infrastructure and oil reserves 15.8% calculated utilizing the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC gas and condensate reserves.
endorsed TAPS Settlement Methodology TSM entered into with Assets and activities: the State of Alaska in 1985.
In February 2006, FERC combined and We have a 10% equity shareholding in the Abu Dhabi Gas Liquefaction consolidated all 2005 and 2006 rate complaints led by the State, Company, which in 2006 supplied 5.6 million tonnes 290bcf of LNG, Anadarko, Tesoro and Tesoro Alaska.
The complaints were led on a up 3.6% on 2005. variety of grounds.
We are confident that the rates are in accordance In Australia, we are one of six equal partners in the NWS Venture.
with the TSM and are continuing to evaluate the disputes.
BP will Each partner holds a 16.7% interest in the infrastructure and oil continue to collect its TSM-based interstate tariffs: however, our tariffs reserves and a 15.8% interest in the gas reserves and condensate.
The are subject to refund depending on the outcome of the challenges.
joint venture operation covers offshore production platforms, a oating Interstate transport makes up roughly 93% of total TAPS throughput.
production and storage vessel, trunklines, onshore gas processing plants and LNG carriers.
Construction continued during 2006 on a fifth North Sea LNG train that is expected to process 4.7 million tonnes of LNG a year FPS BP 100% is an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and and will increase the plants capacity to 16.6 million tonnes a year.
The processing system that handles production from more than 50 elds train is expected to be commissioned during the second half of 2008. in the Central North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than NWS produced 12.0 million tonnes 544bcf of LNG, an increase of 2% 1mmb d, with average throughput in 2006 at 545mb d. In January on 2005.
2007, FPS completed the tying in of the Buzzard eld, which is In Indonesia, BP is involved in two of the three LNG centres in the expected to be a significant user of FPS capacity.
BP participates in Indonesias LNG exports through its BP operates and has a 29.5% interest in CATS, a 400-kilometre natural holdings in the Sanga-Sanga PSA BP 38%.
Sanga-Sanga currently gas pipeline system in the central UK sector of the North Sea.
The delivers around 15.5% of the total gas feed to Bontang, one of the pipeline has a transportation capacity of 1.7bcf d to a natural gas worlds largest LNG plants.
The Bontang plant produced 19.5 million terminal at Teesside in north-east England.
CATS offers natural gas tonnes 886bcf of LNG in 2006, compared with 19.4 million tonnes transportation and processing services.
Also in Indonesia, BP has interests in the Tangguh LNG joint venture In addition, BP operates the Dimlington Easington gas processing BP 37.2% and operator and in each of the Wiriagar BP 38% and terminal BP 100% on Humberside and the Sullom Voe oil and gas operator, Berau BP 48% and operator and Muturi BP 1% PSAs in terminal in the Shetlands.
north-west Papua that are expected to supply feed gas to the Tangguh LNG plant.
During 2006, construction continued on two trains, with Asia including the former Soviet Union start-up planned late in 2008.
Tangguh is expected to be the third BP, as operator, manages and holds a 30.1% interest in the BTC oil LNG centre in Indonesia, with an initial capacity of 7.6 million tonnes pipeline.
The 1,768-kilometre pipeline is expected to carry 750,000 388bcf a year.
Tangguh has signed sales contracts for delivery to barrels of oil a day by the end of 2007 from the BP-operated ACG oil China, Korea and North Americas West Coast.
eld in the Caspian Sea to the eastern Mediterranean port of Ceyhan.
In Trinidad, construction of the Atlantic LNG Train 4 BP 37.8% was Loading of the first tanker at Ceyhan occurred in June 2006 and the completed in December 2005, with the first LNG cargo delivered in ofcial inauguration of the Turkish section of the BTC oil export January 2006.
Train 4 is now the largest producing LNG train in the pipeline, the new Ceyhan marine export terminal and the full BTC world and is designed to produce 5.2 million tonnes 253bcf a year of pipeline export system was held on 13 July 2006.
BP expects to supply at least two-thirds of the gas to the train.
The South Caucasus Pipeline for the transport of gas from Shah The facilities will be operated under a tolling arrangement, with the Deniz in Azerbaijan to the Turkish border was ready for operation in equity owners retaining ownership of their respective gas.
BP is the operator and holds a 25.5% interest.
is expected to be sold in the US, Dominican Republic and other Through the LukArco joint venture, BP holds a 5.75% interest with destinations.
BPs net share of the capacity of Atlantic LNG Trains 1, 2, a 25% funding obligation in the Caspian Pipeline Consortium CPC 3 and 4 is 6.5 million tonnes 305bcf of LNG a year.
26 portfolio will be upgraded further through the construction of a new coker Rening and Marketing at the Castello n renery, an increase in the Whiting renerys ability to process Canadian heavy crude, upgrades to diesel and gasoline Our Rening and Marketing business is responsible for the supply and desulphurization capability at the Nerefco renery in the Netherlands, trading, rening, marketing and transportation of crude oil, petroleum and completion of a major upgrade to the olen cracker at the Gelsenkirchen chemicals products to wholesale and retail customers.
BP markets its renery in Germany and the site reconguration and installation of a new products in more than 100 countries.
We operate primarily in Europe and hydrocracker at the Bayernoil renery, also in Germany.
In addition, the North America but also market our products across Australasia and in portfolio will be improved through upgrades implemented during the parts of Asia, Africa and Central and South America.
recommissioning of the Texas City renery in the US.
Our lubricants brands offer customers benets through for continuing operations 232,855 213,326 170,639 technology and relationships and we focus on increasing brand profit before interest and tax from and product loyalty in Castrol lubricants.
We continue to build deep continuing operations 5,041 6,926 6,506 customer relationships and strategic partnerships in the business-toTotal assets 80,964 77,485 73,582 business sector.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions 3,144 2,860 2,989 Rening and Marketing manages a portfolio of assets that we believe $ per barrel are competitively advantaged across the chain of downstream activities.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- b Global Indicator Rening Margin 8.39 8.60 6.31 Such advantage derives from several factors, including location such as the proximity of manufacturing assets to markets, operating cost and Profit before interest and tax from continuing operations includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
We are one of the major reners of gasoline and hydrocarbon products a With effect from 1 January 2006, the following assets were transferred to or from in the US, Europe and Australia.
We have significant retail and businessthe Refining and Marketing segment: to-business market positions in the US, UK, Germany and the rest of Three equity-accounted entities were transferred from Other businesses and corporate following the sale of Innovene: Europe, Australasia, Africa and Asia.
We are enhancing our presence in The South Houston Green Power co-generation facility in the Texas City refinery China and exploring opportunities in India.
Rening and Marketing also and the Watson co-generation facility in the Carson refinery were transferred to includes the Aromatics and Acetyls business, which maintains Gas, Power and Renewables as a result of the formation of BP Alternative Energy: and manufacturing positions globally, with an emphasis on Asia growth, Hydrogen for Transport activities were transferred from Gas, Power and particularly in China.
During 2006, significant events were: The 2005 and 2004 data above has been restated to reflect these transfers.
b The Global Indicator Refining Margin GIM is the average of regional industry BP announced that it had entered the final planning stage of a $3-billion indicator margins, which we weight for BPs crude refining capacity in each region.
investment in Canadian heavy crude oil processing capability at its Each regional indicator margin is based on a single representative crude with product Whiting, US, renery.
This project is expected to reposition Whiting yields characteristic of the typical level of upgrading complexity.
The refining margins are industry-specific rather than BP-specific measures, which we believe are useful competitively as a top-tier renery by increasing its Canadian heavy to investors in analysing trends in the industry and their impact on our results.
crude processing capability by 260,000 barrels per day and modernizing The margins are calculated by BP based on published crude oil and product prices it with equipment of significant size and scale.
Reconguring the and take account of fuel utilization and catalyst costs.
No account is taken of BPs other cash and non-cash costs of refining, such as wages and salaries and plant renery also has the potential to increase its production of motor fuels depreciation.
The indicator margin may not be representative of the margins by about 15%, which is about 1.7 million additional gallons of gasoline achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular refining configurations and and diesel per day.
Construction is tentatively scheduled to begin in crude and product slate.
The changes in sales and other operating revenues are explained in more BP also announced plans to invest $500 million over the next 10 years detail below.
to establish a dedicated bioscience research laboratory.
On 1 February 2006 2005 2004 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2007, BP announced that it had selected the University of California, Sale of crude oil through spot and Berkeley, and its partners the University of Illinois at Urbana term contracts 38,577 36,992 21,989 Champaign and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory for the Marketing, spot and term sales of research programme.
Further, BP and DuPont announced the creation rened products 177,995 155,098 124,458 of a partnership to develop, produce and market a next generation of Other sales including non-oil and to biofuels.
Sale of crude oil through spot and Initial introduction activities are currently targeted on the UK market.
term contracts 2,110 2,464 2,312 In 2006, plans for a second puried terephthalic acid PTA plant at Marketing, spot and term sales of rened products 5,801 5,888 6,398 the BP Zhuhai Chemical Company Limited site in Guangdong province, China, were approved by the Chinese government and the plant is expected to come on stream at the end of 2007.
The Rening and Marketing segment includes a portfolio of businesses, BP continues to develop its retailing business in both new markets namely Rening, Retail, Lubricants, Business-to-Business Marketing and new business models.
In 2006, developments included: r and Aromatics and Acetyls.
Our strategy is to continue our focused The roll-out of the BP Connect Wild Bean Cafe brands to its dealer investment in key assets and market positions.
We aim to improve the network in a franchise agreement.
We are expecting to develop a quality and capability of our manufacturing portfolio.
Over the past five network of 150 Connect franchise sites along with a further 100 years, this has been taking place through upgrades of existing conversion company-owned Connect sites in the UK by the end of 2010. r units at several of our facilities and investment in new clean fuels units The successful piloting of a Marks & Spencer store partnership at the Castello n renery in Spain, the Kwinana renery in Australia and all in the UK, with the intention of rolling this out to a further 200 our US reneries excluding the Carson renery, which was already stores in 2007. producing a full slate of clean fuels.
Over the next five years, our rening BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 r In a study by Corporate Research International, US consumers of underlying causes related to the working environment, process safety ranked BPs convenience chain in the US as the best for and other management and operational behaviours and processes at the customer service.
BP completed the disposal of its shareholding in Zhenhai Rening and The investigation team recommended numerous changes relating Chemicals Company to Sinopec, sold its shareholding in Eiffage, the to people, procedures, control of work and trailer siting, design and French-based construction company, and completed the disposal of its engineering, underlying systems and investigation and reporting of network of 70 retail sites in the Czech Republic.
The Texas City renery established a programme ofce to BP also announced its intention to sell the Coryton renery in the implement the recommendations from this report and to address other UK, which processes 172,000 barrels of crude oil per day.
On projects needed to enhance the safety and performance of the renery.
1 February 2007, we announced that the sale of the renery to In addition, in the immediate wake of the incident, a new Texas City site Petroplus Holdings AG had been agreed, subject to required regulatory manager was appointed in May 2005.
That manager has been succeeded approvals.
The sale includes the adjacent bulk terminal and BPs UK by a permanent replacement, whose tenure at the renery began in bitumen business which is closely integrated with the renery.
Steps were taken following the incident to Completion of the sale is expected in mid-2007.
strengthen the leadership team, clarify responsibilities and introduce systems to improve communication and compliance.
All occupied Texas city renery trailers have been removed from specified areas, an enhanced training Summary programme is under way and the site has committed to restarting Throughout 2006, BP continued to respond to the 23 March 2005 incident process units without any blow-down stacks in heavier-than-air light at its Texas City renery.
BP addressed a number of the factors that hydrocarbons.
contributed to the incident, including the announcement of a new policy The incident prompted a number of investigations by other state and for the siting of occupied portable buildings and the removal from service federal agencies.
The TCEQ and OSHA investigations of the incident at Texas City of all blow-down stacks handling heavier-than-air light resulted in settlement agreements between BP and the agencies.
BP also implemented a number of actions relating to third quarter of 2005, BP reached a settlement with OSHA that resulted safety and operations, not only at US reneries but also at other facilities in the payment of a $21.4 million penalty, an agreement to correct all worldwide.
These actions include a decision to increase spending to an alleged safety violations and the retention of experts to assess the average of $1.7 billion a year over the next four years to improve the renerys organization and process safety systems.
In the second integrity and reliability of US rening assets, the formation of a safety and quarter of 2006, BP settled with the TCEQ, resolving 27 alleged violations operations function to focus on operations and process safety across the by paying a $0.3 million ne and agreeing, among other things, to upgrade group, the appointment of a new chairman and president of BP America its are system.
Inc. and the creation of an advisory board to assist BP America Inc. s In August 2005, the CSB issued an urgent recommendation to BP to management in monitoring and assessing BPs US operations see Action establish an independent panel to assess and make recommendations on process safety across BP on page 40.
Also in 2006, BP settled a large regarding BPs corporate oversight of safety management systems at number of civil suits arising from the Texas City incident.
BP established its five US reneries and its corporate safety culture.
BP established a $1.625 billion provision related to the incident and reached settlements the panel in October 2005, chaired by former US Secretary of State with all the relatives of those who were killed and with hundreds of other James A Baker, III, and co-operated fully with the panel.
In order to persons who led injury claims.
Trials have been scheduled for a number make a thorough and credible assessment, the panel visited all BPs US of unresolved claims in mid-2007, although to date all claims scheduled reneries, commissioned independent process safety audits, interviewed for trial have been resolved in advance of trial.
staff at all levels, including operators and renery managers and In 2006, BP continued its co-operation with the governmental entities leadership teams, conducted an extensive process safety cultural survey investigating the incident, including the US Department of Justice DOJ, and reviewed tens of thousands of documents.
the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA, the US Occupational BP expects the CSB to issue its final report in March 2007, Safety & Health Administration OSHA, the US Chemical Safety and supplementing two interim reports of findings.
At a news conference Hazard Investigation Board CSB and the Texas Commission on on 31 October 2006, the CSB issued an update on the status of its own Environmental Quality TCEQ.
During 2006, BP also devoted significant 20-month investigation into the causes of the incident and also issued time and effort to co-operate with the BP US Reneries Independent recommendations to the American Petroleum Institute API to amend its Safety Review Panel the panel, which it chartered in 2005 on the guidance relating to atmospheric relief systems and to OSHA to establish recommendation of the CSB, to assess the effectiveness of corporate a national emphasis programme promoting the elimination of unsafe oversight of safety management systems at BPs US reneries and the systems in favour of safer alternatives.
The panel published its report in January 2007 The DOJ is investigating whether the Texas City incident involved and BP has committed to implement its recommendations any criminal conduct.
The DOJ has issued Grand Jury subpoenas for see Report of the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel on documents and testimony.
The investigation, with which BP is page 29. co-operating, is ongoing.
The renery was entirely shut down in September 2005 in anticipation Background of Hurricane Rita.
The hurricane caused the loss of steam and power to The March 2005 explosion and re at BP Products North America Inc. s the renery and these services were not fully restored until December Texas City renery occurred in the isomerization unit of the renery as the 2005.
The site-wide shut-down of the Texas City renery also affected the unit was starting up after routine planned maintenance.
The incident Aromatics and Acetyls business, which has a co-located manufacturing claimed the lives of 15 workers and injured many others.
capacity of paraxylene PX and metaxylene.
The PX unit resumed An internal BP incident investigation determined that the rafnate production in March and the metaxylene unit resumed in April 2006. splitter at the isomerization unit was overlled and overheated, causing The remaining PX capacity at Texas City has been restarted in line with the relief valves to open into the blow-down system and resulting the ongoing phased recommissioning of the rening units.
in an overow of liquid hydrocarbon from the blow-down stack.
The Throughout the period from September 2005 to the end of the first resulting vapour cloud was ignited by a source that has not been quarter of 2006, BP worked to understand the extent of the damage definitively identied.
the hurricane and loss of power had caused and put into place detailed BPs incident investigation team found that the critical factors leading to plans to effect repair and safe restart of the process units.
This was a the incident included over-pressurization of the rafnate splitter, resulting considerable task, involving the entire workforce at the site plus in loss of containment, the failure to follow procedures during the start-up, significant external engineering resources.
the placement of temporary trailers too close to the blow-down stack and At the end of the first quarter of 2006, the renery restarted the design and operation of the blow-down stack.
The investigation team production and reached an average throughput of 248,000 barrels per day issued a comprehensive final report, which is available in full on the BP in the fourth quarter of 2006.
The site started up smoothly and internet site, www.
The final report identied a number 28 safely and is producing gasoline, diesel and chemicals products for course of its review, it saw no information to suggest that anyone from the US market.
BPs board members to its hourly workers acted in anything other than In parallel, renery personnel have continued to work to effect the good faith.
repair and the safe restart of the remaining process units.
Additional The panel made 10 recommendations relating to: process safety processing facilities were commissioned in the second and third quarters leadership: integrated and comprehensive process safety management of 2006.
Additional conversion capacity is expected to be brought online system: process safety knowledge and expertise: process safety culture: in 2007.
BPs plan is to bring additional sour crude processing facilities clearly dened expectations and accountability for process safety: support back on-stream in the second half of 2007: these facilities will allow the for line management: leading and lagging performance indicators for processing of additional high-sulphur crude.
We expect crude throughputs process safety: process safety auditing: board monitoring: and industry to be approximately 400,000 barrels per day by the end of 2007. leader.
The panels report in its entirety can be found at www.
com The following milestones have been achieved in returning the renery bakerpanelreport.
to operation with sequenced reconditioning of a multitude of units: The panel acknowledged the measures BP had taken since the Texas Major site commissioning involving more than 15 million worker hours City incident, including dedicating significant resources and personnel to date.
intended to improve the process safety performance at BPs US Refurbishment and safe start-up of 27-mile steam system.
BP has committed to implement the panels recommendations Extensive mechanical renovation and the installation of a new and will consult with the panel on how best to do this across the US are system.
reneries and to apply the lessons learned elsewhere in its global Creation of a new command centre with interactive audio visual links operations.
to the units, manned 24 hours a day during unit start-up.
Implementation of a holistic commissioning plan dening behaviours Other renery investigations and accountabilities to deliver safe and successful start-up.
As a result of its investigation of the Texas City renery, OSHA conducted Implementation of a comprehensive systems training programme, an inspection of BP Products North America Inc. s Toledo renery, coupled with safety accountability roll-out plans.
On 24 April 2006, OSHA issued citations with Several other improvements are either complete or under way: a total penalty of $2.4 million, alleging 39 separate violations of two A new ofce building for more than 400 Texas City workers different OSHA standards.
BP and OSHA have reached a settlement in was opened to relocate workers who can work outside our plant principle and are working towards nalizing the documentation.
On 15 November 2006, the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health A new ue gas scrubber is being added to the FCC unit.
This Administration IOSHA issued the Whiting renery with three Safety $80-million investment will reduce emissions of sulphur and nitrogen Orders and Notications of Penalty alleging 14 separate violations of oxide from the renery.
The total proposed penalty was $0.4 million.
On A new Employee Services Building ESB is under construction.
The 7 December 2006, BP and IOSHA met to discuss resolution of the ESB will include facilities for learning and development and operations matter.
Discussions to reach a settlement agreement are ongoing.
training departments, including unit training simulators and nine training rooms, the medical department, some of the sites security team, the Rening Incident Management Team and site union ofcial ofces.
The companys global rening strategy is to own and operate strategically Construction has started on a new 250 megawatt MW steam turbine advantaged reneries that benefit from vertical integration with our power generating plant that will reduce emissions and improve both marketing and trading operations, as well as horizontal integration with energy and operational efficiency.
The $100-million unit will be located other parts of the groups business.
Renings focus is to maintain and next to the existing South Houston Green Power LP co-generation facility improve its competitive position through sustainable, safe, reliable and and is expected to boost the total electricity generating capacity located at efficient operations of the rening system and disciplined investment the Texas City renery site to 1,000MW.
For BP, the strategic advantage of a renery relates to its location, scale Report of the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel and conguration to produce fuels from low-cost feedstocks in line with On 16 January 2007, having completed its review, the panel issued its the demand of the region.
efficient operations are measured primarily report.
The report identied deficiencies in process safety performance using regional rening surveys conducted by third parties.
The surveys at BPs US reneries and called on BP to give process safety the same assess our competitive position against benchmarked industry measures priority that it had historically given to personal safety and environmental for margin, energy efficiency and costs per barrel.
In making its findings and recommendations, the panel reneries are focused on maintaining and improving our competitive stated its objective was excellence in process safety performance, not position and developing the capability to produce the cleaner fuels that simply legal compliance.
The panel specically noted that, during the meet the requirements of our customers and their communities.
a Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the maximum achievable utilization of capacity 24-hour assessment based on standard feed.
b BP share of equity, which is not necessarily the same as BP share of processing entitlements.
c BP has announced the sale of its Coryton refinery, subject to required regulatory approvals.
d BPs share of the Reichstett refinery in Germany was sold in December 2006.
The following table outlines by region the volume of crude oil and feedstock processed by BP for its own account and for third parties.
Corresponding BP renery capacity utilization data is summarized.
b Crude distillation capacity is gross rated capacity, which is defined as the maximum achievable utilization of capacity 24-hour assessment based on standard feed.
c Crude distillation capacity utilization is defined as the percentage utilization of capacity per calendar day over the year after making allowances for average annual shutdowns at BP refineries i. e. net rated capacity.
BPs 2006 renery throughput declined as a result of increased turnaround activity during the year.
In the US, the year-on-year decline was as a result of the full shutdown of the Texas City renery in September 2005 and the subsequent maintenance programme that led to a partial and phased start-up during 2006.
30 Marketing Each of these brands carries a very strong offer and we also aim to share Marketing comprises four business areas: Retail, Lubricants, Businessbest practices between them.
Since 2003, we upgraded our fuel offer to-Business Marketing and Aromatics and Acetyls.
We market a with the introduction of Ultimate gasoline and diesel products.
In 2006, comprehensive range of rened products, including gasoline, gasoil, we launched Utimate in South Africa and Russia and now market marine and aviation fuels, heating fuels, LPG, lubricants and bitumen.
We also manufacture and market puried terephthalic acid, paraxylene We continue to focus on operational efficiencies through targeted and acetic acid through our Aromatics and Acetyls business.
portfolio upgrades to drive increases in our fuel throughput per site and our store sales per square metre.
Sales figures exclude sales taxes and products.
lottery sales but include quick-service restaurant sales.
Fuel sales are not included in b UK area includes the UK-based international activities of Refining and Marketing.
Not all retail sites include a BP convenience store.
c Marketing sales are sales to service stations, end-consumers, bulk buyers and jobbers i. e. third parties who own networks of a number of service stations and small resellers.
d Our retail network is largely concentrated in Europe and the US, with Trading supply sales are sales to large unbranded resellers and other oil companies.
established operations in Australasia and southern and eastern Africa.
The following table sets out marketing sales by major product group.
We are developing networks in China with joint venture partners.
Our aim is to increase total margin by focusing on both volumes and margin per unit.
We do this by growing our customer base, both in At 31 December 2006, BPs worldwide network consisted of more existing and new markets, by attracting new customers and by covering than 24,000 locations branded BP, Amoco, ARCO and Aral, compared a wider geographic area.
We also work to improve the efficiency of our with approximately 25,000 in the previous year.
We continue to improve operations through upgrading our transactional and operational processes, the efficiency of our retail asset network and increase the consistency of reducing costs and improving our product mix.
In addition, we recognize our site offer through a process of regular review.
In 2006, we sold 513 that our customers are demanding a wider choice of fuels, particularly company-owned sites to dealers and jobbers who continue to operate fuels that are cleaner and more efficient.
Through our integrated rening these sites under the BP brand.
We also divested an additional 301 and marketing operations, we believe we are better able to meet these company-owned sites including all company-owned sites in the Czech customer demands.
Marketing sales of rened products were 3,872mb d in 2006, In 2006, we continued the rollout of the BP Connect offer at sites compared with 3,942mb d in the previous year.
The decrease was in the UK and US, consistent with our retail strategy of building on our due mainly to the effects of the high price environment in certain retail advantaged locations, strong market positions and brand.
The BP markets and of BP reducing volumes in less profitable business-toConnect sites include a distinctive food offer, large convenience store and business markets.
The BP Connect sites include both those that are new and BP enjoys a strong market share and leading technologies in the those where extensive upgrading and remodelling have taken place.
In Asia, we continue to develop a strong At 31 December 2006, more than 760 BP Connect stations were position in PTA and acetic acid.
Our investment is biased towards this open worldwide.
Through regular review and execution of business opportunities, we continue to concentrate our ownership of real estate in markets Retail designated for development of the convenience offer.
At 31 December Our retail strategy focuses on investment in high-growth metropolitan 2006, BPs retail network in the US comprised approximately 12,300 markets and the upgrading of our retail offers, while driving operational sites, of which approximately 9,600 were owned by jobbers.
BPs efficiencies through portfolio optimization.
network comprised about 9,000 sites in the UK and the Rest of Europe There are two components of our retail offer: convenience and and 3,300 sites in the Rest of World.
The convenience offer comprises sales of convenience items to The joint venture between BP and PetroChina BP-PetroChina customers from advantaged locations in metropolitan areas, while our Petroleum Company Ltd started operation in 2004.
Located in fuels offer is deployed at locations in all our markets, in many cases Guangdong, one of the most developed provinces in China, 387 sites without the convenience offer.
We execute our convenience offer were operational at 31 December 2006.
The joint venture plans to operate through a quality store format in each of our key markets, whether it and manage a total network of 500 locations in the province.
A joint is the BP Connect offer in Europe and the eastern US, the am pm offer venture with Sinopec, approved in the fourth quarter of 2004 with the west of the Rocky Mountains in the US or the Aral offer in Germany.
establishment of BP-Sinopec Zhejiang Petroleum Co. Ltd, commenced BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 operations with 151 sites in Ningbo in 2005, with a further 72 sites in one of the leading importers of LPG into the Chinese market, where we Shaoxing being transferred into the joint venture in 2006.
The joint continued to grow our retail LPG business.
LPG Marketing Product sales venture plans to build, operate and manage a network of 500 sites in in 2006 were approximately 71 thousand barrels per day.
Hangzhou, Ningbo and Shaoxing within Zhejiang province.
Marine comprises three global businesses: Marine Fuels, Marine Lubricants, and Power Generation and Offshore, which supplies specialist Lubricants lubricants to the power generation and offshore industry.
Under the BP We manufacture and market lubricants products and also supply related and Castrol brands, the business is the marine lubricants market leader products and services to business customers and end-consumers in over and has a strong presence in the marine fuels sector.
The business has 60 countries directly and to the rest of the world through local distributors.
ofces in 90 countries and operates in more than 1,150 ports.
Our business is concentrated on the higher-margin sectors of automotive The Commercial Fuels business has activities in approximately 14 lubricants, especially in the consumer sector, and also has a strong European countries and marketing sales of approximately 596 thousand presence in business markets such as commercial vehicle eets, aviation, barrels per day.
The business markets fuels and heating oil, mostly as marine and specialized industrial segments.
Customer focus, distinctive pick-up business at reneries, terminals and depots.
brands and superior technology remain the cornerstones of our long-term Our Business Marketing activities also include Industrial Lubricants, strategy.
BP markets through its two major brands, Castrol and BP, and selling industrial lubricants and services to manufacturing companies in several secondary brands, including Duckhams, Veedol and Aral.
approximately 40 countries, and the supply of bitumen to the road and In the consumer sector of the automotive segment, we supply roong industries.
The businesses seek to increase value by building from lubricants, other products and related business services to intermediate the technology, marketing and sales capabilities of a business to business customers such as retailers and workshops, who in turn serve endoperation.
consumers e. g. car, motorcycle and leisure craft owners in the mature BP supports its businesses through a dedicated Strategic Accounts markets of western Europe and North America and also in the fastorganization.
Strategic Accounts develops strategic relationships with growing markets of the developing world such as Russia, China, carefully selected leading organizations in targeted markets, where mutual India, the Middle East, South America and Africa.
The Castrol brand is strategic and financial value can be created.
Its operating model manages recognized worldwide and we believe it provides us with a significant each relationship in a disciplined manner to achieve growth and efficiency competitive advantage.
for BP and its partners through focused offer development and capability In commercial vehicle and general industrial markets, we supply building.
Relationships are held across organizations and involve many lubricants and lubricant-related services to the transportation industry senior leaders in the partners organizations.
Aromatics and acetyls Business-to-business marketing The Aromatics and Acetyls business is managed along three main Business Marketing markets a comprehensive range of renery and products lines: PTA, PX and acetic acid.
PTA is a raw material for the lubricants products focused on business customers in the aviation manufacture of polyesters used in textiles, plastic bottles, bres and fuel, marine fuel, marine and industrial lubricants, LPG and the ground lms.
PX is feedstock for the production of PTA.
Acetic acid is a versatile fuels sectors.
intermediate chemical used in a variety of products such as paints, Air BP is one of the worlds largest aviation businesses, supplying adhesives and solvents.
It is also used in the production of PTA.
In aviation fuel and lubricants to the airline, military and general aviation addition to these three main products, we are involved in a number sectors.
It supplies customers in approximately 100 countries, has of other petrochemicals products, namely Dimethyl 2, 6 Naphthalene annual marketing sales of around 26,854 million litres approximately dicarboxylate NDC, which is used for optical lm and specialized 463 thousand barrels per day and has relationships with many of the packaging, and acetic anhydride, ethyl acetate and vinyl acetate major commercial airlines.
Air BPs strategic aim is to strengthen its monomer VAM, which are used in cellulose acetate, paints, adhesives position in existing markets Europe US Asia Pacic, while creating and solvents.
opportunities in emerging economies such as South America and China.
Our Aromatics and Acetyls strategy is to invest to maintain our The LPG business sells bulk, bottled, automotive and wholesale advantaged manufacturing positions globally, with an emphasis on Asia products to a wide range of customers in 14 countries.
During the past growth, particularly in China.
We are also investing in maintaining and few years, our LPG business has consolidated its position in established developing our technology leadership position to deliver both operating markets and pursued opportunities in new and emerging markets.
BP is and capital cost advantages.
32 The following table shows BPs Aromatics and Acetyls production capacity at 31 December 2006.
This production capacity is based on the original design capacity of the plants plus expansions.
c  Company Ltd. d Samsung-BP Chemicals Ltd. e Asian Acetyls Company Ltd. f China American Petrochemical Company Ltd. g Formosa BP Chemicals Corporation.
In addition to the plans for a second PTA plant at the BP Zhuhai Chemical and the Far East.
Over-the-counter contracts include a variety of options, Company Limited site in Guandong province, China, described previously, forwards and swaps.
These swaps price in relation to a wider set of the following portfolio activity took place in the Aromatics and Acetyls grades than those traded through the exchanges, where counterparties business during the year: contract for differences between, for example, xed and oating prices.
In the third quarter of 2006, BP announced its intent to sell its 47.41% The contracts we use are described in more detail below.
Additionally, equity interest in Samsung Petrochemical Co. Ltd SPC, a PTA joint physical crude can be traded forward by using specic over-the-counter venture with Samsung in South Korea.
contracts pricing in reference to Brent and West Texas Intermediate In 2004, BP announced the phased closure of two acetic acid plants at grades.
Over-the-counter crude forward sales contracts are used by BP to Hull, UK.
The first plant was shut down in the second quarter of 2005 buy and sell the underlying physical commodity, as well as to act as a risk and the remaining plant was shut down in the third quarter of 2006. management and trading instrument.
The development of a 350 thousand tonnes per annum ktepa PTA Risk management is undertaken when the group is exposed to market expansion at Geel, Belgium, is expected to be operational in early 2008 risk, primarily due to the timing of sales and purchases, which may occur and to increase the sites PTA capacity to 1,426ktepa.
for both commercial and operational reasons.
For example, if the group has delayed a purchase and has a lower than normal inventory level, the Supply and trading associated price exposure may be limited by taking an offsetting position The group has a long-established supply and trading activity responsible in the most suitable commodity derivative contract described above.
for delivering value across the overall crude and oil products supply chain.
Where trading is undertaken, the group actively combines a range of This activity identies the best markets and prices for our crude oil, derivative contracts and physical positions to create incremental trading sources optimal feedstock to our rening assets and sources marketing gains by arbitraging prices, typically between locations and time periods.
activities with exible and competitive supply.
Additionally, the function This range of contract types includes futures, swaps, options and forward creates incremental trading gains through holding commodity derivative sale and purchase contracts, which are described further below.
The contracts and trading inventory.
To achieve these objectives in a liquid and volume of activity in 2006 was similar to 2005. volatile international market, the group enters into a range of commodity Through these transactions, the group sells crude production into the derivative contracts, including exchange traded futures and options, overmarket, allowing more suitable higher-margin crude to be supplied to the-counter options, swaps and forward contracts as well as physical our reneries.
The group may also actively buy and sell crude on a spot term and spot contracts.
and term basis to improve selections of crude for reneries further.
In Exchange traded contracts are traded on liquid regulated markets that addition, where renery production is surplus to marketing requirements transact in key crude grades, such as Brent and West Texas Intermediate, or can be sourced more competitively, it is sold into the market.
This and the main product grades, such as gasoline and gasoil.
These latter activity also encompasses opportunities to maximize the value exchanges exist in each of the key markets in the US, western Europe of the whole supply chain through the optimization of storage and pipeline BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 33 assets, including the purchase of product components that are blended Transportation into nished products.
The group also owns and contracts for storage and Our Rening and Marketing business owns, operates or has an interest transport capacity to facilitate this activity.
in extensive transportation facilities for crude oil, rened products and The range of transactions that the group enters into is described below petrochemicals feedstock.
in more detail: We transport crude oil to our reneries principally by ship and through Exchange-traded commodity derivatives pipelines from our import terminals.
We have interests in crude oil These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded pipelines in Europe and the US.
on a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, Simex, ICE and Chicago Bulk products are transported between reneries and storage terminals Board of Trade.
Such contracts are traded in standard specications by pipeline, ship, barge and rail.
Onward delivery to customers is primarily for the main marker crude oils, such as Brent and West Texas by road.
We have interests in major product pipelines in the UK, the Rest Intermediate, and the main product grades, such as gasoline and gas of Europe and the US.
Though potentially settled physically, these contracts are typically settled nancially.
Gains and losses, otherwise referred to as variation Shipping margins, are settled on a daily basis with the relevant exchange.
These We transport our products across oceans, around coastlines and along contracts are used for the trading and risk management of both crude waterways, using a combination of BP-operated time-chartered and spotand products.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange chartered vessels.
All vessels on BP business are subject to our health, traded commodity derivatives are included in sales and other operating safety, security and environmental requirements.
In 2006, we continued revenues for accounting purposes.
to expand our operated and time-chartered eet in order to provide more Over-the-counter OTC contracts protection against the risk of a major oil spill.
This eet transformation These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and is ahead of the international requirements for phase-out of singleoptions.
OTC contracts are negotiated between two parties and are not hulled vessels.
These contracts can be used both as part of trading and risk management activities.
Realized and unrealized gains International eet and losses on OTC contracts are included in sales and other operating In 2005 we managed an international eet of 52 vessels 44 oil tankers revenues for accounting purposes.
At the end of 2006, we had 57 international The main grades of crude oil bought and sold forward using standard vessels 42 medium-size crude and product carriers, four very large crude contracts are West Texas Intermediate and a standard North Sea carriers, one North Sea shuttle tanker, seven LNG carriers and three new crude blend Brent, Forties and Osberg BFO.
Although the contracts LPG carriers.
All these ships are double-hulled.
specify physical delivery terms for each crude blend, a significant Of the seven LNG carriers, BP manages four on behalf of joint ventures volume are not settled physically.
The contracts contain standard in which it is a participant and operates three LNG carriers, with a further delivery, pricing and settlement terms.
Additionally, the BFO contract four on order for delivery in 2007 and 2008. species a standard volume and tolerance given that the physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo.
Regional and specialist vessels Swaps are contractual obligations to exchange cash ows between In Alaska, we took delivery of the fourth and final ship in a series of newtwo parties: one usually references a oating price and the other a build double-hulled tankers and redelivered one of our time-chartered xed price with the net difference of the cash ows being settled.
vessels back to the owner.
The entire Alaskan eet of six vessels is Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell double-hulled.
crude or oil products at a specified price on or before a specic future In the Lower 48, two of the four heritage Amoco barges remain in date.
Amounts under these derivative financial instruments are settled service, one of which is due to be phased out of BPs service in 2007. at expiry, typically through netting agreements, to limit credit exposure We now intend to retain the other, which is double-hulled, until 2009. and support liquidity.
Outside the US, the specialist eet has grown from six ships in 2005 Spot and term contracts to 16 in 2006 three tugs, two double-hulled lubricants oil barges and 11 Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell crude and oil products offshore support vessels.
at the market price prevailing on and around the delivery date when title to the inventory is taken.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase Time charter vessels or sell a commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though BP has 100 hydrocarbon-carrying vessels above 600 deadweight spot and term contracts may have a standard form, there is no tonnes on time charter, of which 83 are double-hulled and three are offsetting mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical double-bottomed.
All these vessels are enrolled in BPs Time Charter delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts relate Assurance Programme.
typically to purchases of crude for a renery, sales of the groups oil production and sales of the groups oil products.
For accounting Spot charter vessels purposes, spot and term sales are included in sales and other To transport the remainder of the groups products, BP spot charters operating revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term vessels, typically for single voyages.
These vessels are always vetted purchases are included in purchases for accounting purposes.
Trading investigations Other vessels See Legal proceedings on page 85 for further details regarding BP uses miscellaneous craft such as tugs, crew boats and seismic investigations into various aspects of BPs trading activities.
vessels in support of the groups business.
We also use sub 600 The independent review, commissioned by BP, of the current deadweight tonne barges to carry hydrocarbons on inland waterways.
compliance approach in the groups US trading organization has been completed.
A number of recommendations have been made in regard to the design and effectiveness of the compliance processes and procedures.
BP is fully implementing these recommendations.
34 Our NGLs business is engaged in the processing, fractionation and Gas, Power and Renewables marketing of ethane, propane, butanes and pentanes extracted from natural gas.
We have a significant NGLs processing and marketing The Gas, Power and Renewables segment includes four main activities: business in North America.
Our NGLs activity is underpinned by our marketing and trading of gas and power: marketing of liqueed natural upstream resources and serves third-party markets for chemicals and gas LNG : natural gas liquids NGLs : and low-carbon power generation clean fuels as well as supplying BPs rening activities.
through our Alternative Energy business.
Globally, the power sector is the largest source of greenhouse gas The strategic purpose of the segment comprises four elements: GHG emissions, which are responsible for about twice the emissions Develop a leading low-carbon power generation business across the from transport.
Creating low-carbon power is therefore critical in the effort value chain.
to stabilize global GHG emissions.
BP is focused on power generation Access cost competitive supply.
In 2005, we announced our plans Capture distinctive world-scale gas market positions by accessing to invest in a new business called BP Alternative Energy, which aims to key pieces of infrastructure.
extend signicantly our capabilities in solar, wind power, hydrogen power Expand gross margin by providing distinctive energy products and and gas-red power generation.
services to selected customer segments and by optimizing the gas Capital expenditure and acquisitions for 2006 was $688 million, and power value chains.
compared with $235 million in 2005 and $530 million in 2004.
In 2006, this included the acquisitions of Orion Energy, LLC, and Greenlight Key statistics $million Energy, Inc.
In 2005 and 2004, there were no acquisitions.
The increase over the 2006 level primarily reects our Sales and other operating revenues project programme, including continuing investment in the Alternative from continuing operations 23,708 25,696 23,969 Energy business.
profit before interest and tax from continuing operations 1,321 1,172 1,003 Marketing and trading activities Total assets 27,398 28,952 17,753 Gas and power marketing and trading activity is undertaken primarily in Capital expenditure and acquisitions 688 235 530 the US, Canada, the UK and continental Europe to market BPs gas and Profit before interest and tax from continuing operations includes profit after tax of power production and manage market price risk as well as to create equity-accounted entities.
incremental trading gains through the use of commodity derivative a On 1 January 2006, following the formation of the Alternative Energy business, certain contracts.
Additionally, this activity generates fee income and enhanced mid-stream assets and activities were transferred into Gas, Power and Renewables margins from sources such as the management of price risk on behalf and the 2005 and 2004 data above has been restated to reflect these transfers: South Houston Green Power co-generation facility in the Texas City refinery from of third-party customers.
These markets are large, liquid and volatile Refining and Marketing.
and the group enters into these transactions on a large scale to meet Watson co-generation facility in the Carson refinery from Refining and Marketing.
Phu My Phase 3 combined cycle gas turbine CCGT plant in Vietnam from Exploration and Production.
The group also has an NGLs trading activity in the US for delivering value across the overall NGLs supply chain, sourcing optimal feedstock to The changes in sales and other operating revenues are explained in more our processing assets and securing access to markets with exible and detail below.
Natural gas sales by Exploration Futures and options are primarily used to trade the key index prices such and Production 5,152 4,747 3,670 as Henry Hub, while swaps can be tailored to price with reference to specic delivery locations where gas and power can be bought and sold.
We seek to maximize the value of our gas by targeting high-value Over-the-counter forward contracts have evolved in both the US and customer segments in selected markets and to optimize supply around UK markets, enabling gas and power to be sold forward in a variety of our physical and contractual rights to assets.
Marketing and trading locations and future periods.
These contracts are used both to sell activities are focused on the relatively open and deregulated natural gas production into the wholesale markets and as trading instruments to and power markets of North America, the UK and the most liquid trading buy and sell gas and power in future periods.
Capacity contracts allow locations in continental Europe.
Some long-term natural gas contracting the group to store, transport gas and transmit power between these activity is included within the Exploration and Production business locations.
Additionally, activity is undertaken to risk manage power segment because of the nature of the gas markets when the long-term generation margins related to the Texas City co-generation plant using sales contracts were agreed.
a range of gas and power commodity derivatives.
Our LNG business develops opportunities to capture sales for our The range of contracts that the group enters into is described below in upstream natural gas resources, working in close collaboration with the more detail: Exploration and Production business.
For sales into non-liquid markets Exchange traded commodity derivatives such as Japan and Korea, we aim to secure contracts with high-value Exchange traded commodity derivatives include gas and power futures customers.
For the majority of sales into liquid wholesale markets such contracts.
Though potentially settled physically, these contracts are as the US and UK, we are building integrated supply chains covering typically settled nancially.
Gains and losses, otherwise referred to production, liquefaction, shipping, regasication and access to the as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis with the relevant wholesale transmission grid.
Our strategy is to capture a growing share exchange.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchangeof the internationally traded gas market.
We are focusing on markets that traded commodity derivatives are included in sales and other operating offer significant prospects for growth.
Our LNG activities involve the revenues for accounting purposes.
marketing of third-party LNG as well as BP equity volumes, where this Over-the-counter OTC contracts allows us to optimize our existing asset and contractual positions.
These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
OTC contracts are negotiated between two parties and are not BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 35 traded on an exchange.
These contracts can be used both as part of BP and those contractually accessed through agreements with third trading and risk management activities.
Realized and unrealized gains parties such as pipelines and terminals.
and losses on OTC contracts are included in sales and other operating revenues for accounting purposes.
Europe Highly developed markets exist in North America and the UK where The natural gas market in the UK is significant in size and is one of the gas and power can be bought and sold for delivery in future periods.
most progressive in terms of deregulation when compared with other These contracts are negotiated between two parties to purchase and European markets.
BP is one of the largest producers of natural gas in sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and settlement the UK based on volumes.
The majority of natural gas sales are to powerat a future date.
Although these contracts specify delivery terms for generation companies and to other gas wholesalers via long-term supply the underlying commodity, in practice a significant volume of these deals.
Some of the natural gas continues to be sold under long-term transactions are not settled physically.
This can be achieved by supply contracts that were entered into prior to market deregulation.
In transacting offsetting sale or purchase contracts for the same location addition to the marketing of BP gas, commodity derivative contracts are and delivery period that are offset during the scheduling of delivery used actively in combination with assets and rights to store and transport or dispatch.
The contracts contain standard terms such as delivery gas to generate trading gains.
This may include storing physical gas to sell point, pricing mechanism, settlement terms and specication of the in future periods or moving gas between markets to access higher prices.
Typically, volume is the main variable term.
Commodity contracts such as over-the-counter forward contracts can be Swaps are contractual obligations to exchange cash ows between used to achieve this, while other commodity contracts such as futures two parties.
One usually references a oating price and the other a and options can be used to manage the market risk relating to changes xed price, with the net difference of the cash ows being settled.
Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or As UK gas markets become increasingly connected to continental sell natural gas products or power at a specified price on or before Europe, it is important that we maintain our understanding of how wider a specic future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial European gas markets work.
We therefore trade in continental Europe.
instruments are settled at expiry, typically through netting agreements, In Europe, our main marketing activities are currently in Spain.
The to limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
Spanish natural gas market has continued to grow and is now deregulated Spot and term contracts ahead of the deadlines set by European law.
Since April 2000, we have Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the built a market position that currently places us as one of the leading market price prevailing on the delivery date when title to the inventory foreign entrants into the Spanish gas market.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity Following Spanish deregulation, our 5% shareholding in Enagas, the at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and term Spanish gas transport grid operator, was no longer considered strategic contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting mechanism and in November 2006 we divested these shares.
These transactions result in physical delivery with operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts relate typically to purchases of Liqueed natural gas third-party gas and sales of the groups gas production to third parties.
Our LNG and new market development activities are focused on Spot and term sales are included in sales and other operating establishing international market positions to create maximum value revenues, when title passes.
Similarly, spot and term purchases are from our upstream natural gas resources and on capturing third-party included in purchases for accounting purposes.
LNG supply to complement our equity ows.
See Financial and operating performance Gas, Power and BP Exploration and Production has interests in major existing LNG Renewables on page 53. projects in Trinidad, ADGAS in Abu Dhabi, Bontang in Indonesia and the North West Shelf in Australia.
Additional LNG supplies are being pursued Trading investigations through an expansion of the existing LNG facilities at the North West See Legal proceedings on page 85 for details regarding investigations Shelf project in Australia and greeneld developments in Indonesia into various aspects of BPs trading activities.
BP has no proved reserves associated with its The independent review, commissioned by BP, of the current interests in LNG projects in Abu Dhabi and Angola.
compliance approach in the groups US trading organization has been We continue to access major growth markets for the groups equity completed.
A number of recommendations have been made in regard gas.
In Asia Pacic, agreements for the supply of LNG from the Tangguh to the design and effectiveness of the compliance processes and project BP 37.2% have been signed with POSCO and K-Power for procedures.
supply to South Korea and with Sempra for supply to the Mexican and US markets.
Together with an earlier agreement to supply LNG to China, North America these agreements mean that markets for more than 7 million tonnes BP is one of the leading wholesale marketers and traders of natural gas in a year 380bcf of Tangguh LNG have been secured.
In March 2005, North America, the worlds largest natural gas market.
Our business has Tangguh received key government approvals for the two-train launch and been built on the foundation of our position as the continents leading the project consortium is now executing the major construction contracts, producer of gas based on volumes.
Our gas activity in the US and Canada with start-up planned in late 2008.
During 2006, further progress was has grown as the group increased its scale through both organic growth made in securing contracts for LNG to be derived from the remaining of operations and the acquisition of smaller marketing and trading uncontracted reserves at the North West Shelf project.
companies, increasing reach into additional markets.
At the same time, In the Atlantic and Mediterranean regions, significant progress has also the overall volumes in these markets have also increased.
The group also been made in creating opportunities to supply LNG to North American and trades power, in addition to selling and risk managing production from the European gas markets.
The fourth LNG train at Atlantic LNG in Trinidad, Texas City co-generation facility in the US.
with a capacity of 5.2 million tonnes per annum mtpa 253bcf, began The scale of our gas and power businesses in North America grew operations in late 2005.
BP is marketing its LNG entitlement directly, over the period 2004-2006 because of a number of factors: i increased utilizing BP-controlled LNG shipping and contractual rights to access access to transport rights: ii increase in our trading activities: and iii import terminal capacity in the liquid markets of the US Cove Point and growth from the acquisition of small regional marketing businesses.
The Elba Island and the UK Isle of Grain.
These BP-marketed volumes OTC market for NGLs also developed during this period but the scale of supplement a 2005 long-term agreement with Egyptian Natural Gas activity was not significant in the context of the groups overall marketing Holding Company EGAS of Egypt to purchase 1.45 billion cubic metres and trading activity.
per year of LNG from the Spanish Egyptian Gas Company SEGAS plant Our North American natural gas marketing and trading strategy seeks to at Damietta, short-term contracts to purchase LNG from Oman and Qatar provide unconstrained market access for BPs equity gas.
Our marketing and periodic spot purchases of LNG.
We have signed a memorandum of strategy targets high-value customer segments through fully utilizing our understanding with Brass River LNG in Nigeria to purchase around rights to store and transport gas.
These assets include those owned by 2 million tonnes a year of LNG, starting in 2010 for 20 years, which will be supplied to multiple markets in the Atlantic basin.
36 In south-east China, the Dapeng LNG import and regasication terminal Solar and Trunkline Project BP 30% in Guangdong province received its first BP Solars main production facilities are located in Frederick, Maryland, commissioning cargo during May 2006 and commenced commercial US: Madrid, Spain: Sydney, Australia: and Bangalore, India.
LNG for the terminal is supplied under a longthe expansion of our manufacturing facilities in India and Spain doubled term contract signed with Australia LNG in October 2002 that involves our production capacity from 100MW in 2004 to 200MW, keeping us on deliveries from the North West Shelf project BP 16.7% infrastructure and track to triple capacity from 2005 levels by 2008.
During 2007, expansion oil reserves 15.8% gas and condensate reserves.
of cell capacity will continue at our Madrid and Bangalore facilities, BP continues to progress options for new terminal development in alongside a $70-million project to expand casting capacity at Frederick.
The proposed 1.2 billion cubic feet per day bcf d Crown Landing BP Solar achieved sales of 93MW 2005 105MW and 2004 99MW.
terminal is to be located on the Delaware River in New Jersey.
The We made good use of technology to manage the current silicon supply Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC granted its approval for issue last year: developing a new silicon growth process named Mono2, the siting, construction and operation of this project during 2006.
BP which signicantly increases cell efficiency over traditional multicontinues to work with the State agencies in New Jersey to complete crystalline-based solar cells.
Solar cells made with these wafers, in State permitting requirements and with the relevant federal, state and combination with other BP Solar advances in cell process technology, are local authorities to put in place security plans for the facility and expected to be able to produce between 5% and 8% more power than associated shipping activities.
BP is also monitoring the progress of a solar cells made with conventional processes.
We also teamed up with proceeding led by the State of New Jersey against the State of the California Institute of Technology to launch a multi-million dollar Delaware in the US Supreme Court concerning New Jerseys jurisdiction research programme to explore a radically new way of producing solar over developments on its shores, including the projects loading jetty that cells, based on the growth of silicon on nanorods, which could improve extends into the Delaware River.
The court has agreed to hear the case.
efficiency and make solar electricity much more competitive.
In Germany, we signed a co-operation agreement with the Institute of Crystal Growth Natural gas liquids IKZ to develop a process for depositing silicon on glass that has the With global demand for NGLs, both as a chemicals feedstock and as a potential to reduce the amount of silicon feedstock used in cell cleaner fuel, forecast to grow in excess of 3% a year, this business is production.
In Spain, BP Solar and Banco Santander have formed an expected to offer potential for further growth.
Based on sales volumes, alliance that will allow for the construction of up to 278 photovoltaic solar we are one of the leading producers and marketers of NGLs in North power installations in Spain, with total capacity of 18-25 megawatts peak.
America and hold interests for NGL volumes in the UK and Egypt.
NGLs produced in North America from gas chiey sourced out of Wind Alberta, Canada, and the US onshore and Gulf Coast, are used as a We are building expertise in wind energy and implementing projects.
We heating fuel and as a feedstock for reneries and chemicals plants.
NGLs operate two wind farms in the Netherlands, 9MW at our oil terminal in are sold to petrochemicals plants and reneries, including our own.
In Amsterdam and 22.5MW at the Nerefco oil renery both the renery and addition, a significant amount of NGLs are marketed on a wholesale basis wind farm are jointly owned with Chevron BP 69%, providing electricity under annual supply contracts that provide for price redetermination to the local grid.
based on prevailing market prices.
In the US, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with Clipper We operate natural gas processing facilities across North America, with Windpower plc with options to purchase Clipper turbines, with a total a total capacity of 6.4bcf d. These facilities, which we own or in which we capacity of 2,250MW.
During 2007, we plan to begin construction of five have an interest, are located in major production areas across North wind power generation projects, located in four states California, America, including Alberta, Canada, the US Rockies, the San Juan basin Colorado, North Dakota and Texas.
The projects are expected to deliver a and the Gulf of Mexico.
We also own or have an interest in fractionation combined generation capacity of some 550MW.
plants that process the natural gas liquids stream into its separate During 2006, BP Alternative Energy also acquired Orion Energy, LLC, component products in Canada and the US, and own or lease storage and Greenlight Energy, Inc. With the acquisition of these large-scale wind capacity in Alberta, eastern Canada, and the US Gulf Coast, as well as the energy developers, our North American wind portfolio includes US West Coast and mid-continent regions.
Our North American NGL opportunities to develop almost 100 projects with potential total processing capacity utilization in 2006 was 75%.
In addition, we have generating capacity of some 15,000MW.
entered into a long-term supply contract with Aux Sable Liquid Products to secure additional NGLs to supply our customers in the US Midwest.
Gas-red power BP operates one plant in the UK capacity 1.2bcf d and we are a Gas-red power stations typically emit around half as much CO as 2 partner 33.33% in a gas processing plant in Egypt with 1.1bcf d of gas conventional coal-red plants.
We have also secured access to the Abibes LPG We operate a 776MW gas-red power generation facility and an terminal in Cremona, northern Italy.
During the first quarter of 2006, a associated LNG regasication facility at Bilbao, Spain BP 25% share in memorandum of understanding was signed with EGAS for a feasibility each and a 750MW co-generation plant at Texas City, US 50:50 joint study covering construction of a greeneld NGLs plant in the West Nile venture with Cinergy Solutions, Inc., which supplies power and steam to Delta, Egypt, that would process gas from future BP equity and third-party BPs largest rening and petrochemicals complex.
BP supplies natural gas production offshore.
to the Texas City plant and will use excess generation capacity to support power marketing and trading activities.
Also, a 50MW co-generation plant Alternative energy near Southampton, UK BP 100%, has been in operation since the first BP Alternative Energy is focused on the power generation sector the half of 2005.
The construction of K-Powers BP 35% 1,074MW gas-red largest single source of emissions from the use of fossil fuels and aims combined cycle power plant at Kwangyang, Korea, was completed and to extend BPs capabilities in solar, wind, hydrogen and gas-red power full commercial operations started in the second quarter of 2006. generation to produce low-carbon power.
Its activities include the We have started construction of a new 250MW steam turbine power production and marketing of solar panels: development of wind farms: generating plant at the Texas City renery site, which is expected to bring generation of electricity from hydrogen power using sequestration in the total capacity of the site to 1,000MW when completed in 2008.
We which carbon is captured and stored: and gas-red power generation, also plan to construct a 520MW co-generation facility at Cherry Point, which typically emits only half as much CO as a conventional coal-red Washington, US.
The business brings together the groups existing activities in these technologies with our power marketing and trading capabilities Hydrogen power to form a single business.
During 2006, we announced a new strategic relationship with General In 2005, BP Alternative Energy announced its plans to invest up to Electric to accelerate the development of hydrogen power technology and $8 billion over 10 years.
This investment is expected to be spread the deployment of the concept.
Progress on our proposed hydrogen plant in broadly equal proportions between solar, wind, hydrogen and highat Carson, California, US, continued and we were awarded $90 million in efficiency gas-red power generation.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 37 Other businesses and corporate Technology Other businesses and corporate comprises Finance, the groups The realization of technological advancements is pivotal to our strategic aluminium asset, its investments in PetroChina and Sinopec both progress and business performance.
It is also the key to nding and divested in early 2004, interest income and costs relating to corporate developing solutions that meet the energy and climate challenges of the activities worldwide.
Following the sale of Innovene to INEOS in 2005, 21st century.
three equity-accounted entities Shanghai SECCO Petrochemical The sheer range and complexity of technologies that can affect our Company Limited in China and Polyethylene Malaysia Sdn Bhd and businesses and the wide variety of sources for these technologies Ethylene Malaysia Sdn Bhd, both in Malaysia previously reported in Other proprietary, energy service sector, universities and research institutions businesses and corporate were transferred to Rening and Marketing, and other industries mean that no single approach can meet all effective 1 January 2006.
The 2005 and 2004 data below has been our needs.
restated to reect these transfers.
The following guiding principles underpin our approach to technology: Deliver technology leadership in a select few areas of distinctiveness.
for continuing operations 1,009 668 546 Innovate and test technology at material scale.
profit loss before interest and tax a Develop and access world-class skills and collaborate internally and from continuing operations 885 1,237 155 externally.
Total assets 14,184 12,144 21,795 These principles are reected in how we define technology investment.
Capital expenditure and acquisitions 281 817 2,130 Whereas research and development is an externally reported number, a Includes profit after interest and tax of equity-accounted entities.
internally we use a broader but very specic denition for technology investment.
This consists of four elements: technology development for Finance incremental improvement of our base businesses: technology leadership Finance co-ordinates the management of the groups major financial areas to create and sustain material, advantaged business positions: assets and liabilities.
From locations in the UK, the US and the Asia Pacic long-term technology investments to secure our future: and application region, it provides the link between BP and the international financial and propagation of technology through formalized technology networks markets and makes available a range of financial services to the group, and knowledge management processes.
including supporting the nancing of BPs projects around the world.
Our five-year technology plan provides for sustained investment in our core technologies and increasing investment in long-term technologies.
Aluminium As we have deepened our current areas of leadership, extended their Our aluminium business is a non-integrated producer and marketer of application in the eld and broadened our long-term technology portfolio, rolled aluminium products, headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, US.
our technology investment has grown at an average of 15% a year Production facilities are located in Logan County, Kentucky, and are jointly between 2003 and 2006.
In 2006, total technology investment was owned with Novelis.
The primary activity of our aluminium business is the around $890 million.
supply of aluminium coil to the beverage can business.
During 2006, we continued to advance and employ new technologies in drilling and well construction, unconventional gas development, Research, technology and engineering enhanced oil recovery and seismic imaging.
These technologies have Research, technology and engineering activities are carried out by each enabled discoveries in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and Angola, of the major business segments on the basis of a distributed programme increased production from tight gas elds in the continental US and co-ordinated by a technology co-ordination group.
This body provides increased recoveries from our elds in maturing basins, such as leadership for scientific, technical and engineering activities throughout Alaska and the North Sea.
the group and in particular promotes cross-business initiatives and the Technology advancements are also broadening our rening capability to transfer of best practice between businesses.
In addition, a group of understand and process ever-lower quality crudes and optimize our assets eminent industrialists and academics forms the Technology Advisory in real time, enhancing the exibility and reliability of our reneries.
Our Council, which advises senior management on the state of technology proprietary technologies in PTA have continued to reduce manufacturing within the group and helps to identify current trends and future costs and environmental impact.
Our long-term technology priorities t into three categories of activity: Research and development is carried out using a balance of internal technologies that enhance our capability to identify new hydrocarbon and external resources.
Involving third parties in the various steps of resources and better exploit those we have: technologies that convert technology development and application enables a wider range of hydrocarbon feedstocks into efficient fuels and chemicals: and technology solutions to be considered and implemented, improving selected low-carbon technologies for power and transport to minimize the productivity of research and development activities.
2 Across the group, expenditure on research for 2006 was $395 million, During 2006, we announced plans to establish a dedicated biosciences compared with $502 million in 2005 and $439 million in 2004. energy research laboratory and invest $500 million over the next 10 years.
On 1 February 2007, BP announced that it had selected the University of Insurance California, Berkeley, and its partners the University of Illinois at UrbanaThe group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where Champaign and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, for the this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
This is because external research programme.
The Energy Biosciences Institutes aim will be to insurance is not considered an economic means of nancing losses for explore the application of bioscience and the production of new and the group.
Losses will therefore be borne as they arise, rather than being cleaner energy, initially focusing on renewable biofuels for road transport.
spread over time through insurance premiums with attendant transaction It will also pursue bioscience-based research in three other key areas: the costs.
This position is reviewed periodically.
conversion of heavy hydrocarbons to clean fuels: improved recovery from existing oil and gas reservoirs: and carbon sequestration.
38 Regulation of the groups business Safety, environmental and social performance BPs exploration and production activities are conducted in many different This section reviews BPs 2006 performance with respect to safety, countries and are therefore subject to a broad range of legislation and the environment, employees and relations with communities.
These cover virtually all aspects of exploration and production comprehensive report on our non-financial performance will be found activities, including matters such as licence acquisition, production rates, in BP Sustainability Report 2006. royalties, pricing, environmental protection, export, taxes and foreign BPs approach to being a responsible business has three levels.
The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contract first level, we work to comply with local laws and regulations.
At the under which these oil and gas interests are held vary from country to second level, we seek to go further than regulations require, setting our country.
These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by own standards and designing processes to help us meet them.
At the or entered into with a government entity or state company and are third level beyond our own operations and our direct control we have a sometimes entered into with private property owners.
These role to play in addressing issues that are relevant to our work, such as arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the climate change and sustainable development.
form of licences or production-sharing agreements.
Arrangements with private property owners are usually in the form of leases.
BPs operations Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and Safety exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the risk During 2006, we took action to address a number of specic safety issues of exploration, development and production activities and provides the as well as building more comprehensive systems for managing them, nancing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is entitled including specic investments and targeted programmes in response to to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A licence the March 2005 explosion and re at the Texas City renery.
holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, which As a group, we aspire to be an industry leader in the three dimensions may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and exploit of safety personal safety, process safety and the environment.
BP has a hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in exchange strong track record in personal safety and on the environment but we for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather than have more to do to move towards process safety excellence.
In total, there were seven workforce fatalities in the course of BPs Production-sharing agreements entered into with a government entity operations during 2006, compared with 27 fatalities in 2005.
We deeply or state company generally require BP to provide all the nancing and regret the loss of these lives.
The 2006 gure has reduced signicantly to bear the risk of exploration and production activities in exchange for a the lowest level in nearly 20 years of reporting.
This includes a reduction share of the production remaining after royalties, if any.
in driving-related fatalities, which were 14 in 2003, to two in 2006, after In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration we implemented our new driving safety standard.
Our reported and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are recordable injury frequency fell to 0.47 per 200,000 hours worked, the limited to a portion of the area covered by the exploration licence.
Both lowest in our recorded history.
exploration and production licences are generally for a specified period of For many years, we have operated using a management system called time except for licences in the US, which typically remain in effect until getting HSE right gHSEr and we are building on this foundation to production ceases.
The term of BPs licences and the extent to which strengthen our approach to safety, particularly process safety.
To help these licences may be renewed vary by area.
sustain and reinforce this momentum, we have formalized our approach Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in by establishing a group operations risk committee GORC as a joint venture with other international oil companies, state companies or subcommittee of the group chief executives meeting GCEM.
membership consists of heads of operating segments, the group In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated managing director responsible for safety, the deputy chief executive of from production activities whether under a licence or production-sharing exploration and production, the head of the safety and operations function agreement.
In addition, depending on the area, BPs production activities and the group engineering director.
The role of this committee is to may be subject to a range of other taxes, levies and assessments, provide assurance that group operational risks are being identied including special petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed and managed in accordance with approved policy and to guide BPs on oil and gas production profits and activities may be substantially higher overall approach.
than those imposed on other activities, particularly in Angola, Norway, The main focus for GORC is management systems, particularly the UK, Russia, South America and Trinidad & Tobago.
for process safety, across the group.
The immediate priority for this BPs other activities, including its interests in pipelines and its committee is to monitor the implementation of a six-point plan to apply commodities and trading activities, are also subject to a broad range lessons learned from the Texas City incident and other priorities see of legislation and regulations in various countries in which it operates.
GORC is overseeing a detailed review of process safety Health, safety and environmental regulations are discussed in more measures and practices across BPs operations to identify improvements.
detail in Environmental protection on page 42.
Over time, we will consolidate these management system For certain information regarding environmental proceedings, see improvements into a sustainable, integrated framework incorporating Environmental protection US regional review on page 45. strengthened standards and based on a commitment to continuous improvement.
This will form part of a new operating management system OMS that will incorporate and expand on gHSEr, underpinned by a consistent set of standards and processes covering health, safety, operational integrity and environmental issues.
The first wave of implementation of the OMS began in January 2007 in all our US reneries and other selected locations across our worldwide operations.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 39 Continuing response to Texas City incident and inquiries Action on process safety across BP During 2006, investigations continued into the March 2005 Texas Throughout 2006, we continued to implement the improvements initiated City explosion.
There was also ongoing action on our part to apply the following the Texas City incident and supplemented them with new lessons learned.
BP settled a large number of civil suits arising from, and measures as necessary.
These included inspecting and investing in our established a $1.625-billion provision related to, the incident.
In terms of plants: training and development to ensure people have the right skills and action at the renery itself, having concluded our own inquiry during 2005 behaviours: and working to ensure we have clear, consistent and rigorous and reached a settlement with OSHA, we have launched a programme in processes for managing safety.
We have earmarked $7 billion for safety which we expect to invest an estimated $1 billion from 2006 to 2010 to investments over four years to upgrade our US reneries and to repair improve and maintain the site.
At the end of 2006, changes made at and replace pipelines in Alaska.
We also appointed a new chairman and Texas City included: restarting the operations after the shutdown for president for BP America Inc. and announced the creation of an external Hurricane Rita: extensive mechanical renovation: installing a new are advisory board to provide expert advice in the US on compliance, safety system: moving temporary buildings away from specified areas: relocating and regulatory affairs.
more than 400 Texas City workers into a new ofce building outside the In particular, during 2006 a group-wide programme was introduced fence line: commissioning of plant, involving more than 15 million worker known as the six-point plan to address the following points: hours to date, refurbishment and safe start-up of a 27-mile steam system: Removing blow-down stacks and moving temporary buildings away and implementation of an enhanced total systems training programme.
In January 2007, the company received the report of the BP US Conducting major accident risk assessments at plants and acting on Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel the panel, which was their findings.
chaired by former US Secretary of State James A Baker, III see Report of Implementing new group standards that set detailed requirements the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel on page 29.
The on control of work and integrity management.
panel was established on the recommendation of the US Chemical Safety Ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Throughout 2006, the panel assessed the Rapidly addressing findings from past audits.
effectiveness of corporate oversight of safety management systems at Building competence in safety and operations through training BPs US reneries and the corporate safety culture.
The panels report identied deficiencies in process safety performance During 2006, the total number of oil spills of one barrel or more from all at BPs US reneries and called on BP to give process safety the same of our operations was 417, compared with 541 in 2005 and 1,098 in 1999. priority that it had historically given to personal safety and the reduction of The difference between the reported number of spills in 2005 and 2006 is GHGs and promotion of alternative forms of energy.
In making its findings principally due to boundary changes, including the disposal of Innovene.
and recommendations, the panels objective was excellence in process During 2006, we continued to expand our shipping eet of operated safety performance, not simply legal compliance.
The panel specically and time-chartered vessels in order to provide more protection against the noted that during the course of its review, it saw no information to risk of a major oil spill.
All vessels on BP business are subject to our suggest that anyone from BPs board members to its hourly workers health, safety, security and environmental HSSE requirements.
The eet acted in anything other than good faith.
transformation is ahead of the international requirements for phase-out of The panel made 10 recommendations relating to: process safety single-hulled vessels.
Our international eet has grown from 52 vessels in leadership: integrated and comprehensive process safety management 2005 to 57 in December 2006, all of which are double-hulled.
We also system: process safety knowledge and expertise: process safety culture: have 100 vessels on time charter, of which 83 are double-hulled and three clearly dened expectations and accountability for process safety: support double-bottomed.
In addition, we use spot charter, regional, specialist and for line management: leading and lagging performance indicators for miscellaneous craft.
In 2006, we launched SafeShips, an education and process safety: process safety auditing: board monitoring: and industry information programme highlighting safety for our seafarers and shore leader.
The panels report in its entirety can be found at staff.
It covers a wide range of safety-related topics, including risk www.
assessments, operations safety, best practice and safety by design.
The panel acknowledged the measures BP had taken since the Texas City incident, including dedicating significant resources and personnel Our operations and the environment intended to improve the process safety performance at BPs US During 2006, we continued working to reduce the environmental impact reneries.
BP has committed to implement the panels recommendations of our operations, primarily by reducing our emissions of greenhouse and will consult with the panel on how best to do this across the US gases GHGs and by implementing processes to drive continuous reneries and to apply the lessons learned elsewhere in its global improvements in a wide range of other environmental issues.
As announced in July 2006, there was an increase in spending operations since 2001, we have been aiming to offset half of the at the five US reneries, from $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion a year, with underlying GHG emission increases that result from our growing business further increases to $1.7 billion a year for the period 2007 to 2010, through operational efficiency projects.
After five years, we estimate that representing a step-up in scale as well as pace.
emissions growth of some 11 million tonnes has been offset by around 6 million tonnes of sustainable reductions.
Alaska spills Our 2006 operational GHG emissions were 64.4 million tonnes Mte During 2006, two incidents occurred in our operations at Prudhoe Bay, of carbon dioxide equivalent on a direct equity basis compared with a Alaska.
In March, an undetected leak led to a spill of approximately 4,800 reported gure of 78.0Mte in 2005, of which 11.2Mte related to Innovene barrels.
In August, the eastern part of the eld was shut down as a assets divested late in 2005.
Our 2006 emissions were therefore some precaution following the discovery of isolated pitting corrosion that 2.4Mte lower than the comparable 2005 emissions of 66.8Mte excluding resulted in a spill of 199 barrels of oil from an oil transit in a pipeline.
Following inspection of the transit lines, production restarted in the Our track record of improvement from our ongoing efficiency eastern part of the eld in 44 days.
programme continues, with reductions of 1.2Mte.
The remaining 1.2Mte Using smart pigs, devices that are run through the inside of the pipeline decrease comes from the balance of the growth of our business 1.3Mte, to inspect the pipe walls, we have now confirmed sufficient integrity for the effect of acquisitions and divestments, temporary operational current operations.
Nonetheless, we have decided to replace the main oil variations and reporting protocol changes.
transit lines 16 miles in both the eastern and western operating areas of We have taken part in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme since its Prudhoe Bay.
In addition, we plan to spend over $550 million net over launch in January 2005.
We began 2006 with 18 participating installations the next two years on integrity management in Alaska.
We have retained and, during the year, our BP Solar facility in Madrid also began three of the worlds foremost corrosion experts, who will independently participating in the scheme.
These 19 installations account for around onereview these programmes.
fifth of our reported 2006 global GHG emissions.
2006 saw the culmination of two years work with the launch in November of a new group practice called the Environmental Requirements for New Projects.
Work on this practice began in 2004 40 after we were challenged by some investors over our processes for guidance on specic areas.
Our strict anti-corruption policy includes a working in environmentally sensitive areas.
We acknowledged the scope prohibition on making facilitation payments and is incorporated in the for improvement and designed the new requirements to include code of conduct.
processes for early project screening, environmental impact assessments Our employee concerns programme, OpenTalk, enables employees throughout the entire project life cycle, external consultation and to seek guidance on the code of conduct as well as to report suspected operational performance requirements.
These requirements cover a breaches of compliance or other concerns.
The number of cases raised wide range of environmental impacts, ranging from GHG emissions and through OpenTalk was 1,064 in 2006, compared with 634 in 2005. water management to impacts on communities and wildlife.
Another avenue for raising concerns was opened in the US in In 2006, no new decisions were taken by BP to explore or develop September 2006 when BP Americas president and chairman appointed in World Conservation Union IUCN category I-IV areas.
We constantly former US District Court Judge Stanley Sporkin to be BP Americas try to limit the environmental impact of our operations by using natural ombudsperson.
This followed concerns raised in Alaska and elsewhere.
resources responsibly and reducing waste and emissions.
All our major His role is to serve as a neutral and supportive adviser whom employees sites, except two, are certied to the ISO 14001 international standard on and contractors can condentially contact at any time to report any environmental management.
The Texas City renery intends to recertify suspected breach of compliance, ethics or the code of conduct, including after completing planned work to strengthen its HSE management safety concerns.
systems, while an acetyls plant in Malaysia was only recently added to our We take steps to identify and correct areas of non-compliance and take reporting boundary for ISO 14001. disciplinary action where appropriate.
In 2006, this included the reported dismissal of 642 people for non-compliance or unethical behaviour.
This People number excludes some dismissals from the retail business including We seek to attract, develop and retain highly talented people, using those for minor or immaterial incidents.
BP has taken a number of steps appropriate incentives, in order to maintain the capability of the group to improve compliance performance within its supply and trading function.
to deliver our strategy and plans.
As a global group, we believe our The independent review, commissioned by BP, of the current compliance workforce, leadership and recruitment should reect the communities in approach in the groups US trading organization has been completed.
We therefore run programmes designed to ensure that A number of recommendations have been made in regard to the design we increase the number of local leaders and employees in our operations.
and effectiveness of the compliance processes and procedures.
BP is Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career fully implementing these recommendations.
The existing supply and development, promotion, training and reward for all employees, trading compliance function is being integrated into the groups including those with disabilities.
Where existing employees become Compliance and Ethics function to provide more independent oversight disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and training over trading activities.
BP continues to apply a policy that the group will not participate directly We now have a number of programmes in place to help raise our senior in party political activity or make any political contributions, whether in level leaders awareness of diversity and inclusion D&I.
Our Managing cash or in kind.
BP specically made no contributions to UK or other EU Inclusion programme is recommended for all senior level leaders in the political parties or organizations in 2006.
We have also developed a web-based resource that uses interactive tools to present the business case for D&I, give guidance on D&I Suppliers and contractors leadership and provide a gateway to other learning opportunities.
Our processes are designed to enable us to choose suppliers carefully At the end of 2006, 17% of our top 622 leaders were female and 20% on merit, avoiding conicts of interest and inappropriate gifts and came from countries other than the UK and the US.
We expect suppliers to comply with legal requirements tracking the composition of our group leadership in 2000, these and we seek to do business with suppliers who act in line with percentages were 9% and 14% respectively.
We recruit people in the BPs commitments to compliance and ethics, as outlined in the code hope that they will spend a significant portion of their careers with BP.
We aim to develop our leaders internally, although we recruit outside We engage with suppliers in a variety of ways, including performance the group when we do not have specialist skills in-house or when review meetings to identify mutual improvements in performance.
In 2006, we appointed 70 people to positions in the 622-strong group leadership.
Of these, 50 were internal We seek to have a positive inuence on major issues beyond our own candidates.
We provide development opportunities for our employees, operations.
The two main areas where we seek to do so are climate including training courses, international assignments, mentoring, team change and development.
development days, workshops, seminars and online learning.
We encourage everyone to take five training days a year.
In our two-yearly BP and climate change People Assurance Survey of employees, conducted in 2006 and During 2006, we made further investments to increase the supply of lowcompleted by 73% of those eligible, the level of satisfaction was 66%.
carbon energy, both for power and transport.
Our activities came against We had approximately 97,000 employees as at 31 December 2006, a background of intensifying public concern and debate over the issue.
compared with approximately 96,200 at 31 December 2005.
We continue As well as international negotiations on climate change in Nairobi, world to support employee share ownership.
Through our award-winning leaders at the G8 summit in St Petersburg recommitted themselves ShareMatch plan, run in more than 70 countries, we match BP shares to address the issue.
In the US, a funding package was announced for purchased by employees.
research into renewable and alternative technologies and, in the UK, Communications with employees include magazines, intranet a  report argued that the cost of failing to sites, DVDs, targeted e-mails and face-to-face communication.
Team act to avert climate change would outweigh the cost of acting to stabilize meetings are the core of our employee consultation, complemented GHG levels.
by formal processes through works councils in parts of Europe.
These developments reinforced our own support for taking These communications, along with training programmes, are precautionary action as well as demonstrating the business opportunity designed to contribute to employee development and motivation by that is created by the growth of markets for low-carbon power.
In our raising awareness of financial, economic, social and environmental factors view, the goal must be to take urgent but informed measures that will affecting our performance.
stabilize GHG concentrations by delivering sustainable and cost-efficient long-term emission reductions.
We must address the fact that fossil The code of conduct fuels currently supply most of the energy people use and are projected We have a code of conduct, launched in 2005, designed to ensure that all to remain fundamental to global energy supply for at least the next 20-30 emissions from the use of fossil employees comply with legal requirements and our own standards.
Innovation to reduce CO 2 code defines what BP expects of its people, providing expectations in key fuels will therefore be a major contributor to stabilization during this areas such as safety, workplace behaviour and use of IT.
It also provides period, alongside growing renewable energy industries.
We believe that references to show employees where they can nd more detailed governments and businesses must work together to develop appropriate BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 41 policy responses, recognizing the existence of different starting points, BPanddevelopment perspectives, priorities and solutions and including the many potential We wish to make a positive contribution to social and economic contributors to the common goal of addressing climate change.
BPs development wherever we operate.
Our aim is to be a local energy actions focus on our own business activities and engaging in informed company an accepted member of the community, but one that external dialogue to inuence policy, regulation and research.
We support contributes global resources, standards and capabilities.
the use of market mechanisms such as emissions trading to bring about Following this approach, we seek to bring local people into our the most efficient forms of emissions reduction.
leadership and workforce and to bring local companies into our supply chains.
Consequently, as well as increasing the number of our leaders BP Alternative Energy who are from beyond the US and UK, we have also invested in training In 2006, we made further progress in building BP Alternative Energy, and support for local companies in many countries.
In 2006, we invested launched in 2005, into a substantial business providing cleaner low- $10.7 million in support of enterprise development.
In countries such carbon power from solar, wind, hydrogen and natural gas.
In 2005, we as Azerbaijan, where we and our co-venturers have invested in local announced that we are investing $8 billion over 10 years in BP Alternative enterprise development through the Regional Development Initiative, and Energy to address the major opportunity presented by the low-carbon in Angola, BP has worked with the US NGO Citizens Development Corp power market.
Globally, the power sector is the biggest source of GHG to set up the Centro fide Apoio Empresarial business support centre.
emissions responsible for around twice the emissions of transport so We support micro-finance systems to make loans to small businesses creating low-carbon power is critical in the effort to stabilize global GHG in Angola, Azerbaijan, Colombia, Georgia and Trinidad & Tobago.
During 2006, BP Alternative Energy doubled its production capacity During 2006, we acted as a member of the International Advisory of solar cells and modules from the capacity produced in 2004, entered Group for the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, and we into research partnerships in the US and Germany to improve the remain represented on the board, which has replaced the International performance of solar technology, acquired US wind energy developers Advisory Group.
EITI provides guidelines for publicly disclosing the Orion Energy, LLC, and Greenlight Energy, Inc. and signed an agreement amount of revenue governments receive from energy companies, so with Clipper Windpower plc for the supply of wind turbines and the joint people can see how much is available for public spending.
BP continues development of two gigawatts of wind capacity in the US.
Our joint to support the implementation of the EITI in Azerbaijan.
venture with SK Corporation in South Korea saw operations start at the In 2006, Professor Tony Venables was appointed as the first BP combined cycle gas turbine power station, the Kwangyang plant, in which professor in the economics department of the University of Oxford, UK.
BP has a 35% stake, and we have started construction of a new 250MW The chair was endowed in 2005, together with funding for the Oxford steam turbine power generating plant at the Texas City renery site.
Centre for the Analysis of Resource-Rich Economies, also in the Looking ahead, we also plan to construct a 520MW co-generation facility economics department of Oxford, to conduct research on resource-rich at Cherry Point in the US.
During 2006, we announced a new strategic economies and share best practice in managing energy revenues relationship with General Electric to accelerate the development of effectively.
hydrogen power technology and the deployment of the concept.
The We also make direct contributions to communities through community US government showed support for our proposed hydrogen plant at programmes.
Our total contribution in 2006 was $106.7 million.
This Carson, California, by awarding the project $90 million in Federal includes $0.6 million contributed by BP to UK charities.
focus of this is on education, the development of local enterprise and providing access to energy in remote locations.
We plan to spend around Sustainable transport $500 million in each five-year cycle focusing on these areas, with In 2006, we increased our involvement in biofuels fuels made from enough exibility to respond to local needs as appropriate.
crops, which limit GHG emissions from transport over their full life cycle In 2006, we spent $63.9 million promoting education, with investment because they absorb CO as the crops grow.
We launched a dedicated in three broad areas: energy and the environment: business leadership 2 biofuels business and announced that we would be investing $500 million skills: and basic education in developing countries where we operate over 10 years in a university-based Energy Biosciences Institute at which large projects.
specialist researchers will apply their biotechnology expertise to energy.
We also help to promote development by assisting in providing access On 1 February 2007, BP announced that it had selected the University of to various forms of energy in many countries, working alongside California, Berkeley, and its partners the University of Illinois at Urbanagovernments, NGOs and aid agencies.
For example, we provide solar Champaign and the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory for the power for rural communities in countries such as Algeria, Sri Lanka and research programme.
Our ambition is that bioscience will deliver the Philippines and we have set up a new business in India to provide comparable benets in the energy sector to those achieved in medicine.
Our first offer is a biomass cooking stove to help These new biofuels activities build upon our existing operations to provide cleaner energy for cooking.
Almost 13,000 customers have blend biocomponents into transport fuels in the US, Germany, Austria purchased our biomass stove that signicantly reduces emissions and France.
compared with traditional wood-burning stoves made of mud.
We continued the roll-out of BP Ultimate, launched in 2003, in two new markets, South Africa and Russia.
This fuel delivers reductions in emissions such as carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxide compared with Environmental protection standard fuels.
We worked with several partners to develop lubricants that support Health, safetyand  improvements in engine construction and emissions systems that are The group is subject to numerous national and local environmental intended to improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollution.
We have also laws and regulations concerning its products, operations and activities.
developed longer-lasting driveline uids that reduce total oil volumes over Current and proposed fuel and product specications under a number of a vehicles lifetime and improve fuel efficiency by up to 1.5%.
Closer environmental laws will have a significant effect on the production, co-operation between lubricants development and manufacturing sale and profitability of many of our products.
Environmental laws and processes have resulted in significant energy and resource savings during regulations also require the group to remediate or otherwise redress the the blending of lubricants.
effects on the environment of prior disposal or release of chemicals or BP is also supporting a project at Tsinghua University in China to petroleum substances by the group or other parties.
Such contingencies investigate the challenges presented by the rapid growth of cities, may exist for various sites, including reneries, chemicals plants, natural especially in Asia.
The first phase, completed in March 2006, gas processing plants, oil and natural gas elds, service stations, terminals demonstrated the need for an integrated approach across and waste disposal sites.
In addition, the group may have obligations many disciplines.
relating to prior asset sales or closed facilities.
Provisions for environmental restoration and remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount is reasonably determinable.
Generally, their timing coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, if 42 earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The provisions made it was discovered and the portion of the line with the leak was shut down.
are considered by management to be sufficient for known requirements.
The pipeline leak was caused by internal corrosion.
The spill affected The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation approximately two acres of frozen tundra.
Clean-up and rehabilitation of and abatement programmes are often inherently difficult to estimate.
the area are complete and environmental damage to the tundra is They depend on the magnitude of any possible contamination, the timing expected to be minimal.
On 15 March 2006, the US Department of and extent of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility and Transportation DOT issued a Corrective Action Order CAO that BPs share of liability relative to that of other solvent responsible parties.
required, among other items, that BP develop a plan to run maintenance Though the costs of future restoration and remediation could be pipeline inspection tools pigs and smart pigs through the three Prudhoe significant and may be material to the results of operations in the period in Bay oil transit lines.
The DOT has since issued two amendments to the which they are recognized, it is not expected that such costs will be CAO.
Combined, the three orders have required 34 corrective actions.
material to the groups overall results of operations or financial position.
On 6 August 2006, BP Exploration Alaska ordered a phased shutdown of See Financial statements Note 40 on page 152 for the amounts the Prudhoe Bay oil eld following the discovery of unexpectedly severe provided in respect of environmental remediation and decommissioning.
corrosion and a spill of 199 barrels from the oil transit line in the Eastern The groups operations are also subject to environmental and common Operating Area of Prudhoe Bay.
The decision was based on the receipt law claims for personal injury and property damage caused by the release of data from a smart pig run and follow-up inspections where corrosionof chemicals, hazardous materials or petroleum substances by the group related wall thinning appeared to exceed BP criteria for continued or others.
Nineteen proceedings involving governmental authorities are operation.
It was during these follow-up inspections that BP personnel pending or known to be contemplated against BP and certain of its discovered a leak and a small spill to the tundra.
The spill was contained subsidiaries under federal, state or local environmental laws, each of and clean-up began.
US and State of Alaska investigations of the incident which could result in monetary sanctions of $100,000 or more.
No have been initiated and subpoenas have been issued, including a Federal individual proceeding is, nor are the proceedings in aggregate, expected Grand Jury subpoena.
BP continues its discussions with the DOT to to be material to the groups results of operations or financial position.
assure compliance with the corrective actions outlined in the CADs.
On 23 March 2005, an explosion and re occurred in the isomerization In September 2006, BP executives testied before the US House of unit of BP Products North America Inc. s Texas City renery as the unit Representatives and the US Senate.
was coming out of planned maintenance.
Fifteen workers died in the Management cannot predict future developments, such as increasingly incident and many others were injured.
In 2005 and 2006, BP agreed strict requirements of environmental laws and resulting enforcement settlements in respect of all the fatalities and many of the personal injury policies, that might affect the groups operations or affect the exploration claims arising from the incident.
Trials have been scheduled for a number for new reserves or the products sold by the group.
A risk of increased of unresolved claims in mid-2007, although to date all claims scheduled environmental costs and impacts is inherent in particular operations for trial have been resolved in advance of trial.
In 2006, BP continued its and products of the group and there can be no assurance that material co-operation with the governmental entities investigating the incident, liabilities and costs will not be incurred in the future.
In general, the group including the US Department of Justice DOJ, the US Environmental does not expect that it will be affected differently from other companies Protection Agency EPA, the US Occupational Safety & Health with comparable assets engaged in similar businesses.
Management Administration OSHA, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation believes that the groups activities are in compliance in all material Board CSB and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality TCEQ.
respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
During 2006, BP also devoted significant time and effort to co-operate For a discussion of the groups environmental expenditure see with the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel the panel, Environmental expenditure on page 54. which it chartered in 2005 on the recommendation of the CSB to assess BP operates in more than 100 countries worldwide.
In all regions of the the effectiveness of corporate oversight of safety management systems world, BP has processes designed to ensure compliance with applicable at BPs US reneries and the corporate safety culture.
In addition, each individual in the group is required to comply published its report in January 2007 and BP has publicly committed to with BP health, safety and environmental HSE policies as embedded implement its recommendations see Report of the BP US Reneries in the BP code of conduct.
Our partners, suppliers and contractors are Independent Safety Review Panel on page 29. also encouraged to adopt them.
The group is working with the equityThe incident prompted a number of investigations by other state and accounted entity TNK-BP to develop management information to allow federal agencies.
The TCEQ and OSHA investigations of the incident for the assessment and measurement of their activities in relation to HSE resulted in settlement agreements between BP and the agencies.
In the regulations and obligations.
third quarter of 2005, BP reached a settlement with OSHA that resulted in This Environmental protection section focuses primarily on the US and the payment of a $21.4 million penalty, an agreement to correct all alleged the EU, where approximately 70% of our property, plant and equipment safety violations and the retention of experts to assess the renerys is located, and on two issues of a global nature: climate change organization and process safety systems.
In the second quarter of 2006, programmes and maritime oil spills regulations.
BP settled with the TCEQ, resolving 27 alleged violations by paying a $0.3 million ne and agreeing, among other things, to upgrade its Climate change programmes are system.
In December 1997, at the Third Conference of the Parties to the United The CSB report is expected to be issued in March 2007.
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC in Kyoto, As a result of its investigation of the Texas City renery, OSHA Japan, the participants agreed on a system of differentiated internationally conducted an inspection of BP Products North America Inc. s Toledo legally binding targets for the first commitment period of 2008-2012.
In renery beginning in October 2005.
On 24 April 2006, OSHA issued 2005, the Kyoto protocol came into force, committing the 156 citations with a total penalty of $2.4 million, alleging 39 separate participating countries to emissions targets and the EU Emissions Trading violations of two different OSHA standards.
BP and OSHA have reached Scheme ETS came into operation.
However, Kyoto was only designed a settlement in principle and are working towards nalizing as a first step and policymakers continue to discuss what new agreement the documentation.
might follow it in 2012 and how all significant countries can be involved.
On 15 November 2006, the Indiana Occupational Safety and Health This was discussed further by the G8 group of world leaders at their Administration IOSHA issued the Whiting renery with three Safety St Petersburg summit in 2006 and at the UNFCC conference in Nairobi, Orders and Notications of Penalty alleging 14 separate violations of where progress was made on climate impacts adaptation and vulnerability the OSHA regulations.
On and there was agreement to review the Kyoto protocol by 2008.
7 December 2006, BP and IOSHA met to discuss resolution of the Market mechanisms to allow optimum utilization of resources to matter.
meet the national Kyoto targets are being considered, developed or On 2 March 2006, a crude oil spill of approximately 4,800 barrels implemented by individual countries and also internationally through the occurred on a low-pressure transit line on the Alaskan North Slope in the EU.
The relative success of these systems will determine the extent to Western Operating Area of the Prudhoe Bay eld operated by BP.
The which alternative scal or regulatory measures may be applied.
spill was reported to all the appropriate government agencies as soon as BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 43 In July 2003, final agreement was reached on a European Directive on the owners and operators of the carrying vessel, some states establishing a scheme for GHG emission allowance trading within the EU implemented statutes also imposing liability on the shippers or owners of and, in January 2005, the scheme came into force, capping the CO oil spilled from such vessels.
Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California 2 emissions of major industrial emitters.
BP was well prepared for the EU are among these states.
The exposure of BP to such liability is mitigated ETS, building on experiences from our own internal emissions trading by the vessels marine liability insurance, which has a maximum limit of system operated between 1999 and 2001 and participation in the UKs $1 billion for each accident or occurrence.
OPA 90 also provides that all own pilot ETS.
The EU ETS launched in 2005 covers all BP installations new tank vessels operating in US waters must have double hulls and with combustion facilities greater than 20MW thermal input.
The first existing tank vessels without double hulls must be phased out by 2015. phase of EU ETS will come to completion at the end of 2007, with EU BP contracted with National Steel and Ship Building Company NASSCO ETS phase II running from 2008 to 2012.
By 31 December 2006, member for the construction of four double-hulled tankers in San Diego, California.
states should have submitted their final national allocation plan NAP The first of these new vessels began service in 2004, demise chartered versions.
These are in the process of receiving final approval from the to and operated by Alaska Tanker Company ATC, which transports BP Commission.
In 2006, our 18 EU ETS participating installations submitted Alaskan crude oil from Valdez.
NASSCO delivered two more in 2005 their veried 2005 CO emission reports, balanced their EU ETS and the fourth was delivered in 2006.
At the end of 2006, the ATC eet 2 allowance positions using BPs trading resources in London and consisted of six tankers, all double-hulled.
surrendered the required number of allowances, equal to their 2005 Outside the US, the BP-operated eet of tankers is subject to veried annual emissions.
international spill response and preparedness regulations that are typically In September 2006, California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed promulgated through the International Maritime Organization IMO and the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 AB 32 into law.
implemented by the relevant ag state authorities.
The International AB 32 requires the California Air Resources Board CARB to develop Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships Marpol 73 78 regulations that will ultimately reduce Californias GHG emissions to 1990 requires vessels to have detailed ship-board emergency and spill levels by 2020 an approximately 25% reduction from current levels.
The International Convention on Oil Pollution, Mandatory caps will begin in 2012 for significant sources and will ratchet Preparedness, Response and Co-operation requires vessels to have down over time to meet the 2020 goals.
The law specically targets adequate spill response plans and resources for response anywhere the sources or categories that contribute the most to statewide emissions vessel travels.
These conventions and separate Marine Environmental for action.
The California Climate Action Team, which the law designates Protection Circulars also stipulate the relevant state authorities around to co-ordinate overall climate policy, has identied transportation as the the globe that require engagement in the event of a spill.
All these largest GHG-emitting sector in California, and electricity generation and requirements together are addressed by the vessel owners in Shipboard the oil and gas industry are the two largest GHG-emitting industrial Oil Pollution Emergency Plans.
BP Shippings liabilities for oil pollution sectors in the state.
damage under the OPA 90 and outside the US under the 1969 1992 The US congressional mid-term elections in November 2006 resulted in a International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage are change in control of the US Congress that may increase the prospects for covered by marine liability insurance, having a maximum limit of $1 billion more aggressive federal regulation of GHG emissions.
Such future regulation for each accident or occurrence.
This insurance cover is provided by three could include stricter Corporate Average Fuel Emissions for automobiles sold mutual insurance associations P&I Clubs : The United Kingdom Steam in the US, changes in fuel specications, the promotion of alternative fuels, Ship Assurance Association Bermuda Limited, The Britannia Steam Ship stricter emissions limits on large GHG sources and or the introduction of a Insurance Association Limited and The Standard Steamship Owners cap and trade programme on CO or other GHG emissions.
Protection and Indemnity Association Bermuda Limited.
With effect 2 Since 1997, BP has been actively involved in policy debate.
We also from 20 February 2006, two new complementary voluntary oil pollution ran a global programme that reduced our operational GHG emissions by compensation schemes were introduced by tanker owners, supported by 10% between 1998 and 2001.
We continue to look at two principal kinds their P&I Clubs, with the agreement of the International Oil Pollution of emissions: operational emissions, which are generated from our Compensation Fund at the IMO.
Pursuant to both these schemes, tanker operations such as reneries, chemicals plants and production facilities, owners will voluntarily assume a greater liability for oil pollution and product emissions, generated by our customers when they use the compensation in the event of a spill of persistent oil than is provided for in fuels and products that we sell.
Since 2001, we have been aiming to CLC.
The first scheme, The Small Tanker Owners Pollution offset, through energy efficiency projects, half the underlying operational indemnification Agreement STOPIA, provides for a minimum liability of GHG emission increases that result from our growing business.
After five 20 million Special Drawing Rights around $29 million for a ship at or years, we estimate that emissions growth of some 12 million tonnes has below 29,548 gross tons, while the second scheme, The Tanker Owners been offset by around 6 million tonnes of sustainable reductions.
With Pollution indemnification Agreement TOPIA, provides for the tanker regard to our products, our commitment to low-carbon businesses owner to take a 50% stake in the 2003 Supplementary Fund, i. e. an increased in 2006 with the internal establishment of a separate biofuels additional liability of up to 273.5 million Special Drawing Rights around business and the announcement to establish a dedicated biosciences $406 million.
Both STOPIA and TOPIA will only apply to tankers whose energy research facility attached to a major academic centre and invest owners are party to these agreements and who have entered their ships $500 million over the next 10 years.
Our low-carbon power business, BP with P&I Clubs in the International Group of P&I Clubs, so benefiting Alternative Energy, continued to expand its activities with the purchase of from those Clubs pooling and reinsurance arrangements.
All BP US wind developers Orion Energy, LLC, and Greenlight Energy Inc. and Shippings managed and time-chartered vessels will participate in the formation of a strategic alliance with Clipper Windpower, to develop STOPIA and TOPIA.
jointly more than 2 gigawatts of wind projects in the US.
At the end of 2006, the international eet we managed numbered 47 oil and product carriers, all double-hulled with an average age of less than Maritime oil spill regulations three years, seven LNG ships with an average age of nine years and three Within the US, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 imposes oil spill LPG ships, which are all less than one year old.
The international eet prevention requirements, spill response planning obligations and spill renewal programme will continue and is expected to see one more LPG liability for tankers and barges transporting oil and for offshore facilities ship being delivered in mid-2007 and four new LNG ships being delivered such as platforms and onshore terminals.
To ensure adequate funding between mid-2007 and the end of 2008.
In addition to its own eet, BP for response to oil spills and compensation for damages, when not fully will continue to charter quality ships: currently these vessels include both covered by a responsible party, OPA 90 created a $1-billion fund that is singleand double-hulled designs, but BP Shipping is accelerating the nanced by a tax on imported and domestic oil.
This has recently been phase-in of only double-hulled vessels by 2008: all vessels will continue amended by the Coast Guard and Marine Transportation Act 2006 to to be vetted prior to each use in accordance with the BP group ship increase the size of the fund from $1 billion to $2.7 billion, through the vetting policy.
previously mentioned tax, together with an increase in the liability of double-hulled tankers from $1,200 per gross ton to $1,900 per gross ton.
In addition to federal law OPA 90, which imposes liability for oil spills 44 US regional review provisions accordingly.
BP does not anticipate that its ultimate exposure The following is a summary of significant US environmental issues and at these sites individually, or in aggregate, will be significant, except as legislation affecting the group.
reported for Atlantic Richeld Company in the matters below.
The Clean Air Act and its regulations require, among other things, The US and the State of Montana seek to hold Atlantic Richeld stringent air emission limits and operating permits for chemicals plants, Company liable for environmental remediation, related costs and natural reneries, marine and distribution terminals: stricter fuel specications resource damages arising out of mining-related activities by Atlantic and sulphur reductions: enhanced monitoring of major sources Richelds predecessors in the upper Clark Fork River Basin the basin.
of specified pollutants: and risk management plans for storage of The estimated future cost of performing selected and proposed remedies hazardous substances.
This law affects BP facilities producing, rening, in certain areas in the basin are likely to exceed $350 million.
Federal and manufacturing and distributing oil and products as well as the fuels state trustees also seek to recover damages for alleged injuries to natural themselves.
Federal and state controls on ozone, particulate matter, resources in the basin.
In 1999, Atlantic Richeld settled most of the carbon monoxide, benzene, sulphur, MTBE, nitrogen dioxide, oxygenates States claims for damages, as well as all natural resource damage claims and Reid Vapor Pressure affect BPs activities and products in the US.
BP asserted by a local Native American tribe.
However, the parties have not is continually adapting its business to these rules and has the know-how resolved the claims for natural resource damages on certain federal land to produce quality and competitive products in compliance with their or the States remaining claims for restoration damages.
Beginning January 2006, all gasoline produced by BP was among the parties, including consent decree settlements providing for subject to the EPAs stringent low-sulphur standards.
Furthermore, by combined remediation and restoration projects in limited areas of the June 2006, at least 80% of the highway diesel fuel produced each year by basin, may provide a framework for future settlement of the remaining BP was required to meet a sulphur cap of 15 parts per million ppm and claims.
Atlantic Richeld Company has asserted defences to the then 100% beginning January 2010.
By June 2007, all non-road diesel fuel remaining claims and has asserted counterclaims.
production will have to meet a sulphur cap of 500ppm and then 15ppm by The group is also subject to other claims for natural resource damages June 2012.
NRD under CERCLA, OPA 90, and other federal and state laws.
NRD The Energy Policy Act of 2005 also required several changes to the claims have been asserted by government trustees against a number of US fuels market with the following fuel provisions: elimination of the group operations.
This is a developing area of the law that could affect the Federal Reformulated Gasoline RFG oxygen requirement in May 2006: cost of addressing environmental conditions at some sites in the future.
establishment of a renewable fuels mandate 4 billion gallons in 2006, In the US, many environmental clean-ups are the result of strict increasing to 7.5 billion in 2012: consolidation of the summertime RFG groundwater protection standards at both the state and federal level.
Volatile organic compound VOC standards for Region 1 and 2: provision Contamination or the threat of contamination of current or potential to allow the Ozone Transport Commission states on the east coast to opt drinking water resources can result in stringent clean-up requirements any area into RFG: and a provision to allow states to repeal the 1psi Reid even if the water is not being used for drinking water.
Some states have Vapor Pressure waiver for 10% ethanol blends.
even addressed contamination of non-potable water resources using In 2001, BP entered into a consent decree with the EPA and several similarly strict standards.
BP has encouraged risk-based approaches to states that settled alleged violations of various Clean Air Act requirements these issues and seeks to tailor remedies at its facilities to match the related largely to emissions of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides at BPs level of risk presented by the contamination.
Implementation of the decrees requirements continues.
Other significant legislation includes the Toxic Substances Control Act, The Clean Water Act is designed to protect and enhance the quality of which regulates the development, testing, import, export and introduction US surface waters by regulating the discharge of wastewater and other of new chemical products into commerce: the Occupational Safety and discharges from both onshore and offshore operations.
Facilities are Health Act, which imposes workplace safety and health, training and required to obtain permits for most surface water discharges, install process requirements to reduce the risks of physical and chemical control equipment and implement operational controls and preventative hazards and injury to employees: and the Emergency Planning and measures, including spill prevention and control plans.
Requirements Community Right-to-Know Act, which requires emergency planning under the Clean Water Act have become more stringent in recent years, and spill notication as well as public disclosure of chemical usage and including coverage of storm and surface water discharges at many more emissions.
In addition, the US Department of Transportation, through facilities and increased control of toxic discharges.
New regulations are the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, regulates in expected over the next several years that could require, for example, a comprehensive manner the transportation of the groups petroleum additional wastewater treatment systems at some facilities.
products such as crude oil, gasoline and chemicals to protect the health The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act RCRA regulates the and safety of the public.
storage, handling, treatment, transportation and disposal of hazardous and BP is subject to the Marine Transportation Security Act and the non-hazardous wastes.
It also requires the investigation and remediation Department of Transportation Hazardous Materials security compliance of certain locations at a facility where such wastes have been handled, regulations in the US.
These regulations require many of our US released or disposed of.
BP facilities generate and handle a number businesses to conduct security vulnerability assessments and prepare of wastes regulated by RCRA and have units that have been used for security mitigation plans that require the implementation of upgrades to the storage, handling or disposal of RCRA wastes that are subject to security measures, the appointment and training of designated security investigation and corrective action.
personnel and the submission of plans for approval and inspection by Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, government agencies.
and Liability Act also known as CERCLA or Superfund, waste generators, BP has a national spill response team, the BP Americas Response site owners, facility operators and certain other parties are strictly liable Team BART, consisting of approximately 250 trained emergency for part or all of the cost of addressing sites contaminated by spills or responders at group locations throughout North America.
Supporting waste disposal regardless of fault or the amount of waste sent to a site.
the BART are five Regional Response Incident Management Teams Additionally, each state has laws similar to CERCLA.
and seven HAZMAT Strike Teams.
Collectively, these teams are BP has been identied as a Potentially Responsible Party PRP ready to assist in a response to a major incident.
under CERCLA or otherwise named under similar state statutes at See also Legal proceedings on page 85. approximately 800 sites.
A PRP or named party can incur joint and several liability for site remediation costs under some of these statutes and so European Union regional review BP may be required to assume, among other costs, the share attributed Within the EU, European Community directives are proposed by the to insolvent, unidentified or other parties.
BP has the most significant European Commission EC and usually adopted jointly by the European exposure for remediation costs at 60 of these sites.
For the remaining Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
They must then be implemented sites, the number of parties can range up to 200 or more.
BP expects its by each EU member state.
Less frequently in the eld of environment, share of remediation costs at these sites to be small in comparison with EC regulations are adopted that apply directly throughout the EU without the major sites.
BP has estimated its potential exposure at all sites where the need for member state implementation.
When implementing EU it has been identied as a PRP or is otherwise named and has established legislation, member states must ensure that penalties for non-compliance BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 45 are effective, proportionate and dissuasive, and must usually designate a such fuels started to take effect during 2006.
Restrictions and measures competent authority regulatory body for implementation.
Where the include sulphur levels in fuels of 0.1% for inland vessels by January 2010 EC believes that a member state has failed fully and correctly to and 1.5% for passenger ships by 19 August 2006.
The chief impact on BP transpose and implement EU legislation, it can take the member state to is likely to arise from installation of ue gas desulphurization on ships and the European Court of Justice, which can order the member state to higher cost fuel.
The overall impact is not expected to be material to the comply and in certain cases can impose monetary penalties on the groups results of operations or financial position.
A few non-EU states may also agree to apply EU A new EC programme for European chemical regulation REACH environmental legislation, in particular under the framework of the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals will come into European Economic Area agreement.
All chemical substances manufactured or imported An EC directive for a system of integrated pollution prevention in the EU above 1 tonne per annum about 30,000 will require a new preand control IPPC was adopted in 1996.
This system requires certain registration within the following 18 months and a registration within a 3- industrial installations including most activities and processes to 11-year time-phased period from adoption.
The actual date depends on undertaken by the oil and petrochemicals industry within the EU volume bands or classication with high volumes and hazardous to obtain an IPPC permit, which is designed to address an installations substances first.
Only time-limited authorizations will be given to environmental impacts, air emissions, water discharges and waste in a substances of high concern.
A new European Chemical Agency will be comprehensive fashion.
The permit requires, among other things, the established in Helsinki by mid-2008.
Crude oil and natural gas are exempt.
application of Best Available Techniques BAT, taking into account the Fuels will be exempted from authorization but not registration.
For BP, costs and benets, unless an applicable environmental quality standard REACH will affect all rening petroleum products, petrochemicals, requires more stringent restrictions, and an assessment of existing lubricants and other chemicals.
An initial estimate suggests costs of about environmental impacts and future site closure obligations.
All such plants $60,000 each for the internal preparation, pre-registration and registration must apply for and obtain such a permit by November 2007.
Compliance of nearly 1,000 entities representing manufactured or imported requires capital and revenue expenditure across BP sites.
The EC has substances or imported preparations for all BP individual entities obligated embarked upon a process of review that is likely to report in 2007 and to under REACH.
Additional costs for further submission to authorization for result in recommendations for amendments to the IPPC directive.
relevant substances and the modication of safety data sheets will have The EC Large Combustion Plant Directive was adopted in 1988 and to be assessed as further costs once the final regulation is known.
subsequently replaced by a new Large Combustion Plant Directive The EC adopted a Directive on Environmental Liability on 21 April 2004. in 2001.
The current LCPD imposes a complex range of controls on From 30 April 2007, member states must usually require the operators of emissions of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulates from large activities that cause significant damage to water, ecological resources or combustion plants.
The nature and stringency of these controls for a land after that date to undertake restoration of that damage.
Provision is particular plant depend principally on its age.
Plants permitted between also made for reporting and tackling imminent threats of such damage.
1987 and 2002 had a requirement for specic emission limit values The regime is more stringent for operators of specified higher-risk by 27 November 2002.
Plants permitted since then must meet more activities, including IPPC-permitted operations.
Member states are stringent emission limit values.
Plants permitted prior to 1987 must also considering how to implement the regime.
meet emission limit values unless they have opted out in which case During 2007, the commission is expected to release a communication they must now close after 20,000 hours of further operation starting on Carbon Capture and Storage CCS, setting out guidelines for the from 1 January 2008 and ending no later than 31 December 2015 or will technology and its regulation.
The intention of the communication is in participate in a National Emission Reduction Plan designed to deliver part to identify regulatory barriers that may restrict CCS technologies, equivalent aggregate emission reductions.
so that those barriers can be appropriately addressed, and to identify The second important set of air quality-related legislation affecting BP common methodologies to be implemented across EU member states.
European operations is the Air Quality Framework Directive on ambient air Other environment-related existing regulations that may have an impact quality assessment and management and its daughter Directives, which on BPs operations include: the Major Hazards Directive which, for the prescribe, among other things, ambient limit values for sulphur dioxide, sites to which it applies, requires emergency planning, public disclosure oxides of nitrogen, particulate matter, lead, carbon monoxide, ozone, of emergency plans and ensuring that hazards are assessed and effective cadmium, arsenic, nickel, mercury and polyaromatic hydrocarbons.
If the emergency management systems are in place: the Water Framework concentration of a pollutant exceeds air quality limit values plus a margin Directive, which includes protection of surface waters and groundwater: of tolerance set under a daughter Directive or there is a risk of such and the Waste Framework Directive.
exceedance, a member state is required to take action to reduce The Water Framework Directive requires member states to develop emissions.
This may affect any BP operations whose emissions programmes of measures and start implementing them by 2012, the contribute to such exceedances.
principal objective being to ensure that all water bodies covered by the In 2005, the EC published its Thematic Strategy on Air Pollution a key directive attain at least good quality by 2015.
For an individual plant part of the Clean Air for Europe CAFE programmeandan which, for instance, abstracts water or discharges efuent into water, the accompanying proposed directive to consolidate the existing ambient air implications of the directive will depend on local circumstances including quality legislation referred to above and to introduce new controls on the the extent to which the activity might prejudice attaining good quality concentration of ne particles PM 2.5 particulate matter less than 2.5 for a water body and on the individual member states approach to microns diameter in ambient air.
The Thematic Strategy outlines EU-wide developing and implementing the relevant programme of measures.
objectives to reduce the health and environmental impacts of air quality The Water Framework Directive also draws together and provides for and a wide range of measures to be taken.
These measures include: the the replacement with new directives of a number of other directives ambient air quality proposal mentioned above: revisions to the National relating to water quality, such as those on groundwater and discharge of Emissions Ceilings Directive: new emission limits for light and heavy duty dangerous substances.
diesel vehicles: new controls on smaller combustion plant: and further The Waste Framework Directive requires member states to operate control of evaporative losses from vehicle refuelling at service stations.
a permitting regime for waste disposal and recovery and to ensure that The EU has set stringent objectives to control exhaust emissions from waste is recovered or disposed without endangering human health and vehicles, which are being implemented in stages.
Maximum sulphur without using processes or methods that could harm the environment.
levels for gasoline and diesel of 50ppm and a 35% maximum aromatic A European Court of Justice ruling in 2004 Van fide Walle interpreted content for gasoline were both agreed to apply from 2005.
Agreement these requirements widely, in a way that raised potentially significant was reached in December 2002 on a further directive to make petrol and implications for soil and groundwater contamination: however, a proposed diesel with a maximum sulphur content of 10ppm mandatory throughout revision to the directive that is currently making its way through the EU the EU from January 2009, and from 2005, member states will also have legislative process would, if adopted in its current form, potentially pave to supply low-sulphur fuel at enough locations to allow the circulation of the way for mitigating this position by excluding from the directive new low-emission engines requiring the cleaner fuel.
Further measures unexcavated soil covered by other EU legislation.
on sulphur levels of shipping fuels and or reduction of emissions using 46 In 2005, the EC published a proposed EC Marine Strategy Directive, which would adopt an approach akin to that in the Water Framework Property, plants and equipment Directive by requiring achievement of good environmental status for marine waters by 2021 through the implementation of programmes of BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in numerous countries measures.
throughout the world, but no individual property is significant to the group as In 2006, the EC published a proposed Soil Framework Directive that, as a whole.
See Exploration and Production on page 16 for a description of the currently drafted, would encompass all soils, not just those for agricultural groups significant reserves and sources of crude oil and natural gas.
If adopted in its current form, the directive would require member significant plans to construct, expand or improve specic facilities are states to develop, over time, a register of contaminated sites and to described under each of the business headings within this section.
require their remediation so that they do not pose significant risks to human health or the environment.
Unlike the Environmental Liability Directive, this is intended to apply to historic as well as new Organizational structure contamination.
Member states may well need to carry out or require intrusive site investigations in order to establish whether particular sites The significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2006 and the are contaminated sites: coupled with a requirement which will be new group percentage of ordinary share capital to nearest whole number are for some member states for site investigations to be carried out on any set out in Financial statements Note 50 on page 171.
See Financial sale of land that may be contaminated, this could lead to the crystallization statements Notes 29, 30 and 55 on pages 136, 137 and 195 of liabilities for BP in respect of its current or former operational and other respectively for information on significant jointly controlled entities and land holdings, if any such land is found to be contaminated.
Financial and operating performance Group operating results The following summarizes the groups operating results.
See Financial statements Note 5 on page 111. Business environment In 2005, the dated Brent price averaged $54.48 per barrel, an increase The business environment in 2006 was mixed compared with 2005, of more than $16 per barrel above the $38.27 per barrel average seen but still robust in comparison with historical averages.
Crude oil and in 2004, and varied between $38.21 and $67.33 per barrel.
Hurricanes UK natural gas prices increased, while US natural gas prices and global Katrina and Rita severely disrupted oil and gas production in the Gulf of rening margins fell.
Mexico for an extended period but supply availability was maintained.
Crude oil prices reached record highs in 2006 in nominal terms, driven Natural gas prices in the US were also higher during 2005 than in 2004 by low surplus oil production capacity, continued demand growth and in the face of rising oil prices and hurricane-induced production losses.
concern about vulnerability of supply.
The dated Brent price averaged In 2005, the Henry Hub First of the Month Index averaged $8.65 per $65.14 per barrel, an increase of more than $10 per barrel over the mmBtu, up by around $2.50 per mmBtu compared with the 2004 average $54.48 per barrel average seen in 2005, and varied between $78.69 and of $6.13 per mmBtu.
High gas prices in 2005 stimulated a fall in demand, $55.89 per barrel.
Prices peaked in early August before retreating in the especially in the industrial sector.
UK gas prices were up strongly in face of a mild hurricane season and rising inventories.
OPEC action late 2005, averaging 40.71 pence per therm at the National Balancing Point, in the year helped support prices.
compared with a 2004 average of 24.39 pence per therm.
Natural gas prices in the US declined in 2006 but remained well above Rening margins also reached record highs in 2005, with the BP GIM historical averages.
The Henry Hub First of the Month Index averaged averaging $8.60 per barrel.
This reected further oil demand growth and $7.24 per mmBtu, $1.41 per mmBtu below the 2005 average of $8.65 the loss of rening capacity as a result of the US hurricanes.
Rising production and weak consumption resulted in abovefor light products above fuel oils remained exceptionally high, favouring average inventories, depressing gas prices relative to crude oil.
UK gas upgraded reneries over less complex sites.
prices rose slightly in 2006, averaging 42.19 pence per therm at the Retail margins weakened in 2005 as rising product prices and price National Balancing Point, compared with a 2005 average of 40.71 pence volatility made their impact felt in a competitive marketplace.
Rening margins were only slightly lower in 2006, with the BP Global Hydrocarbon production Indicator Margin GIM averaging $8.39 per barrel.
This reected further Hydrocarbon production for subsidiaries decreased by 3.3% in 2006 oil demand growth, lingering effects on US renery production from the reecting a decrease of 5.1% for liquids and a decrease of 1.3% for 2005 hurricanes and gasoline formulation changes in several US states.
Increases in production in our new profit centres were offset The premium for light products over fuel oils remained exceptionally high, by anticipated decline in our existing profit centres and the effect of favouring upgraded reneries over less complex sites.
Hydrocarbon production for equity-accounted entities increased Retail margins improved slightly in 2006, benefiting from a decline in the by 0.1%, reecting a decrease of 1.3% for liquids and an increase of cost of product during the second half of the year, despite 10.2% for natural gas.
Hydrocarbon production for subsidiaries decreased by 2.8% in 2005 The business environment in 2005 was stronger than in 2004, with compared with 2004, reecting a decrease of 3.9% for liquids and a higher oil and gas realizations and higher rening and olens margins decrease of 1.5% for natural gas.
Increases in production in our new but lower retail marketing margins.
profit centres were more than offset by the effect of hurricanes, higher BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 47 planned maintenance shutdowns and anticipated decline in our existing profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended profit centres.
Hydrocarbon production for equity-accounted entities 31 December 2005: increased by 7.8%, reecting an increase of 8.4% for liquids and an Included net gains of $1,159 million on the sales of assets, primarily increase of 3.8% for natural gas.
This increase primarily reects increased from our interest in the Ormen Lange eld, and was after net fair value production from TNK-BP.
losses of $1,688 million on embedded derivatives, an impairment charge of $226 million in respect of elds in the Gulf of Mexico and a Sales and other operating revenues charge for impairment of $40 million relating to elds in the UK North The increase in sales and other operating revenues before the elimination Sea in Exploration and Production: of sales between businesses for 2006 included approximately $39 billion Included net gains of $177 million, principally on the divestment of a from higher prices related to marketing and other sales spot and term number of regional retail networks in the US and was after a charge of contracts, oil and gas realizations and other sales, partially offset by a net $700 million in respect of fatality and personal injury compensation decrease of approximately $15 billion from lower volumes of marketing claims associated with the March 2005 incident at the Texas City and other sales and a decrease of around $1 billion related to lower renery a charge of $140 million relating to new, and revisions to production volumes of subsidiaries.
existing, environmental and other provisions, an impairment charge of The increase in sales and other operating revenues before the $93 million and a charge of $33 million for the impairment of an equityelimination of sales between businesses for 2005 included approximately accounted entity in Rening and Marketing: $67 billion from higher prices related to marketing and other sales spot Included net gains of $55 million primarily on the disposal of BPs and term contracts, oil and gas realizations and other sales and $1 billion interest in the Interconnector pipeline and a power plant in the UK and from foreign exchange movements due to sales in local currencies being was after net fair value losses of $346 million on embedded derivatives translated into the US dollar.
This was partially offset by a net decrease and a credit of $6 million related to new, and revisions to existing, of approximately $11 billion from lower volumes of marketing and other environmental and other provisions in the Gas, Power and Renewables sales and a decrease of around $1 billion related to lower production segment: and volumes of subsidiaries.
Included net gains on disposal of $38 million, and was after a net charge of $278 million related to new, and revisions to existing, profit attributable to BP shareholders environmental and other provisions and the reversal of environmental profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December provisions no longer required, a charge of $134 million relating to the 2006 was $22,000 million, after inventory holding losses of $253 million.
separation of the Olens and Derivatives business and net fair value Inventory holding gains or losses represent the difference between losses of $13 million on embedded derivatives in Other businesses the cost of sales calculated using the average cost of supplies incurred and corporate.
during the year and the cost of sales calculated using the first-in first-out method.
profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2005 was $22,341 million, including inventory holding gains 31 December 2004: of $3,027 million, and profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year Was after an impairment charge of $267 million in respect of elds in ended 31 December 2004 was $17,075 million, including inventory the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and US onshore, an impairment charge holdings gains of $1,643 million.
of $108 million in respect of a gas processing plant in the US and a The profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended eld in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf, an impairment charge of $60 million in 31 December 2006 included losses from Innovene operations of respect of the partner-operated Temsah platform in Egypt following a $25 million, compared with a profit of $184 million and a loss of blow-out, a net loss on disposal of $65 million, a charge of $35 million $622 million in the years ended 31 December 2005 and 31 December 2004 in respect of Alaskan tankers that were no longer required and, in respectively.
The loss profit from Innovene for the years 2006 and 2005 addition, following the lapse of the sale agreement for oil and gas included losses on remeasurement to fair value of $184 million and properties in Venezuela, $31 million of the previously booked $591 million respectively.
Financial statements Note 5 on page 111 impairment was reversed in Exploration and Production: provides further financial information for Innovene.
Was after net losses on disposal of $267 million, a charge of $206 million related to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended other provisions, a charge of $195 million for the impairment of the 31 December 2006: petrochemicals facilities at Hull, UK, and a charge of $32 million for Included net gains of $2,114 million on the sales of assets, net fair restructuring, integration and rationalization in Rening and Marketing: value gains of $515 million on embedded derivatives these embedded Included net gains on disposal of $56 million in the Gas, Power and derivatives are fair valued at each period end with the resulting gains or Renewables segment: and losses taken to the income statement and a net impairment credit of Included net gains on disposal of $949 million primarily related to $203 million and was after charges for legal provisions of $335 million the sale of our interests in PetroChina and Sinopec and a credit of in Exploration and Production: $66 million primarily resulting from the reversal of vacant space Included net disposal gains of $884 million and was after a charge of provisions in the UK and the US, and was after a charge of $283 million $925 million as a result of the ongoing review of fatality and personal related to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and other injury compensation claims associated with the March 2005 incident at provisions and a charge of $102 million relating to the separation of the the Texas City renery, an impairment charge of $155 million, a charge Olens and Derivatives business in Other businesses and corporate.
of $155 million in respect of a donation to the BP Foundation and a charge of $33 million relating to new, and revisions to existing, See Environmental expenditure on page 54 for more information on environmental and other provisions in Rening and Marketing: environmental charges.
Included net disposal gains of $193 million and net fair value gains of $88 million on embedded derivatives and was after a charge The primary additional factors reected in profit attributable to BP $100 million for the impairment of a North American NGLs asset in the shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2006 compared with a Gas, Power and Renewables segment: and year ago were higher oil realizations, higher retail margins although this Included a credit of $94 million in relation to new, and revisions to was partially offset by a deterioration in other marketing margins, higher existing, environmental and other provisions, a net gain on disposal rening margins, including the benefit of supply optimization, and higher of $95 million and net fair value gains of $5 million on embedded contributions from the operating businesses in the Gas, Power and derivatives, and was after a charge of $200 million relating to the Renewables segment, offset by the ongoing impact following the Texas reassessment of certain provisions and an impairment charge of City renery shutdown, lower gas realizations, lower production volumes, $69 million in Other businesses and corporate.
higher costs and volatility arising under IFRS fair value accounting.
The primary additional factors reected in profit attributable to BP shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2005 compared with 2004 48 were higher liquids and gas realizations, higher rening margins and $13,810 million in 2004.
In 2006, this included $1 billion in respect of higher contributions from the operating business within the Gas, Power our investment in Rosneft.
and Renewables segment, partially offset by lower retail marketing margins, higher costs including the Thunder Horse incident, the Texas Finance costs and other finance expense City renery shutdown and planned restructuring actions and significant Finance costs comprises group interest less amounts capitalized.
Finance volatility arising under IFRS fair value accounting.
costs for continuing operations in 2006 were $718 million compared with profits and margins for the group and for individual business segments $616 million in 2005 and $440 million in 2004.
These amounts included a can vary signicantly from period to period as a result of changes in such charge of $57 million arising from early redemption of finance leases in factors as oil prices, natural gas prices and rening margins.
The charge in 2006 reected higher interest rates and costs, offset the results for the current and prior periods do not necessarily reect by an increase in capitalized interest compared with 2005.
Compared with trends, nor do they provide indicators of results for future periods.
2004, the charge for 2005 also reected higher interest rates and costs Employee numbers were approximately 97,000 at 31 December 2006, offset by an increase in capitalized interest.
The Other finance expense included net pension finance costs, the interest decrease in 2005 resulted primarily from the sale of Innovene.
accretion on provisions and the interest accretion on the deferred consideration for the acquisition of our investment in TNK-BP.
The decrease in 2005 compared with 2004 primarily reected a Gas, Power and Renewables 432 235 530 reduction in net pension finance costs.
The effective rate was 36% in 2006, 30% in 2005 and 28% in $17,231 million, $14,149 million and $16,651 million respectively.
The increase in the effective rate in 2006 compared with 2005 were no significant acquisitions in 2006 or 2005.
Acquisitions during 2004 primarily reected the impact of the increase in the North Sea tax rate included $1,354 million for including TNKs interest in Slavneft within enacted by the UK government in July 2006 and the absence of TNK-BP and $1,355 million for the acquisition of Solvays interests in BP non-recurring benets that were present in 2005.
The increase in Solvay Polyethylene Europe and BP Solvay Polyethylene North America.
the effective rate in 2005 compared with 2004 was primarily due to a Excluding acquisitions and asset exchanges, capital expenditure for higher proportion of income in countries bearing higher tax rates, 2006 was $16,910 million compared with $13,938 million in 2005 and and other factors.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 49 Business results profit before interest and taxation from continuing operations, which is before finance costs, other finance expense, taxation and minority interests, was $35,158 million in 2006, $32,682 million in 2005 and $25,746 million in 2004.
b The Exploration and Production business does not undertake any hedging activity.
d Henry Hub First of Month Index.
f Expressed in thousands of barrels of oil equivalent per day mboe d. Natural gas is converted to oil equivalent at 5.8 billion cubic feet 1 million barrels.
Sales and other operating revenues for 2006 were $53 billion, compared of assets primarily gains from the sales of our interest in the Shenzi with $47 billion in 2005 and $35 billion in 2004.
The increase in 2006 discovery in the Gulf of Mexico in the US and interests in the North Sea primarily reected an increase of around $6 billion related to higher liquids offset by a loss on the sale of properties in the Gulf of Mexico shelf, and gas realizations, partially offset by a decrease of around $1 billion due net fair value gains of $515 million on embedded derivatives these to lower volumes of subsidiaries.
The increase in 2005 primarily reected embedded derivatives are fair valued at each period end with the resulting an increase of around $13 billion related to higher liquids and gas gains or losses taken to the income statement and a net impairment realizations, partially offset by a decrease of around $1 billion due to credit of $203 million comprised of a $340 million credit for reversals of slightly lower volumes of subsidiaries.
previously booked impairments partially offset by a charge of $109 million profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 against intangible assets relating to properties in Alaska, and other was $29,629 million, including net gains of $2,114 million on the sales 50 individually insignicant impairments, and was after inventory holding $1,950 million due higher costs, reecting the impacts of sector-specic losses of $18 million and charges for legal provisions of $335 million.
ination, increased integrity spend and revenue investments.
Additionally, profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 BPs share of the TNK-BP result was higher by around $500 million, was $25,502 million, including inventory holding gains of $17 million and primarily reecting higher disposal gains.
net gains of $1,159 million on the sales of assets, primarily from our The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and tax interest in the Ormen Lange eld in Norway, and was after net fair value for the year ended 31 December 2005 compared with the year ended 31 losses of $1,688 million on embedded derivatives, an impairment charge December 2004 were higher liquids and gas realizations contributing of $226 million in respect of elds in the Gulf of Mexico, a charge for around $10,100 million and around $400 million from higher volumes in impairment of $40 million relating to elds in the UK North Sea and areas not affected by hurricanes, partially offset by a decrease of around a charge of $265 million on the cancellation of an intra-group gas $900 million due to the hurricane impact on volumes, costs associated supply contract.
with hurricane repairs and Thunder Horse of around $200 million and profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2004 higher operating and revenue investment costs of around $1,700 million.
was $18,085 million, including inventory holding gains of $10 million, and Total production for 2006 was 2,629mboe d for subsidiaries and was after an impairment charge of $267 million in respect of elds in the 1,297mboe d for equity-accounted entities, compared with 2,718mboe d deepwater Gulf of Mexico and US onshore, an impairment charge of $108 and 1,296mboe d respectively in 2005.
For subsidiaries, increases in million in respect of a gas processing plant in the US and a eld in the production in our new profit centres were offset by anticipated decline in Gulf of Mexico shelf, an impairment charge of $60 million in respect of our existing profit centres and the effect of disposals.
the partner-operated Temsah platform in Egypt following a blow-out, a net Actual production for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities in loss on disposal of $65 million and a charge of $35 million in respect of 2006 of 2,629mboe d and 1,297mboe d respectively, compared with Alaskan tankers that were no longer required.
In addition, following the 2,649mboe d and 1,301mboe d previously indicated at the time of our lapse of the sale agreement for oil and gas properties in Venezuela, third-quarter results.
$31 million of the previously booked impairment was reversed.
Total production for 2005 was 2,718mboe d for subsidiaries and The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and tax 1,296mboe d for equity-accounted entities, compared with 2,795mboe d for the year ended 31 December 2006 compared with the year ended and 1,202mboe d respectively in 2004.
For subsidiaries, increases in 31 December 2005 were higher overall realizations contributing around production in our new profit centres were more than offset by the effect $5,050 million liquids realizations were higher and gas realizations were of the hurricanes, higher planned maintenance shutdowns and anticipated lower, partially offset by decreases of around $1,825 million due to decline in our existing profit centres.
For equity-accounted entities, this lower reported volumes, $350 million due to higher production taxes and primarily reects growth from TNK-BP.
b The GIM is the average of regional industry indicator margins that we weight for BPs crude refining capacity in each region.
Each regional indicator margin is based on a single representative crude with product yields characteristic of the typical level of upgrading complexity.
The refining margins are industry-specific rather than BP-specific measures, which we believe are useful to investors in analysing trends in the industry and their impact on our results.
The margins are calculated by BP based on published crude oil and product prices and take account of fuel utilization and catalyst costs.
No account is taken of BPs other cash and non-cash costs of refining, such as wages and salaries and plant depreciation.
The indicator margin may not be representative of the margins achieved by BP in any period because of BPs particular refining configurations and crude and product slate.
c Refining availability is defined as the ratio of units that are available for processing, regardless of whether they are actually being used, to total capacity.
Where there is planned maintenance, such capacity is not regarded as being available.
During 2006, there was planned maintenance of a substantial part of the Texas City refinery.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 51 The changes in sales and other operating revenues are explained in more detail below.
The increase in 2006 tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 compared with the year compared with 2005 was principally due to an increase of around ended 31 December 2005 were a positive impact from IFRS fair value $23 billion in marketing, spot and term sales of rened products.
This accounting compared with a negative impact in 2005, contributing was due to higher prices of $25 billion, partially offset by lower volumes around $500 million, and lower costs associated with rationalization of $2 billion.
Additionally, sales of crude oil, spot and term contracts programmes of around $320 million.
In addition, rening margins, increased by $2 billion, reecting higher prices of $6 billion and lower including the benets of supply optimization, were higher by some $400 volumes of $4 billion, and other sales decreased by $5 billion, primarily million and retail margins were higher by around $600 million, although due to lower volumes.
The increase in 2005 compared with 2004 was this was partially offset by a deterioration of around $150 million in other principally due to an increase of around $31 billion in marketing, spot and marketing margins.
These factors were offset by a reduction of around term sales of rened products.
This reected higher prices of $39 billion $1.1 billion due to the impact of the progressive recommissioning of and a positive foreign exchange impact due to a weaker dollar of $1 billion, Texas City during the year.
efficiency programmes delivered lower partially offset by lower volumes of $9 billion.
Additionally, sales of crude operating costs although the savings have been offset by higher oil, spot and term contracts increased by $15 billion due to higher prices turnaround and integrity management spend.
of $13 billion and higher volumes of $2 billion and other sales decreased The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and by $3 billion, primarily due to lower volumes.
tax for the year ended 31 December 2005, compared with the year ended profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 31 December 2004, were improved rening margins, contributing was $5,041 million, including net disposal gains of $884 million related approximately $2,000 million, offset by lower retail marketing margins, primarily to the sale of BPs Czech Republic retail business, the disposal reducing profits by approximately $720 million, a reduction of around of BPs shareholding in Zhenhai Rening and Chemicals Company, the $870 million due to the shutdown of the Texas City renery, along with sale of BPs shareholding in Eiffage, the French-based construction other storm-related supply disruptions to a number of our US-based company, and pipelines assets, and was after inventory holding losses of businesses, an adverse impact of around $400 million due to fair value $242 million, a charge of $925 million as a result of the ongoing review accounting for derivatives see explanation below, a reduction of around of fatality and personal injury compensation claims associated with the $430 million due to rationalization and efficiency programme charges, March 2005 incident at the Texas City renery, an impairment charge of mainly across our marketing activities in Europe.
$155 million, a charge of $155 million in respect of a donation to the BP Where derivative instruments are used to manage certain economic Foundation and a charge of $33 million relating to new, and revisions to exposures that cannot themselves be fair valued or accounted for as existing, environmental and other provisions.
hedges, timing differences in relation to the recognition of gains and profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 losses occur.
These economic exposures primarily relate to inventories was $6,926 million, including inventory holding gains of $2,532 million held in excess of normal operating requirements that are not designated and net gains of $177 million principally on the divestment of a number of as held for trading and fair valued and forecast transactions to replenish regional retail networks in the US, and is after a charge of $700 million inventory.
Gains and losses on derivative commodity contracts are in respect of fatality and personal injury compensation claims associated recognized immediately through the income statement while gains and with the incident at the Texas City renery, a charge of $140 million losses on the related physical transaction are recognized when the relating to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and other commodity is sold.
provisions, an impairment charge of $93 million and a charge of $33 million Additionally, IFRS requires that inventory designated as held for trading for the impairment of an equity-accounted entity.
is fair valued using period end spot prices while the related derivative profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2004 instruments are valued using forward prices consistent with the contract was $6,506 million, including inventory holding gains of $1,312 million, maturity.
Depending on market conditions, these forward prices can and is after net losses on disposal of $267 million principally related to be either higher or lower than spot prices resulting in quarterly the closure of two manufacturing plants at Hull, UK, the disposal of our timing differences.
European speciality intermediate chemicals business, the disposal of our The average rening Global Indicator Margin GIM in 2006 was lower interest in the Singapore Rening Company Private Limited, the closure of than in 2005.
Retail margins improved, but this improvement was partially the lubricants operation of the Coryton renery in the UK and of rening negated by deterioration in other marketing margins.
operations at the ATAS renery in Mersin, Turkey, and the sale of the Rening throughputs in 2006 were 2,198mb d, 201mb d lower than in Cushing and other pipeline interests in the US, a charge of $206 million 2005.
Rening availability, excluding the Texas City renery, was 95.7%, related to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and other broadly consistent with 2005.
Marketing volumes at 3,872mb d were provisions, a charge of $195 million for the impairment of the around 2% lower than in 2005. petrochemicals facilities at Hull, UK, and a charge of $32 million for restructuring, integration and rationalization.
The changes in sales and other operating revenues are explained in more detail below.
Gas marketing sales declined by $3.8 billion, was $1,172 million, including inventory holding gains of $95 million, reecting a decrease of $4.2 billion related to lower volumes, partially compensation of $265 million received on the cancellation of an offset by an increase of $0.4 billion related to higher prices.
Other sales intra-group gas supply contract and net gains of $55 million primarily on including NGLs marketing increased by $1.8 billion due to higher prices.
the disposal of BPs interest in the Interconnector pipeline and a power Sales and other operating revenues were $26 billion in 2005, compared plant in the UK, and was after net fair value losses of $346 million on with $24 billion in 2004.
Gas marketing sales increased by $1.7 billion embedded derivatives and a credit of $6 million related to new, and as price increases of $2.1 billion more than offset lower volumes of revisions to existing, environmental and other provisions.
Other sales including NGLs marketing remained at, profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2004 reecting $0.1 billion related to higher prices and $0.1 billion to lower was $1,003 million, including inventory holding gains of $39 million and volumes.
Gas marketing sales volumes declined in 2005 and 2006 a net gain on disposal of $56 million.
primarily due to customer portfolio changes and, in 2005, production loss The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and tax caused by hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico.
for the year ended 31 December 2006, compared with the equivalent profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 period in 2005, were higher contributions from the operating businesses was $1,321 million, including net gains of $193 million, primarily on the of around $160 million partially offset by higher IFRS fair value accounting disposal of our interest in Enagas, and net fair value gains of $88 million charges reducing the result by around $60 million.
on embedded derivatives, and was after inventory holding losses of $55 The primary additional factors reected in profit before interest and tax million and a charge $100 million for the impairment of a North American for the year ended 31 December 2005, compared with the equivalent NGLs asset.
period in 2004 were higher contributions from the operating businesses of around $170 million.
Other businesses and corporate comprises Finance, the groups The loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2005 aluminium asset, its investments in PetroChina and Sinopec both was $1,237 million, including a net gain on disposal of $38 million, and divested in early 2004, interest income and costs relating to corporate was after a net charge of $278 million relating to new, and revisions to activities worldwide.
Following the sale of Innovene to INEOS in 2005, existing, environmental and other provisions and the reversal of three equity-accounted entities Shanghai SECCO Petrochemical environmental provisions no longer required, a charge of $134 million in Company Limited in China and Polyethylene Malaysia Sdn Bhd and respect of the separation of the Olens and Derivatives business and net Ethylene Malaysia Sdn Bhd, both in Malaysia previously reported in fair value losses of $13 million on embedded derivatives.
Other businesses and corporate were transferred to Rening and The profit before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December Marketing, effective 1 January 2006.
2004 was $155 million, including net gains on disposals of $949 million, The loss before interest and tax for the year ended 31 December 2006 primarily related to the sale of our interests in PetroChina and Sinopec, was $885 million, including inventory holding gains of $62 million, a credit and a credit of $66 million primarily resulting from the reversal of vacant of $94 million in relation to new, and revisions to existing, environmental space provisions in the UK and the US, and was after a charge of $283 and other provisions, a net gain on disposal of $95 million and a net fair million related to new, and revisions to existing, environmental and other value gain of $5 million on embedded derivatives, and was after a charge provisions, and a charge of $102 million relating to the separation of the of $200 million relating to the reassessment of certain provisions and an Olens and the Derivatives business.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 53 Environmental expenditure Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is probable and the amount reasonably determinable.
Operating expenditure 596 494 526 The extent and cost of future remediation programmes are inherently Clean-ups 59 43 25 difficult to estimate.
They depend on the scale of any possible Capital expenditure 806 789 524 contamination, the timing and extent of corrective actions and also the Additions to environmental groups share of liability.
Although the cost of any future remediation remediation provision 423 565 587 could be significant and may be material to the result of operations in the Additions to decommissioning period in which it is recognized, we do not expect that such costs will provision 2,142 1,023 286 have a material effect on the groups financial position or liquidity.
We believe our provisions are sufficient for known requirements: and we do Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement not believe that our costs will differ signicantly from those of other or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not incurred companies engaged in similar industries, or that our competitive position as a separately identiable transaction.
Instead, it forms part of a larger will be adversely affected as a result.
transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance expenditure.
In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland gasThe gures for environmental operating and capital expenditure in the producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual table are therefore estimates, based on the denitions and guidelines of decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility the American Petroleum Institute.
a provision is established which represents the discounted value of the The increase in environmental operating expenditure in 2006 is largely expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
Additionally, we related to expenditure incurred on reducing air emissions at US reneries.
undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews take The increase in capital expenditure in 2005 compared with 2004 is largely account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning related to clean fuels investment.
Similar levels of operating and capital requirements and any technological developments.
The level of increase expenditures are expected in the foreseeable future.
In addition to in the decommissioning provision varies with the number of new elds operating and capital expenditures, we also create provisions for future coming on stream in a particular year and the outcome of the periodic environmental remediation.
Expenditure against such provisions is reviews.
normally in subsequent periods and is not included in environmental Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are operating expenditure reported for such periods.
The charge for usually set up on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 Provisions, environmental remediation provisions in 2006 includes $378 million Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
resulting from a reassessment of existing site obligations and $45 million Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions in respect of provisions for new sites.
appear in Financial statements Note 40 on page 152.
See also Environmental protection on page 42.
Liquidity and capital resources Cash ow The following table summarizes the groups cash ows.
This was partially offset by an increase in 31 December 2006 was $28,172 million, compared with $26,721 million income taxes paid of $2,640 million, an increase of $1,320 million in for the equivalent period of 2005, reecting a decrease in working capital working capital requirements, an increase in earnings from jointly requirements of $4,817 million, an increase in profit before taxation from controlled entities and associates of $1,263 million, a higher net credit for continuing operations of $2,721 million and an increase in dividends from impairment and gain loss on sale of businesses and xed assets of jointly controlled entities and associates of $1,662 million, partially offset $775 million, an increase in interest paid of $429 million and an increase in by an increase in income taxes paid of $4,705 million and a higher net the net operating charge for pensions and other post-retirement benets, credit for impairment and gain loss on sale of businesses and xed assets less contributions of $351 million.
Net cash used in investing activities was $9,518 million in 2006, Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended compared with $1,729 million and $11,331 in 2005 and 2004.
The 31 December 2005 was $26,721 million compared with $23,378 million increase in 2006 reected a reduction in disposal proceeds of for the equivalent period of 2004, reecting an increase in profit before $4,946 million and an increase in capital expenditure of $2,844 million.
taxation from continuing operations of $6,955 million, an increase in The reduction in 2005 compared with 2004 reected an increase in net cash provided by operating activities of Innovene of $1,639 million, disposal proceeds of $6,239 million, primarily from the sale of Innovene, a lower charge for provisions, less payments of $710 million and an and a decrease in spending on acquisitions of $2,693 million.
increase in dividends received from jointly controlled entities and 54 Net cash used in nancing activities was $19,071 million in 2006 Total production for 2007 is expected to remain broadly the same as in compared with $23,303 million in 2005 and $12,835 million in 2004.
2006 after allowing for the impact on 2007 of divestments made in 2006.
The lower outow in 2006 reects a net increase in short term debt This estimate is based on the groups asset portfolio at 1January 2007, of $5,330 million, a decrease in repayments of long-term nancing expected start-ups in 2007 and Brent at $60 bbl, before any 2007 disposal of $1,165 million and higher proceeds from long-term nancing of effects and before any effects of prices above $60 bbl on volumes $1,356 million, partially offset by an increase in the net repurchase of in PSAs.
The higher outow in 2005 compared with 2004 The anticipated decline in production volumes from subsidiaries in reects an increase in the net repurchase of ordinary share capital of our existing profit centres is partly mitigated by the development of $4,107, higher repayments of long-term nancing of $2,616 million, new projects and the investment in incremental reserves in and around a net decrease of $1,433 million in short-term debt, and increases in existing elds.
We expect that this overall decline in production from equity dividends paid to BP shareholders of $1,318 million and to subsidiaries in our existing profit centres will be more than compensated minority interest of $794 million.
for by strong increases in production from subsidiaries in our new profit centres over the next few years.
Production growth in our equityThe group has had significant levels of capital investment for many accounted joint venture, TNK-BP, is expected to remain broadly constant years.
Capital investment, excluding acquisitions, was $16.9 billion in to 2009.
Sources of funding The most important determinants of cash ows in relation to our oil are completely fungible, but the majority of the groups funding and natural gas production are the prices of these commodities.
In a requirements for new investment come from cash generated by existing stable price environment, cash ows from currently developed proved operations.
The groups level of net debt, that is debt less cash and cash reserves are expected to decline in a manner consistent with anticipated equivalents, was $21.7 billion at the end of 2004, $16.2 billion at the end production decline rates.
Development activities associated with recent of 2005 and was $21.4 billion at the end of 2006.
The lower level of debt discoveries, as well as continued investment in these producing elds, are at the end of 2005 reects the receipt of the Innovene disposal proceeds expected to more than offset this decline, resulting in increased operating in December 2005. cash ows over the next few years.
Cash ows from equity-accounted Over the period 2004 to 2006 our cash inows and outows were entities are expected to be in the form of dividend payments.
balanced, with sources and uses both totalling $101 billion.
During that period, the price of Brent has averaged $52.63 bbl.
The following table Dividends and other distributions to shareholders and gearing summarizes the three-year sources and uses of cash.
The total dividend paid in 2006 was $7,686 million, compared with $7,359 million in 2005 and $6,041 million in 2004.
In sterling terms, the dividend paid Divestments 22 in 2006 was also 10% higher than 2005.
Capital expenditure 42 The trading environment.
Acquisitions 3 We determine the dividend in US dollars, the economic currency of BP.
Net repurchase of shares 34 BP intends to continue the operation of the Dividend Reinvestment Dividends to BP shareholders 21 Plan DRIP for shareholders who wish to receive their dividend in the Dividends to Minority Interest 1 form of shares rather than cash.
The BP Direct Access Plan for US and 101 Canadian shareholders also includes a dividend reinvestment feature.
We remain committed to returning the excess of net cash provided Acquisitions made for cash were more than offset by divestments.
Net by operating activities less net cash used in investing activities to our investment over the same period has averaged $7.7 billion per year.
investors where this is in excess of investment and dividend needs.
Dividends to BP shareholders, which grew on average by 14.9% per year During 2006, the company repurchased 1,334 million of its own shares in dollar terms, used $21 billion.
Net repurchase of shares was $34 billion, at a cost of $15,481 million.
Of these, 358 million were purchased for which includes $35 billion in respect of our share buyback programme cancellation and the remainder are held in treasury.
The repurchased less proceeds from share issues.
Finally, cash was used to strengthen the shares had a nominal value of $333 million and represented 6.5% of financial condition of certain of our pension funds.
In the last three years, ordinary shares in issue, net of treasury shares, at the end of 2005.
$1.9 billion has been contributed to funded pension plans.
Since the inception of the share repurchase programme in 2000 until the end of 2006 we have repurchased some 3,996 million shares at a Trend information cost of $40.7 billion.
We plan to continue our programme of share We expect to grow cash ows underpinned by the following: buybacks, subject to market conditions and constraints and to renewed We expect to grow production even in a $60 bbl price environment.
authority at the April 2007 annual general meeting.
We aim to control cost increases below ination.
Our financial framework includes a gearing band of 20-30% which is We expect capital expenditure to be around $18 billion in 2007. intended to provide an efficient capital structure and the appropriate level We expect to continue to high-grade our portfolio consistent with of financial exibility.
Our aim is to maintain gearing within this range.
At 31 December 2006, gearing was 20%, at the bottom of the As noted above, we expect capital expenditure, excluding acquisitions, to targeted band.
be around $18 billion in 2007: the exact level will depend on a number of The discussion above and following contains forward-looking things including: the actual level of sector ination that we will experience statements with regard to future cash ows, future levels of in the year: time-critical and material one-off investment opportunities capital expenditure and divestments, future production volumes, working which further our strategy: and any acquisition opportunities that capital, the renewal of borrowing facilities, shareholder distributions and may arise.
share buybacks and expected payments under contractual and In 2006, the UK supplementary tax charge was raised to 20%, commercial commitments.
These forward-looking statements are based increasing the groups effective tax rate by 2%.
The impact of the on assumptions that management believes to be reasonable in the light of additional one-off deferred tax adjustment relating to this rate change was the groups operational and financial experience.
However, no assurance largely offset by relieving measures specically provided in the legislation.
can be given that the forward-looking statements will be realized.
You are urged to read the cautionary statement under Forward-looking statements BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 55 on page 13 and Risk factors on pages 12-13, which describe the risks and or longer.
At 31 December 2006, the amount drawn down against the DIP uncertainties that may cause actual results and developments to differ was $7,893 million.
materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking In addition, the group has in place a US Shelf Registration under which statements.
The company provides no commitment to update the it may raise $10 billion of debt with maturities of one month or longer.
At forward-looking statements or to publish financial projections for forward- 31 December there had not been any draw-down.
looking statements in the future.
Commercial paper markets in the US and Europe are a primary source of liquidity for the group.
At 31 December 2006, the outstanding Financing the groups activities commercial paper amounted to $4,167 million 2005 $1,911million.
The groups principal commodity, oil, is priced internationally in US dollars.
The group also has access to significant sources of liquidity in the form Group policy has been to minimize economic exposure to currency of committed facilities and other funding through the capital markets.
At movements by nancing operations with US dollar debt wherever 31 December 2006, the group had available undrawn committed possible, otherwise by using currency swaps when funds have been borrowing facilities of $4,700 million $4,500 million at 31 December raised in currencies other than US dollars.
The groups finance debt is almost entirely in US dollars and at BP believes that, taking into account the substantial amounts of 31 December 2006 amounted to $24,010 million 2005 $19,162 million undrawn borrowing facilities available, the group has sufficient working of which $12,924 million 2005 $8,932 million was short term.
Net debt was $21,420 million at the end of 2006, an increase of In addition to reported debt, BP uses conventional off balance sheet $5,218 million compared with 2005.
The ratio of net debt to net debt plus arrangements such as operating leases and borrowings in jointly equity was 20% at the end of 2006 and 17% at the end of 2005.
The ratio controlled entities and associates.
At 31 December 2006, the groups of 20% at 31 December 2006 takes into account seasonal impacts.
share of third-party finance debt of jointly controlled entities and The maturity prole and xed oating rate characteristics of the groups associates was $4,942 million 2005 $3,266 million and $1,143 million debt are described in Financial statements Note 38 on page 149.
These amounts are not reected in the We have in place a European Debt Issuance Programme DIP under groups debt on the balance sheet.
which the group may raise $10 billion of debt for maturities of one month The group has issued third-party guarantees under which amounts outstanding at 31 December 2006 are summarized below.
Some guarantees outstanding are in respect of borrowings of jointly controlled entities and associates noted above.
Such expenditure is expected to be nanced largely by cash ow from operating activities.
Contractual commitments The following table summarizes the groups principal contractual obligations at 31 December 2006.
Further information on borrowings and finance leases is given in Financial statements Note 38 on page 149 and further information on operating leases is given in Financial statements Note 18 on page 127.
b The minimum future lease payments including executory costs and after deducting related rental income from operating subleases.
Where an operating lease is entered into solely by the group as the operator of a jointly controlled asset, the total cost is included irrespective of any amounts that will be reimbursed by joint venture partners.
Where operating lease costs are incurred in relation to the hire of equipment used in connection with a capital project, some or all of the cost may be capitalized as part of the capital cost of the project.
c Represents the expected future contributions to funded pension plans and payments by the group for unfunded pension plans and the expected future payments for other post-retirement benefits.
d Represents any agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and that specifies all significant terms.
The amounts shown include arrangements to secure long-term access to supplies of crude oil, natural gas, feedstocks and pipeline systems.
In addition, the amounts shown for 2007 include purchase commitments existing at 31 December 2006 entered into principally to meet the groups short-term manufacturing and marketing requirements.
The price risk associated with these crude oil, natural gas and power contracts is discussed in Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk on page 61.
56 The following table summarizes the nature of the groups unconditional purchase obligations.
For jointly controlled assets, the net BP share is included in the amounts shown.
The group expects its total capital expenditure excluding acquisitions to be around $18 billion in 2007.
The group has long-term debt the accounting for research and development costs.
ratings of Aa1 and AA, assigned respectively by Moodys and Standard Licence and property acquisition costs are initially capitalized within &Poors.
These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis until The group has access to a wide range of funding at competitive rates such time as either exploration drilling is determined to be successful or it through the capital markets and banks.
It co-ordinates relationships with is unsuccessful and all costs are written off.
Each property is reviewed on banks, borrowing requirements, foreign exchange requirements and cash an annual basis to confirm that drilling activity is planned and that it is not management centrally.
The group believes it has access to sufficient impaired.
If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the funding, including through the commercial paper markets, and also has licence and property acquisition costs is written off.
undrawn committed borrowing facilities to meet currently foreseeable For exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells, costs borrowing requirements.
At 31 December 2006, the group had substantial directly associated with the drilling of wells are temporarily capitalized amounts of undrawn borrowing facilities available, including committed within non-current intangible assets, pending determination of whether facilities of $4,700 million, of which $4,300 million are in place for at least potentially economic oil and gas reserves have been discovered by the five years 2005 $4,500 million expiring in 2006 and 2004 $4,500 million drilling effort.
These costs include employee remuneration, materials and expiring in 2005.
These facilities are with a number of international banks fuel used, rig costs, delay rentals and payments made to contractors.
The and borrowings under them would be at pre-agreed rates.
Certain of determination is usually made within one year after well completion, but these facilities support the groups commercial paper programme.
can take longer, depending on the complexity of the geological structure.
If the well did not encounter potentially economic oil and gas quantities, the well costs are expensed as a dry hole and are reported in exploration Critical accounting policies expense.
Exploration wells that discover potentially economic quantities of oil and gas and are in areas where major capital expenditure e. g. The significant accounting policies of the group are summarized offshore platform or a pipeline would be required before production could in Financial statements Note 1 on page 100. begin, and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used depends on the successful completion of further exploration work in the in the preparation of the financial statements is the need for BP area, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as additional management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported exploration appraisal work is under way or rmly planned.
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements For complicated offshore exploration discoveries, it is not unusual and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting to have exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells period.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions remaining suspended on the balance sheet for several years while used.
The following summary provides further information about the additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and gas critical accounting policies that could have a significant impact on the eld is performed or while the optimum development plans and timing are results of the group and should be read in conjunction with the Notes established.
All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, on financial statements.
commercial and management review on at least an annual basis to The accounting policies and areas that require the most significant confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value judgements and estimates to be used in the preparation of the from, the discovery.
If this is no longer the case, the costs are consolidated financial statements are in relation to oil and natural gas immediately expensed.
accounting, including the estimation of reserves, the recoverability of Once a project is sanctioned for development, the carrying values of asset carrying values, deferred taxation, provisions and contingencies, licence and property acquisition costs and exploration and appraisal costs and pensions and other post-retirement benets.
are transferred to production assets within property, plant and equipment.
Field development costs subject to depreciation are expenditures incurred Oil and natural gas accounting to date, together with sanctioned future development expenditure The group follows the successful efforts method of accounting for its approved by the group.
oil and natural gas exploration and production activities.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 57 The capitalized exploration and development costs for proved oil and licences, unless there is strong evidence to support the assumption of gas properties which include the costs of drilling unsuccessful wells such renewal.
are amortized on the basis of oil-equivalent barrels that are produced BP has an internal process to control the quality of reserves bookings in a period as a percentage of the estimated proved reserves.
that forms part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
As The estimated proved reserves used in these unit-of-production discussed in the oil and natural gas accounting section and below, oil and calculations vary with the nature of the capitalized expenditure.
The natural gas reserves have a direct impact on certain amounts reported in reserves used in the calculation of the unit-of-production amortization the financial statements.
are as follows: The 2006 movements in proved reserves are reected in the tables Proved developed reserves for producing wells.
showing movements in oil and gas reserves by region in Financial Total proved reserves for development costs.
statements Supplementary information on oil and natural gas on pages Total proved reserves for licence and property acquisition costs.
Total proved reserves for future decommissioning costs.
The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with Recoverability of asset carrying values prospectively by amortizing the remaining book value of the asset over BP assesses its xed assets, including goodwill, for possible impairment the expected future production.
If proved reserves estimates are revised if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or values of the assets may not be recoverable.
Such indicators include an immediate write-down of the propertys book value see discussion changes in the groups business plans, changes in commodity prices of recoverability of asset carrying values below.
leading to unprofitable performance and, for oil and gas properties, Given the large number of producing elds in the groups portfolio, it is significant downward revisions of estimated proved reserves quantities.
unlikely that any changes in reserves estimates for individual elds, either The assessment for impairment entails comparing the carrying value of individually or in aggregate, year on year, will have a significant effect on the cash generating unit and associated goodwill with the recoverable the groups prospective charges for depreciation.
amount of the asset, that is, the higher of net realizable value and value At the end of 2006, BP adopted the Securities and Exchange in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted Commission SEC rules for estimating reserves for accounting and estimated future net cash ows.
reporting purposes instead of the UK accounting rules contained in the Determination as to whether and how much an asset is impaired UK SORP.
These changes are explained in Financial statements Note 3 involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such on page 110. as future commodity prices, the effects of ination and technology improvements on operating expenses, production proles and the outlook Oil and natural gas reserves for global or regional market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, Commencing in 2006, BP has estimated its proved reserves on the basis natural gas and rened products.
of the requirements of the SEC.
The 2006 year-end marker prices used to For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash ows are determine reserves volumes were Brent $58.93 bbl $58.21 bbl and estimated based on the groups plans to continue to develop and produce Henry Hub $5.52 mmBtu $9.52 mmbtu.
Prior to this date, BP used proved and associated risk-adjusted probable and possible reserves.
guidance contained in the UK SORP to estimate reserves.
In estimating Expected future cash ows from the sale or production of reserves its reserves under UK SORP, BP used long-term planning prices.
are calculated based on the groups best estimate of future oil and gas The group manages its hydrocarbon resources in three major prices.
For 2006, prices for oil and natural gas used for future cash ow categories: prospect inventory, non-proved resources and proved calculations are based on market prices for the first five years and the reserves.
When a discovery is made, volumes usually transfer from the groups long-term planning assumptions thereafter.
As at 31 December prospect inventory to the non-proved resource category.
The resources 2006, the groups long-term planning assumptions were $40 per barrel for move through various non-proved resource sub-categories as their Brent and $5.50 per mmBtu for Henry Hub.
Previously, prices for oil and technical and commercial maturity increases through appraisal activity.
natural gas used in future cash ow calculations were assumed to decline Resources in a eld will only be categorized as proved reserves when from the existing levels in equal steps during the following three years all the criteria for attribution of proved status have been met, including to the long-term planning assumptions, which were $25 per barrel and an internally imposed requirement for project sanction or for sanction $4.0 per mmBtu for Brent and Henry Hub respectively.
These long-term expected within six months and, for additional reserves in existing elds, planning assumptions are subject to periodic review and modication.
the requirement that the reserves be included in the business plan and The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions about scheduled for development, typically within three years.
Where, on future commodity prices, lifting and development costs, eld decline occasion, the group decides to book reserves where development is rates, market demand and supply, economic regulatory climates scheduled to commence beyond three years, these reserves will be and other factors.
booked only where they satisfy the SECs criteria for attribution of proved Charges for impairment are recognized in the groups results from status.
Internal approval and final investment decision are what we refer time to time as a result of, among other factors, adverse changes in the to as project sanction.
recoverable reserves from oil and natural gas elds, low plant utilization At the point of sanction, all booked reserves will be categorized as or reduced profitability.
If there are low oil prices or natural gas prices or proved undeveloped PUD.
Volumes will subsequently be recategorized rening margins or marketing margins over an extended period, the group from PUD to proved developed PD as a consequence of development may need to recognize significant impairment charges.
When part of a wells reserves depends on a later phase of Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, BP is activity, only that portion of reserves associated with existing, available required to test for impairment any goodwill acquired in a business facilities and infrastructure moves to PD.
The first PD bookings will occur combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately $10.8 billion on at the point of first oil or gas production.
Major development projects its balance sheet, principally relating to the Atlantic Richeld and Burmah typically take one to four years from the time of initial booking to the Castrol acquisitions.
In testing goodwill for impairment, the group uses a start of production.
Changes to reserves bookings may be made due similar approach to that described above.
The cash-generating units for to analysis of new or existing data concerning production, reservoir impairment testing in this case are one level below business segments.
performance, commercial factors, acquisition and divestment activity and As noted above, if there are low oil prices or natural gas prices or rening additional reservoir development activity.
Proved reserves do not include margins or marketing margins for an extended period, the group may reserves that are dependent on the renewal of exploration and production need to recognize significant goodwill impairment charges.
58 Deferred taxation actual cash outows can take place many years in the future, the carrying The group has around $4.7 billion of carry-forward tax losses in the UK amounts of provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly and adjusted and Germany, which would be available to offset against future taxable to take account of changing facts and circumstances.
At the end of 2006, $216 million of deferred tax assets were A change in estimate of a recognized provision or liability would recognized on these losses as this is the extent to which it is judged that result in a charge or credit to net income in the period in which the suitable taxable income will arise.
No material carry-forward tax losses in change occurs with the exception of decommissioning costs as other taxing jurisdictions have been recognized as deferred tax assets and described above.
these are unlikely to have a significant effect on the groups tax rate in In particular, provisions for environmental clean-up and remediation future years.
costs are based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected plans for remediation.
Actual costs Provisions and contingencies and cash outows can differ from estimates because of changes in laws The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and and regulations, public expectations, prices, discovery and analysis of site natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic conditions and changes in clean-up technology.
The largest asset removal obligations facing BP relate to the The provision for environmental liabilities is reviewed at least annually.
removal and disposal of oil and natural gas platforms and pipelines around The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at the world.
The estimated discounted costs of dismantling and removing 31 December 2006 was 2%, the same rate as at the previous balance these facilities are accrued on the installation of those facilities, reecting sheet date.
our legal obligations at that time.
A corresponding asset of an amount As further described in Financial statements Note 47 on page 168 the equivalent to the provision is also created within property, plant and group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and circumstances equipment.
This asset is depreciated over the expected life of the relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether production facility or pipeline.
Most of these removal events are many it is probable that there will be a future outow of funds and, once years in the future and the precise requirements that will have to be met established, whether a provision relating to a specic litigation should be when the removal event actually occurs are uncertain.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to technologies and costs are constantly changing, as well as political, contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome of litigation is difficult environmental, safety and public expectations.
Consequently, the timing to predict.
and amounts of future cash ows are subject to significant uncertainty.
Changes in the expected future costs are reected in both the provision Pensions and other post-retirement benets and tangible asset.
Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benets involves Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement dates, petrochemicals facilities are generally not provided for, as such potential salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, rates of return on plan assets, obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations, healthcare dates.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream cost trend rates and rates of utilization of healthcare services by retirees.
and petrochemicals long-lived assets for any changes in facts These assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
and circumstances that might require the recognition of Determination of the projected benefit obligations for the groups dened a decommissioning provision.
benefit pension and other post-retirement plans is important to the The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed annually, recorded amounts for such obligations on the balance sheet and to the together with the interest rate to be used in discounting the cash ows.
amount of benefit expense in the income statement.
The assumptions The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at the used may vary from year to year, which will affect future results of end of 2006 was 2%, unchanged from the end of 2005.
Any differences between these assumptions and the actual represents the real rate i. e. adjusted for ination on long-dated outcome also affect future results of operations.
Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are discussed Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when it and agreed with the independent actuaries in December each year.
These becomes probable that there will be a future outow of funds resulting assumptions are used to determine the projected benefit obligation at the from past operations or events that can be reasonably estimated.
The year end and hence the surpluses and deficits recorded on the groups timing of recognition requires the application of judgement to existing balance sheet, and pension and other post-retirement benefit expense facts and circumstances, which can be subject to change.
Since the for the following year.
The pension assumptions at 31 December 2006 and 2005 are summarized below.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 59 The assumed rate of investment return and discount rate have a significant effect on the amounts reported.
A one-percentage-point change in these assumptions for the groups plans would have had the following effects.
A one-percentage-point change in the assumed US healthcare cost trend rate would have had the following effects.
Mortality assumptions reect best practice in the countries in which we provide pensions and have been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted where appropriate to reect the experience of the group and an extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
BPs most substantial pension liabilities are in the UK, the US and Germany, where our assumptions are as follows.
BP, together with all other EU 31 December 2004: companies listed on an EU stock exchange, was required to prepare All derivatives, including embedded derivatives, would have been consolidated financial statements in accordance with International brought on to the balance sheet at fair value and changes in fair value Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU with effect would have been recognized in the income statement.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Available-for-sale investments would have been carried at fair value 31 December 2005 comprised BPs first consolidated financial statements rather than at cost and changes in fair value would have been prepared under IFRS.
The general principle for first-time adoption of IFRS is that standards in Further information regarding the impact of adopting IAS 32 and IAS 39 force at the first reporting date for BP, 31 December 2005 are applied is shown in Financial statements Note 49 on page 168. retrospectively.
However, IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards contains a number of exemptions that US generally accepted accounting principles companies are permitted to apply.
BP elected to take the exemption The consolidated financial statements of the BP group are prepared in allowing comparative information on financial instruments to be prepared accordance with IFRS, which differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
in accordance with UK GAAP and the group adopted IAS 32 Financial The principal differences between US GAAP and IFRS for BP group Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial reporting are discussed in Financial statements Note 53 on page 179.
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 from 1 January The impact of new US accounting standards is also disclosed in that note.
Had IAS 32 and IAS 39 been applied from 1 January 2003, BPs 60 not related directly to gas prices, for example, oil product and power prices.
In these circumstances, pricing formulae have been determined Quantitative and qualitative disclosures to be derivatives, embedded within the overall contractual arrangements about market risk that are not clearly and closely related to the underlying commodity.
The resulting fair value relating to these contracts is recognized on the balance The group is exposed to a number of different market risks arising from sheet with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Market risk is the possibility that changes Further information about BPs use of derivatives, their characteristics in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, or oil and natural gas and the IFRS accounting treatment thereof is given in Financial or power prices will adversely affect the value of the groups financial statements Note 1 and Note 36 on pages 100 and 141. assets, liabilities or expected future cash ows.
The group has developed There are minor differences in the criteria for hedge accounting under policies aimed at managing the volatility inherent in certain of these IFRS and SFAS No.
133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and natural business exposures and in accordance with these policies the Hedging Activities.
Prior to 1 January 2005, the group did not designate group enters into various transactions using derivative financial and any of its derivative financial instruments as part of hedged transactions commodity instruments derivatives.
Derivatives are contracts whose under SFAS 133.
As a result, all changes in fair value were recognized value is derived from one or more underlying financial or commodity through earnings.
See Financial statements Note 53 on page 179 for instruments, indices or prices which are dened in the contract.
The group also trades derivatives in conjunction with its risk management activities.
Foreign currency exchange rate risk All derivative activity, whether for risk management or trading, is carried Fluctuations in exchange rates can have significant effects on the out by specialist teams that have the appropriate skills, experience and groups reported results.
The effects of most exchange rate uctuations supervision.
These teams are subject to close financial and management are absorbed in business operating results through changing costcontrol, meeting generally accepted industry practice and reecting competitiveness, lags in market adjustment to movements in rates and the principles of the group of Thirty Global Derivatives Study conversion differences accounted for on specic transactions.
Independent control functions monitor compliance reason, the total effect of exchange rate uctuations is not identiable with the groups policies.
A Trading Risk Management Committee has separately in the groups reported results.
oversight of the quality of internal control in the groups trading function.
The main underlying economic currency of the groups cash ows The control framework includes prescribed trading limits that are is the US dollar.
This is because BPs major product, oil, is priced reviewed regularly by senior management, daily monitoring of risk internationally in US dollars.
BPs foreign exchange management policy is exposure using value-at-risk principles, marking trading exposures to to minimize economic and material transactional exposures arising from market and stress testing to assess the exposure to potentially extreme currency movements against the US dollar.
The group co-ordinates the market situations.
The groups operational, risk management and trading handling of foreign exchange risks centrally, by netting off naturally activities in oil, natural gas, power and financial markets are managed occurring opposite exposures wherever possible, to reduce the risks, within a single integrated function that has the responsibility for ensuring and then dealing with any material residual foreign exchange risks.
The high and consistent standards of control, making investments in the most significant residual exposures are capital expenditure and UK and necessary systems and supporting infrastructure and providing European operational requirements.
In addition, most of the groups professional management oversight.
borrowings are in US dollars or are hedged with respect to the US dollar.
In market risk management and trading, conventional exchangeAt 31 December 2006, the total of foreign currency borrowings not traded derivatives such as futures and options are used, as well as nonswapped into US dollars amounted to $957 million.
The principal elements exchange-traded instruments such as over-the-counter swaps, options of this are $195 million of borrowings in euros, $179 million in Australian and forward contracts.
dollars, $114 million in Chinese renminbi, $78 million in South African IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 rand, $35 million in sterling, $224 million in Canadian dollars and prescribes strict criteria for hedge accounting, whether as a cash ow $76 million in Trinidad & Tobago dollars.
or fair value hedge, and requires that any derivative that does not meet The following table provides information about the groups foreign these criteria should be classied as held for trading purposes and fair currency derivative financial instruments.
These include foreign currency valued.
BP adopted IAS 32 and IAS 39 with effect from 1 January 2005 forward exchange agreements forwards, cylinder option contracts without restating prior periods.
Consequently, the groups accounting cylinders and purchased call options that are sensitive to changes in policy under UK GAAP has been used for 2004.
The policy under UK the sterling US dollar and euro US dollar exchange rates.
Where foreign GAAP and the disclosures required by UK GAAP for derivative financial currency denominated borrowings are swapped into US dollars using instruments are shown in Financial statements Note 37 on page 148. forwards or cross-currency swaps such that currency risk is completely Where derivatives constitute a fair value hedge, the groups exposure eliminated, neither the borrowing nor the derivative is included in to market risk created by the derivative is offset by the opposite exposure the table.
arising from the asset, liability or transaction being hedged.
Gains and For forwards, the tables present the notional amounts and weighted losses relating to derivatives designated as part of a cash ow hedge are average contractual exchange rates by contractual maturity dates and taken to reserves and recycled through income or to the carrying value of exclude forwards that have offsetting positions.
Only significant forward assets, as appropriate as the hedged item is recognized.
By contrast, positions are included in the tables.
The notional amounts of forwards are where derivatives are held for trading purposes, realized and unrealized translated into US dollars at the exchange rate included in the contract at gains and losses are recognized in the period in which they occur.
The fair value represents an estimate of the gain or loss that The group also has embedded derivatives classied as held for trading.
would be realized if the contracts were settled at the balance sheet date.
Prior to the development of an active gas trading market, UK gas Cylinders consist of purchased call option and written put option contracts were priced using a basket of available price indices, primarily contracts.
For cylinders and purchased call options, the tables present relating to oil products.
Post the development of an active UK gas market, the notional amounts of the option contracts at 31 December and the certain contracts were entered into or renegotiated using pricing formulae weighted average strike rates.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 61 The fair values for the foreign exchange contracts in the table below are based on market prices of comparable instruments forwards and pricing models that take into account relevant market data options.
These derivative contracts constitute a hedge: changes in the fair value or expected cash ows are offset by an opposite change in the market value or expected cash ows of the asset, liability or transaction being hedged.
Interest rate risk and oating rate debt, the group enters into interest rate and crossBP is exposed to interest rate risk on shortand long-term oating rate currency swaps in which the group agrees to exchange, at specified instruments and as a result of the renancing of xed rate finance debt.
intervals, the difference between xed and variable rate interest amounts The group is exposed predominantly to US dollar LIBOR London Intercalculated by reference to an agreed notional principal amount.
The Bank Offer Rate interest rates as borrowings are mainly denominated in, proportion of oating rate debt at 31 December 2006 was 73% of total or are swapped into, US dollars.
To manage the balance between xed finance debt outstanding.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 63 The following table shows, by major currency, the groups finance debt at 31 December 2006 and 2005 and the weighted average interest rates achieved at those dates through a combination of borrowings and other derivative instruments entered into to manage interest rate and currency exposures.
These include the effect The groups operational, risk management and trading activities in oil, of interest rate and currency swaps and forwards utilized to manage natural gas, power and financial markets are managed within a single interest rate risk.
If the interest rates applicable to oating rate integrated function.
The groups risk management policy requires the instruments were to have increased by 1% on 1 January 2007, the management of only certain short-term exposures in respect of its equity groups 2007 earnings before taxes would decrease by approximately share of production and certain of its renery and marketing activities.
This assumes that the amount and mix of xed and oating These risks are managed in combination with the groups supply and rate debt, including finance leases, remains unchanged from that in place trading activities.
at 31 December 2006 and that the change in interest rates is effective To this end, the groups supply and trading function uses the full range from the beginning of the year.
Where the interest rate applicable to an of conventional financial and commodity derivatives available in the instrument is reset during a quarter it is assumed that this occurs at the related commodity markets.
Natural gas swaps, options and futures are beginning of the quarter and remains unchanged for the rest of the year.
used to convert specic sale and purchase contracts from xed prices to In reality, the xed oating rate mix will uctuate over the year and market prices.
Swaps are also used to manage exposures to gas price interest rates will change continually.
Furthermore, the effect on differentials between locations.
The groups oil supply and trading earnings shown by this analysis does not consider the effect of an overall activities undertake the full range of conventional derivative financial and reduction in economic activity which could accompany such an increase commodity instruments and physical cargoes available in the commodity in interest rates.
Power trading is undertaken using a combination of over-thecounter forward contracts and other derivative contracts, including options Derivatives held for trading and futures.
This activity is on both a standalone basis and in conjunction In conjunction with the risk management activities discussed above, the with gas derivatives in relation to gas-generated power margin.
In group also trades interest rate and foreign exchange rate derivatives and, addition, NGLs are traded around certain US inventory locations using in addition, undertakes trading and risk management of certain specified over-the-counter forward contracts in conjunction with over-the-counter commodities.
In order to disclose a complete picture of activities in swaps, options and physical inventories.
relation to commodity derivatives, all activity trading and risk 64
