HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review Introduction Critical accounting policies Page Introduction Introduction................................................... 110 The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and Critical accounting policies........................... 111 the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings Key performance indicators.......................... 115 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial summary........................................ 119 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed Income statement....................................... 119 by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ temporarily from IFRSs as published by Net interest income.................................... 122 the International Accounting Standards Board Net fee income........................................... 125 IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended Net trading income.................................... 128 IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
At Net income from financial instruments 31 December 2006, there were no unendorsed 129 designated at fair value.......................... standards, effective for the year ended 31 December Gains less losses from financial 2006, affecting these consolidated and separate investments............................................. 131 financial statements, and there was no difference in Net earned insurance premiums................ 132 application to HSBC between IFRSs endorsed by the Other operating income............................. 133 EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB.
Net insurance claims incurred and Certain information for years prior to 2004 has movement in policyholders liabilities... 135 been prepared under UK Generally Accepted Loan impairment charges and other Accounting Principles UK GAAP, which are not credit risk provisions.............................. 136 comparable with IFRSs.
Operating expenses.................................... 139 HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation Share of profit in associates and joint currency because the US dollar and currencies linked ventures.................................................. 142 to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC Asset deployment....................................... 144 transacts its business.
Unless otherwise stated, the Trading assets and financial accounting information presented in this document investments............................................ 144 has been prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
Differences in net income and shareholders equity are explained in Note 47 on the Financial Deposits..................................................... 160 Statements on pages 403 to 434.
Certificates of deposit and other time deposits.................................................. 162 Constant currency Off-balance sheet arrangements................ 163 Constant currency comparatives in respect of 2005 and 2004 used in the 2006 and 2005 commentaries respectively are computed by retranslating into US dollars: the income statements for 2005 and 2004 of non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates at the average rates of exchange for 2006 and 2005 respectively: and 110 the balance sheets at 31 December 2005 and No adjustments are made to the exchange rates 2004 for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, used to translate assets and liabilities denominated in joint ventures and associates at the prevailing foreign currencies into the functional currencies of rates of exchange on 31 December 2006 and any HSBC branch, subsidiary, joint venture or 2005 respectively.
2006 compared with 2005 2005 compared with 2004 As Constant As Constant reported currency on reported currency on an underlying an underlying basis basis % % % % Operating income and cost growth Total operating income................................................. 14 11 10 10 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions................... 13 11 12 12 Total operating expenses.............................................. 14 11 11 9 Comparison of financial information policy is applied, and which involve a high degree of judgement and estimation, are discussed below.
When reference is made to constant currency or constant exchange rates in commentaries, Impairment of loans comparative data reported in the functional currencies of HSBCs operations have been HSBCs accounting policy for losses arising from translated at the appropriate exchange rates applied the impairment of customer loans and advances is in the current period in respect of the income described in Note 2 f on the Financial Statements.
statement or the balance sheet.
When reference to Losses in respect of impaired loans are reported underlying basis is made, comparative information in HSBCs income statement under the caption has been expressed at constant currency and adjusted Loan impairment charges and other credit risk for the effect of acquisitions, disposals, and the provisions.
An increase in these losses has the effect change in presentation of non-equity minority issues of reducing HSBCs profit for the period by a affecting the 2005 comparison with 2004. corresponding amount while a decrease in As the transition to IFRSs affected the impairment charges or reversal of impairment comparability of the financial information presented charges has the opposite effect.
in this document see Note 1 on the Financial Losses for impaired loans are recognised Statements, the commentaries that follow specify promptly when there is objective evidence that the impact when this is material to a readers impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has understanding of the underlying business trends.
Impairment losses are calculated on individual loans and on loans assessed collectively.
Critical accounting policies Losses expected from future events, no matter how Audited likely, are not recognised.
Introduction Individually assessed loans The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the At each balance sheet date, HSBC assesses on a preparation of its consolidated financial statements.
case-by-case basis whether there is any objective The accounting policies used in the preparation of evidence that a loan is impaired.
This procedure is the consolidated financial statements are described in applied to all accounts that are considered detail in Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
In determining impairment losses on these loans, the following factors are When preparing the financial statements, it is considered: the directors responsibility under UK company law to select suitable accounting policies and to make HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the viability of the customers business model prudent.
and their capacity to trade successfully out of The accounting policies that are deemed critical financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash to HSBCs IFRSs results and financial position, in flow to service debt obligations: terms of the materiality of the items to which the 111 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies the amount and timing of expected receipts and basis are grouped together according to their credit recoveries: risk characteristics for the purpose of calculating an estimated collective loss.
This reflects impairment the likely dividend available on liquidation or losses incurred at the balance sheet date which will bankruptcy: only be individually identified in the future.
the extent of other creditors commitments The collective impairment allowance is ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and determined after taking into account: the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar credit risk characteristics for example, by the complexity of determining the aggregate industry sector, loan grade or product : amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the extent to which legal and insurance the estimated period between impairment uncertainties are evident: occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an the realisable value of security or other credit appropriate allowance against the individual mitigants and likelihood of successful loan: and repossession: managements experienced judgement as to the likely deduction of any costs involved in whether current economic and credit conditions recovery of amounts outstanding: are such that the actual level of inherent losses is the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make likely to be greater or less than that suggested by payments in, the currency of the loan if not historical experience.
denominated in local currency: and The period between a loss occurring and its when available, the secondary market price of identification is estimated by local management for the debt.
Impairment losses are calculated by discounting Homogeneous groups of loans the expected future cash flows of a loan at its original effective interest rate, and comparing the For homogeneous groups of loans that are not resultant present value with the loans current considered individually significant, two alternative carrying amount.
methods are used to calculate allowances on a portfolio basis: The carrying amount of impaired loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use of an When appropriate empirical information is allowance account.
HSBCs policy requires a review available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology.
This of the level of impairment allowances on individual methodology employs statistical analysis of facilities above materiality thresholds at least halfhistorical trends of delinquency and default to yearly, or more regularly when individual estimate the likelihood that loans will progress circumstances require.
This normally includes a through the various stages of delinquency and review of collateral held including re-confirmation ultimately prove irrecoverable.
The estimated loss is of its enforceability and an assessment of actual and the difference between the present value of expected anticipated receipts.
future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate of the portfolio, and the carrying amount Collectively assessed loans of the portfolio.
Current economic conditions are also evaluated when calculating the appropriate level Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two of allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In circumstances: certain highly developed markets, sophisticated to cover losses which have been incurred but models also take into account behavioural and have not yet been identified on loans subject to account management trends as revealed in, for individual assessment: and example, bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
for homogeneous groups of loans that are not In other cases, when the portfolio size is small considered individually significant.
or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate methodology, HSBC Incurred but not yet identified impairment adopts a formulaic approach which allocates progressively higher percentage loss rates the longer Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of a customers loan is overdue.
Loss rates are loss has been specifically identified on an individual 112 calculated from the discounted expected future cash objectively to an event occurring after the flows from a portfolio.
impairment was recognised, the excess is written back by reducing the loan impairment allowance In normal circumstances, historical experience account accordingly.
The reversal is recognised in provides the most objective and relevant information the income statement.
from which to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, historical loss Assets acquired in exchange for loans experience provides less relevant information about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans sheet date, for example, where there have been as part of an orderly realisation are recorded as changes in economic, regulatory or behavioural assets held for sale and reported in Other assets.
conditions such that the most recent trends in the The asset acquired is recorded at the lower of its fair portfolio risk factors are not fully reflected in the value less costs to sell and the carrying amount of statistical models.
In these circumstances, such risk the loan net of impairment allowance at the date of factors are taken into account when calculating the exchange.
No depreciation is charged in respect of appropriate level of impairment allowances, by assets held for sale.
Any subsequent write-down of adjusting the impairment allowances derived solely the acquired asset to fair value less costs to sell is from historical loss experience.
Key risk factors recognised in the income statement in Other include recent trends in charge-off and delinquency, operating income.
Any subsequent increase in the economic conditions such as national and local fair value less costs to sell, to the extent this does not trends in housing markets, changes in product mix exceed the cumulative write down, is also recognised and concentration, bankruptcy trends, other market in Other operating income, together with any conditions such as changes in interest rates and realised gains or losses on disposal.
energy prices, changes in laws and regulations and natural disasters.
Renegotiated loans Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of The impairment of personal loans is generally future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against subject to collective assessment.
Personal loans actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
whose terms have been renegotiated are no longer considered past due, but are treated as new loans The portfolio approach is generally applied to only after a minimum required number of payments the following types of portfolios: required under the new arrangements have been low value, homogeneous small business received.
accounts in certain jurisdictions: Loans subject to individual impairment residential mortgages: assessment whose terms have been renegotiated are subject to ongoing review to determine whether they credit cards and other unsecured consumer remain impaired or should be considered past due.
lending products: and Further information on impairment assessment motor vehicle financing.
and impairment allowances is set out on pages These portfolio allowances are generally 174 to 176. reassessed monthly and charges for new allowances, or reversals of existing allowances, are calculated for Goodwill impairment each separately identified portfolio.
HSBCs accounting policy for goodwill is described in Note 2 o on the Financial Statements.
Loan write-offs Goodwill arises on business combinations, Loans and the related impairment allowance including the acquisition of subsidiaries, and accounts are normally written off, either partially or interests in joint ventures and associates, when the in full, when there is no realistic prospect of cost of acquisition exceeds the fair value of HSBCs recovery of these amounts and when the proceeds share of the identifiable assets, liabilities and from realising security have been received.
By contrast, if HSBCs interest in the fair value of the identifiable Reversals of impairment assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of an If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a subsequent period, and the decrease can be related 113 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies Key performance indicators acquired business is greater than the cost of At the date of disposal of a business, attributable acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately in goodwill is included in HSBCs share of net assets in the income statement.
the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units Valuation of financial instruments CGU for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which HSBCs accounting policy for valuation of financial goodwill is monitored for internal management instruments is described in Note 2 d on the purposes.
Impairment testing is performed at least Financial Statements.
annually by comparing the present value of the All financial instruments are recognised initially expected future cash flows from a business with the at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument carrying amount of its net assets, including on initial recognition is normally the transaction attributable goodwill.
price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or Significant management judgement is involved received.
In certain circumstances, however, the in two aspects of the process of identifying and initial fair value may be based on other observable evaluating goodwill impairment.
current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a First, the cost of capital assigned to an valuation technique whose variables include only individual CGU and used to discount its future cash data from observable markets.
flows can have a significant effect on the CGUs valuation.
The cost of capital percentage is generally Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values derived from a Capital Asset Pricing Model, which of financial instruments measured at fair value that itself depends on inputs reflecting a number of are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices financial and economic variables including the riskfor assets held and offer prices for liabilities.
When free interest rate in the country concerned and a independent prices are not available, fair values are premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business determined by using valuation techniques which being evaluated.
These variables are established on refer to observable market data.
These include the basis of management judgement.
comparisons with similar financial instruments for which market observable prices exist, discounted Second, management judgement is required in cash flow analyses, option pricing models and other estimating the future cash flows of the CGU.
These valuation techniques commonly used by market values are sensitive to the cash flows projected for participants.
the periods for which detailed forecasts are available, and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern The main factors which management considers of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
While the when applying a model are: acceptable range within which underlying the likelihood and expected timing of future assumptions can be applied is governed by the cash flows on the instrument.
These cash flows requirement to compare resulting forecasts with are usually governed by the terms of the actual performance and verifiable economic data in instrument, although management judgement future years, the cash flow forecasts necessarily and may be required when the ability of the appropriately reflect managements view of future counterparty to service the instrument in business prospects.
accordance with the contractual terms is in When this exercise demonstrates that the doubt: and expected cash flows of a CGU have declined and or an appropriate discount rate for the instrument.
that its cost of capital has increased, the effect is to Management determines this rate, based on its reduce the CGUs estimated fair value.
If this results assessment of the appropriate spread of the rate in an estimated recoverable amount that is lower for the instrument over the risk-free rate.
than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge for impairment of goodwill will be recorded, thereby When valuing instruments by reference to reducing by a corresponding amount HSBCs profit comparable instruments, management takes into for the year.
Goodwill is stated at cost less account the maturity, structure and rating of the accumulated impairment losses.
instrument with which the position held is being compared.
When valuing instruments on a model Goodwill on acquisitions of interests in joint basis using the fair value of underlying components, ventures or associates is included in Interests in management considers, in addition, the need for associates and joint ventures.
adjustments to take account of factors such as bid- 114 offer spread, credit profile and model uncertainty.
Key performance indicators These adjustments are based on defined policies The Board of Directors and the Group Management which are applied consistently across HSBC.
Board each monitors HSBCs progress against its When unobservable market data have a strategic objectives on a regular basis.
Progress is significant impact on the valuation of derivatives, the assessed by comparison with the Groups strategy, entire initial difference in fair value indicated by the its operating plan targets and its historical valuation model from the transaction price is not performance using both financial and non-financial recognised immediately in the income statement but measures.
is recognised over the life of the transaction on an As a prerequisite for the vesting of performance appropriate basis or is recognised in the income shares, the Remuneration Committee must satisfy statement when the inputs become observable, or itself that HSBCs financial performance has shown when the transaction matures or is closed out.
a sustained improvement in the period since the Financial instruments measured at fair value award date.
In determining this, the Remuneration through profit or loss comprise financial instruments Committee takes into account HSBCs financial held for trading and financial instruments designated performance with regard to the financial key at fair value.
Changes in their fair value directly performance indicators KPIs described below.
impact HSBCs income statement in the period in For awards made since 2005, the KPIs are compared which they occur.
with the same group of 28 comparator banks as for the TSR performance condition.
A change in the fair value of a financial asset which is classified as available-for-sale is recorded Financial KPIs directly in equity until the financial asset is sold, at which point the cumulative change in fair value is HSBCs strategic plan, Managing for Growth, charged or credited to the income statement.
When a provides HSBC with a blueprint for organic growth decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale and development.
This began in 2003 and will financial asset has been recognised directly in equity continue up to 2008.
The plan is aimed at guiding and there is objective evidence that the asset is the Group to achieve managements vision for impaired, the cumulative loss that had been HSBC to be the worlds leading financial services recognised directly in equity is removed from equity company.
and recognised in profit or loss, reducing HSBCs To support the Groups strategy and ensure that operating profit.
HSBCs performance can be monitored, In Notes on the Financial Statements, Note 15 management utilises a number of financial KPIs.
The includes a table which summarises HSBCs trading table below presents these KPIs for the period from portfolio by valuation methodology, and Note 33 2004 to 2006.
At a business level, the KPIs are provides an analysis of the fair value of financial complemented by a range of benchmarks which are instruments not measured at fair value in the balance relevant to the planning process and to reviewing sheet.
115 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies Key performance indicators Financial KPIs used by HSBCs management fee income and other revenue.
It is used to understand how changing economic factors affect 10 2006 2005 2004 the Group, to highlight dependence on balance sheet % % % utilisation for income generation and to indicate 1 Revenue growth........................ 13.4 12.2 2 success in cross-selling fee-based services to Revenue mix customers with loan facilities.
Comparison of the revenue mix since 4 Cost efficiency.......................... 51.3 51.2 51.6 2004 indicates that it has been broadly stable over Credit performance as measured recent years.
The percentage of revenue attributable 5 by risk adjusted margin........ 6.3 6.3 6.8 to net interest income fell, however, from 54.4 per Return on average 6 invested capital..................... 14.9 15.9 15.0 cent in 2005 to 52.8 per cent in 2006 as balance 7 Dividend performance.............. 10.1 9.5 5.0 sheet management revenues were constrained by an 8 Earnings per share US$.......... 1.40 1.36 1.18 adverse interest rate environment while fee and Over Over Over trading-based revenue streams have grown more 1 year 3 years 5 years strongly.
9 Total shareholder return HSBC TSR................................ 104.6 122.0 148.4 Cost efficiency is a relative measure that Benchmarks: indicates the consumption of resources in generating FTSE 100........................... 114.4 153.8 141.1 revenue.
Management uses this metric to assess the MSCI World...................... 105.8 139.9 122.4 success of technology utilisation and, more 1 The percentage increase in net operating income before generally, the productivity of the Groups loan impairment and other credit risk charges since the distribution platforms and sales forces.
The cost previous reporting period.
efficiency ratio for 2006 was broadly in line with 2 As a percentage of net operating income before loan the previous two years notwithstanding ongoing impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
3 Other income comprises net operating income before loan investment in HSBCs businesses, particularly in impairment charges and other credit risk provisions less emerging markets, and in improving the Groups net interest income and net fee income.
4 Total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk charges.
Credit performance as measured by risk- 5 Net operating income divided by average risk-weighted assets.
adjusted margin is an essential gauge for assessing 6 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by whether credit is correctly priced so that the returns average invested capital.
available after recognising impairment charges meet 7 The percentage increase in dividend per share since the previous reporting period.
the Groups required return parameters.
The ratio for 8 Basic earnings per share is defined in note 12.
2006 was 6.3 per cent, unchanged from 2005, 9 Total shareholder return is defined on page 281. showing a trend to higher-margin earnings relative to 10 Presentational changes introduced under IFRSs on risk, notwithstanding the significant credit losses in 1 January 2005 distort comparison of 2004 data with succeeding years.
the mortgage services business in the US described on page 189.
Management aims to improve Revenue growth provides an important guide to the risk-adjusted performance over time.
Groups success in generating business.
In 2006, Return on average invested capital measures total revenue grew by 13.4 per cent to the return on the capital investment made in the US$65.4 billion, 10.5 per cent on an underlying business, enabling management to benchmark HSBC basis, reflecting HSBCs expansion into new against competitors.
In 2006, the ratio of 14.9 per products and markets, improved brand recognition cent was 100 basis points lower than that reported in and refinements in segmentation to better meet 2005.
This decline reflected the fact that profitability customer needs.
The trend maintained the strong grew more slowly than the capital utilised in performance in 2005 when the underlying increase generating the profit because of the higher was 11.7 per cent.
Higher revenue was largely driven impairment charges recognised in 2006, largely in by balance sheet growth and strong contributions respect of the mortgage services business in the US.
from emerging markets, where HSBC continued to introduce products and services developed in mature HSBC aims to deliver sustained dividend economies to these faster growing regions.
The dividend per share for the year was US$0.76, an increase of Revenue mix represents the relative distribution 10.1 per cent on 2005, a larger increase than the of revenue streams between net interest income, net 9.5 per cent increase in dividend per share reported 116 in 2005.
HSBC has delivered a compound rate of Employee engagement increase in dividends of 9.6 per cent per annum over Employee engagement is a measure of employees the past 5 years.
emotional and rational attachment to HSBC that Basic earnings per share EPS is a ratio that motivates them to remain with the Group and align shows the level of earnings generated per ordinary themselves wholeheartedly with its success.
EPS is one of two key performance measures HSBC regularly surveys its employees on a used in rewarding employees and is discussed in regional or business basis, achieving on average a more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
response rate of over 80 per cent.
In 2006 over EPS for 2006 was US$1.40, an increase of 2.9 per 168,000 employees were surveyed.
This demonstrated the benefit of diversified earnings as the losses in the US mortgage From 2007 onwards, HSBC will launch a services business were more than compensated for Group-wide employee engagement survey in by strong growth in other markets and products.
In conjunction with a leading external partner, which 2005, EPS grew by 15 percentage points over that will include core questions designed to measure reported in 2004. employee engagement levels consistently.
This will be used to improve business performance through Total shareholder return TSR is used as a employee engagement, reward senior management method of assessing the overall return to for meeting and exceeding target engagement scores, shareholders on their investment in HSBC, and benchmark HSBC both internally and externally.
comprising both the growth in share value and The analysis of the survey results will be undertaken declared dividends.
TSR is a key performance by the external partner, taking into account cultural measure in rewarding employees and is discussed in norms and industry benchmarks.
Survey results and more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
action plans developed in response thereto will be The TSR benchmark is an index set at 100 and communicated to all employees.
measured over one, three and five years for the purpose of comparison with the performance of a Brand perception group of competitor banks which reflect HSBCs range and breadth of activities.
The TSR levels at the HSBC has conducted brand tracking surveys in its end of 2006 were 104.6, 122.0, and 148.4 over one, major Personal Financial Services markets for five three and five years respectively.
HSBCs TSR over years, assessing the strength of the brand by one and three years has underperformed the measuring awareness, consideration, momentum, benchmark.
This is attributed largely to the impact image and differentiation.
From 2007, HSBC will on the share price of the current weakness in the US extend the exercise to include customers in HSBCs sub-prime mortgage business and investor major Commercial Banking markets.
The surveys preference over this time for companies with smaller will be conducted by accredited independent third market values, particularly those for which there is party organisations, and will produce a blended the possibility of participating in domestic or measure which will compare HSBCs performance regional consolidation.
Over five years HSBCs TSR with its competitors in its major markets.
outperformed the benchmark, reflecting its strong and consistent growth in profits and dividends.
Customer satisfaction Management believes that KPIs must remain HSBC has also regularly conducted customer relevant to the business so may be changed over time satisfaction surveys in its main markets over many to reflect changes in the Groups composition and years.
Going forward, HSBC will use a consistent the strategies employed.
measure of recommendation to gauge customer satisfaction with the services provided by the Non-financial KPIs Groups Personal Financial Services and Commercial Banking businesses, and benchmark the HSBC has chosen four non-financial KPIs which are measures of reported customer satisfaction against important to the future success of the Group in those reported in respect of the customers of its main delivering its strategic objectives.
These noncompetitors in each of these markets.
financial KPIs are currently reported internally within HSBC on a local basis.
Going forward, a common framework is being established with considered definitions and metrics so that these KPIs can be published from next year.
117 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Key performance indicators Financial summary IT performance and systems reliability HSBCs IT function establishes with its end users service level agreements for systems HSBC tracks two key measures of IT performance, performance e. g. systems up-time 99.9 per cent of namely, the number of customer transactions the time and credit card authorisations within two processed and the reliability and resilience of Group seconds and monitors the achievement of each of systems measured in terms of service availability these commitments.
The following chart shows the targets.
percentage of time throughout the year IT has The number of customer transactions processed consistently achieved all of its service level is a measure of the ease with which customers can commitments.
It is intended that comparisons of access IT-developed and supported systems, the these numbers will be provided in the future.
extent to which these systems meet customer Percentage of IT services meeting or exceeding expectations and the success of the Groups IT targets in 2006 function in meeting straight-through delivery processing targets.
The 2004 comparative figure does not include interest income and interest expense on trading assets and liabilities except for trading derivatives, nor does it include dividend income on trading assets and so is not strictly comparable with the figures for 2005 and 2006.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared was sold during the year, accounted for with year ended 31 December 2005 US$347 million of the increase in pre-tax profit in the period.
These represented the bulk of changes in HSBC made a profit before tax of the constitution of the Group.
On an underlying US$22,086 million, a rise of US$1,120 million, or basis, which is described on page 111, profit before 5 per cent, compared with 2005.
Incremental tax increased by 3 per cent.
contributions to pre-tax profit from Metris in the US, Average invested capital increased by the Argentine retail operations acquired from Banca US$10.6 billion compared with 2005 and return on Nazionale and Ping An Insurance in mainland China, that capital fell slightly by 1.0 per cent to less the profits of The Cyprus Popular Bank, which 119 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Summary income statement 14.9 per cent.
Revenue growth was 13 per cent and Net operating income before loan impairment the cost efficiency ratio was broadly unchanged at charges and other credit risk provisions of 51.3 per cent: the Groups Tier 1 ratio strengthened US$65,366 million was US$7,729 million or 13 per to 9.4 per cent.
cent higher than in 2005, 11 per cent higher on an underlying basis.
Commercial Banking, Corporate, HSBCs results in 2006 reflected the benefits of Investment Banking and Markets and Private diversification of earnings.
There were a number of Banking operations all achieved strong double-digit outstanding achievements, for example, exceeding growth.
Operating income performance was well US$1 billion pre-tax profits for the first time in spread geographically, with the strongest growth in Mexico and the Middle East, and in each of the HSBCs operations in Asia and in Latin America.
Group Private Banking and Commercial Banking businesses in the Rest of Asia-Pacific.
HSBC added Loan impairment and other credit risk approximately US$1 billion in extra pre-tax profits provisions, expressed as a percentage of gross in the Rest of Asia-Pacific and globally in the average advances to customers, at 1.4 per cent, were Commercial Banking businesses.
20 basis points higher in 2006 than the 1.2 per cent recorded in 2005.
There was also a 20 basis point However, results in 2006 also reflected a decline rise in the ratio of new loan impairment charges to in pre-tax profits of around US$725 million in the gross average advances to customers, from 1.4 per Groups personal businesses in the US as a portfolio cent in 2005 to 1.6 per cent in 2006.
The charge of of sub-prime mortgages purchased by a subsidiary of US$10,573 million was US$2,772 million, or 36 per HSBC Finance mortgage services suffered much cent, higher than in 2005, 30 per cent higher on an higher delinquency than had been built into pricing underlying basis.
Of this increase, approximately these products.
60 per cent arose in the Groups Personal Financial Earnings continued to be well diversified, both Services businesses in North America, with the geographically and by customer group.
Regionally, major increase being in the US sub-prime mortgage Asia including Hong Kong, had record results as did portfolio acquired through mortgage services.
the Groups newly designated Latin America region, Impairment charges in the UK were broadly stable as which combines Mexico and Central America with a percentage of lending to customers despite a rising HSBCs South American businesses.
Within the trend of consumer recourse to debt mitigation Customer Groups, Commercial Banking again arrangements.
There was also some credit delivered a record performance, as did Private deterioration in a few emerging market countries, Banking and Corporate, Investment Banking and notably in the first half of 2006, as a consequence of Markets, which made strong progress in the areas in regulatory changes.
which the Group has been investing in recent years.
Total operating expenses of US$33,553 million Personal Financial Services declined as growth in were US$4,039 million or 14 per cent higher than in Asia and Latin America was masked by the 2005, 11 per cent higher on an underlying basis.
problems in the US mortgage services business.
Much of the growth reflected investment to expand The economic backdrop in 2006 was favourable.
the Groups geographic presence and add product Global equity markets enjoyed strong gains for much expertise and sales support.
This expansion was most of the year, encouraging expanded investment flows marked in Personal Financial Services in North and creating a receptive marketplace for the high America, and in Corporate, Investment Banking and level of mergers and acquisitions and IPO activity Markets, where the cost efficiency ratio improved which followed.
However, in these favourable slightly as strong revenue growth offset the first full conditions, the cumulative effect of rising short-term year effect of investment expenditure in previous rates, benign credit conditions and strong liquidity years.
put pressure on interest margins.
HSBCs share of profit in associates and joint The credit environment for corporate and ventures increased by US$202 million, with commercial lending continued to be exceptionally improved contributions from The Saudi British good.
However, on the back of slowing housing Bank, Bank of Communications and Industrial Bank, markets and rising interest rates, a marked supplemented by a first full year contribution from deterioration was experienced in the sub-prime Ping An Insurance.
HSBCs share of profits from mortgage market in the US.
This more than investments in associates in the Rest of Asia-Pacific outweighed the non-recurrence in 2006 of loan accounted for nearly a quarter of the profits from impairment costs associated with a surge in that region.
For further detailed discussion and bankruptcy filings in the US in the fourth quarter analysis by geographical segment of the Groups of 2005, and the effect of hurricane Katrina.
120 results see Report of the Directors: Business Review conditions in the UK were adversely affected by on page 31. slower economic growth and changes in bankruptcy legislation.
This was offset by improved credit Year ended 31 December 2005 compared experience in the US, notwithstanding the impact of with year ended 31 December 2004 hurricane Katrina and an acceleration of bankruptcy HSBC made a profit before tax of filings ahead of legislative changes in the fourth US$20,966 million, a rise of US$2,023 million or quarter of 2005.
In Brazil, HSBC also experienced 11 per cent compared with 2004.
Of this increase, higher charges as increased credit availability, US$267 million was attributable to additional particularly in the consumer segment, led to overcontributions of ten and two months from M&S indebtedness.
Money and Bank of Bermuda respectively, one Total operating expenses of US$29,514 million months contribution from Metris, and the first full were US$3,027 million or 11 per cent higher than in year effect of HSBCs investments in Bank of 2004, 9 per cent higher on an underlying basis.
Much of the growth reflected investment to expand As a result of the transition to full IFRSs, the the Groups geographic presence and adding product format of the income statement changed.
In expertise and sales support.
This expansion was most particular, US$685 million of what would, marked in Personal Financial Services in the Rest of previously, have been included in non-equity Asia-Pacific and in Corporate, Investment Banking minority interest, moved within the income and Markets, where investment spend peaked during statement and was classified as Interest expense in 2005.
In addition, business expansion in the Middle 2005, rather than Profit attributable to minority East and Latin America contributed to cost growth.
As the applicable IFRSs requiring these Productivity improvements achieved in the UK changes only came into effect from 1 January 2005, and Hong Kong allowed the Group to continue the comparative 2004 figures are presented on the building its Personal Financial Services and previous basis.
Commercial Banking businesses in the Rest of AsiaOn an underlying basis, which is described on Pacific, and expanding its capabilities in Corporate, page 111, profit before tax increased by 13 per cent.
Investment Banking and Markets, without deterioration in the Groups cost efficiency ratio.
In Total operating income of US$61,704 million the UK, the focus on improving utilisation of the was US$5,716 million or 10 per cent higher than in existing infrastructure led to broadly flat costs in 2004.
On an underlying basis, total operating income Personal Financial Services and Commercial also rose by 10 per cent.
This reflected organic Banking compared with underlying combined lending growth in all regions and expansion in revenue growth of 10 per cent.
transactional banking revenues from increased trade, funds under management, administration and HSBCs cost efficiency ratio, which is custody activities.
Strong growth was also seen in calculated as total operating expenses divided by net fixed income and credit trading.
Operating income operating income before loan impairment charges performance was well spread geographically with and other credit risk provisions, improved slightly to particularly strong growth in HSBCs operations in 51.2 per cent in 2005 from 51.6 per cent in 2004.
Latin America, the Middle East and the Rest of AsiaHSBCs share of profit in associates and joint Pacific.
ventures increased by US$376 million, boosted by Loan impairment and other credit risk full year contributions from Bank of provisions as a percentage of gross average advances Communications and Industrial Bank in mainland to customers was moderately higher in 2005 at China, and increased income from The Saudi British 1.16 per cent than in 2004, 0.99 per cent.
There was Bank, which reported a record performance on the also a small rise in the percentage ratio of new loan back of a vibrant economy and a strong oil price.
impairment charges to gross average advances to customers from 1.41 in 2004 to 1.50 in 2005.
The charge of US$7,801 million was US$1,610 million or 26 per cent higher than in 2004 and on an underlying basis 23 per cent higher.
Of this increase, approximately half was driven by growth in lending, with the remainder attributable to the higher rate of new provisions and the non-recurrence of general provision releases benefiting 2004.
Comparative information has been restated accordingly.
2 Net interest income comprises interest income less interest expense on financial assets and liabilities which is not recognised as part of Net trading income or Net income earned from financial instruments designated at fair value.
In 2004, all interest income and expense was included within Net interest income so these figures are not strictly comparable with those for 2005 and 2006.
3 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
4 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
5 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared strong liquidity and benign credit conditions put with year ended 31 December 2005 pressure on lending margins in corporate and commercial banking and credit spreads Net interest income of US$34,486 million was tightened as a consequence.
Increased 10 per cent higher than in 2005 and 7 per cent higher competition for core deposits also reduced on an underlying basis.
The commentary that follows deposit spreads in certain markets: is on an underlying basis.
HSBC deployed an increased proportion of Movements in net interest income were liabilities into trading assets.
Reported net particularly influenced by the following factors: interest income includes the cost of internally rising short-term interest rates in US dollars and funding these assets, while related revenue is linked currencies, and in sterling, increased the included in trading income.
This was value of low-cost deposits and transactional particularly relevant to the UK, France and the balances and increased the interest income US.
The cost of funding net long positions is earned from investing those balances.
This was included within trading as an interest expense in particularly relevant to the Personal Financial HSBCs customer group reporting: and Services and Commercial Banking businesses in HSBC concentrated balance sheet expansion on Asia and the UK, and also improved the value attracting liabilities and, as a result, customer of cash balances within the Groups custody and deposits, at constant currency but including payments and cash management businesses and acquisitions, grew by 3 percentage points more increased the resultant investment income: than customer loans.
the cumulative effect of higher short-term In Europe, net interest income increased by interest rates in most major currencies in recent 1 per cent.
The benefit of balance growth in Personal years has been to flatten interest rate yield Financial Services and Commercial Banking was curves and to reduce the opportunities available substantially offset by the increased deployment of to HSBCs balance sheet management liabilities to the fund trading activity referred to operations to generate additional income.
This above: there was a corresponding rise in trading reduced growth in net interest income compared income.
This was most pronounced in the UK and with 2005 by some 2 percentage points: France.
122 In the UK, growth in Personal Financial significant to the growth in net interest income.
On Services was strong in savings and packaged current the asset side, growth reflected strong demand for accounts, but mortgage and credit card lending also credit as regional economies continued to expand increased.
In Commercial Banking, customer and trade flows increased.
recruitment boosted growth in deposit balances and In North America, net interest income increased spreads widened, particularly on US dollar by 3 per cent.
In the US Personal Financial Services denominated accounts.
Commercial lending balances business, strong growth in mortgages, cards, and were higher, in part reflecting the strong growth other personal unsecured non-credit card lending throughout 2005.
In France, revenues declined was funded by a 21 per cent rise in average deposits despite growth in lending, due to competitive pricing to US$32.2 billion.
This was led by the continued pressures and the impact of older, higher-yielding success of the online savings product which grew by hedges of the networks funding surplus maturing.
US$6 billion to US$7 billion at 31 December 2006.
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Higher spreads in credit cards, reflecting a lower balance sheet management revenues declined as the proportion of promotional balances and a degree of rising trend in short-term interest rates continued to re-pricing, were in contrast with most other flatten yield curves.
Overall, asset spreads contracted, driven In Hong Kong, net interest income rose by by the effect on funding costs of a succession of 15 per cent.
Deposit spreads widened with interest rate rises, while competitive pricing and progressive interest rate rises, and balances increased customer migration to higher yielding products as customers took advantage of higher rates.
HSBC reduced spreads on deposits.
Net interest income was supported this growth with a number of promotions boosted in Canada by strong lending to personal and and marketing campaigns during the year.
In commercial customers, supported by deposit raising Personal Financial Services, average savings and initiatives.
However, these benefits were partly deposit balances rose by 7 per cent.
The launch of a offset by lower Corporate, Investment Banking and simplified mortgage pricing structure helped boost Markets balance sheet management income as mortgage balances and grow market share.
A clear spreads narrowed as a result of higher short-term focus on sales and targeted marketing helped achieve rates coupled with a flat yield curve in the US.
The strong growth in credit card balances, and the increased deployment of liabilities to fund trading number of cards in issue rose by 17 per cent to activity also reduced growth in net interest income, 4.6 million.
Average corporate lending balances rose with a corresponding increase in trading income.
as the economy gained momentum and investment In Latin America, net interest income increased was channelled into mainland China.
The benefit of by 17 per cent.
In Mexico, deposit growth was these developments, however, was substantially boosted by the continuing success of the Tu Cuenta offset by spread compression through the rising cost packaged account in Personal Financial Services.
of funds, and lower balance sheet management Credit card, unsecured lending and mortgage revenues as short term interest rates continued to balances also grew strongly, though the benefit of rise, and yield curves remained flat.
the latter was offset by competitive pressure on In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, a 25 per cent rise in spreads.
In Brazil, where the domestic economy net interest income was fuelled by balance sheet improved and inflation remained low, rising growth in Personal Financial Services and consumer demand for credit, together with increased Commercial Banking.
This reflected HSBCs sales activity and customer recruitment, drove strong continuing investment in growing the business lending growth.
Deposits rose through current through network expansion, customer recruitment accounts linked to the growing payroll loan business.
and targeted marketing and promotions.
In Personal Growth in Commercial Banking was mainly in the Financial Services, the emphasis on the recruitment small and middle market customer segments.
HSBC of HSBC Premier customers generated strong increased focus on these businesses through network deposit growth throughout the region, which funded expansion and the recruitment of additional sales increased mortgage and credit card borrowing.
Other staff throughout the region.
In Corporate, Investment unsecured lending balances also grew significantly, Banking and Markets, improved balance sheet as HSBC expanded its consumer finance operations management revenues and growth in the payments in India, Australia and Indonesia.
In corporate and and cash management business were the major commercial banking, increased deposits raised contributors to interest income growth.
through customer recruitment and through higher Average interest earning assets of transactional balances in the payments and cash US$1,113 billion were US$114 billion, or 11 per management and the custody businesses were cent, higher than in 2005.
On an underlying basis, 123 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Net interest income Net fee income growth was 10 per cent.
HSBCs net interest margin result of competitive pressure, were only partly was 3.10 per cent in 2006, compared with 3.14 per offset by higher loan balances, while lower balance cent in 2005. sheet management income reflected the effect of rising short-term rates and flattening yield curves on Year ended 31 December 2005 compared balance sheet management revenues.
with year ended 31 December 2004 In North America, net interest income increased Net interest income of US$31,334 million was by 4 per cent.
Growth in mortgage, card and US$235 million, or 1 per cent, higher than in 2004. unsecured personal lending balances was strong, Under IFRSs, HSBCs presentation of net offsetting spread contraction as the cost of funds rose interest income in 2005 was particularly affected by: with progressive interest rate rises.
Core deposit growth benefited from expansion of the branch the reclassification of certain preference network and the launch of new savings products, dividends within non-equity minority interests including an online savings product which attracted as interest expense: a significant number of new customers.
Treasury the inclusion of certain loan origination fees and income from balance sheet management within expenses as part of an effective interest rate Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets calculation instead of being recognised in full on diminished as the rise in short-term interest rates inception of the loan: and limited opportunities to profit from placing the liquidity generated from core banking operations external interest income and expense on trading over extended periods.
assets and liabilities now included within Net trading income.
In Hong Kong, net interest income rose by 17 per cent.
Rising interest rates reinvigorated Adjusting for these changes and on an demand for traditional savings products, driving underlying basis, net interest income increased by increases in personal and commercial savings 12 per cent.
The commentary that follows is on this balances.
Coupled with the rise in deposit spreads, basis.
which increased in line with interest rates, this led to a sharp rise in net interest income.
Mortgage spreads The benefit of strong growth in interest-earning contracted, however, as the gradual increase in assets globally more than offset the effect of spread yields during the year, in line with higher rates, was compression from flattening yield curves in the more than offset by rising funding costs.
This latter phenomenon reduced little net new lending for residential mortgages as opportunities for HSBCs balance sheet management interest rate rises cooled the residential property operations to enhance margin by placing the Groups market in the second half of 2005.
Economic growth surplus liquidity longer term than the in mainland China boosted commercial lending to behaviouralised deposit funding base.
In addition, the trade and manufacturing sectors, and property short-term interest rate rises in the US reduced lending also increased.
Treasury income remained spreads on consumer finance loans.
under pressure, with rising short-term interest rates In Europe, higher personal and commercial and a flat yield curve providing limited opportunities lending and increased deposit balances led to a to profitably deploy surplus liquidity and increasing 12 per cent increase in net interest income.
Personal Financial Services balances grew strongly In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, net interest income in mortgages, unsecured lending and cards, mainly increased by 24 per cent, reflecting business funded by a 12 per cent increase in deposit and expansion and favourable economic conditions savings balances.
In Turkey, card balances grew throughout the region.
In the Middle East, buoyant from increased marketing and working with HSBCs oil-based economies stimulated demand for credit retail partners.
Spreads tightened on UK personal for property and infrastructure projects.
Increasing lending, reflecting the introduction of preferential personal and corporate wealth contributed to growth pricing for lower-risk and higher-value customers, in deposit balances, while interest rate rises led to and on savings, due to better pricing for customers.
General economic expansion In Commercial Banking in the UK, lending and created demand for consumption credit which overdraft balances increased by 23 per cent, with boosted credit card lending.
For the reasons noted growth particularly strong in the property, above, treasury income from balance sheet distribution and services sectors.
Deposit balances management was weaker.
grew by 11 per cent, partly from keen pricing, though this reduced deposit spreads.
Yields on UK corporate lending, which were lower largely as a 124 In Latin America, the positive economic commercial lending, particularly in credit cards and environment encouraged growth in personal and vehicle finance, which led to a 32 per cent increase in net interest income.
In Mexico, HSBC continued interest-earning assets increased by 11 per cent, to lead the market in personal customer deposit reflecting strong growth in mortgages, personal growth.
Recruitment of commercial customers was lending and cards globally, and increased lending in also strong.
A significant rise in customer acquisition Commercial Banking.
and the development of the Losango customer base HSBCs net interest margin was 3.14 per cent in in Brazil also contributed.
For the reasons Average interest-earning assets increased by set out in the opening paragraphs, these figures were US$23 billion, or 2 per cent, compared with 2004. not strictly comparable as a result of presentation At constant exchange rates, and excluding the changes under IFRSs from 1 January 2005.
2 Under IFRSs from 2005, a higher proportion of fees on credit facilities is dealt with as part of an effective interest rate calculation than previously.
This change in accounting affects both the timing of fee income recognition and its presentation in the accounts.
In accordance with the transition arrangements to IFRSs, the 2004 comparative figure is presented on the previous accounting basis.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on with year ended 31 December 2005 an underlying basis.
Net fee income of US$17,182 million was 19 per Robust global stock market performance, cent higher than in 2005, or 16 per cent higher on an particularly in emerging markets, led to increased customer appetite for equity-based 125 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Net fee income products.
HSBC responded by launching new In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, higher trade and investment products and increasing promotional remittance flows led to increased payments and cash activity, which contributed to higher unit trust, management income.
Investment flows into broking and custody fees.
emerging market funds triggered growth in custody and funds administration fees, while rising equity There was an increase in cards in issue, which markets and product launches contributed to drove higher transaction volumes and balances increased investor demand and higher income from and led to a 16 per cent rise in card fee income, custody, brokerage and the sale of investments.
principally in the US: In North America, card fees increased as a result Strong equity market performance also of higher balances and improved interchange rates, benefited HSBCs asset management activities.
while private label card fees benefited from Funds under management grew by 16 per cent renegotiations with a number of merchants.
and performance fees rose strongly, most Increases in 2006 were partly offset by the effect of notably in HSBCs BRIC Brazil, Russia, India FFIEC guidance, which limits certain fee billings for and China funds and in the Hermitage Fund, a non-prime credit card accounts.
Following its launch leading fund investing in Russia.
in 2005, activity within HSBCs mortgage-backed The successful promotion of packaged account securities business increased rapidly during 2006.
As products which, together with increased a result, a greater proportion of loans originated by customer numbers and higher transaction HSBC were sold to the secondary market and volumes, led to a 13 per cent rise in account mortgage servicing fees grew accordingly, while services fees.
Higher cross-border currency income in the mortgage-backed securities business flows led to increased remittance income.
Tariff increases contributed to higher account service fees.
Higher business volumes led to Reduced sales of creditor insurance products in a rise in taxpayer services fees, while the WTAS the UK were largely offset by higher fees in business progressed strongly, expanding its customer HSBCs Latin American insurance businesses, base and reporting significantly higher fee income.
particularly in Argentina and Brazil.
In Latin America, increased cards in circulation Increased taxpayer services fees, higher income and improvements in activation times led to higher from investment and other services provided by card issuing fees, while growth in the merchant HSBCs insurance businesses, and increased customer base led to a rise in card acquiring income.
corporate and WTAS advisory fees in the US Account servicing fees benefited from higher contributed to the increase in other fee income.
packaged account sales, enhancements to other In Europe, account service fees increased as a current account products, price increases and greater result of customer acquisition, higher sales of transaction volumes.
The expansion of HSBCs packaged products and increased transaction ATM network in Mexico drove higher ATM fees.
Rising stock markets led to higher sales of investment products and growth in funds under Year ended 31 December 2005 compared management, while product mix improvements and with year ended 31 December 2004 service enhancements also contributed to a rise in Net fee income of US$14,456 million was investment fees.
Higher performance fees in respect US$1,508 million or 12 per cent higher than in 2004. of the Hermitage Fund contributed an additional Under IFRSs, a greater proportion of fees relating to US$23 million in fee income, net of performance the provision of credit facilities is now amortised and fees paid to the funds investment advisor.
Offsetting accounted for in net interest income as part of an these increases, HSBCs decision to constrain effective interest rate calculation than was the case unsecured lending growth in the UK resulted in before 1 January 2005.
This resulted in a reduction lower creditor protection insurance fees.
in reported net fee income of approximately 4 per In Hong Kong, a buoyant IPO market together cent.
Excluding this effect and on an underlying with product launches and enhancements contributed basis, growth in net fee income was 14 per cent and to higher sales of investment products: this was the comments that follow are presented on this basis.
augmented by increased transaction volumes The principal drivers of this growth were: following strong growth in local and regional equity the increase in card fee income, reflecting strong markets.
As global customers continued to seek growth in personal credit card sales across the investment opportunities in emerging markets, funds Group and increased transaction volumes: under management increased.
Growth in cards in issue led to higher card fees.
126 increased customer numbers, higher transaction income increased by 18 per cent, reflecting growth volumes, an increase in packaged accounts and in cardholder spending as HSBC strengthened its the selective management of tariffs led to an position as the largest credit card issuer in Hong 11 per cent increase in account services fees: Kong.
In Commercial Banking, net fees increased as trade services, insurance and lending income rose.
in Private Banking, the introduction of a wider However, lower Structured Finance revenues led to range of alternative investment products and reduced Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets services generated higher fee income: fees.
increased demand for credit among personal and Net fee income in the Rest of Asia-Pacific rose commercial customers drove mortgage and by 28 per cent from higher card transaction volumes lending fees up by 11 per cent: and and increased account service fees in response to the rising equity markets and renewed interest in expansion of the Personal Financial Services emerging markets led to higher global custody, business in the region.
Rising equity markets, broking and asset management fees.
buoyant regional economies and an increase in personal wealth combined with the launch of new Offsetting these positive trends, after a strong products to increase sales of investment products to run of growth, fee income from unit trust sales in personal customers.
Client assets in Private Banking Hong Kong fell as rising interest rates made also grew.
Global Transaction Banking revenues traditional deposit products more attractive.
increased in line with transaction volumes following In Europe, fee income increased by 9 per cent.
investment in 2004 to expand capabilities.
Custody Higher personal and commercial lending volumes fees grew by 29 per cent as a result of improved led to a 19 per cent increase in credit fees.
Card fee investor sentiment and rising local equity markets.
income rose by 22 per cent, principally in the UK Trade services income rose by 13 per cent, reflecting which benefited from higher customer numbers and strong trade flows.
Account service fees In North America, net fee income grew by increased by 9 per cent, reflecting increased 23 per cent.
Card fee income grew as a result of customer numbers, the launch of a new packaged higher transactions, increased receivables and product in the UK and the introduction of a Small improvements in the interchange rate, while US Business Tariff in Commercial Banking.
Buoyant mortgage lending fees benefited from lower equity markets benefited custody fees, which grew refinancing prepayments and the consequent release as a result of both increased asset values and strong of impairment provisions on mortgage servicing new business volumes.
Private Banking fee income rights.
Investment banking fees increased in was 12 per cent higher than in 2004 following response to HSBCs success in attracting customers increases in client assets under management and with an expanded range of products.
Net fee income in Latin America increased by In Hong Kong, net fee income was in line with 17 per cent, principally due to higher card, lending 2004.
Unit trust fees decreased by 42 per cent as and current account servicing fees.
Increased card Personal Financial Services customers switched to fees reflected higher spending in Brazil and traditional deposit savings and shorter-term Argentina, as well as strong growth in the cards base investment products.
The launch of 173 new openin Mexico.
Lending growth was predominantly ended funds established HSBC as the leading volume driven, while current account fees benefited investment service provider in Hong Kong.
This, from increased customer numbers, tariff increases in together with the successful attraction of client assets Brazil and Argentina and higher transaction-driven in Private Banking, contributed to a rise in income ATM and remittance income in Mexico.
Net trading income increased significantly in comparison with 2005, reflecting the investment Within the Credit and Rates business, higher made in widening Global Markets' product range and gains from interest rate derivatives and emerging developing its sales and execution capabilities.
market bonds reflected increased volumes of new Positive revenue trends were recorded in key product deals, a tightening of credit spreads and greater areas, although the rate of income growth slowed in interest rate volatility.
the second half of the year, principally due to lower In Europe, a significant increase in trading market volatility and a decrease in deal volumes in income was driven by higher foreign exchange flows the third quarter.
The cost of internal funding on and a greater focus on emerging market products.
long positions is excluded from the reported Net Overall, customer volumes rose, as increased trading income and included within the Net interest hedging activity and a change in risk appetite among income line.
However, this cost has been reinstated investors drove a general improvement in market in Net trading income in HSBCs customer group sentiment towards developing economies.
On an underlying basis trading income in the Income from structured derivatives grew by Rest of Asia-Pacific grew by 35 per cent, driven by 74 per cent, as investments in technical expertise and HSBCs strong distribution network and experience systems enabled HSBC to address a broader in developing markets activity, which contributed to spectrum of client needs.
Increased market volatility, particularly strong increases reported in India the together with expansion in the provision of Middle East and mainland China.
structured fund products, resulted in higher customer volumes.
As the business matured and markets Performance in HSBCs operations in the US deepened and became more transparent, revenues remained robust benefiting, in part, from the first full were boosted by a rise of US$193 million in the year contribution from the US residential mortgagerecognition of income deferred in previous periods.
backed securities business and successful product launches in structured derivatives.
Foreign exchange income remained strong throughout 2006, principally driven by an increase in customer activity encouraged by US dollar weakness and volatility in emerging markets.
In the metals 128 Year ended 31 December 2005 compared client-facing trading capabilities.
In Europe, with year ended 31 December 2004 revenues were boosted from higher volumes through electronic trading platforms and from the expansion Net trading income of US$5,864 million rose by of primary dealing activity in European government 110 per cent against 2004.
Under IFRSs, HSBCs bond markets.
In the US, the benefit of favourable presentation of trading income for 2005 reclassified movements on credit spreads was compounded by under net trading income external interest income the non-recurrence of losses experienced in the and dividend income on trading assets and interest industrial sector in 2004. expense on trading liabilities.
In Asia, volatility in the value of the Korean The external funding of long trading positions is won against the US dollar, the introduction of a reported separately within Net interest income on managed float for Malaysian ringgit and the trading activities: in the 2004 comparatives this was enhancement of capabilities coupled with greater included within Interest expense.
The net effect of focus on trading regional currencies in the Middle these adjustments added approximately East all contributed to higher foreign exchange US$2.9 billion to net trading income.
In Europe, the weakening euro and market In the segmental analysis, both net internal volatility following the general election in the UK funding and net external interest income on trading and the French referendum on the EU constitutional activities are reported as Net interest income on treaty afforded opportunities to increase foreign trading activities.
The offset to the net internal exchange revenues.
funding is reported as Net interest income within Derivatives activity grew strongly as structured the lending customer group.
The resulting Net product capabilities were added in the credit, equity, trading income line comprises all gains and losses and interest rate and foreign exchange areas.
Further from changes in the fair value of financial assets and benefit was derived from the greater focus put on financial liabilities classified as held for trading, client-driven risk management and the investment together with related external interest income and made in sales and execution expertise in previous interest expense and dividends received.
In accordance with IFRSs, the inception Income from trading activities rose, reflecting profits on certain derivative transactions are deferred positive revenue trends on core products within as described in Note 17 on the Financial Statements.
All income and contracts and the related financial assets, when expense on financial instruments for which the fair the change in value of the assets is correlated value option was taken were included in this line with the change in value of the liabilities to except for issued debt securities and related policyholders approximately US$12 billion of derivatives, where the interest components were assets and related liabilities.
Net income from assets designated at fair value HSBC used the fair value designation principally and held to meet liabilities under insurance and in the following instances: investment contracts is correlated with changes in liabilities under the related investment and insurance for certain fixed-rate long-term debt issues contracts.
Under IFRSs, liabilities under investment whose interest rate characteristic has been contracts are classified as financial instruments.
changed to floating through interest rate swaps, There is, however, a mismatch in presentation of the as part of a documented interest rate insurance business results for which asset returns are management strategy.
Approximately included within Net income from financial US$56 billion 2005: US$51 billion of the instruments designated at fair value with the related Groups debt issues have been accounted for change in the value of the insurance contract using the fair value option.
The movement in fair liabilities included within Net insurance claims value of these debt issues includes the effect of incurred and movement in policyholders liabilities.
own credit spread changes and any ineffectiveness in the economic relationship Year ended 31 December 2006 compared between the related swaps and own debt: with year ended 31 December 2005 as credit spreads narrow accounting losses are Net income from financial instruments designated at booked, and the reverse is true in the event of fair value decreased compared with 2005.
Ineffectiveness arises from the primarily driven by a narrowing i. e. improvement different credit characteristics of the swap and in credit spreads on certain fixed-rate long-term debt own debt coupled with the sensitivity of the issued by HSBC Finance and lower net mark-tofloating leg of the swap to changes in short-term market movements on this debt and the related interest rates.
In addition, the economic interest rate swaps.
During 2006, HSBC Finances relationship between the swap and own debt can debt received improved ratings from both Moodys be affected by relative movements in market and Standard and Poors S&P.
Perversely, this factors, such as bond and swap rates, and the improvement generated accounting losses of some relative bond and swap rates at inception.
The US$388 million which will reverse over the residual size and direction of the accounting maturity of the debt instruments.
consequences of changes in own credit spread and ineffectiveness can be volatile from period Income from assets held to meet liabilities under to period, but do not alter the cash flows insurance and investment contracts was some 12 per cent lower, reflecting movements in the market 130 values of assets.
The increase in the fair value of Income from assets designated at fair value and liabilities under investment contracts was 10 per cent held to meet liabilities under insurance and lower than in 2005. investment contracts during 2005 was correlated with increases in liabilities under the related investment Year ended 31 December 2005 compared and insurance contracts.
Under IFRSs, only with year ended 31 December 2004 investment contracts can be designated as financial instruments.
Changes in the liability under these The introduction of the new categories of financial contracts, therefore, like the related assets, were instruments under IAS 39 on 1 January 2005 has led included within the heading Net income from to a change in income statement presentation for the financial instruments designated at fair value.
The results of HSBCs life insurance business.
In 2005, element of the increase in liabilities under insurance income from assets designated at fair value and held contracts that reflected investment performance was to meet liabilities under insurance and investment reported separately within Net insurance claims contracts of US$1,760 million is reported under Net incurred and movements in policyholders liabilities.
income from financial instruments designated at fair In 2004, investment income on assets backing value.
In 2004, the corresponding amounts were policyholder liabilities was offset against the reported within Net investment income on assets movement in policyholders liabilities without backing policyholders liabilities.
distinction between insurance and investment contracts.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared a gain of US$93 million arising from the partial with year ended 31 December 2005 redemption of HSBCs investment in MasterCard Incorporated following its IPO in HSBC reported net gains of US$969 million from May.
The gain was distributed across all the disposal of available-for-sale financial geographic regions as most HSBC Group banks investments during 2006, 40 per cent higher than in were members of MasterCard: 2005.
On an underlying basis, gains were 35 per cent greater than in 2005.
Gains from financial a gain of US$101 million on the sale of part of investments were mainly attributable to the HSBCs stake in UTI Bank Limited, an Indian following transactions: retail bank: 131 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Net earned insurance premiums Other operating income the partial sale by Private Banking of a holding Year ended 31 December 2005 compared in the Hermitage Fund contributed a gain of with year ended 31 December 2004 US$117 million for the year: and The net gain of US$692 million from the disposal of the sale of a portfolio of structured finance available-for-sale financial investments was investments, classified as debt securities, 28 per cent higher than in 2004.
Lower income from contributed a gain of US$112 million.
the disposal of debt securities was more than compensated for by an increase in gains from the disposal of private equity investments, particularly in HSBCs European operations.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared US$174 million.
This was concentrated in Singapore with year ended 31 December 2005 and reflected the success of new product launches, supported by increased marketing.
Increased sales of Net earned insurance premiums of US$5,668 million individual life policies were the main driver of the were 4 per cent higher than in 2005, 3 per cent on an growth.
HSBC continued to expand its insurance underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on business across the Rest of Asia-Pacific with a an underlying basis.
number of initiatives including the establishment of In Europe, net earned premium income HSBCs first Islamic insurance company in decreased by 19 per cent to US$1,298 million.
was largely in the UK, where lower sales of single In North America, the modest rise in net premium insurance contracts, a lower market premium income to US$492 million reflected growth appreciation of investment assets and the effect of from new life business underwritten in 2006, which changes in reinsurance arrangements were the was substantially offset by a decline in the non-life principal drivers of the decrease.
In Hong Kong, net earned premium income Improved cross-selling drove growth across increased by 13 per cent, driven by the life insurance Latin America, and income rose by 18 per cent to business.
New products, many designed to meet US$1,076 million.
In Mexico, growth in individual financial needs identified in HSBCs global study on life, casualty and motor insurance was partly offset the future of retirement, were supported by increased by increased reinsurance costs.
In Brazil, growth was promotional and marketing activity, and the led by strong sales of both life and pension products.
development of internet and telephone distribution In Argentina, increased advertising partnerships with channels.
established local consumer brands and internal crossIn the Rest of Asia-Pacific net earned selling initiatives led to a rise in motor, home and premium income rose by 5 per cent growth to extended-warranty insurance premium income.
This 132 was, in part, offset by the effects of the disposal of Higher premium income in Europe was due to the Brazilian general insurer HSBC Seguros during an increased uptake of creditor protection products the latter half of 2005, which resulted in a significant in the UK.
The increase in premiums in Hong Kong reduction in non-life premium income.
reflected HSBCs continued emphasis on the growth and development of its insurance proposition.
Higher Year ended 31 December 2005 compared volumes of life assurance new business were directly with year ended 31 December 2004 driven by the launch of new endowment products, augmented by HSBCs leading position in online Net earned insurance premiums of US$5,436 million personal insurance provision.
In addition, greater increased by US$68 million compared with 2004. demand for private medical insurance products was On an underlying basis, net earned insurance driven by the public response to government premiums were in line with 2004. deliberation over reforms to healthcare financing.
Under IFRSs, in 2005 there were changes in the Investment in HSBCs insurance business included presentation of certain aspects of HSBCs insurance the establishment of a new Commercial Banking business, which are now treated as liabilities under insurance division in October, which positively investment contracts.
Investment income from these contributed to higher volumes of new business.
products was reported as Net income from financial In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, the increase in investments designated at fair value.
Income that premiums was mainly attributable to growth in the was previously reported as Net earned insurance number of personal insurance policies, resulting premiums was taken directly to the balance sheet as from an expansion of HSBCs insurance operations customer liabilities, with a corresponding movement in the region.
Net insurance claims fell to a greater extent than premium income, due to the In North America, increased cross-sales of additional impact of the reclassification of the fair insurance products through the branch network, value movement in respect of liabilities under combined with strong sales of other personal investment contracts.
insurance-related products, resulted in an increase in net earned insurance premiums.
The commentary that follows excludes the presentational changes discussed above, and is on an On an underlying basis, net earned insurance underlying basis.
premiums in Latin America were broadly in line with 2004.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared In North America, the 42 per cent increase with year ended 31 December 2005 largely resulted from gains on the disposal of various investments and real estate, and higher lease income Other operating income of US$2,546 million was from property investments by Amanah Finance.
7 per cent lower than in 2005, 9 per cent lower on an underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on The 73 per cent decline in Latin America was an underlying basis.
mainly driven by the non-recurrence of the receipt of coverage bonds issued as compensation for In Europe, other operating income declined by asymmetric pesification in Argentina last year.
This largely resulted from the nonnon-recurrence of the gain on sale of the insurance recurrence of one-off gains from the restructuring underwriter, HSBC Seguros, in Brazil in 2005 and syndication of assets in Global Investment US$89 million contributed further to the reduction.
Gains on private equity were also lower.
There was a 29 per cent fall in rental income, Year ended 31 December 2005 compared with a compensating effect on operating expenses, with year ended 31 December 2004 following the sale of the operational functions of HSBCs vehicle financing and fleet management Other operating income of US$2,733 million was business in 2005, combined with the non-recurrence US$1,120 million higher than in 2004.
On an of gains made in that year on disposal of structured underlying basis, other operating income grew by finance leases in the UK.
This decline was partly 69 per cent.
offset by profit recognised on the sale of HSBCs The commentary that follows is on an stake in The Cyprus Popular Bank Limited of underlying basis.
US$93 million, and income from UK branch sale and lease-back transactions.
In Europe, the increase in other operating income was largely driven by increased rental In Hong Kong, the modest increase in other income on the leasing of train rolling stock, higher operating income reflected profits earned from the disposals of assets and a number of private equity sale of the former head office building of Hang Seng realisations.
Bank and income received from the transfer of the credit card acquiring business into a joint venture In Hong Kong, higher other operating income between HSBC and Global Payments Inc.
These was driven mainly by an increase in market value of factors were partly offset by lower revaluation gains the investment property portfolio and the disposal of on Hang Seng Banks investment properties a leasehold residential property.
HSBCs investment following a slowdown in the rate of property price properties are located principally in Hong Kong.
appreciation and the non-recurrence of the disposal Under IFRSs, valuation movements on investment of a leasehold residential property.
properties are reflected in the income statement rather than through revaluation reserves.
Within Other operating income in the Rest of AsiaHong Kong, the commercial property sector enjoyed Pacific more than doubled, reflecting profits earned good growth as the economy grew and vacant space from various business disposals in Australia and the fell markedly with a corresponding rise in rents.
sale of an office building in Japan.
Higher levels of activity at the Group Service Centres resulted in The increase in other operating income in the rising income in the region and contributed further to Rest of Asia-Pacific was, in part, due to gains the increase.
134 realised on the sale of the Groups asset management Mexico from the distribution of third-party products operations in Australia.
through the HSBC network contributed further to the increase.
Other operating income in North America rose by 83 per cent, in part due to improved revenues HSBCs rental income mainly arose from from the sale of consumer real estate owned assets, leasing in the UK.
Europe accounted for 80 per cent higher rental income and disposals of property, plant of total rental income: the remainder was attributable and equipment.
to North America and Hong Kong.
In Latin America, other operating income The increase in the Other caption was largely increased by US$240 million, primarily as a result of driven by the increase in Latin America, reflecting the sale of the insurance underwriter HSBC Seguros the receipt of compensation and coverage bonds in fide Automoveis e Bens Limitada in Brazil, and the Argentina, increased revenues from capitalisation receipt of compensation and coverage bonds in products in Brazil and the receipt of non-core Argentina.
The receipt of non-core income in income in Mexico as noted above.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared investment performance to savings-related policies.
with year ended 31 December 2005 Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment Net insurance claims incurred and movement in market growth.
policyholders liabilities of US$4,704 million were 16 per cent higher than in 2005, 15 per cent on an In Europe, net insurance claims incurred and underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on movement in policyholders liabilities decreased by an underlying basis.
35 per cent to US$531 million, primarily driven by lower sales of critical illness and creditor protection Net insurance claims incurred and the products, along with the effect of adverse movement in policyholders liabilities arise from movements in fixed interest rate markets on the both life and non-life insurance business.
For nonvalue of policyholders liabilities.
life business, amounts reported here represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated Net insurance claims and movement in cost of notified claims.
For life business, the main policyholders liabilities in Hong Kong increased by elements of claims are the liability to policyholders 31 per cent, predominantly in the life insurance that is created on the initial underwriting of the business, in which reserves for policyholders policy and any subsequent movement in the liability liabilities rose with business growth, together with that arises, primarily from the attribution of the rising value of investments.
Growth in the 135 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Net insurance claims Loan impairment charges underwriting of accident and health business resulted insurance contracts which were reclassified as in higher non-life insurance claims reserves.
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
As a consequence, reported net insurance claims Net insurance claims and movement in incurred and movement in policyholders liabilities policyholders liabilities in North America rose by reduced.
12 per cent to US$259 million, mainly reflecting an increase in reserves for new life insurance business The majority of HSBCs non-life insurance underwritten in 2006. business largely relates to the provision of personal insurance products.
Minimal impact from hurricane In Latin America, higher sales of life and damage in the US and a lack of significant claims pension fund products led to an increase in net events during 2005 resulted in a relatively stable insurance claims incurred and movement in claims experience, augmented by negligible priorpolicyholders liabilities of 24 per cent to year reserve development in respect of 2004.
Lower movements in the non-life insurance liabilities were due to the sale of the nonExcluding the effect of the above life insurance business, HSBC Seguros, in Brazil reclassification, the most significant reduction in net during the latter half of 2005. claims occurred in Europe, due to the effect of revised actuarial valuations of existing life insurance Year ended 31 December 2005 compared policies in the UK life operation.
with year ended 31 December 2004 The reinsurers share of claims incurred and Net insurance claims incurred and movement in movement in policyholder liabilities in 2004 policyholders liabilities of US$4,067 million included the renegotiation of a reinsurance treaty in decreased by 12 per cent compared with 2004.
On the UK life operation, in which a greater proportion an underlying basis, net insurance claims incurred of risk was transferred to the reinsurer.
The decreased by 13 per cent.
subsequent implementation of a revised liability valuation system in 2005 reduced the amount of As with net earned insurance premiums, the reserves held for liabilities in respect of income primary reason for the reduction was the required protection products, bringing additional benefits in reclassification under IFRSs in 2005 of terms of capital efficiency of the UK life operation.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared experience higher levels of IVA and bankruptcy with year ended 31 December 2005 filings, following an easing of bankruptcy regulations in 2004, growth in consumer The charge for loan impairments and other credit indebtedness and a rise in unemployment.
This was risk provisions was US$10,573 million, a 36 per cent mitigated by action taken on underwriting and increase over that reported in 2005.
In France, the non-recurrence of several follows is on an underlying basis.
significant recoveries in 2005 resulted in an increase On an underlying basis, charges increased by in net loan impairment charges in 2006.
This reflected: Loan impairment charges in Hong Kong increased loss experience in the US mortgage remained low at US$172 million, underpinned by services business, particularly in second lien, robust personal and commercial credit quality in a portions of first lien and adjustable rate strong economy with low unemployment.
mortgages acquired from correspondent brokers In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment and banks in 2005 and in the first half of 2006: charges rose sharply to US$512 million.
Taiwan and 10 per cent underlying lending growth Indonesia experienced credit deterioration during excluding lending to the financial sector and 2006, although the problem peaked in the first half settlement accounts, notably in the UK, the US, of the year.
Taiwan was affected by the imposition Mexico, Brazil and Asia: of a mandatory government debt renegotiation scheme which allowed customers to extend and the continuing effect in the UK of consumer heavily discount repayment terms, leading to recourse to formal debt mitigation market-wide credit losses.
Indonesia was also arrangements: affected by regulations, specifically with respect to credit deterioration, principally in the first half minimum re-payment terms which compounded of 2006, in unsecured personal and credit card higher impairments brought about by a reduction in lending in Taiwan and Indonesia: offset by fuel subsidies.
Elsewhere in the Rest of Asia-Pacific credit quality was stable.
the non-recurrence of a surge in bankruptcy filings in the US in the fourth quarter of 2005 In North America, the net loan impairment and the effect of hurricane Katrina: and charge increased significantly, by 32 per cent to US$6,796 million, largely in the second half of a continued benign commercial and corporate 2006, driven by the credit deterioration in US subcredit environment.
prime mortgages described in the first bullet point In Europe, net loan impairment charges rose by above.
The effects of the decline in US house price 10 per cent to US$2,155 million.
In the UK, net inflation and rising interest rates during 2006 were charges rose by a modest 4 per cent as growth in the accentuated by the increased percentage of second personal customer impairment charge, which was lien loan originations to total loans originated in broadly in line with lending growth, was partially 2005 and the first half of 2006, and the underwriting offset by favourable movements on the impairment of stated income low documentation products.
The charge for commercial loans in a robust corporate US net loan impairment charges increased by 37 per credit environment.
The personal sector continued to cent after taking into account the most recent trends 137 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Loan impairment charges Operating expenses in delinquency and loss severity, projecting the proportion of the portfolio attributable to corporate probable impact of re-pricing ARMs, and and commercial lending was augmented by the incorporating the effect of re-pricing on parallel IFRSs adjustment noted above.
Further details are provided on mortgages comprised 56 per cent of the personal page 189. Credit delinquency in other parts of the lending portfolio.
mortgage portfolio and in other US businesses rose The charge for loan impairment adjusts the modestly, driven by unusually low levels at the end balance sheet allowance for loan impairment to the of 2005, and growing loan maturity in 2006. level that management deems adequate to absorb Partially offsetting the effects of credit deterioration actual and inherent losses in the Groups loan were a decline in bankruptcy filings following the portfolios.
The majority of the Groups loan surge at the end of 2005, relatively low impairment charges were determined on a portfolio unemployment and a fall in exposure estimated to basis, employing statistical calculations using roll result from hurricane Katrina.
The total charge for loan In Latin America, the rise in impairment charges impairment and other credit risk provisions in 2005 by 24 per cent to US$938 million was largely was US$7,801 million compared with a total charge recorded in Mexico and, to a lesser extent, Brazil of US$6,191 million in 2004, a rise of 26 per cent.
In Mexico, strong loan growth, This reflected: particularly in 2006, led to increased loan underlying growth in lending of 12 per cent: impairment charges.
In Brazil, the credit weaknesses seen in 2005 and the first half of 2006, particularly a weakening credit environment in the UK and in the consumer market, were mitigated by changes Brazil but an improved credit experience in the to underwriting procedures.
Net charges in Brazil US: and increased by 7 per cent compared with 54 per cent in the non-recurrence of the 2004 net release of 2005 and declined in the second half of 2006 general provision of US$498 million.
compared with the first half.
In Argentina, net charges rose as a result of the non-recurrence of In the US, the underlying trend in loan releases and recoveries in 2005. impairment charges was favourable compared with 2004, notwithstanding the negative effect on loan The aggregate outstanding customer loan impairment charges of hurricane Katrina and a surge impairment allowances at 31 December 2006 of in personal bankruptcies in October ahead of new US$13,578 million represented 1.6 per cent of gross legislation making such declarations more onerous.
customer advances net of reverse repos and This was due to a change in portfolio mix towards settlement accounts, compared with 1.5 per cent at higher quality lending and a positive economic the same time in 2005. environment.
Impaired loans to customers were In the UK, credit costs rose following an US$13,785 million at 31 December 2006 compared expansion in personal lending, which was with US$11,446 million at 31 December 2005.
On a accompanied by an increase in delinquencies as the constant currency basis, impaired loans were 14 per economy slowed during 2005.
This was evidenced cent higher than in 2005 compared with lending by rising personal bankruptcy, caused in part by growth excluding loans to the financial sector and legislative changes which facilitated debt settlement accounts of 10 per cent.
reconstruction procedures, an increase in unemployment and higher levels of personal debt.
In Year ended 31 December 2005 compared Hong Kong, the credit environment remained with year ended 31 December 2004 benign, with falling bankruptcies contributing to a During 2005, the underlying growth in customer modest reduction in loan impairment allowances in lending excluding loans to the financial sector and the personal sector.
A fall in releases in the corporate the impact of grossing adjustments required from sector, however, contributed to a modest charge for 1 January 2005 under IFRSs, was 12 per cent.
loan impairment as compared with a net release in Personal lending accounted for 63 per cent of this 2004.
In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, continuing releases increase, principally in mortgages, credit cards and and recoveries partly offset the impact of lending other personal lending products.
At 31 December growth in the region.
Higher charges in the personal 2005, personal lending accounted for 56 per cent of sector in Brazil followed intense competitive the customer loan portfolio, in line with 2004.
The pressure in the consumer segment, where significant increases in the availability of credit led to customers The aggregate customer loan impairment becoming over-indebted.
allowances at 31 December 2005 of 138 US$11,357 million represented 1.5 per cent of with US$12,427 million at 31 December 2004, gross customer advances net of reverse repos, largely reflecting the write-off of impaired loans settlement accounts and netting compared with against the provisions held in respect of these loans.
As in 2004, At constant exchange rates, impaired loans were HSBCs cross-border exposures did not necessitate 3 per cent lower than 2004 compared with significant allowances.
underlying lending growth excluding lending to the financial sector and settlement accounts of Impaired loans to customers were 12 per cent.
2 A charge of US$135 million was realised in 2006 arising from the waiver of the TSR-related performance condition in respect of the 2003 awards under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan the Plan.
As explained in the Annual Report and Accounts 2005, in light of the impressive and sustained performance and shareholder returns over the three years covered by the 2003 awards, the Group Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion, as permitted within the Plan, to waive the TSR performance condition.
Under both IFRSs and US GAAP this is treated as a modification which requires an additional accounting charge: this is a non-cash item.
3 Intangible asset amortisation comprises the expensing through the income statement of purchased intangibles such as mortgage servicing rights and customer merchant relationships and amounts allocated to intangible assets on the fair valuation of assets within acquired business combinations.
This latter category principally includes customer relationships.
139 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Operating expenses Year ended 31 December 2006 compared programme proceeded, additional staff were with year ended 31 December 2005 recruited to support longer opening hours in certain branches and IT costs increased.
In France and Operating expenses of US$33,553 million were Turkey, costs rose from the recruitment of additional US$4,039 million, or 14 per cent, higher than in sales staff and higher marketing expenditure.
Costs 2005, and 11 per cent higher on an underlying basis.
in Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets The commentary that follows is on an increased, reflecting higher performance-related staff underlying basis.
costs and the full year effect of the investment in 2005 in the business, especially in structured The main drivers of cost growth were as derivatives and Global Transaction Banking, where follows: significant revenue growth was seen.
These cost various business expansion initiatives were increases were partly offset by a reduction in undertaken during the year.
The retail banking Commercial Banking expenses following the sale of operation in the US was enhanced in the form of vehicle finance fleet management activities in the new branches and improved geographical UK.
In the UK, In Hong Kong, the increase in operating major work was undertaken to refurbish the expenses of 14 per cent was mainly due to higher branch network, improve and increase the staff and marketing costs.
Additional staff recruited number of self-service machines and extend to support longer opening hours in the branch opening hours in certain branches.
Across the network and the expansion of Commercial Rest of the Asia-Pacific region, the branch Banking, and an increase in revenue-driven network expanded, the rollout of the consumer performance-related awards drove staff costs higher.
finance business continued, and Commercial Marketing expenditure incurred on advertising and Bankings operations were further developed.
In promotional activities rose in support of credit card Latin America, improvements were made to and investment fund products in Personal Financial HSBCs operations in Mexico through the Services and the launch of Commercial Bankings continued expansion of the branch and ATM global campaign.
The full year effect of the network: enhancement in the second half of 2005 of the higher costs incurred in Corporate, Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Investment Banking and Markets reflected the business contributed further to the cost growth.
first full year effect of investments made in The 27 per cent rise in operating expenses in the 2005, together with volume-driven growth in Rest of Asia-Pacific region was primarily incurred in transactional banking and securities services supporting retail business expansion.
Staff costs rose activities and performance-related pay, which from increased recruitment to support new business rose as revenues grew.
The cost efficiency ratio initiatives and incentive payments grew in response of Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets to improved revenues.
Marketing expenses rose as improved by 40 basis points as net operating advertising and promotional activity aimed at income before loan impairment charges grew enlarging HSBCs market share in cards, mortgages faster than costs: and and other unsecured lending grew, and Commercial HSBCs expenditure on marketing continued in Banking marketing activity across several countries order to increase brand awareness, grow market increased.
In Corporate, Investment Banking and share in key products and support the launch of Markets, cost growth reflected higher revenue-driven new products.
Notable successes included the performance-related costs and increased expenditure online savings product in the US, strong growth in Global Transaction Banking necessitated by in credit card acquisition across the Group, and business volumes.
an innovative new online mortgage product In North America, costs rose by 13 per cent in offered in Mexico.
In the US, the increase accompanied the The following points are also of note.
expansion of both the core banking network by 25 branches and the geographical presence of In Europe, the cost growth of 9 per cent was Commercial Banking, and arose from incremental concentrated in Personal Financial Services and costs incurred in support of revenue growth in the Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
Marketing expenditure Personal Financial Services, business expansion also rose, in line with increased levels of activity in across the region drove the expenditure.
In the UK, the cards businesses in the US, continued promotion costs rose as the branch network refurbishment of the online savings product and airport branding 140 initiatives.
Cost growth in Canada followed higher point improvement in the cost efficiency ratios revenues.
The first full year effect of the expansion in Personal Financial Services and Commercial of various Corporate, Investment Banking and Banking: and Markets businesses that commenced last year, following a number of senior hires in 2004 in together with higher performance-linked pay Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets, contributed further to the expense growth.
subsequent investment was focused on In Latin America, operating expenses rose by operations and technology, to support revenue 12 per cent.
Staff costs grew as additional staff were growth.
Non-staff costs increased by 23 per cent recruited to support business expansion and pay rises in 2005, with staff costs growing by 14 per cent.
were agreed with the unions.
Marketing expenditure The rate of cost growth peaked during the year was higher as a consequence of advertising and the cost efficiency ratio was 2 percentage campaigns run by Personal Financial Services and points better in the second half of the year than Commercial Banking.
The continued expansion of the first half, as net operating income before the branch network and ATM infrastructure in loan impairment charges grew faster than costs.
Mexico, in conjunction with construction of the new The following points are also of note.
In Europe, headquarters, also contributed to the overall cost costs included the rebranding of the Groups growth in the region.
Costs rose in Corporate, operations in France, the refurbishment of 60 UK Investment Banking and Markets in line with higher branches and increased marketing costs.
These transactional volumes, increased headcount and increases were offset by lower costs in Commercial union-agreed pay rises.
Banking in the UK following restructuring activity in 2004.
Costs in Corporate, Investment Banking and Year ended 31 December 2005 compared Markets increased by 9 per cent, reflecting increased with year ended 31 December 2004 staff numbers and investments in technology and Operating expenses of US$29,514 million were infrastructure.
US$3,027 million, or 11 per cent, higher than in In Hong Kong, higher operating expenses 2004.
On an underlying basis, cost growth was 9 per reflected business expansion in Corporate, cent, trailing net operating income growth before Investment Banking and Markets, supported by impairment charges by 3 percentage points.
This increased staff in the investment banking division resulted in a slight improvement in the cost and the recruitment of senior relationship managers.
efficiency ratio to 51 per cent.
The three main This was partly offset by the effect of branch drivers of cost growth were as follows: restructuring and increased utilisation of the Group volume expansion in many markets drove both Service Centres in Personal Financial Services, revenue and costs.
In Personal Financial which led to a 4 per cent fall in branch headcount.
Services and Commercial Banking, business Underlying operating expenses in the Rest of expansion drove cost growth of 6 per cent and Asia-Pacific increased by 31 per cent, reflecting 4 per cent respectively, though this was investment in broadening the customer base and the exceeded by growth in net operating income distribution platform.
HSBCs branch network was before loan impairment charges of 11 per cent extended in mainland China, South Korea, and India, and 15 per cent respectively.
In Mexico, Turkey and additional sales and support staff were recruited and Brazil, cost increases contributed over half in Personal Financial Services and Commercial of the overall increase, but were significantly Banking.
Staff numbers also increased in response to exceeded by income growth: the migration of call centre activities to the Group HSBC continued to improve productivity in Service Centres in the region.
In the UK, reorganisations in required investment in infrastructure and technology, Personal Financial Services and Commercial and accordingly non-staff costs increased by 39 per Banking in 2004 resulted, in aggregate, in cent.
broadly flat costs compared with growth of In North America, costs bore a particularly large 10 per cent in net operating income before loan share of the investment in Corporate, Investment impairment charges.
This was delivered through Banking and Markets, reflecting HSBCs greater utilisation of direct channels, improved commitment to growing its presence in the region.
In Hong Costs also reflected the expansion of the network, Kong, the promotion of cost-efficient delivery with the opening of 27 new branches in 2005 and the channels and greater utilisation of the Group launch of HSBCs online savings account in the US.
Service Centres contributed to a 6 percentage 141 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Share of profit in associates and joint ventures HSBCs Latin American operations reported a payments grew as a direct consequence of higher 21 per cent increase in operating expenses on an income.
underlying basis, partly as a result of higher average Productivity improvements and strong disposal staff numbers following the acquisition of consumer gains allowed HSBC to substantially complete its finance businesses in 2004.
Marketing costs rose investment in Corporate, Investment Banking and following a number of high profile campaigns in Markets without any deterioration in the Groups 2005, while transactional taxes and incentive cost efficiency ratio.
HSBCs cost efficiency ratio worsened by 10 basis business expansion exceeded revenue growth.
On an underlying basis there was a 20 basis cost efficiency ratio in Corporate, Investment point deterioration.
Banking and Markets improved by 80 basis points to 58.9 per cent as revenues grew 1 per cent faster than In Personal Financial Services, there was a costs, and in Commercial Banking by 180 basis 100 basis point deterioration in the cost efficiency points to 43.7 per cent.
In Private Banking, the cost ratio as the growth of costs incurred in Europe, efficiency ratio improved from 62 per cent to North America and Latin America in support of 57.5 per cent.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared independent investment bank in Saudi Arabia with year ended 31 December 2005 licensed under the local new Capital Market law.
HSBC, through a wholly owned subsidiary, Income from associates and joint ventures was holds 60 per cent of the equity in the new US$846 million, an increase of 31 per cent company and The Saudi British Bank, in which compared with 2005, and 7 per cent on an HSBC has a 40 per cent shareholding, holds the underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on an The share of profits from The Saudi British underlying basis.
Bank grew by 21 per cent reflecting a strong Improved contributions from The Saudi British performance in all core businesses.
Bank, Bank of Communications and Industrial Bank were supplemented by a first full year contribution Year ended 31 December 2005 compared from Ping An Insurance.
These strategic investments with year ended 31 December 2004 are of increasing significance to HSBCs operations Income from associates and joint ventures grew in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region.
The profits were significantly to US$644 million.
On an underlying partly offset by a loss arising from an impairment basis, an increase of 72 per cent was driven by charge on a private equity investment of an associate strong performance in The Saudi British Bank and in Europe.
gains on the sale of HSBCs indirect stake in MISR In August 2005, HSBC made an additional International, an Egyptian Bank.
These revenue investment to increase its stake in Ping An streams were complemented by increased Insurance to 19.9 per cent.
The associate contributions from the banks strategic investments reported record results for 2006, with steady in mainland China: Bank of Communications and growth in the core insurance business Industrial Bank, interests in which were acquired in complemented by strong investment 2004, and Ping An Insurance, which became an performance following buoyant stock markets.
During 2006, Ping An Insurance groups Bank of Communications is the fifth largest nationwide back-office operation in Shanghai bank in mainland China as measured by assets.
became fully functional and the centralisation of HSBCs share of Bank of Communications profits the life insurance underwriting and claims in 2005 was US$175 million, significantly higher business was completed.
This largely reflected the first full year of profits in 2005, though Bank of HSBCs share of income from Bank of Communications recorded an overall increase on a Communications rose by 44 per cent, driven by like-for-like basis, principally as a result of asset and wider spreads and an improved product mix, liability growth combined with moderate expansion with increased corporate and consumer lending.
Fee income also rose as significant progress was made in expanding its investment banking Ping An Insurance is one of mainland Chinas operations.
leading insurance groups focusing on providing life and property and casualty insurance products.
In In 2006, effective risk management and cost August 2005, HSBC increased its stake in Ping An control drove operating efficiency with an Insurance to 19.9 per cent, began to account for it as improvement in the cost efficiency ratio, despite an associate.
The Saudi British Bank is 40 per cent owned by During the second half of 2006, HSBC and The HSBC.
HSBCs share of its profits increased by Saudi British Bank jointly established HSBC 53 per cent to US$268 million in 2005, largely Saudi Arabia Limited, the first full-service 143 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Asset deployment Funds under management Assets held in custody driven by strong investment banking performance, a compliant products and services.
In France, mortgage lending falling outside 24 per cent since 31 December 2005.
Two thirds of of the strict classification of residential mortgages the increase was driven by balance sheet growth contributed significantly to growth.
Growth in within Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets, corporate lending was mainly in Commercial the largest component of which was trading assets.
Banking, with significant increases in lending to the Acquisitions added US$13 billion to total assets.
On services and energy sectors.
an underlying basis, total assets grew by 17 per cent.
The commentary that follows is on an underlying Trading assets and financial investments basis.
Trading assets principally consist of debt and equity At 31 December 2006, HSBCs balance sheet instruments acquired for the purpose of market remained highly liquid.
The proportion of assets making or to benefit from short-term price deployed in customer advances fell to 47 per cent, movements.
Securities classified as held for trading predominantly due to a significant increase in trading are carried in the balance sheet at fair value with assets which, at 31 December 2006, were movements in fair value reflected within the income 2 percentage points higher than in 2005 at statement.
US$328 billion, representing 18 per cent of total assets.
The increase of US$95 billion in trading Trading assets of US$328 billion at assets resulted primarily from higher holdings of debt 31 December 2006 were 41 per cent higher than at securities.
On an underlying basis, the increase was 32 per cent.
A 27 per cent rise in debt Customer advances increased 17 per cent as a securities resulted from increased holdings of result of expansion in mortgages and other personal shorter-maturity assets in the UK and deployment of banking loans.
Residential mortgage growth in the the increased commercial surplus in Hong Kong.
In first half of 2006 was mainly in the US, though this the US, trading assets rose, reflecting the first full slowed in the second half as HSBC reduced its year effect of the residential mortgage-backed exposure to mortgages generated by correspondents securities business following its launch in 2005. and tightened lending criteria.
In the second half of the year mortgage increases were strongest in the UK Financial investments include debt and equity although HSBC saw its market share fall modestly in instruments that are classified as available for sale or, a buoyant UK housing market.
Growth in other to a very small extent, held to maturity.
Available- 144 2006 2005 for-sale investments essentially represent a core US$bn US$bn element of the Groups liquidity and may be disposed Funds under management of either to manage that liquidity or in response to At 1 January............................... 561 476 investment opportunities arising from favourable Net new money.......................... 44 63 movements in economic indicators, such as interest Value change............................. 57 45 Exchange and other.................... 33 23 rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices.
They are carried at fair value with unrealised gains and At 31 December......................... 695 561 losses from movements thereon reported in equity until disposal.
On disposal the accumulated Year ended 31 December unrealised gain or loss is recognised through the 2006 2005 income statement and reported as Gains less losses US$bn US$bn Funds under management by from financial investments.
This was primarily driven by an 695 561 increase in holdings of debt securities.
HSBCs operations in Europe, reported a rise in the credit risk 1 2005 has been restated to transfer US$8 billion from Private arbitrage portfolio reflecting strong investor demand Banking to Other.
for commercial paper while, in Hong Kong, the increase was driven by the deployment of increased Client assets, which provide an indicator of commercial surplus.
Net unrealised gains in the overall Private Banking volumes and include funds valuation of equities amounted to US$2,299 million.
under management, cash deposits and certain onbalance sheet trust assets, rose by 22 per cent Funds under management compared with 31 December 2005 to reach US$333 billion.
Funds under management at 31 December 2006 were US$695 billion, an increase of US$134 billion, or Assets held in custody and under 24 per cent, compared with 31 December 2005.
The administration increase was 16 per cent on an underlying basis.
Both Group Investment Businesses and Private Banking At 31 December 2006, assets held by HSBC as delivered good investment performance and strong custodian amounted to US$4,572 billion, 41 per cent net new money.
HSBC is among the worlds largest higher than the US$3,242 billion held at emerging market asset managers with US$62 billion 31 December 2005.
At constant exchange rates of funds under management invested in emerging growth was 28 per cent.
Custody is the safekeeping market assets.
and administration of securities and financial instruments on behalf of others.
Group Investment Businesses managed US$328 billion of assets at 31 December 2006, a rise Complementing this is HSBCs assets under of 23 per cent compared with 31 December 2005, administration business.
At 31 December 2006, the recording US$14 billion of net new money and good value of assets held under administration by the investment performance.
Group amounted to US$1,150 billion, 48 per cent higher than the US$779 billion held at 31 December Private Banking attracted net new money of 2005.
At constant exchange rates, growth was US$24 billion, due in part to greater brand awareness 37 per cent.
and an enhanced product range, which together with good investment performance contributed towards increased funds under management of US$232 billion at 31 December 2006, 20 per cent higher than at 31 December 2005.
Other funds under management, of which the main constituent was a corporate trust business in Asia, reported funds under management of US$133 billion at 31 December 2006, an increase of 40 per cent compared with 31 December 2005.
145 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Economic profit Other financial information Economic profit world interest rates, and taking into account its geographical and customer group diversification, HSBCs internal performance measures include HSBC believes that its true cost of capital on a economic profit, a calculation which compares the consolidated basis remains 10 per cent.
HSBC plans return on financial capital invested in HSBC by its to continue using this rate until the end of the current shareholders with the cost of that capital.
HSBC five-year strategic plan in 2008 in order to ensure prices its cost of capital internally and the difference consistency and comparability.
between that cost and post-tax profit attributable to ordinary shareholders represents the amount of Economic profit decreased by US$418 million, economic profit generated.
Economic profit is used or 7 per cent compared with 2005.
The rate of growth by management as a means of deciding where to in profit attributable was slower than the growth in allocate resources so that they will be most average shareholders equity, mainly due to increased productive.
loan impairment charges in the US mortgage service business.
This was also reflected in a lower return on In order to concentrate on external factors rather average invested capital and in consequence than measurement bases, HSBC emphasises the trend economic spread, which fell by 1 percentage point in economic profit within business units rather than compared with 2005. absolute amounts.
2 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after: adding back the average balance of goodwill impaired or amortised pre transition to IFRS or subsequent written-off, directly to reserves: deducting the average balance of HSBCs revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use.
This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRS and will run down over time as the properties are sold: deducting average preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings, and: deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
3 Return on invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company.
146 Net interest margin numbers are calculated by Other financial information dividing net interest income as reported in the Average balance sheet and net interest income statement by the average interest earning income assets from which interest income is reported within the Net interest income line of the income Average balances and the related interest are shown statement.
Interest income and interest expense for the domestic operations of HSBCs principal arising from trading assets and liabilities and the commercial banks by geographic region with all funding thereof is included within Net trading other commercial banking and investment banking income in the income statement.
balances and transactions included in Other operations.
153 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Changes in net interest income Analysis of changes in net interest income Changes due to a combination of volume and rate, and the effect of reclassifying items on the adoption The following table allocates changes in net interest of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 January 2005, are income between volume and rate for 2006 compared allocated to rate.
1 Brazilian operations comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo and subsidiaries, plus HSBC Servios e Participaes Limitada.
2 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement in 2005 and 2006.
3 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
4 This table analyses interest-bearing bank deposits only.
See page 160 for an analysis of all bank deposits.
5 This table analyses interest-bearing customer accounts only.
See page 161 for an analysis of all customer accounts.
6 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial liabilities designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement other than interest on own debt.
156 Notes i Average balances are based on daily averages for the principal areas of HSBCs banking activities with monthly or less frequent averages used elsewhere.
ii In 2004 Loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis and Loans on which interest has been accrued but suspended were included in Loans and advances to banks and Loans and advances to customers.
Interest income on such loans was included in the consolidated income statement to the extent to which it had been received.
iii Balances and transactions with fellow subsidiaries are reported gross in the principal commercial banking and consumer finance entities within Other interest-earning assets and Other interest-bearing liabilities as appropriate and the elimination entries are included within Other operations in those two categories.
iv Other than as noted in iii above, Other operations comprise the operations of the principal commercial banking and consumer finance entities outside their domestic markets and all other banking operations.
v In 2004 non-equity minority interests were included within shareholders equity and other non interest-bearing liabilities and the related coupon payments were included within Profit attributable to minority interests.
Share capital and reserves exercise of options under the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans.
Options over The following events in relation to the share capital 7,870,495 ordinary shares lapsed.
of HSBC Holdings occurred during the year: 6.
2,533,496 ordinary shares were issued at Ordinary shares of US$0.50 each 11.3921 per share and 502,454 ordinary shares were issued at 12.8161 per share in connection Scrip dividends with a Plan dEpargne Entreprise for the benefit 1.
24,184,953 ordinary shares were issued at par of non-UK resident employees of HSBC France on 19 January 2006 to shareholders who elected and its subsidiaries.
to receive new shares in lieu of the third interim 7.
Options over 22,626,714 ordinary shares were dividend for 2005.
The market value per share granted at nil consideration on 26 April 2006 to used to calculate shareholders entitlements to over 52,900 HSBC employees resident in nearly new shares was US$16.2150, being the 60 countries and territories under the HSBC US dollar equivalent of 9.40.
Holdings savings-related share option plans.
91,685,145 ordinary shares were issued at par on 11 May 2006 to shareholders who elected to Discretionary share incentive plans receive new shares in lieu of the fourth interim 8.
9,767,102 ordinary shares were issued at prices dividend for 2005.
The market value per share ranging from 3.3334 to 7.7984 per share in used to calculate shareholders entitlements to connection with the exercise of options under new shares was US$16.8175, being the US the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option dollar equivalent of 9.621.
14,090,830 ordinary shares were issued at par lapsed.
on 6 July 2006 to shareholders who elected to 9.
37,817,808 ordinary shares were issued at prices receive new shares in lieu of the first interim ranging from 6.91 to 9.642 per share in dividend for 2006.
The market value per share connection with the exercise of options under used to calculate shareholders entitlements to the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
new shares was US$17.5938, being the Options over 5,536,526 ordinary shares lapsed.
28,617,819 ordinary shares were issued at par HSBC Finance on 4 October 2006 to shareholders who elected 10.
3,424,742 ordinary shares were issued at to receive new shares in lieu of the second US$9.60 per share in connection with the early interim dividend for 2006.
The market value per settlement and maturity of HSBC Finance 8.875 share used to calculate shareholders per cent Adjustable Conversion-Rate Equity entitlements to new shares was US$17.9844, Security Units.
being the US dollar equivalent of 9.51.
643,520 ordinary shares were issued at prices All-Employee share plans ranging from US$16.06 to US$18.79 per share in connection with the vesting of Restricted 5.
25,334,998 ordinary shares were issued at prices Stock Rights under HSBC Finance share plans ranging from 5.3496 to 7.6736 and that have been converted into rights over HSBC 926 ordinary shares were issued at Holdings ordinary shares.
HK$103.4401 per share in connection with the 157 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Short term borrowings Contractual obligations Loan maturity Authority to repurchase ordinary shares preference shares of US$0.01 each and 10,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of 12.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2006, 0.01 each.
shareholders renewed the authority for the Company to make market repurchases of up to Other than as described in paragraphs 1 to 6 and 1,137,200,000 ordinary shares.
The Directors 8 to 11 above, the Directors did not allot any have not exercised this authority.
In accordance shares during 2006. with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on 19 December 2005, Short-term borrowings HSBC Holdings will comply with the applicable HSBC includes short-term borrowings within law and regulation in the UK in relation to the customer accounts, deposits by banks and debt holding of any shares in treasury and with the securities in issue and does not show short-term conditions of the waiver, in connection with any borrowings separately on the balance sheet.
Shortshares it may hold in treasury.
term borrowings are defined by the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as Federal funds Authority to allot shares purchased and securities sold under agreements to 13.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2006 repurchase, commercial paper and other short-term shareholders renewed the authority for the borrowings.
HSBCs only significant short-term Directors to allot new shares.
The authority was borrowings are securities sold under agreements to to allot up to 2,274,400,000 ordinary shares, repurchase and certain debt securities in issue.
10,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of Additional information on these is provided in the 0.01 each, 8,550,000 non-cumulative tables below.
79,450 17,182 11,391 127,746 3,909 239,678 Loans and advances to customers...................... 113,114 26,071 14,087 133,505 6,350 293,127 113,504 26,071 14,441 133,531 8,875 296,422 Interest rate sensitivity of loans and advances to banks and commercial loans to customers Fixed interest rate........................................... 8,925 30 1,078 1,301 857 12,191 Variable interest rate...................................... 25,129 6,641 1,972 4,484 4,109 42,335 34,054 6,671 3,050 5,785 4,966 54,526 159 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Deposits Deposits The following tables analyse the average amount of bank deposits, customer deposits and certificates of deposit CDs and other money market instruments which are included within debt securities in issue in the balance sheet, together with the average interest rates paid thereon for each of the past three years.
The geographical analysis of average deposits is based on the location of the office in which the deposits are recorded and excludes balances with HSBC companies.
The Other category includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
The majority of certificates of deposit and time deposits are in amounts of US$100,000 and over or the equivalent in other currencies.
162 Off-balance sheet arrangements HSBC enters into certain off-balance sheet arrangements with customers in the ordinary course of business, as described below.
i Financial guarantees, letters of credit and similar undertakings Note 41 on the Financial Statements on page 396 describes various types of guarantees and discloses the maximum potential future payments under such arrangements.
Credit risk associated with all forms of guarantees is assessed in the same manner as for on-balance sheet credit advances and, where necessary, provisions for assessed impairment are included in Other provisions.
ii Commitments to lend Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 41 on the Financial Statements on page 396.
The majority by value of undrawn credit lines arise from open to buy lines on personal credit cards, cheques issued to potential customers offering them a pre-approved loan, advised overdraft limits, and mortgage offers awaiting customer acceptance.
HSBC generally has the right to change or terminate any conditions of a personal customers overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon notification to the customer.
In respect of corporate commitments to lend, in most contracts HSBCs position will be protected through restrictions on access to funding in the event of material adverse change.
iii Credit derivatives HSBC uses credit derivatives through its principal dealing operations, acting as a principal counterparty to a broad range of users, structuring deals to produce risk management products for its customers, or making markets in certain products.
Risk is typically controlled through entering into offsetting credit derivative contracts with other counterparties.
HSBC manages the credit risk arising on buying and selling credit derivative protection by including the exposure to any credit risk that arises from such transactions within its overall credit limits structure to the relevant counterparty.
The trading of credit derivatives is restricted to a small number of offices within the major centres which in managements view have the control infrastructure and market skills to manage effectively the credit risk inherent in the products.
Credit derivatives are also used for the management of credit risk in the Groups loan portfolio.
HSBCs use of credit derivatives in this manner is not significant, however.
The following table presents the notional amounts of credit derivatives protection bought and sold by HSBC: At 31 December 2006 2005 US$m US$m Notional amount of protection bought..................................................................................... 540,229 249,347 Notional amount of protection sold......................................................................................... 569,599 262,393 The mismatch between these notional amounts is attributable to HSBC selling protection on large, diversified, predominantly investment grade portfolios including the most senior tranches and then hedging these positions by buying protection on the more subordinated tranches of the same portfolios.
In addition, HSBC uses securities to hedge certain derivative positions.
Consequently, while there is a mismatch in notional amounts of credit derivatives, the risk positions are largely matched.
iv Special purpose and variable interest entities HSBC predominantly uses special purpose entities SPEs or variable interest entities VIEs to securitise loans and advances it has originated where this source of funding is cost effective.
Such loans and advances generally remain on the balance sheet under IFRSs.
HSBC also administers SPEs that have been established for the purpose of providing alternative sources of financing to HSBCs customers.
Such arrangements also enable HSBC to provide tailored investment opportunities for investors.
These SPEs, commonly referred to as asset-backed or multi-seller conduits, purchase interests in a diversified pool of receivables from customers or in the market using finance provided by a third party.
The cash flows received by SPEs on pools of receivables are used to service the finance provided by 163 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Off balance sheet arrangements Regulation and supervision investors.
HSBC administers this arrangement, which facilitates diversification of funding sources and the tranching of credit risk.
HSBC also typically provides part of the liquidity facilities to the entities, together with secondary credit enhancement.
HSBC also has relationships with SPEs which offer management of investment funds, provide finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and facilitate capital funding through the issue of preference shares via partnerships.
All SPEs used by HSBC are authorised centrally upon initial establishment to ensure appropriate purpose and governance.
The activities of SPEs administered by HSBC are closely monitored by senior management.
The use of SPEs is not a significant part of HSBCs activities and HSBC is not reliant on the use of SPEs for any material part of its business operations or profitability.
For a further discussion of HSBCs involvement with SPEs and the accounting treatments under IFRSs and US GAAP, see Note 47 j on the Financial Statements on page 429.
