Operating and Financial Review Contents 17 Staff 20 Operating profit cash conversion 12 Financial highlights 18 Competitive landscape 20 Taxation 12 Results 18 Regulatory capital changes 21 Earnings and EPS 12 Business drivers 18 Funding the acquisition of EBS 21 Dividend 13 Impact of EBS 19 Risk management 22 Balance sheet and capital 14 Global Executive Management Group 19 IFRS 22 Foreign exchange 15 Using technology 19 Cost management 22 Treasury policy 15 Geographic analysis 20 Operating profit margins 23 Credit and interest rate risk 16 Business performance 20 Cash generation 23 The new financial year Financial highlights Business drivers Historically, the underlying interdealer Overall Group revenue rose by ICAP is a growth business in a broking market has grown at rates of 13% from 812.7 million to growing market.
With the positive 919.2 million, with electronic continue to support this growth impact of the factors noted above as broking revenue increasing including: well as the continuing very high by 17%.
macro-economic imbalances in levels of innovation and product The Group continues to exercise currencies, interest rate and credit development occurring in the tight control over its cost base.
markets leading to continuing price wholesale financial markets today, we Excluding broker bonuses, volatility and the basis for further believe that notwithstanding underlying cost growth at constant growth in interest rate and credit commission compression somewhat exchange rates, excluding impact of derivatives, FX, energy and listed higher growth rates should be seen in acquisitions was restricted to 4%.
futures markets: the next 1224 months.
The Groups operating profit the search for yield among global margin remained at 21% reflecting investors underpinning the growth The principal areas in which we the Groups continuing investment in in structured credit and equity expect to see faster growth are FX, people and technology, particularly products and reinforcing the energy, credit derivatives, equity the upgrade of the Groups attractions of efficient electronic derivatives and financing, emerging electronic broking platform.
The execution: markets and structured products Groups electronic broking margin commoditisation of flow markets generally.
now exceeds 30% for the first time.
and the increasing focus on Profit, EPS and dividend all electronic trading and increasing In addition to the factors noted advanced in the year.
commitment of capital to above, the growth of electronic The Group remains highly cash proprietary and algorithmic trading broking in the more liquid and generative with a strong strategies by dealers and their commoditised markets itself feeds balance sheet.
customers: additional growth through: rapid growth in equity derivatives driving lower transaction costs Results driven by rising stock markets and which increase trading volumes by The Group reported profit of the search for yield: encouraging the development of 204.3 million before taxation, continuing liberalisation of algorithmic and other highly price amortisation and impairment of emerging markets and the growth sensitive trading strategies: intangibles arising on consolidation in onshore and local currency fixed concentrating volumes among and exceptional items: this income, derivatives and credit fewer, electronic, venues: represents a 16% increase over markets: and enabling lower post-trade the prior year.
On a statutory basis increasing regulatory and transaction costs through profit before taxation was 193.0 prudential pressure for best automated confirmation and million for the year ended 31 March execution and price transparency,  STP, 2006 2004 05 166.8 million.
which favour electronic trading thereby increasing customer We continue to believe that profit venues.
efficiency and attracting extra before taxation, amortisation and marginal volumes.
impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items better reflects the Groups underlying year-on-year performance.
This measure is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face of the consolidated income statement.
12 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 Combined ICAP and EBS networks EBS users ICAP users, in addition to 470 users over secure internet connections Western Europe includes Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands and Switzerland Eastern Europe includes Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Latvia and Poland Impact of EBS the liberalisation of emerging those businesses.
We expect that The acquisition of EBS will more markets and increasing proprietary the combination of EBS with ICAPs than double ICAPs annual electronic risk taking at banks.
Its growth is electronic broking businesses will broking revenue.
In 2005, EBSs helped by the expansion of prime generate annual cost synergies of at revenue was 114 million up 10% broking and algorithmic trading least 19 million which can be on 2004 and operating profit before engines and the growth of leveraged achieved by 2008 09.
These exceptional items and goodwill investors hedge funds.
synergies include network amortisation was 20 million.
infrastructure, IT and property costs.
At 31 December 2005, the gross Further expansion of the EBS To achieve these synergies, ICAP assets of EBS were 128 million platform is expected to come from the expects to incur exceptional costs of net assets 83 million including development of the algorithmic trading 14 million in the first two years cash of 32 million.
The addition to the platform following the acquisition.
The margin for revenue in 2006 to increase of non-deliverable FX and the merger from EBSs business, combined with by 10% to 132 million and operating of the EBS and ICAPs iForwards the additional cost synergies, will profit to increase by 54% to platforms will continue to move ICAPs increase ICAPs overall margin.
During the first three forward FX business electronic.
Operating profit before amortisation and impairment months of 2006, EBSs operating profit of intangibles arising on consolidation and was significantly ahead of budget.
We have demonstrated in our previous exceptional items.
We continue to believe that this measure better reflects the Groups performance mergers and acquisitions that there and it is reconciled to statutory operating profit in EBSs market is driven by continuing are significant economies of scale the segmental analysis shown in note 3 to the global macro-economic imbalances, available by effectively combining Financial Statements.
Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 13 Operating and Financial Review continued ICAP Global Executive Management Group The ICAP Global Executive Management Group comprises the directors featured below, together with Michael Spencer, Mark Yallop, Stephen McDermott and the Group Finance Director.
Bruce Collins has been Chief John Nixon is the director responsible David Rutter is the Chief Executive Executive of ICAPs Asia Pacific for strategic acquisitions as well as Officer of ICAP Electronic Broking region since April 2005.
He was Global Market Data Services, ICAPs North America and Asia.
Prior to previously Group Chief Executive information services business.
Prior joining ICAP he was a significant Officer of Tullett Liberty Tullett, now to his full-time involvement in ICAP shareholder in Prebon.
His tenure a part of Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
he was a non-executive director of at Prebon began in 1988 and he He has very broad experience of our ICAP plc from 1998 to 2002.
He was served in various capacities including markets having begun his career in previously the Chief Executive Officer Global Chief Executive Officer of the industry in 1973.
Since joining of Tullet and Tokyo Forex, now part of Prebon Energy and Managing Director Tullett in 1980 he spent 17 years in Collins Stewart Tullet plc, where he of the Americas.
He has served on management positions in both Asia worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, several corporate boards of entities and the Middle East.
He then moved New York and London.
Aged 51. in the e-commerce field.
Aged 43. to be Managing Director responsible Ron Purpora is Chief Operating for Europe in 1999 and in the Jay Spencer is ICAPs Global Chief Officer of ICAP North America and following year became Group Chief Information Officer and was President of ICAP North American Executive Officer of Tullett.
He also serves as responsible for ICAPs technology President of First Brokers Securities, George Macdonald is Chief Executive strategy, planning and delivery for its a subsidiary of ICAP.
Within the Officer of ICAP London and Europe.
voice and electronic business industry he serves as a board He was appointed in July 2000.
Prior to this, he was Chief member of the Depository Trust to this he held the positions of Chief Technology Officer for BrokerTec Clearing Corporation, Chairman of Executive of the Asia Pacific region Global, which he joined as a start-up the Fixed Income Membership and excluding Japan and Executive venture in 1999.
At BrokerTec, he Risk Committee, Chairman of FICC Chairman of Australia.
He had was responsible for overall delivery Operation and Planning Committee previously held the position of Joint of products, operations and all and is an executive director of the Managing Director, Tullett & Tokyo technology programmes.
Australia, a company he established he has held senior positions with as a partner in 1982.
Prior to that he Fidelity Investments and SEI Douglas Rhoten is Chief Executive held senior management positions Investment Group prior to joining Officer of ICAP North America with with Butler Till Ltd in London and BrokerTec.
Aged 55. over 27 years experience in the with Guy Butler International in broking industry.
He is a director of London and Sydney.
SIF ICAP, ICAPs joint venture in Latin America and was previously Chief Executive Officer of Garban Capital Markets covering the OTC derivative, money market, foreign exchange and commodity markets.
He is a member of the Federal Reserves Foreign Exchange Committee.
14 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 Analysis by geographic segment Revenue 428.2m Americas 394.9m Europe 96.1m Asia Pacific Using technology to increase Electronic broking, together with Europe trading efficiency post-trade feeds, provides STP, which Revenue in Europe increased by ICAP uses a number of different allows the trade to be confirmed, 11% to 394.9 million, generating technology platforms to deliver cleared where the market has operating profit of 85.3 million electronic broking to the different clearing and settled upon the 2004 05 76.4 million.
We continue to execution of the trade.
Voice-brokered markets performed in line with the invest so that in the future the trades are also confirmed previous year.
There was continuing majority of ICAPs services, apart electronically through the same growth in the credit derivatives from a few very illiquid or structured process.
This streamlined process market although demand for bonds in products, are available electronically reduces costs significantly, but also the credit markets was discouraged as well as through voice brokers.
enables many more trades to be by tight credit spreads.
Overall there To reduce support costs we are executed and processed within a day, was more activity in the sterling migrating from some of our existing thereby increasing the velocity of markets.
The emerging markets platforms to newer, more efficient trading in these markets.
business had a good year, technologies.
In addition, we are particularly in eastern Europe foreign building a sophisticated capability Geographic analysis exchange.
In the energy markets we to provide access across these ICAPs businesses are broadly saw strong growth across oil, platforms so that we can satisfy distributed with 23 offices worldwide: electricity, coal and gas.
future customer demands for with Europe and the Americas the cross-market trading.
Asia Pacific Following the turmoil last year when The main benefits offered to our The Americas there were significant staff movements customers by electronic broking are The Americas were the most profitable between brokers as competitors lower costs, increased speed and region in 2005 06 with an operating attempted to establish themselves ease of execution.
However, the profit of 103.9 million 2004 05 in the region, a very competitive positive impact on a banks costs 88.2 million and revenue of environment has emerged.
is not only limited to the execution 428.2 million resulting in an Operating profit fell in the year to of trades, but more importantly to operating profit margin of 24.3%.
31 March 2006 to 7.1 million the potential cost savings in the Voice broking, electronic broking and 2004 05 9.4 million on revenue middle and back office functions.
information sales were all significant of 96.1 million.
During the year we The majority of the costs and contributors to the profitability of this strengthened the business with newly inefficiencies in the OTC market business.
Overall activity in securities recruited staff.
In Australia we usually occur post trade, where was unchanged on the previous year acquired an interest rate swaps team transactions need to be manually as flat yield curves and tight credit by agreement with a competitor.
confirmed and input into the banks spread subdued revenues and The team has proved to be very systems for both settlement of the reduced overall profitability in successful.
In contrast, mortgage backed securities and For ICAP a fundamental business credit derivatives grew significantly.
requirement is the integration of our Increased activity in the energy networks and systems with those of markets, plus the acquisition of our customers post-trade systems.
United Fuels, resulted in a significant Establishing these links can be improvement in revenue and difficult and slow, involving the banks operating profit.
Our emerging in investing time and money to markets business in Latin American complete this integration, but once products has expanded strongly this established they provide a significant year and we are working to extend competitive advantage.
Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 15 Operating and Financial Review continued Analysis by business segment Revenue 98.3m Electronic broking 368.6m Derivatives and money broking 350.5m Securities broking 75.9m Energy broking 25.9m Information services Business performance US$126 billion per day.
We estimate electronic broking operations with ICAP segments its Group revenue that our average combined voice and some small exceptions will be and operating profit into five electronic market share overall in integrated in a single, new, global divisions: electronic broking, US Treasury products continued to electronic division.
derivatives and money broking, exceed 58% during the same period.
securities broking, energy broking ICAP is also firmly established as ICAPs electronic broking footprint and information services.
market leader in the European and is already much more extensive US$ repo markets.
Average electronic than any other broker and currently Electronic broking broking volumes in the last quarter of includes active and off-the-run ICAPs voice and electronic broking 2005 06 had increased by 18% to US Treasuries, bills, notes, bonds, businesses operate as two strong reach US$211 billion per day in strips, TIPS and basis trading as parallel businesses.
In the US$ repo market well as agencies and mortgages: leading electronic interdealer broker overall volumes were down 7%, European, UK, Australian, Japanese in the fixed income markets.
ICAPs electronic volumes were down and South African government By combining with EBS in foreign just 1% at US$180 billion per day.
bonds: US$ and euro repurchase exchange, ICAP will be the largest agreements: Eurobonds and credit global electronic broker in liquid, We continue to make some progress derivatives: EONIAS and forward commoditised OTC markets providing in accessing the Italian government foreign exchange.
Electronic broking customers with the broadest product bond markets following the of credit default swaps and indices in range, the widest electronic footprint agreement with Monte Titoli S. p. A. to London has established a good and strong post-trade support.
give ICAP Electronic Broking direct market position: customers have access to their systems for the access to bonds and credit repo on There was a 17% increase in revenue clearing and settlement of Italian the same display.
In the Americas, in electronic broking to 98.3 million government bonds and repo.
We mortgage backed securities have in 2005 06.
The operating profit have recently gained access to both established liquidity and electronic margin improved to 30% from 28% the central counterparties Cassa di volumes are growing.
Credit default in the previous year, despite the Compensazione e Garanzia and indices have recently been launched.
additional costs of running two LCH-Clearnet.
To complete the platforms in parallel in the second process we are hopeful that the On the other platforms: half of the financial year as we Dipartimento del Tesoro may revise i-Forwards ICAPs electronic migrate to our new electronic broking the current primary dealer assessment broking system for forward foreign platform.
This demonstrates the process and give equal weight to exchange is now being used by substantial operational leverage in volumes traded on any platform.
71 banks in Europe, the US these businesses.
and Asia: Investment in our technology platforms i-Swap since we launched Despite flatter and at times inverted continues.
Migrating the BrokerTec electronic broking in euro interest yield curves, issuance to fund rising platform to new technology is underway rate swaps has been disappointing deficits and the growth of black-box and will incur additional costs in the as our customers focus on automated trading systems short term but will deliver lower costs automating their customer facing maintained volumes in the and greater scalability in the longer systems.
We believe that the banks government bond markets.
To prepare for the longer-term will turn their attention to electronic average daily US Treasury volume potential of cross-market trading we broking in the interdealer market was $561 billion per day in the first are continuing to invest in i-Connect once their customer systems are quarter of 2006, virtually unchanged which will interconnect several broking completed.
The lengthy process of from the same period in the previous platforms and customer interfaces.
installation and integration has year.
Electronic volumes in the US 15 banks live for trading medium Treasury products on the BrokerTec As a part of the integration of EBS term euro interest rate swaps and a platform increased by 23% over with our electronic broking business further four in process.
For trading the previous year, to an average of we are significantly reorganising our in euro overnight indexed swaps, reporting structure so that all ICAPs 33 banks are live on the platform.
16 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 Derivatives and money broking The OTC equity derivatives markets However, several multi-year contracts Although yield curves have flattened, have grown significantly and we have with these vendors have been agreed interest rate markets have remained benefited from this increased activity.
Revenue increased slightly reasonably active and revenue has We believe that there are significant to 25.9 million in 2005 06 and shown steady improvement.
The opportunities to grow further in this operating profit was 14.2 million.
Groups broad market coverage of highly fragmented market.
the emerging markets meant that we benefited from increased flows and Energy broking A key resource our staff volatility, particularly in Latin Our energy businesses have ICAP has more than 3,000 staff American derivatives and foreign experienced a substantial increase in worldwide, with more than 1,900 exchange.
As a result, ICAPs activity, particularly in the oil markets broking staff, including trainees.
revenue in derivatives and money and ICAP Energys revenue rose to 2,300 of our staff are markets grew from 328.4 million 75.9 million from 50.9 million in concentrated in New York to 368.6 million, increasing 2004 05.
Operating profit rose by More than 300 are involved in the operating profit to 83.4 million 101% to 15.1 million.
In early development and delivery of our 2004 05 75.7 million.
October we completed the acquisition electronic systems.
of the majority of the assets of Securities broking United Fuels.
United Fuels has a It is essential that we invest in a The overall effect of changes in strong presence in US oil, oil related regular flow of quality staff into our market activity was increased markets, emissions and coal which is growing business and a key goal for revenue of 350.5 million, up 8%, a great addition to our core strength ICAP is to be the employer of choice generating operating profit of in US power and gas.
It has for graduates entering our industry.
54.0 million 2004 05 continued to be an excellent fit with 52.0 million.
Credit default ICAPs leading position in the energy derivatives continued to grow and markets in Europe and Asia the introduction of trading in credit particularly the London and default indices spurred electronic Singapore based businesses in oil broking in this market.
In the past year we continued to For the second year running ICAP broaden ICAPs futures business and Energy was named Broker of the Year are now clearing members of by Energy RISK magazine in a poll of Euronext, Liffe, Eurex, Chicago market participants.
Mercantile Exchange, Chicago Board of Trade, NYMEX and the Information services International Petroleum Exchange.
ICAP produces a broad array of An agency clearing agreement allows prices and information covering most ICAP to clear on all other principal OTC financial markets.
The global clearing move to electronic broking there is platform is based on the London hub increased concentration of market allowing ICAP to offer a highly share and information from these competitive service.
The execution markets becomes more valuable.
business has been similarly ICAP distributes its information expanded and integrated with desks mainly through professional data in New York and Sydney added to vendors including Reuters, Bloomberg, London.
ICAP now offers its clients Telerate and Thomson.
In the highly access to all electronic exchanges competitive environment among in the three time zones via a these data vendors, the market for single platform.
Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 17 Operating and Financial Review continued Competitive landscape that innovation in the OTC markets is On 1 January 2007 the Group will ICAP remains the global leader in much more frequent and has a much become subject to the new Capital our sector with an overall market greater chance of success.
Under share estimated at between 2829%, examples include credit derivatives, the CRD, the circumstances in which slightly higher than a year ago.
emissions credits and inflation swaps.
a group may avoid deducting goodwill from regulatory capital are more In the voice broking markets, the Liquid futures contracts are natural restrictively defined: nevertheless it major interdealer broker firms hedging tools in many of our markets will still be possible provided that continue to consolidate market share and each type of instrument helps such a group has no exposure to as banks seek to rationalise their the development of the other.
As market risk in its activities.
broking relationships and achieve the exchanges seek to expand their economies of scale.
While this businesses there is the potential Following extensive discussions with process of consolidation has already for more competition between the the FSA, the Group believes that it run a long way in certain products, institutional or wholesale financial will be able to meet the tougher tests it is still in the early stages in others markets serviced by ICAP and the in the CRD and continue to calculate e. g equity derivatives, energy and exchanges which are open to a much its consolidated regulatory capital we therefore believe the trend will wider variety of users.
requirement on this more continue for some time.
Regulatory capital changes The acquisition of EBS is a significant The Group has historically been This decision has very significant step forward in this process of market subject to Consolidated Supervision implications for the business strategy consolidation and will transform the by the FSA, under which it has been and future capital structure of the electronic competitive landscape, required to maintain consolidated Group.
Provided that the Group can more than doubling ICAPs share of regulatory capital in excess of continue to meet the CRDs zero OTC electronic broking and widening regulatory capital requirements.
market risk test, a much higher product coverage.
For this purpose, consolidated proportion of current and future goodwill regulatory capital is computed net can be financed with senior debt rather The customer footprint that the of intangible assets.
The practical than equity or subordinated debt.
combined ICAP electronic broking implication of this has been that, like and EBS networks, together with the many firms subject to Consolidated Funding the acquisition of EBS opportunities for functional Supervision, ICAP has been required To finance the acquisition of EBS the enhancement and delivery of to fund all the goodwill arising on Group arranged an underwritten debt additional products and services over material acquisitions with equity.
facility from JP Morgan for up to that network, place ICAP in a strong 400 million which provides, together position as the inevitable evolution Based on undertakings given by the with our own internal cash resources, towards electronic trading takes place.
Group and the Groups low risk the funds required to close the deal.
profile, the FSA has been able to The derivatives exchanges have grant ICAP a waiver from A combination of five-year bullet term shown rapid volume growth, Consolidated Supervision, which and revolving syndicated senior debt particularly in North America, as they effectively removes this requirement facilities are being finalised to take benefit from the uplift from taking to deduct goodwill from consolidated out this underwritten facility and their markets electronic.
However, the provide term funding for the Group.
of new futures or options contracts regulatory landscape is changing and These facilities total 300 million in is a risky and often disappointing this waiver will need to be reaffirmed aggregate, a level that reflects the business.
In contrast we have found in light of new requirements.
full take up of the equity alternative.
The margin, covenants, and other terms of these facilities reflect the competitive nature of the banking 18 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 Breakdown of broker remuneration % Profile of the Groups cost base 60 Classification as a % of revenue 58% 55% 50 2005 06 2004 05 45% 40 42% 51% 50% Broker remuneration 30 21% 21% Operating profit 20 16% 16% Overheads 10 5% 5% Other 4% 5% Telecoms 0 2005 06 2005 06 2004 05 2004 05 3% 3% T&E Fixed Variable markets, the improving nature of the items.
This assists in the Additionally there are many new Groups credit and the highly cash understanding of the underlying disclosures in the notes to the generative nature of our business.
financial performance of the Financial Statements, in particular Accordingly, these new facilities have business.
also been used to refinance other, more expensive, working capital Financial impact on profit Cost management facilities.
As a consequence of the introduction The effective and efficient of IFRS, there is limited financial management of the Groups cost The new facilities will be repaid from impact on ICAPs profit for the base remains a key component of the substantial cash flow generated year before amortisation and operational strategy.
impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
During the financial year the Group Risk management The main changes relate to an continued to invest for the future The identification, monitoring and incremental non-cash charge for in terms of people and technology.
control of the risks our business share options of 1.6 million and the Additionally, employment markets faces remains a key management inclusion in the Groups share of remained highly competitive in a priority and the Group has taken a profits losses of associates of a tax number of areas of the Groups number of steps to further strengthen charge of 2.3 million.
Against this backdrop it our risk management procedures is encouraging to note that the Group including the creation of a global risk Dividend has maintained its industry leading management organisation, worldwide Under IFRS the Groups proposed cost ratios.
standardisation of risk measurement, final dividend of 7.5p is not accrued and a more detailed approach to in the Financial Statements until it is The profile of the Groups cost base measuring credit and operational formally approved by shareholders.
is summarised in the panel above.
Further details of our approach Consequently it will be reflected in On an IFRS basis, broker to risk management are provided in the 2006 07 Financial Statements.
remuneration is 51% of Group the Corporate Governance statement revenue, and is the largest on pages 32 to 37.
Disclosures component of the Groups cost base.
Under IFRS a number of new This is a slight increase on last IFRS disclosures is required.
The most years 50% ratio reflecting the points The 2005 06 Financial Statements significant is the requirement to mentioned in the paragraph above.
are the first to be prepared in gross up unsettled matched principal The variable component of broker accordance with IFRS.
The standards which remuneration cost, which is linked to comparatives have been restated require this disclosure were adopted revenue and profit growth, is now accordingly.
The transition to IFRS prospectively by the Group on 1 April 58% of total broker employment has been relatively straightforward 2005 and result in a large number costs and this compares with 55% in for ICAP, but inevitably there are a being included in the balance sheet the prior year.
number of changes which should be as at 31 March 2006 under current commented upon.
assets 142.7 billion, which is In overall terms, it is estimated that matched by 142.7 billion in current some 50% of the Groups cost base Presentation of income statement liabilities.
Previously, the Group was is of a variable nature.
The Group has continued with its required only to gross up for columnar approach to the transactions which had gone beyond consolidated income statement, with their normal settlement date.
This separate columns for amortisation presentational change has no overall and impairment of intangibles arising economic or risk impact on the Group on consolidation and exceptional or its overall net asset position.
Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 19 Operating and Financial Review continued Operating profit margin % Electronic and voice broking margin % 25 21% 30 21% 20% 20 17% 15% 20 15 10 10 5 0 0 1 1 1 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 1 On a UK GAAP basis Electronic Voice Year ended Year ended Analysis of operating profit margin 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Activity Securities broking 15% 16% Derivatives and money broking 23% 23% Energy broking 20% 15% Electronic broking 30% 28% Information services 55% 60% Geographic location Americas 24% 24% Europe 22% 22% Asia Pacific 7% 11% Operating profit margins continues to underperform as the The movement in net cash and cash The Group maintained its industry business transition process equivalents is summarised in the leading market position, with an remains ongoing.
table above and this clearly unchanged operating profit margin demonstrates the continuing of 21% in the financial year ended Cash generation operating cash generative nature 31 March 2006.
Since the Garban The effective management of of the business.
Intercapital merger in 1999 the cash resources remains a key Group has made significant strides management objective.
Regular Taxation forward in terms of margin reviews of cash retained in operating The overall objective of the Group tax performance.
Although this years subsidiaries are undertaken and, function continues to be to plan and margin has remained static, where appropriate, surplus cash is manage the tax affairs of the Group reflecting investment in people and repatriated to the centre.
Capital efficiently within the various local tax technology for the future, it is expenditure is rigorously controlled jurisdictions of the world so as to important to note that the Groups and monitored through the annual achieve the lowest tax cash cost electronic broking margin is now over budgeting and regular forecasting consistent with compliance with the 30%.
Consequently, with the EBS cycles.
All acquisition opportunities local tax regulations.
acquisition increasing the Groups are the subject of detailed due electronic broking capabilities, this diligence and financial evaluation, The net taxation charge and the net should be a positive dynamic for the including the use of discounted cash cash tax cost for the years to Groups overall margin going forward.
flow and return on investment criteria.
31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 are shown in the panel on page 21.
Most margins reflect the overall The Group remains highly cash static margin of the Group.
The Groups effective tax rate, it is worth highlighting the continuing which excludes amortisation and growth in the electronic broking Operating profit cash conversion impairment of intangibles arising on margin and the strong margin The Groups consolidated cash flow is consolidation and exceptional items, performance in energy broking.
set out on page 54 of the Financial has increased to 35% 2004 05 The rounding of margins to one Statements.
33%, reflecting in part the higher percentage point masks a 0.7% profit contribution from the Groups improvement in the Americas margin Net cash and cash equivalents, as operations in the US which is a from 23.6% to 24.3%, the increase defined in note 32 to the Financial relatively high tax rate jurisdiction.
being driven mainly by electronic Statements, increased during the year broking.
The Asia Pacific margin by 109.1 million to 339.8 million 2004 05 230.7 million.
20 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 Taxation charge and cash tax 2006 72.2m 61.7m 2006 2005005 57.2m 2005 46.8m Income statement taxation Cash tax Year ended Year ended 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 Net cash and cash equivalents m m 1 Profit before taxation 204.3 176.7 Joint ventures and associates 2.4 2.8 2 Depreciation 22.3 21.7 Net capital expenditure 18.8 26.6 Working capital and other 3.9 18.9 Taxation 61.7 46.8 139.8 108.9 3 Initially unsettled matched transactions 41.0 Private placement receipts 124.8 Share buy back 17.3 4 Acquisitions investments 53.8 26.3 5 Dividends 54.4 47.1 Exceptional items 6.3 4.8 Change in net cash and cash equivalents 109.1 13.4 Notes 1 Excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
2 Includes 6.3 million amortisation of capitalised software development.
3 Usually, in a matched principal transaction, both sides settle on the same day.
Occasionally, for various reasons, only one side of the transaction may settle giving rise to a temporary cash position which reverses on the completion of the other side of the transaction, normally within 24 hours.
4 Includes acquisitions of subsidiaries 32.8 million, associates 8.3 million, and investments of 12.7 million.
5 Includes dividends to minority interests of 1.3 million.
Generally the charge for taxation is The Group takes a prudent approach Adjusted EPS increased by 11% to affected by the varying tax rates in to the management of its tax affairs 21.5p.
The Groups basic EPS different jurisdictions applied to and provisions are set to cover increased from 18.3p to 19.6p.
taxable profits and the mix of those any tax exposures the Group profits, by the rules impacting may have.
Dividend deductibility of certain costs, such Subject to shareholder approval, as finance costs, and by the rules Earnings and earnings per share EPS a 7.5p final dividend is proposed.
relating to double taxation relief.
We continue to believe that the most This compares with 6.4p in the prior appropriate EPS measurement ratio year and would result in a full-year Although we have been successful for the Group is adjusted EPS, which dividend of 10p, which represents in minimising the cash tax cost of better reflects the Groups underlying a 21% increase over the prior year.
the Group, the success of the US cash earnings.
Adjusted EPS This is the sixth consecutive year operations results in further upward excludes amortisation and that we have been able to increase pressure on the Groups tax rate as impairment of intangibles arising on the dividend and reflects the underlying the US is a relatively high tax rate consolidation and exceptional items, earnings performance in the year and jurisdiction.
Consequently, the but includes share capital which is the Groups current financial Groups budget for the financial year contingently issuable in respect of position.
The full-year dividend to 31 March 2007 anticipates an ICAP Energy.
The calculation of EPS remains more than twice covered by effective tax rate in the range of is set out in note 12 to the Financial the profit before tax, amortisation 3738%.
and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Annual Report 2006 ICAP plc 21 Operating and Financial Review continued During the year the board Currency movements had a net Treasury policy implemented its earlier decision 3.9 million favourable impact on The Group policy, determined by that future interim dividends will the Groups operating profit in the the Treasury Committee, is to hedge be calculated as 30% of the financial year to 31 March 2006 its transactional foreign exchange previous years full-year dividend.
when compared with the prior exposures by the use of foreign This approach will continue in the financial year.
During the financial exchange contracts and options.
year, the US dollar appreciated in The Groups major transactional value against sterling the average exposures are to US dollar and Balance sheet and capital US dollar sterling rate in the euro inflows into the UK.
A 10 cent Net assets increased by 99.8 million financial year was $1.79 1 movement in the US dollar before during the year and, as at 31 March compared with $1.85 1 in the hedging, at current exposure 2006, were 619.8 million.
With the levels and exchange rates, has a Groups substantial US operations, in 4.0 million impact on pre-tax profit.
A significant proportion c. 67% terms of both profit and net assets, A 10 cent movement in the euro of the Groups cash balances of this has had a number of before hedging has a 7.0 million 339.9 million as at 31 March 2006 ramifications for the financial year impact.
As at the date of this report is of a restricted nature required for ended 31 March 2006.
The the Group has 100% of its remaining regulatory capital, clearing house translation of the Groups US dollar US dollar exposure for the year to deposits, commercial and other profits into sterling had an 3.5 31 March 2007 hedged at $1.79 1 working capital requirements.
million positive impact on pre-tax and 25% of its exposure to 31 March profit and the transactional exposure 2008 hedged at $1.82 1.
As at the The Groups balance sheet profile to the US dollar in the UK business date of this report the Group had will change following the completion had a 1.6 million positive impact 19% of its euro exposure for the year of the EBS transaction.
This has been to 31 March 2007 hedged at a euro assets will increase, leverage will be offset by a 1.3 million reduction on rate of 1.381.44 1. introduced and 36.1 million new year-on-year hedging gains arising shares issued.
A more detailed from the Groups transactional hedging The Group does not hedge its discussion on EBS is given earlier in programme which is in place to translational profit and loss foreign the Group Chief Executive Officers manage its transactional exposure to exchange exposures.
the US dollar in the UK business.
foreign exchange movements on the Other currencies had a 0.1 million translation of the Groups overseas Foreign exchange positive impact.
subsidiaries profits into sterling is As a multinational business the mitigated by the Groups policy of Group transacts its business in many The Groups overall pre-tax profit translating overseas profits at currencies and, consequently, its pre-hedging sensitivities to average exchange rates.
Where sterling reported results are movements in exchange rates in appropriate, structural hedges via impacted by the effects of exchange respect of its transactional and inter-company debt are put in place rate movements.
The Group faces translational exposures are as to further mitigate translational two main risks associated with follows: a 10 cent movement in the foreign exchange exposures.
The only foreign exchange rate markets.
US dollar equates to 10 million: a major profit and loss translational First, the translation of the results 10 cent movement in the euro foreign exchange exposure is to and underlying net assets of its equates to 7.0 million.
the US dollar, where a 10 cent subsidiaries and, second, the Group movement would have a 6 million has transactional foreign exchange impact on pre-tax profit.
exposures in its UK business which has underlying US dollar and euro revenue streams.
22 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006 The Groups only significant balance The new financial year sheet translational foreign exchange The Group has delivered on the three exposure is to the US dollar.
This key priorities which it set itself for exposure, after structural hedging, is the 2005 06 financial year: revenue some $240 million represented by growth, expansion of electronic US dollar net assets excluding broking and the maintenance of cost goodwill.
These remain the key of the subordinated debt private priorities for the new financial year placement was used as a hedge with a particular emphasis on the against the Groups US dollar net satisfactory execution and integration assets.
Another important feature of the 2006 07 financial year will be Credit and interest rate risk the Groups investment for the future We continue to ensure that strict in selected high potential revenue investment criteria apply to the growth market sectors and in management of the Groups cash continuing to enhance its information balances.
Investments must be AA technology capabilities.
rated or better and for a duration of no longer than two years.
Limits are also in place to restrict the amount of funds that can be invested in any Jim Pettigrew one institution.
Compliance with Group Finance Director policy and criteria is subject to regular review by the Treasury Committee and is formally reviewed by the Group Risk Committee.
The overall Group philosophy is one of capital preservation, liquidity management and then yield enhancement.
The Groups investment income performance improved in the year as rising interest rates in the UK and US improved yields in the Groups underlying cash and investment portfolio.
Net financing income, predominantly interest, increased to 4.8 million from 4.6 million in the previous year.
It is anticipated that the Groups exposure to interest rate movements post the EBS transaction will be limited as debt will largely act as a hedge against the Groups cash balances.
