indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 14 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 in our first full year of operation Financial review since completion of the groups stephen Billingham restructuring, we have delivered Finance Director a strong financial performance.
our revenue was 2,593m from which we produced an Adjusted EBitDA of 846m and operating profits of 635m.
We have benefited from the impact of higher electricity prices and, although behind our expectations, a marginal increase in the level of output in comparison with last year.
BE focused Overview did not trade and therefore the comparative in our first full year of operation since figures for the consolidated financial statements completion of the groups restructuring, we represent the period from 15 January 2005 to have delivered a strong financial performance.
31 March 2005. references to the group are our revenue was 2,593m from which we to the Company and its subsidiaries.
produced an Adjusted EBitDA of 846m and operating profits of 635m.
We have benefited From 1 April 2005 the group was required to from the impact of higher electricity prices and, prepare its consolidated financial statements although behind our expectations, a marginal in accordance with international Financial increase in the level of output in comparison reporting standards iFrs as endorsed by with last year.
our output was 68.4 tWh the European union.
the Annual report and nuclear 60.4 tWh, coal 8.0 tWh.
Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2006 our realised price per unit was 32.0 MWh are the groups first consolidated financial and our operating margin was 9.2 MWh.
Comparative our operational performance is beginning to figures have been restated from uK gAAp to show signs of benefiting from our investment iFrs.
the financial statements of the parent programme.
During the year we spent 283m company continue to be prepared under uK in our power station investment programme.
Full details on the impact of the transition to iFrs are contained in note 38 Financial Statements to the consolidated financial statements.
Basis of Presentation of Financial Statements Accounting Policies the results for the year ended 31 March 2006 in preparing the consolidated financial represent our first full financial year since our statements under iFrs, we are required to restructuring on 14 January 2005, our make certain critical accounting estimates and restructuring Effective Date rED.
British judgements that affect amounts reported in Energy group plc the Company was the consolidated financial statements.
Full incorporated on 2 July 2004 and acquired the details of the accounting policies, including business and assets of British Energy limited those which involve significant judgements BE ltd, formerly British Energy plc, and its and estimates, are provided in note 2 to subsidiaries at rED.
until rED, the Company the consolidated financial statements.
British EnErgy group plc 15 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Bpi produces around 325,000 degree of control over our British polythene tonnes of polythene products purchasing decisions to help us industries every year, making it the take advantage of volatility in largest manufacturer of its kind the electricity market.
British From bin liners and in Europe.
Couple this with a Energy has worked with us to silage stretchwrap major recycling business and create just such a flexible to pallet covers and it is not surprising that energy purchasing solution.
is one of the companys most nurses aprons, the significant costs.
he continues: it is important products of British to us that we receive accurate, polythene industries Dr ian McDarmaid, Bpis timely and transparent bills Director of polymer and Energy for each sites electricity Bpi stretch far purchasing, says: naturally, consumption.
when it comes to choosing our that British Energy has been electricity supplier, cost is a keen and able to do what it British EnErgy DirECt suppliEs major driver.
But in addition, takes to work with us.
ElECtriCity to MorE thAn 2,600 inDustriAl AnD CoMMErCiAl we need flexibility and a CustoMErs, inCluDing Bpi Summary of Results the results for the year ended 31 March 2006 are summarised as follows: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 1 2006 2005 m m Revenue 2,593 499 operating and energy costs 1,747 362 2 Adjusted EBITDA 846 137 other operating income costs 95 8 other exceptional operating expenses 19 Cash sweep payment 105 Depreciation 191 40 Amortisation and other charges 28 1 unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts 18 Operating profit 635 69 283m Financing charges credits We invested 283m interest payable 50 10 during 2005 06 interest receivable 26 5 other finance expenses 12 4 Profit before taxation 599 60 taxation 169 19 Net profit for the year attributable to shareholders 430 41 1 trading from 15 January 2005 to 31 March 2005 2 Adjusted EBitDA is defined as profit before financing charges credits, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and other charges, unrealised net gains on financial instruments and commodity contracts, Cash sweep payment, other exceptional operating expenses and other operating income costs Revenue and Output group revenue consists primarily of wholesale generation sales and sales by our direct supply business, British Energy Direct.
the analysis of revenue for the year ended 31 March 2006 is as follows: Year 2 July ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 investing in the future m m ApprEntiCEs At our hEyshAM stAtion gEt hAnDs on trAining in our nEW FloW loop FACility Revenue Wholesale generation sales 1,175 233 Direct supply sales net of energy supply costs 1,017 170 Revenue from generated electricity 2,192 403 Energy supply costs recharged to customers 356 73 Energy purchases 26 17 Miscellaneous income 19 6 Total revenue 2,593 499 unlocking potential tArgEtED invEstMEnt is KEy to iMproving opErAtionAl rEliABility Job: 7005 BE AR06 Front.
indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 16 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Financial review output is analysed as follows: customers.
these costs comprise items such as use of the distribution, transmission and Year 15 January balancing systems and the cost of metering.
ended 2005 to Energy supply costs also include the annual 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 renewable obligation.
the renewables TWh tWh obligation scheme, introduced by the utilities nuclear 60.4 14.3 Act 2000, requires electricity suppliers to ensure that a proportion of their sales to Coal-fired power station Eggborough 8.0 2.5 customers is derived from renewable sources.
Total 68.4 16.8 Eligible generators receive renewable obligation Certificates roCs for each A discussion of our nuclear generation performance is contained in the nuclear generation renewable MWh of electricity they generate section on pages 9 and 10 and the performance of our coal-fired power station at Eggborough which may then be sold to suppliers in order is considered in the trading review section on pages 11 to 13. to fulfil their requirements.
the realised price per unit for the year was 32.0 MWh, calculated as revenue from generated Energy purchases were 26m in the year and electricity divided by total output.
A discussion on the movement of prices and the groups represent the cost of purchased energy which strategy for trading is contained in the trading review section.
has been generated from renewable sources.
Operating and Energy Costs Summary Other Operating Income Costs the group operating and energy costs are analysed as follows: other operating income of 95m for the year relates to the utilisation of the contracts Year 2 July provision, which was established at rED and ended 2004 to 31 March 31 March which unwinds over the lives of the contracts 2006 2005 in place at rED.
m m Fuel costs nuclear 349 71 Other Exceptional Operating Expenses coal 207 56 there were no exceptional operating expenses in the year.
the 19m in the prior period total fuel costs 556 127 relates to employee severance costs.
Materials and services 487 82 staff costs before exceptional operating expenses 322 63 Cash Sweep Payment As a consequence of the restructuring the Operating costs of generated electricity 1,365 272 Company has an obligation to make payments Energy purchases 26 17 to the nuclear liabilities Fund nlF should Energy supply costs 356 73 certain criteria be met.
in accordance with the terms of the Contribution Agreement, a Cash Total operating and energy costs 1,747 362 sweep payment of 105m is due and has been accrued in the consolidated financial Unit Operating Cost and Operating Margin Materials and services costs of 487m statements in accordance with the groups unit operating costs were 22.8 MWh for comprise the operating expenses of the power accounting policy.
the year, calculated as operating costs of stations and support functions and include generated electricity plus depreciation and 119m on repairs, maintenance and safety the calculation of the annual Cash sweep software amortisation, divided by total output.
project expenditure on plant and equipment.
payment is based on the cash generation in the financial year and consequently can only Deducting our unit operating cost from our staff costs totalled 322m including a 53m be determined after the end of the financial realised price per unit results in an operating charge for the current service cost of the year.
therefore, it is only recognised and margin per unit of 9.2 MWh for the year.
groups defined benefit pension schemes, provided for when it becomes determinable including the unfunded scheme, calculated in and is recorded as an operating cost in the Operating and Energy Costs accordance with iAs 19 Employee Benefits applicable financial year.
Fuel costs amounted to 556m for the year.
iAs 19. our headcount increased from 5,430 nuclear fuel costs were a total of 349m for at 1 April 2005 to 5,545 at 31 March 2006 the basis of the computation of the Cash the year, or 5.8 MWh of nuclear output.
reflecting the continuing increase in staff sweep payment is described in more detail in levels, at both our stations and central note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
the fuel costs of Eggborough were a total functions: the targeted increase in staffing of 207m for the year, or 25.9 MWh.
levels is consistent with world class operations.
Financing Charges Credits the fuel costs include the costs of coal, interest payable of 50m relates primarily oil, biomass utilised plus the costs of Energy supply costs recharged to customers to interest on the groups Bonds.
were 356m and represent costs incurred by receivable of 26m relates to interest earned our direct supply business, British Energy on cash deposits.
Direct, which are passed through to British EnErgy group plc 17 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 22.8 MWh unit operating costs were 22.8 MWh for the year transforming providing operations reassurance 150M WAs spEnt on invEstMEnt proJECts thE DEployMEnt oF ArMED poliCE oFFiCErs oF 3M or lEss, inCluDing thE DungEnEss B FroM thE Civil nuClEAr ConstABulAry hAs trAnsForMEr rEliABility proJECt EnhAnCED our Existing sECurity ArrAngEMEnts other finance expenses of 12m comprise a Basic earnings per share for the year was Consolidated Balance Sheet net revalorisation charge of 22m less a net 75.9p.
this is based on the net profit for the the net assets of the group increased during credit in respect of retirement benefit year divided by the weighted average number the year from 1,621m at 31 March 2005 to obligations of 10m.
of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
2,101m at 31 March 2006. the net revalorisation charge of 22m includes the diluted earnings per share for the year was Nuclear Liabilities and Funding a revalorisation charge for nuclear liabilities 73.8p.
this is based on the net profit for the Arrangements of 276m, exactly offset by a 276m year divided by the weighted average number under the arrangements with the secretary of revalorisation credit for the nlF and nuclear of ordinary shares in issue, together with the state implemented on restructuring the nlF liabilities receivables.
For further details refer dilutive weighted average of potential ordinary will fund, subject to certain exceptions, the to the discussion below on nuclear liabilities shares in respect of the Companys Warrants groups qualifying uncontracted nuclear and Funding Arrangements and accounting issued to shareholders on restructuring.
the liabilities and qualifying decommissioning policy note 2 ix in the consolidated financial adjusted earnings per share for the year was costs.
As part of the arrangements the group statements.
As described in note 12 of the will make certain payments to the nlF, revalorisation charge in respect of the consolidated financial statements, the Cash including the Cash sweep payment.
the nlF contracts provision established at rED, sweep payment of 105m and the net profit has the right, from time to time, to convert all and a 12m revalorisation charge in respect attributable to shareholders of 430m does or part of the Cash sweep payment into of the nlF liabilities, relating to fixed not necessarily reflect the respective economic Convertible shares the nlF conversion right.
For more details interests of nlF and equity shareholders in the of the nlF liabilities refer to note 2 ix in the profits of the group.
the calculation in any the government provides an indemnity to consolidated financial statements.
given year of the annual Cash sweep payment cover services for spent Agr fuel loaded preis based on cash flows and the retention of restructuring.
the nuclear liabilities receivable the net credit of 10m in respect of retirement appropriate cash target Amount and is recognised in respect of this indemnity.
benefit obligations comprises a credit of expenditure Forecast Expenditure reserve the government also indemnifies the group 136m relating to the expected return on plan reserves see note 8 of the consolidated against any future shortfall in nlF funding assets and a charge of 126m relating to the financial statements.
of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities expected unwind of discount interest on the including pWr back end fuel services and retirement benefit obligation.
therefore, adjusted earnings per share has qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs.
been calculated by excluding the Cash sweep the nlF receivable asset is recognised Unrealised Net Gains on Financial payment expense from earnings and adjusting representing the aggregate value of the Instruments and Commodity Contracts the weighted average share capital by the investments held by the nlF and the unrealised net gains on financial instruments number of shares that would have been in government indemnity.
the group will continue and commodity contracts of 18m arises as issue if the nlF had fully converted their to recognise nuclear liabilities on its a result of a fair value movement in certain of interest at the balance sheet date.
consolidated balance sheet pending their our commodity contracts.
iAs 39 Financial discharge by payments received from the nlF.
instruments: recognition and Measurement Analysis of Cash Flows iAs 39 was adopted on 1 April 2005 and net cash inflow generated from operations Both the nuclear liabilities receivable and the therefore there is no comparative information was 664m for the year ended nlF receivable are stated in the consolidated for the impact of iAs 39 in the period ended 31 March 2006, reflecting the strong balance sheet at current price levels, and each 31 March 2005. performance in operating profit.
year the financing charges in the consolidated income statement will include the Taxation net cash used in investing activities was revalorisation of these receivables which will the taxation charge of 169m represents an 220m for the year.
total expenditure on match the revalorisation of the nuclear effective tax rate of 28% on profit before tax of the purchase of property, plant and equipment liabilities, provided the group does not incur 599m.
there is no current tax charge for the was 215m and comprises investment in any non-qualifying nuclear liabilities.
At year as taxable profits are sheltered by tax major plant projects, strategic spares and the 31 March 2006 the total nlF and nuclear losses brought forward: the tax charge is costs of our statutory outage programme.
liabilities receivables was 5,237m, of which comprised entirely of deferred tax.
Although investment spend of 5m related to 186m was included in current assets: this realisation of brought forward losses is expenditure on software in the year.
equates to the present value of associated expected between 2007 and 2015, we may nuclear liabilities included in our current become liable to make corporation tax net cash used in financing activities was liabilities of 186m and non-current liabilities payments towards the beginning of this time 41m for the year.
the movement on the closing net repayment of Bond principal net of 9m of deferred tax asset of 244m 2005: 429m proceeds from the exercise of the Warrants.
in the report and Accounts for the period is fully analysed in note 10 to the consolidated ended 31 March 2005 we highlighted that financial statements.
As a result of the above cash flow movements, the value attributed to uncontracted nuclear the groups net increase in cash and cash liabilities and decommissioning costs was Net Profit and Earnings per Share equivalents in the year ended 31 March 2006 provisional pending completion of a net profit for the year attributable to was 403m, and the cash and cash equivalents Quinquennial review to re-assess the value of shareholders was 430m.
the Quinquennial review Job: 7005 BE AR06 Front.
indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 18 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Financial review has now been completed, subject to final other intangible assets, comprising software, Non-current Liabilities agreement with the nuclear Decommissioning roCs, lECs and purchased carbon allowances non-current liabilities at 31 March 2006 were Authority nDA and the other regulators totalled 84m at 31 March 2006 2005: 6,103m 2005: 6,292m and relate mainly nuclear installations inspectorate, the 31m.
in the year to 31 March 2006, the to non-current nuclear liabilities of 5,051m Environment Agency and the scottish group has incurred net purchases of 19m 2005: 4,962m, which as noted above, are Environment protection Agency.
the review for roC and lEC assets.
these will be used fully offset by the nuclear receivables in nonhas been carried out in consultation with the to settle the groups renewable obligations.
nDA and the costings have been verified by purchases of carbon allowances totalled 34m external consulting engineers.
Following the in the year and will be surrendered along with the groups retirement benefit obligations review, the level of estimated liabilities at rED government free allowances as part of the decreased to 215m 2005: 381m.
increased by 956m, on a discounted basis, 2005 Eu Ets settlement.
this reduction is mainly due to actuarial gains resulting in the total liability at rED being on the fair value of plan assets of 312m, restated to 5,265m.
the increase equates Current Assets supplemented by additional employer to 2,032m on an undiscounted basis.
in Current assets were 1,856m at contributions totalling 70m, being partially accordance with iFrs 3 Business 31 March 2006 2005: 1,295m.
the largest offset by actuarial losses of 224m on the Combinations iFrs 3, an adjustment has components of this amount were cash and present value of the schemes obligations.
been made to the provisional fair values set cash equivalents of 638m 2005: 235m, the additional employer contribution consists at rED to reflect this revised estimate.
restricted cash of 206m 2005: 221m, of the first annual additional employer trade and other receivables of 455m 2005: contributions to both the British Energy the increase in estimate is primarily due 327m, inventories of 342m 2005: generation group scheme BEgg of 19m to higher costs being assessed for 331m and the current proportion of the and British Energy Combined group scheme decommissioning.
the estimate is based nuclear liabilities receivable of 186m 2005: BECg of 1m, part of the deficiency recovery on a highly detailed costing study, which 181m.
restricted cash primarily relates to plan agreed at the last triennial valuation at draws on experience gained in both the us collateral posted in support of trading activities.
31 March 2004, and an accelerated and uK, and includes provision for the earlier contribution of 50m made by the group in completion of certain decommissioning trade and other receivables includes 405m March 2006. the actuarial loss on the present workstreams.
As indicated above, the group for trade receivables 2005: 246m and value of the scheme obligations is principally will be indemnified by the government for any 50m for prepayments and other receivables due to the discount rate used declining from future shortfall on nlF funding of qualifying 2005: 81m.
the discount rate is based on uncontracted nuclear liabilities and qualifying the yield on long-term corporate bonds.
decommissioning costs and therefore the inventories comprise nuclear fuel of 280m increase in liabilities as described is fully offset 2005: 267m, coal stocks of 19m 2005: the groups borrowings have fallen during the by a corresponding increase in the 14m used in the operation of Eggboroughs year by 50m to 626m, of which 573m is governments indemnity at that date.
power station and other stores of 43m non-current, in accordance with the agreed 2005: 50m.
the terms of the Non-current Assets borrowings are described under Capital non-current assets were 7,394m 2005: Current Liabilities resources below.
7,457m at 31 March 2006. the largest Current liabilities at 31 March 2006 were component of this amount is the nlF and 1,046m 2005: 839m including the non-current nlF liabilities, relating to fixed nuclear liabilities receivables amount of current proportion of the groups borrowings decommissioning payments, were 200m 5,051m 2005: 4,962m referred to of 53m 2005: 50m.
trade and other at 31 March 2006 2005: 210m and relate above.
property, plant and equipment, which payables have increased to 623m 2005: to the groups future obligation to contribute is mainly power stations and related plant and 378m including the accrual of the Cash 20m per annum to the nlF, in accordance equipment, have a net book value of 1,693m sweep payment of 105m 2005: nil, with the Contribution Agreement.
During expected to be paid in August 2006. other liabilities and charges were 59m 2005: the year a further 215m was capitalised in 108m and relate mainly to the non-current our power stations and other property, plant nuclear liabilities were 186m at proportion of the contracts provision described and equipment.
there were disposals of assets 31 March 2006 2005: 181m and above under current liabilities.
relating to power stations and other plant and represent the current proportion of the equipment of 30m in the year.
the charge groups nuclear liabilities.
provisions for other Equity for depreciation in the year was 191m.
liabilities and charges were 127m 2005: total shareholders equity was 2,101m 230m and include 110m 2005: 207m 2005: 1,621m and is fully explained in note our annual review for impairment of goodwill for the current proportion of a contract 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
arising on acquisition confirmed that no provision originally valued at rED.
the provision amendment was required to the value of will be utilised as power is delivered to Investment Programme 345m brought forward from 2005.
Additionally customers over the life of the contracts.
our goal for achieving world class operational 23m has been charged to the consolidated other provisions of 17m 2005: 23m performance requires significant expenditure income statement to reduce goodwill in relation relate primarily to severance provisions.
to improve the reliability of our power stations.
to recognition of a deferred tax asset at As part of a continuing programme of 31 March 2006, which at rED did not satisfy investment in our business we incurred the recognition criteria within iFrs 3.
283m for the year to 31 March 2006: British EnErgy group plc 19 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 844m At 31 March 2006 the group had restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents of 844m scale of operation safe, clean, green ApproxiMAtEly 6M WAs spEnt on WE hAvE upgrADED FACilitiEs AnD iMprovED rEplACing A gEnErAtor stAtor rotor WorKing prACtiCEs to rEDuCE our iMpACt At our hArtlEpool poWEr stAtion on thE EnvironMEnt 133m was capitalised in property, plant and We have a receivables financing facility in addition the group has exposure to risks equipment additions in respect of performance agreement with Barclays Bank plC of up to a associated with its pension schemes and improvement projects and the acquisition maximum of 60m 2005: 60m subject the funding of certain nuclear liabilities not of strategic spares: 5m was incurred on to the level of trade receivables.
this is a three funded by the nlF or covered by the systems software, which is capitalised in year facility signed in August 2004. the facility government indemnity.
intangible assets: 119m relating to specific contains detailed covenants for the benefit of repair, maintenance and safety projects were the facility provider, which mirror those under Commodity Price Risk included in our materials and services the Bonds.
in addition to these, the agreement the group is exposed to commodity price risk, operating costs: the balance of 26m also contains a financial interest coverage particularly in relation to electricity prices.
represents staff costs from our performance covenant assessed on a consolidated Commodity price cash flow risk exists where improvement programme.
group-wide basis and covenants relating the group has uncontracted sales volumes or to the conduct of the electricity supply floating priced contracted sales.
Commodity Further details on the projects invested in business customary for a receivables facility.
price fair value risk exists where contracts are are contained in the Business review.
the At 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005, the fixed in price, thereby exposing the group to investment programme will continue to facility was undrawn.
changes in fair values as a result of changes in address our plant reliability issues and it is market prices.
anticipated that the level of expenditure for the in June 2006, we entered into a 150m letter next financial year, 2006 07, will be towards of credit facility with a financial institution.
this During the year, we have focused on extending the high end of the range 250m to 300m.
is a two year committed facility.
the facility can our fixed price contract portfolio to provide be used to support collateral requirements of more future income certainty while operating in addition to this investment programme the groups energy trading business.
this within tight collateral constraints necessary to expenditure of 283m, we incurred 78m on facility contains covenants for the benefit protect the business against some extremely the six statutory outages we completed during of the facility provider, which are in line with volatile power prices.
the year and 4m on additional strategic those under the Bonds.
spares: this expenditure is capitalised in We will continue to develop new and innovative property, plant and equipment additions, Risk Management arrangements with our counterparties to deliver as well as the 133m discussed above.
Overview an increase in the volume of zero capped the groups principal financial instruments collateral trades so that we can extend the Capital Resources include derivative commodity contracts for the fixed price contract portfolio further.
At 31 March 2006 the group had cash sale and purchase of electricity, purchase of and cash equivalents and restricted cash coal and carbon allowances, interest bearing under BEttA any mismatch between amounting to 844m 2005: 456m, of debt, loans, cash held in collateral accounts, actual metered generation or demand and which 201m 2005: 216m was posted cash and short-term deposits.
refer to note the notified contract position is settled through as collateral in support of trading activities 16 in the consolidated financial statements the balancing mechanism at generally and is included within restricted cash.
A further for further details on the groups financial unfavourable prices.
the group aims to sell 5m 2005: 5m of cash was restricted assets and liabilities.
all planned nuclear output forward to minimise for other purposes.
exposure to the balancing mechanism.
the main financial risks faced by the group are the price risks in the wholesale market are At 31 March 2006, total debt of 626m trading risks in respect of the sale of electricity.
managed primarily through a contracting 2005: 676m comprised: Electricity trading risks, including exposure to strategy that builds a portfolio of forward price fluctuations, balancing of output volume contracts of different lengths.
While operating 1 A long-term project finance loan of 134m with contractual commitments and commodity primarily as a flexible mid-merit plant, our 2005: 145m secured on the assets of contract credit risk.
these are managed by coal-fired Eggborough power station provides Eggborough power limited Epl, a BEpEt our power and Energy trading Division a flexible generation capability that assists subsidiary company that operates the which operates within policies and procedures in managing risks associated with nonEggborough coal-fired power station.
the that are approved and monitored by the Board.
loan is secured by a mortgage over the BEpEt is not permitted to take speculative shares in Epl, an assignment of the Epl open positions.
the group manages exposure to fluctuations in share purchase Agreement and tax Deed of market prices within the coal market either by Covenant and a debenture comprising fixed non-trading risks, including liquidity, interest securing fixed prices on a variety of delivery and floating charges over Epls assets.
the rate and foreign exchange risks are managed bases or by entering into coal contracts as loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 7.0%.
by our central treasury Department which also natural hedges against power and carbon price 2 An aggregate principal amount of 492m operates within policies and procedures that movements.
2005: 531m sterling denominated are approved and monitored by the Board.
the guaranteed bonds now due between 2007 treasury Department is not permitted to take on restructuring, an agreement was put in and 2022. the bonds bear interest at a speculative open positions.
place with BnFl which covers front end and fixed rate of 7.0%.
back end Agr fuel services.
this agreement reduces the groups exposure to movements in prices in relation to the procurement of nuclear fuels.
indd Proof: 09 Proof Read by: Operator: Amy Date: 18 07 06 Server: Studio lll Set-up: Amy First Read Revisions British EnErgy group plc 20 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 Financial review iii Cash Balances Factors such as the seasonality of cash flows, Credit Risk the group is also exposed to credit risk on servicing of debt and funding requirements in Credit risk represents the potential loss that its cash balances.
in addition to the cash on respect of the nlF and pension schemes are the group would incur if a counterparty were deposit for collateral, the group holds cash on also assessed.
liquid assets which are surplus to fail to meet its contractual obligations.
the deposit with a number of financial institutions.
to immediate operational requirements are groups policy is to manage credit exposure invested in the short-term money market.
to trading counterparties within clearly defined the group manages its credit risk exposure the Board reviews liquidity risks in detail as limits.
All of the groups counterparties are by limiting individual deposits to clearly part of the annual business planning process: assigned an internal credit limit, based either defined limits.
cash generation activities are then monitored upon the counterparty credit rating and net by the Board through monthly reports.
worth, or upon the limit of credit support As at 31 March 2006, the group held a provided by that counterparty.
collateral amount with a uK financial institution Cash generation by the operating businesses is backed by 139m on deposit.
dependent upon the reliability of the groups the credit risks and steps taken to address power stations in producing electricity, the these risks in relation to direct sales contracts, the group does not believe that it is currently realised selling price for electricity, operational our wholesale customers and our cash exposed to major concentrations of credit risk risk and capital investment expenditure and balances are as follows: on other classes of financial instruments.
i British Energy Direct Liquidity Risk the group has mitigated its output risk by British Energy Direct sells electricity to large the groups strategy for securing part of its entering into business interruption insurance industrial and commercial customers.
these income through fixed price contracts means for its power stations.
For the next financial contracts are typically of 12 months duration that in a volatile electricity market collateral year 2006 07 the recovery rates for business and are invoiced on a monthly basis.
normally requirements may also be volatile.
the groups interruption insurance have been secured at there are no credit support arrangements ability to secure longer term price certainty can 65% to 70% of the anticipated lost income, a contained within these contracts.
however, be limited by the amount of collateral and lower level than in prior periods as a result of the group has credit insurance in place to headroom available.
the group mitigates a market conditions.
minimise losses from the failure of customers certain amount of this risk by selling electricity to pay their debts.
through a number of routes to market including the groups ability to borrow is limited by the through its direct supply business British terms of the Bonds.
this restricts borrowing At 31 March 2006, approximately two thirds, Energy Direct, selling to large industrial and to permitted purposes until the Fixed Charge of the amounts receivable from large industrial commercial customers which requires no Coverage ratio test is passed.
With the and commercial customers was insured.
collateral to be posted with those customers finalisation of these consolidated financial and also through greater use of financial statements this test was passed and this now ii Wholesale Market products which provide electricity price allows the group to increase its borrowing Bilateral structured contracts are normally protection but require less collateral.
We have capacity if required.
based upon grid trade Master Agreements increased the volume of sales which do not gtMA terms and conditions.
the gtMA is an require collateral, and are continuing to Interest Rate Risk industry standard set of terms and conditions develop further structures of this type.
the group uses fixed rate interest rate containing, among other terms, clauses borrowings and deposits to reduce exposure stipulating credit support requirements.
the group maintains a mixture of cash to fluctuations in interest rates as considered Counterparties with an investment grade rating investments, long-term debt and short-term necessary.
the group does not enter into from standard and poors and or Moodys are committed facilities that are designed to instruments which are leveraged or held for usually not required to provide credit support ensure the group has sufficient available speculative purposes.
Cash not immediately for trading activities.
Counterparties without an funds for business requirements.
in addition required for business purposes is invested in investment grade rating are normally required to cash balances comprising demand deposits money market funds.
to provide credit support which takes the form and cash balances held in collateral bank of a parent company guarantee from an accounts, at 31 March 2006 the group had At 31 March 2006 the group had no interest investment grade rated affiliate, a letter an undrawn receivables financing facility and related derivatives.
of credit from a bank or cash deposits.
Bonds which are repayable over a remaining term of 16 years.
Foreign Exchange Risk At 31 March 2006, the groups maximum the group uses foreign exchange contracts credit exposure from wholesale counterparties the groups main source of liquidity is its and other derivative instruments to hedge the was 55m, of which 3m related to unrated operating businesses.
the treasury primary market exposures associated with the counterparties.
of the maximum credit Department uses regular forecasts of groups underlying assets, liabilities and exposure, 78% represents exposure to two operational cash flow, investment and trading committed transactions as considered wholesale trading counterparties which are collateral requirements to ensure that necessary.
it is the groups policy not to both A to AAA rated.
the credit risk in respect sufficient liquid cash balances are available engage in speculative transactions.
of unrated counterparties relates to a number to service ongoing business requirements.
of small exposures to unrated counterparties.
British EnErgy group plc 21 Annual report and Accounts 2005 06 1,017m Direct supply sales net of energy supply costs were 1,017m during the year sizing up the job investment in A prE-JoB sAFEty AssEssMEnt is the pipeline CArriED out BEForE Any WorK.
our our hinKlEy point B CAst iron proJECt: inDustriAl sAFEty rECorD is AMongst ACross thE FlEEt WE hAvE CoMplEtED An thE BEst in uK inDustry ExtEnsivE progrAMME oF ABovE grounD CAst iron pipE rEplACEMEnt there are potential future foreign currency intends to consider an update of the Other Financial Issues receivables in respect of amounts outstanding Companys dividend policy to provide further Dividend Policy Previously Reported from the sale of Bruce power.
When these guidance as to timing and amount of As previously stated, the Board intends to cash flows become more certain in the future distributions to shareholders upon the distribute to shareholders as much of the the group will evaluate currency hedging announcement of any such conversion and groups available cash flow as prudently opportunities, balancing the cost and sale by the nlF.
possible, but not until the operational availability of entering into such transactions requirements of the business permit.
in against the underlying currency risk.
SEC fide-registration addition, under the terms of the restructuring, on 16 December 2005, the Company filed a there are certain restrictions on the Boards At 31 March 2006 and 31 March 2005 there Form 15 with the us securities and Exchange ability to pay dividends, including: were no foreign exchange contracts in place.
Commission sEC, in connection with its fidesince 31 March 2006 the group has hedged registration from the sEC.
the fide-registration the requirement to fund a cash reserve out its foreign exchange exposure in relation to its was concluded prior to the year end and of the groups post-debt service cash flow contracted carbon purchases and has reviewed consequently we are no longer required to file in order to support the groups collateral its foreign exchange exposure to both nuclear reports with the sEC.
and liquidity requirements postfuel purchases and coal procurement and restructuring.
the initial target amount hedged the exposures as deemed necessary.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures for the cash reserve of 490m plus the Realised Price amount by which cash employed as Retirement Benefit Obligations realised price is calculated by dividing revenue collateral exceeds 200m target the retirement benefit obligations for the from generated electricity by total output for Amount.
there will be no distributions pension schemes under iAs 19 included the period.
to shareholders until such times as the on the consolidated balance sheet at cash reserve is at the required level.
Unit Operating Costs result of the requirements to fund the cash the valuation of the pension schemes deficit unit operating costs are calculated by dividing reserve, the Board is not proposing a is based on a valuation of assets and liabilities the operating costs of generated electricity dividend in respect of the financial year at a particular point in time and does not plus depreciation and software amortisation ended 31 March 2006 and does not necessarily take account of the long-term by total output for the period.
this represents expect to propose a dividend before the nature of pension schemes.
Movements in a change from previous periods, in which the financial year ending 31 March 2007: equity markets and bond yields can create calculation of total operating unit costs the terms of the nuclear liabilities considerable volatility in the iAs 19 valuation.
included other operating income costs.
Agreements entered into as part of indeed, the amount of any surplus or deficit We believe that the revised measure provides the restructuring also require that could change significantly over periods as short a better indication of the underlying financial once the cash reserve is funded to the as a day in the event of significant market performance of the group.
target Amount, British Energy must make movements.
the deficit reported should Cash sweep payments to the nlF.
not, therefore, be taken as an indication of Adjusted EBITDA the Cash sweep payment was initially the pension schemes financial position in Adjusted EBitDA is profit before financing defined as 65% of the movement in cash, accordance with iAs 19 on any date other charges credits, taxation, depreciation, cash equivalents and other liquid assets than 31 March 2006. amortisation and other charges, unrealised during the year after adjusting for, among net gains on financial instruments and other things, certain payments made Nuclear Liabilities Risk commodity contracts, Cash sweep payment, to the nlF or dividends paid in the year.
the groups nuclear liabilities are in respect other exceptional operating expenses and the requirement to make the Cash of costs for the management of spent fuel, other operating income costs.
the group sweep payment greatly reduces the nuclear decommissioning and other has included information concerning adjusted amount of cash available for distribution uncontracted nuclear liabilities.
EBitDA because it believes that it is used to shareholders: by certain investors as one measure of the the terms of the Bonds issued as part As described earlier, the government will groups financial performance.
Adjusted of the restructuring contain certain provide an indemnity to cover services for EBitDA is not a measure of financial covenants, including a restriction that spent Agr fuel loaded pre-restructuring performance under iFrs and is not necessarily allows the Company to pay a dividend only and, in relation to qualifying uncontracted comparable to similarly titled measures used if no event of default has occurred: and nuclear and decommissioning liabilities, the by other companies.
Adjusted EBitDA should the requirement for the Company to have government will also indemnify any future not be construed as an alternative to operating distributable reserves.
funding shortfall of the nlF.
the group profit or to cash flows generated from continues to be responsible for funding certain operations as determined in accordance with Dividend Policy Update excluded or non-qualifying nuclear liabilities iFrs as a measure of liquidity.
the Board recognises the improved cash and will not be compensated or indemnified flow and financial prospects of the Company by the nlF and the secretary of state in compared to the time of the prospectus.
the groups in light of the governments recent obligations under these arrangements with announcement that it intends to consider the secretary of state are guaranteed by Stephen Billingham the conversion and sale of part of the certain companies within the group.
Finance Director nlFs interest in British Energy after the governments Energy review, the Board
