Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives Review The soft drinks market The total soft drinks market continued to perform well with total market volumes up 2.9 per cent.
This performance maintained the trend of the last ten years where volumes have increased at a compound annual growth rate of 2.6 per cent.
However, this performance has masked significant changes in underlying market dynamics as the stills category growth has accelerated at the expense of carbonates as the consumer trend towards health and well-being and more natural food and beverage products has continued.
Reflecting the changing consumer preference, the total carbonates market volume was down 2.4 per cent in the year.
Immediately post Christmas, the carbonates market experienced an unprecedented decline in volume which, at its most pronounced, was 9 per cent down on the previous year: in the first half of the financial year the market was down 5 per cent.
The second half of the financial year saw the carbonates market recover driven by above average temperatures in July: the impact In the year to 1 October 2006, our first as a listed company, of the football World Cup and a significant new product launch.
Britvic increased operating profit by 0.5 per cent to 73.7m, The uncertain market conditions for carbonates led to an although branded revenue was down by 2.6 per cent on the increase in the frequency and depth of promotional activity in prior year.
A difficult first half was compensated by a strong store which in turn placed pressure onthe ARP per litre being second half in which operating profit grew 8.9 per cent.
This achieved across the market.
Despite all of this activity, the total overall performance has been achieved in the context of a carbonates market in the second half of the financial year showed challenging soft drinks market and is the result of an only marginal growth of 0.3 per cent.
Unsurprisingly, no added improved revenue performance in the second half, sugar variants performed more robustly than the overall category managements focus on Average Realised Price ARP, cost showing 0.9 per cent growth in the year: although even this was control and effective cash management.
restricted to cola with total fruit flavoured carbonates showing a weak performance.
The combined effect of these management actions has been a 0.4 percentage point improvement in operating profit margin to Compounded by some significant structural changes in our take 10.9 per cent, an 11m sustainable reduction in overhead costs home customer base, Britvics total carbonates revenue fell by and the re-engineering of products to help mitigate input price 6.8 per cent in the year.
increases, contributing a further 2m of sustainable cost By contrast, the stills market showed good growth, with total savings.
A strong and improving free cash flow of 48.9m has volume up 7.9 per cent.
The increase in the market size was underpinned the Boards decision to propose a final dividend of generated, in the main, by key categories such as juice, dairy and 7p which will be paid on 16 February 2007, subject to water.
The squash market showed strong growth in the year as shareholder approval at the AGM.
consumer preference for still, fruit based products was then positively impacted by the high temperatures experienced during July.
Britvics stills revenue increased by 2.4 per cent despite only recently entering the water market and currently having no take-home market presence in either juice or dairy products.
A difficult first half was compensated by a strong second half in which operating profit grew 8.9 per cent.
Paul Moody, Chief Executive Britvic plc Annual Report 2006 9 9 Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives Review continued Britvics strategy In light of this market background, management action has The strap line of our new advertising campaign, Fruit Shoot focused on three main areas: says no so that mums can say yes, sums up perfectly the actions that we have taken to reinforce Fruit Shoots credentials Supporting and growing our core brands as the favourite and biggest kids drink: sugar content reduced We continue to invest in our strong portfolio of brands through by 15 per cent: sodium benzoate removed: and no artificial both innovation and media, to ensure that they are preferred colours or flavours used.
Two versions of the press campaign by consumers.
are rotating from October 2006 to January 2007 and will reach 73 per cent of all households with children.
In anticipation of a new competitor brand launch into the no added sugar cola market we developed a comprehensive brand Our International division has launched Robinsons High Juice and trading response that combined a total media campaign, squash into the Scandinavian market and continues to drive a including extensive TV advertising, with a series of added value strong performance for Fruit Shoot in the Benelux countries.
consumer promotions, centred on our long-established and Further market launches of established Britvic brands into successful brand, Pepsi Max.
The programme was developed near-UK markets will take place in 2007. in close co-operation with the brand owner, Pepsi-Cola, and has resulted in a strong share performance where Pepsi-Cola has Innovating developing new products attained a 23.7 per cent share of the cola market in the latest A number of new brands and brand extensions have been available weeks of data, an increase of 4.8 percentage points launched in the year with the aim of establishing Britvic in the over the 8 week period prior to the football World Cup, and the growth segments of the market.
The launches have all been competitor launch.
focused around the four key themes of naturalness, health and well-being, occasionality and indulgence and have been brought In the increasingly important squash market, we have invested to market in line with the plan that we outlined at the time of to protect and grow Robinsons number one position.
the year, we have built our manufacturing capability and now have in-house bottle-blowing for all our large packs, leading to a In water, all three of our new brands Fruit Shoot H20, Pennine significant cost reduction enabling us to increase our promotional Spring and Drench have established themselves in a relatively competitiveness.
Additionally, we have made consistent short period.
H20 is performing particularly strongly and achieved improvements to the pack design and range to ensure that the the position of the number one water brand for children just eight brand maintains its authoritative, category leading position.
Encouragingly 90 per cent of its volume is incremental to Fruit Shoot and 79 per cent is incremental to the The performance of J20 continues to be strong in both take-home kids water category, clear indications of the brands relevance to and on-premise.
We introduced a new limited edition flavour of the consumer independent of its parent brand.
Orange & Pomegranate and have commissioned new TV advertising that will go on air in 2007.
Both initiatives have In the 2007 financial year, we have a programme of innovation supported the continued build of the distribution of the brand.
The first of these is The Really Wild Drinks Company, a range of 6 natural juice drinks designed to respond to the changing guidelines with regard to soft drinks in schools.
With no artificial additives and no added sugar, they demonstrate our ability to develop products that help us manage the changing legislative framework at the same time as giving children a choice that they want to make.
There will be further significant launches in the first half of calendar 2007.
We are well-placed to benefit from the predicted future growth trends in the market.
10 10 Britvic plc Annual Report 2006 Managing efficiency improving margins and free cash flow Summary Our Business Transformation Programme, which we described We are operating in a growth market, pursuing a strategy that at the time of flotation as being focused on driving improved is aimed at creating and building brands that deliver profitable efficiency and building capability, is delivering against both revenue growth and shareholder returns.
A sharp focus on broad objectives.
driving efficiency through improved ARP, margins, cost savings, and cash management have meant that we have come out of Good progress has been made in improving our operating what has been a challenging year for the market with a more margins through securing 11m of sustainable overhead cost efficient and cash generative business.
With almost half of our savings achieved through a range of initiatives including revenue currently coming from stills and our innovation pipeline centralisation and automation of indirect procurement and the focused on this area we are well-placed to benefit from the accelerated development of a self-service culture leading to predicted future growth trends in the market.
a reduction in the number of central and support staff.
Full deployment of both SAP and Siebel software has enabled us to reduce the demand on working capital and so improve our free cash flow.
With greater visibility and much improved decision-making tools, we have been able to improve the efficiency of our promotional activity, which has, in turn, led to Paul Moody a stronger outcome for ARP.
A further benefit derived from the Chief Executive implementation of the programme has been a significant reduction in the time that it takes to bring a product concept to in-market launch: the innovation timeline has been cut by approximately one third.
Such has been the success of the Business Transformation Programme, that we are confident of delivering an additional 7m savings over the next two years, as previously announced.
Our Product Value Optimisation Programme has delivered an additional 2m of sustainable cost savings which, as expected, has mostly mitigated input cost pressures and consequently margin pressure.
An additional 2m of savings has been identified for full year 2007 with the introduction of in-house large pack PET squash bottles at our Norwich factory and further vertical integration opportunities.
