Operating & Financial Review Chairmans Statement The Group made significant The report of the Chief Executive and review of operations progress on many fronts in covers our performance in more detail.
The underlying results showed an improvement over Overview 2005 and, just as importantly, Following his appointment as Group Chief Executive in decisive action was taken to December 2005, Dominic Burke and his new management mitigate significant risks to the team have achieved a great deal in repositioning the Group for business and to clarify the the future.
future direction of the Group.
Geoffrey Howe I am pleased to report that A review of the Group's operations commenced in the first thanks to the hard work of quarter of 2006 and its conclusions have provided a much Dominic Burke and his new management team, the Group is clearer understanding of the Group's strengths and the most today in a much stronger position than it was at the appropriate direction for the Group's future development.
This review, which is discussed further in the report of the Chief Executive, reaffirmed our commitment to the five principal lines of business being: retail, specialty, wholesale, Performance reinsurance and employee benefits.
Turnover from continuing operations was 459.5 million, 1% ahead of the prior year 4% ahead at constant rates of Perhaps the most important conclusion of the review was that exchange.
This excludes the Groups discontinued operations the Group should focus its activities on those business areas in the US which were sold.
Profit before tax in continuing where it is already strong and is or has the clear opportunity to operations was 90.8 million 2005: 71.2 million.
An important step forward in This includes net exceptional gains of 18.7 million and implementing this strategy was the sale in October of our impairment charges of 4.4 million.
Underlying trading profit US based retail insurance broking and employee benefits for continuing operations, excluding exceptional items and operations.
It was clear that a market leading position was not impairments was 58.9 million, 7% behind 2005 or 12% a realistic goal in the foreseeable future and there was also ahead at constant rates of exchange.
The underlying trading growing evidence of a potential conflict between this US margin was 13%, compared to 14% in 2005. based retail broking business and the Group's wholesale operations which have for many years been one of JLT's Profit after tax and minorities was down 4.4 million to 46.2 areas of great strength.
million, mainly due to net exceptional items including the loss on disposal of the discontinued US operations.
Underlying At the end of October, we announced important changes to profit after tax and minorities for continuing operations the structure and management of our operations in the increased 5% to 50.8 million, matched by a 5% increase in London Market and internationally which took effect from the underlying earnings per share on a diluted basis to 23.8p 1st January 2007.
The simplification of the London Market per share.
Earnings per share, on a diluted basis were 21.6p structure was in part facilitated by the disposal of our US retail per share compared to 23.8p in 2005.
These results are in line operations and today we have a structure which clearly with the comments made a year ago that we expected only a identifies the Group's strengths and is more easily understood modest improvement in the Groups trading performance in by clients and staff alike.
The opportunity has also been taken during the year to review The overall negative impact on revenue and trading profits the Group's cost base, in particular as part of the restructuring from the weaker achieved US dollar exchange rate for our of our London Market businesses, where costs in some areas London Market operations amounted to 11.6 million.
needed to be brought better into line with expected future The decline in Group underlying trading profit was offset by earnings.
higher investment income and resulted in increased underlying profit before tax of 76.5 million, 4% ahead of last year, or up A further very important action taken during the year was 20% at constant rates of exchange.
the closure of our UK Defined Benefit Pension Scheme to all future accruals which took effect from 1st December 2006.
The challenging insurance market conditions noted at the This step, together with additional funding contributions made half year continued to prevail with very competitive premium by the Group, has significantly reduced the pension scheme rates and the only exception to reducing rates continued deficit and provided protection against any further deterioration to be those areas relating directly to US catastrophe in liabilities arising from the scheme.
Competition between brokers for market share and quality staff remained fierce, putting further pressure on brokers' margins.
4 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
