Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Directors review Group financial results Tony Rice Our financial performance for the year is set out on page 7 and is Group Managing discussed in more detail in the International, UK and Group matters Director, Central and sections that follow on pages 9, 17 and 29 respectively.
Finance Director Cash position at year end Despite our acquisition of Energis and continued investment in local loop unbundling through our Bulldog business, we continue to have a strong cash position with a Group cash and cash equivalents balance at year end of 1,127 million and net cash of 343 million.
Corporate structure We announced, in January 2006, a restructure of the Group into two self-contained operational units International and UK including our consumer broadband and telephony business, Revenue of 3,230 million, an increase of Bulldog.
9% on last year at constant currency As a result, the central functions of Cable & Wireless have been reshaped to ensure the continuation of proper governance and Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation control at our corporate centre, although they no longer provide shared services for the two businesses.
and amortisation EBITDA and exceptional items of 411 million Overall headcount in the centre is being reduced by 100, of which 65 people are moving into the International and UK units as a result of moving shared services into the businesses.
We expect this Group cash balance of 1,127 million headcount reduction and other Central savings to reduce costs by a net 20 million in 2006 07.
Central costs will be reduced by 27 million, with the International business absorbing 7 million.
UK defined benefit pension scheme We will continue to comply with the high standards of corporate fully funded governance followed by all companies listed on the London Stock Exchange in line with the UKs Combined Code and UK Listing Authoritys rules.
As part of this, our Internal Audit function Final dividend of 3.1 pence, payable in continues to be a part of the Central team.
August 2006 The Central team will act as a portfolio manager to the businesses, supporting, encouraging and driving the creation of shareholder value through a suite of financial measures and appropriate incentivisation.
Each business is responsible for its overall financial performance and return on capital employed.
This is designed to give them the right balance of autonomy and accountability to drive shareholder value.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Remuneration Committee has approved a new management incentive scheme for executives.
The new scheme ensures that the remuneration of individuals is fully aligned with the goals of their business and in proportion to the future shareholder value created by that business.
Details are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 65.
Pension schemes We provide pension schemes in most of the countries in which we operate and remain committed to supporting these.
The principal defined benefit scheme is the funded scheme covering UK employees.
During the year we have continued to work with the Trustees of this scheme to ensure that the fund remains appropriately funded, taking into account the latest views on the life expectancy of the scheme members and other relevant actuarial assumptions.
Following the latest triennial funding valuation as at 2005 06 Annual report 5 Introduction Introduction and overview Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Directors review 31 March 2005, completed in March 2006, we agreed a revised funding programme which included an immediate contribution of 98 million, paid on 31 March 2006.
Following this payment, the scheme is fully funded on an ongoing basis, based on the 2005 funding valuation.
Share repurchase programme In November 2004, we announced a 250 million share repurchase programme.
By 31 March 2005, we had completed repurchases totalling 75 million as part of this programme.
During the year, we repurchased a further 14.45 million shares at an aggregate cost of 17 million.
Following the acquisition of Energis and the top-up of our pension scheme, we have decided not to continue this share repurchase programme in order to maintain a strong balance sheet and provide financial flexibility for investment in the business.
In parallel, we propose to reward shareholders with a progressive dividend policy hence the 18% increase in the full year dividend for the 2005 06 year.
Significant acquisitions and disposals Over the year, we have made a number of acquisitions and disposals.
The most significant acquisition was of Energis, for net consideration of 608 million in November 2005.
The acquisition has strengthened our management capability, increased our scale and reach in the UK and enhanced earnings from the outset.
Since acquisition, Energis has performed in line with our expectations, generating revenues of 266 million and EBITDA of 35 million.
We announced in February that we are exploring options for the potential disposal of our 20% shareholding in the Bahrain-based telecoms company, Batelco.
Termination of US registration and SEC reporting We have previously maintained an American Depositary Receipt ADR programme and listing on the New York Stock Exchange for US investors.
Given the very small percentage of shares that were held and traded through the ADR programme, we concluded that the additional cost of its administration outweighed its potential benefits.
We therefore closed the programme in December 2005.
For the same reasons, we are in the process of deregistering our securities with the SEC which we expect to complete in June 2006.
This will ultimately remove our US reporting obligations.
Tony Rice Group Managing Director, Central and Finance Director 6 2005 06 Annual report
