MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation industries, Cautionary Note Concerning Factors including competition from other cruise ship operators That May Affect Future Results and providers of other vacation alternatives and increases Some of the statements contained in this 2006 Annual in capacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation Report are forward-looking statements that involve risks, alternatives: uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us, including changing consumer preferences, which may, among some statements concerning future results, outlook, plans, other things, adversely impact the demand for cruises: goals and other events which have not yet occurred.
These statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from changes in and compliance with the environmental, health, liability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 safety, security, tax and other regulatory regimes under and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
We which we operate, including the implementation of U. S. have tried, wherever possible, to identify these statements regulations requiring U. S. citizens to obtain passports for by using words like will, may, believes, expects, sea travel to or from additional foreign destinations: anticipates, forecast, future, intends, plans, and the impact of changes in operating and financing costs, estimates and similar expressions.
including changes in foreign currency exchange rates Because forward-looking statements involve risks and and interest rates and fuel, food, insurance, payroll and uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause our security costs: actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied in this 2006 Annual Report.
our ability to implement our shipbuilding programs and Forward-looking statements include those statements which brand strategies and to continue to expand our business may impact the forecasting of our earnings per share, net worldwide: revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operating, our future operating cash flow may not be sufficient to financing and or tax costs, fuel costs, costs per available fund future obligations and we may not be able to obtain lower berth day ALBD, estimates of ship depreciable lives financing, if necessary, on terms that are favorable or and residual values, outlook or business prospects.
These consistent with our expectations: factors include, but are not limited to, the following: lack of acceptance of new itineraries, products and general economic and business conditions, which may services by our guests: adversely impact the levels of our potential vacationers discretionary income and this groups confidence in the our ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew U. S. economy, and thereby reduce the net revenue yields and maintain good relations with employee unions: for our cruise brands: continuing financial viability of our travel agent distribution the international political and economic climate, armed system and air service providers: conflicts, terrorist attacks and threats thereof, availability our decisions to self-insure against various risks or of air service and other world events, and their impact inability to obtain insurance for certain risks: on the demand for cruises: disruptions to our software and other information accidents, unusual weather conditions or natural disasters, technology systems: such as hurricanes and earthquakes and other incidents including machinery and equipment failures or improper continued availability of attractive port destinations: operation thereof which could cause the alteration of risks associated with the DLC structure, including the itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or series of cruises, uncertainty of its tax status: and the impact of the spread of contagious diseases, affecting the health, safety, security and vacation satisrisks associated with operating internationally: faction of passengers: the impact of pending or threatened litigation: and adverse publicity concerning the cruise industry in our ability to successfully implement cost reduction plans.
general, or us in particular, could impact the demand for our cruises: page 32 | Carnival Corporation & plc Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as shipyards providing for the construction of 20 additional cruise a prediction of actual results.
Subject to any continuing obliships, the majority of which have been designated for our gations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, we European brands see Note 6 in the accompanying financial expressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the statements.
These new ships are expected to continue to date of this 2006 Annual Report, any updates or revisions to help us maintain our leadership position within the cruise any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in industry.
Excluding any future ship orders, acquisitions or expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which retirements, the year-over-year percentage increase in our any such statements are based.
ALBD capacity for fiscal 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, resulting substantially all from new ships entering service, is Executive Overview currently expected to be 8.4%, 7.9%, 7.5%, 6.7% and 3.9%, respectively.
Since the beginning of 2004 and continuing through 2005, we experienced a substantial improvement in our net cruise Outlook for Fiscal 2007 2007 revenue yields per ALBD net revenue yields.
The improvement in net revenue yields was primarily the result of higher As of December 21, 2006, we said that we expected our passenger ticket prices, onboard revenues and occupancy 2007 full year earnings per share will be in the range of $2.90 and, to a lesser extent, a weaker U. S. dollar relative to the to $3.10.
We also said that we expected our first quarter 2007 euro and sterling.
Towards the spring of 2006, the impact of earnings per share to be in the range of $0.33 to $0.35.
Our the severe 2005 hurricane season and higher fuel costs and guidance was based on the then current forward fuel price for interest rates on vacationers discretionary income, we believe all of 2007 of $339 per metric ton for the full year.
In addition, caused a softening in demand, principally for cruises in the this guidance was also based on currency exchange rates of Caribbean.
The weaker Caribbean demand was offset by strong $1.33 to the euro and $1.98 to sterling.
demand and pricing for our European brands and for our North Since the date of our December earnings release, the cruise American brands when sailing outside of the Caribbean.
industry has begun a period of heavy bookings generally Consequently, in 2006, we continued to increase our net referred to as wave season, which begins in early January.
revenue yields, however, by a much smaller percentage than Bookings since the beginning of January are up compared to 2005 and 2004. the same period in 2006, however, the increase is less than From 2003 through 2006, the cruise industry was adversely our 2007 capacity increase.
Pricing on bookings taken in 2007 impacted by substantial increases in fuel prices, which reduced was less than in the comparable period last year, primarily earnings per share for the 2006 fiscal year by $0.25 compared because of the continuing price pressure on Caribbean sailings.
Towards the end of 2006, fuel prices decreased As of February 4, 2007, occupancy on cumulative advance slightly and were below the prior year comparable amount.
It bookings taken for the full year 2007 is approximately the is possible that fuel prices may once again begin to increase same as the comparable date last year.
Pricing on those in 2007 and thereafter.
advance bookings is also approximately equal to last year Throughout this period we generated significant cash flows down 1% in constant dollars.
and remained in a strong financial position, which is a high Based on bookings taken to date, we now expect our net priority for us and we believe provides us with a competitive revenue yields to be flat to up slightly for the full year 2007 advantage in the capital intensive cruise industry.
We continue down 1% to 2% in constant dollars, which is a little less than to distribute excess cash to shareholders in an opportunistic our previous guidance.
Largely offsetting this, our estimate manner either through dividends or through our share buyof forward prices for fuel for the year 2007 has decreased to back programs.
However, our operations are subject to many $315 per metric ton compared to the $339 per metric ton we risks, as briefly noted under the caption Cautionary Note used in our December guidance.
Our earnings per share for the Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Results, which first quarter of 2007 is now expected to come in at the high could adversely impact our future results.
end of the range of our December guidance of $0.33 to $0.35 Since June 2006, we ordered seven additional ships, which per share because of lower fuel costs.
Our earnings guidance are expected to be delivered between 2009 and 2011.
As of for the full year 2007 remains $2.90 to $3.10 per share.
February 12, 2007, we had signed agreements with three Carnival Corporation & plc | page 33 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued two non-GAAP financial measures assuming the current Key Performance Indicators period currency exchange rates have remained constant with We use net cruise revenues per ALBD and net cruise costs the prior years rates, or on a constant dollar basis, in order per ALBD as significant non-GAAP financial measures of our to remove the impact of changes in exchange rates on our cruise segment financial performance.
We believe that this is a useful revenue yields are commonly used in the cruise industry to measure indicating the actual growth of our operations in a measure a companys cruise segment revenue performance.
fluctuating currency exchange rate environment.
This measure is also used for revenue management purposes.
On a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net In calculating net revenue yields, we use net cruise revenues cruise costs would be $9.21 billion and $5.69 billion for fiscal rather than gross cruise revenues.
We believe that net 2006, respectively.
On a constant dollar basis, gross cruise cruise revenues is a more meaningful measure in determining revenues and gross cruise costs would be $11.42 billion and revenue yield than gross cruise revenues because it reflects $7.91 billion for fiscal 2006, respectively.
In addition, our nonthe cruise revenues earned by us net of our most significant U. S. cruise operations depreciation and net interest expense variable costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for fiscal air transportation and certain other variable direct costs asso- 2006 compared to 2005. ciated with onboard and other revenues.
Substantially all of All the prior periods financial information presented herein our remaining cruise costs are largely fixed once our ship have been adjusted to reflect the retrospective application of capacity levels have been determined, except for the impact the change in our method of accounting for dry-dock costs, of changing prices.
as more fully discussed in Note 2 in the accompanying finanNet cruise costs per ALBD is the most significant measure cial statements.
we use to monitor our cruise segment costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD.
In calculating net cruise costs, we Critical Accounting Estimates exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calcuOur critical accounting estimates are those which we lation of net cruise revenues.
This is done to avoid duplicating believe require our most significant judgments about the these variable costs in these two non-GAAP financial measures.
effect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion We have not provided estimates of future gross revenue of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments yields because the reconciliations of forecasted net cruise and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that revenues to forecasted gross cruise revenues would require materially different estimates would be reported under differus to forecast, with reasonable accuracy, the amount of air ent conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: and other transportation costs that our forecasted cruise passengers would elect to purchase from us the air sea mix.
Ship Accounting Since the forecasting of future air sea mix involves several Our most significant assets are our ships and ships under significant variables that are relatively difficult to forecast and construction, which represent 88% of our total assets.
We the revenues from the sale of air and other transportation make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our approximate the costs of providing that transportation, manship accounting.
First, we compute our ships depreciation agement focuses primarily on forecasts of net cruise revenues expense, which represented approximately 10% of our cruise rather than gross cruise revenues.
This does not impact, in costs and expenses in fiscal 2006, which requires us to estiany material respect, our ability to forecast our future results, mate the average useful life of each of our ships, as well as as any variation in the air sea mix has no material impact on their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improveour forecasted net cruise revenues.
As such, management ment costs by capitalizing those costs which we believe will does not believe that this reconciling information would be add value to our ships and depreciate those improvements meaningful.
over their estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs In addition, because a significant portion of our operations and maintenance and minor replacement costs as they are utilize the euro or sterling to measure their results and financial incurred.
Finally, when we record the retirement of a ship condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. dollar component that is included within the ships cost basis, we reporting currency results in increases in reported U. S. dollar estimate its net book value to determine the amount of ship revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens against component retired.
these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported U. S. dollar We determine the average useful life of our ships and revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthens against their residual values based primarily on our estimates of the these foreign currencies.
Accordingly, we also monitor our weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships page 34 | Carnival Corporation & plc major component systems, such as cabins, main diesels, main Asset Impairment electric, superstructure and hull.
In addition, we consider, The impairment reviews of our ships, trademarks and among other things, long-term vacation market conditions and goodwill, which has been allocated to our cruise line reporting competition and historical useful lives of similarly-built ships.
units, require us to make significant estimates to determine We have estimated our new ships average useful lives at the fair values of these assets or reporting units.
30 years and their average residual values at 15% of our origiThe determination of fair value includes numerous uncerfinal ship cost.
tainties, unless a viable actively traded market exists for the Given the very large and complex nature of our ships, ship asset or for a comparable reporting unit, which is usually not accounting estimates require considerable judgment and are the case for cruise ships, cruise lines and trademarks.
We do not have cost segregation studies example, in determining fair values of ships and cruise lines performed to specifically componentize our ship systems.
In utilizing discounted forecasted cash flows, significant judgaddition, since we do not separately componentize our ships, ments are made concerning, among other things, future net we do not identify and track depreciation of specific comporevenue yields, net cruise costs per ALBD, interest and disnent systems.
Therefore, we have to estimate the net book count rates, cruise itineraries, ship additions and retirements, value of components that are replaced or refurbished, based technological changes, consumer demand, governmental primarily upon their replacement or refurbishment cost and regulations and the effects of competition.
In addition, third their age.
party appraisers are sometimes used to determine fair values If materially different conditions existed, or if we materially and some of their valuation methodologies are also subject changed our assumptions of ship lives and residual values, our to similar types of uncertainties.
Also, the determination of depreciation expense or loss on replacement or refurbishment fair values of reporting units using a price earnings multiple of ship assets and net book value of our ships would be mateapproach also requires significant judgments, such as deterrially different.
In addition, if we change our assumptions in mining reasonably comparable multiples.
Finally, determining making our determinations as to whether improvements to a trademark fair values also requires significant judgments in ship add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair determining both the estimated trademark cash flows, and and maintenance costs could increase, partially offset by a the appropriate royalty rates to be applied to those cash flows decrease in depreciation expense, as less costs would have to determine their fair value.
We believe that we have made been initially capitalized to our ships.
Our fiscal 2006 ship reasonable estimates and judgments in determining whether depreciation expense would have increased by approximately our ships, goodwill and trademarks have been impaired.
$25 million for every year we reduced our estimated average However, if there is a material change in the assumptions 30 year ship useful life.
In addition, if our ships were estimated used in our determination of fair value or if there is a material to have no residual value, our fiscal 2006 depreciation expense change in the conditions or circumstances influencing fair would have increased by approximately $125 million.
value, we could be required to recognize a material impairWe believe that the estimates we made for ship accountment charge.
ing purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently Contingencies applied and, accordingly, result in depreciation expense that We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to is based on a rational and systematic method to equitably alloany lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other cate the costs of our ships to the periods during which services known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, are obtained from their use.
In addition, we believe that the passenger and crew, and tax matters.
While it is typically very estimates we made are reasonable and our methods consisdifficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of tently applied 1 in determining the average useful life and these matters, we use our best judgment to determine if it average residual values of our ships: 2 in determining which is probable that we will incur an expense related to the settleship improvement costs add value to our ships: and 3 in ment or final adjudication of such matters and whether a determining the net book value of ship component assets reasonable estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be being replaced or refurbished.
Finally, we believe our critical made.
In assessing probable losses, we make estimates of ship accounting estimates are generally comparable with the amount of probable insurance recoveries, if any, which are those of other major cruise companies.
We accrue a liability when we believe a Carnival Corporation & plc | page 35 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably us or by independent concessionaires, from which we estimated, in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No.
5, receive a percentage of their revenues or a fee.
Accounting for Contingencies, as amended.
Such accruals We incur cruise operating costs and expenses for the are typically based on developments to date, managements following: estimates of the outcomes of these matters, our experience in contesting, litigating and settling other similar matters, the costs of passenger cruise tickets, which represent historical claims experience and actuarially determined costs that vary directly with passenger cruise ticket reveassumptions of liabilities, and any related insurance coverage.
nues, and include travel agent commissions, air and other See Note 7 in the accompanying financial statements for additravel related costs, tional information concerning our contingencies.
onboard and other cruise costs, which represent costs Given the inherent uncertainty related to the eventual outthat vary directly with onboard and other revenues, and come of these matters and potential insurance recoveries, it include the costs of liquor and some beverages, costs is possible that all or some of these matters may be resolved of tangible goods sold by us from our gift, photo and art for amounts materially different from any provisions or discloauction activities, pre and post-cruise land packages and sures that we may have made with respect to their resolution.
Concession revenues do not have any In addition, as new information becomes available, we may significant amount of costs associated with them, as the need to reassess the amount of probable liability that needs costs and services incurred for these activities are proto be accrued related to our contingencies.
All such revisions vided by our concessionaires, in our estimates could materially impact our results of operations and financial position.
payroll and related costs, which represent costs for all our shipboard personnel, including deck and engine offiResults of Operations cers and crew and hotel and administrative employees, We earn our cruise revenues primarily from the following: fuel costs, which include fuel delivery costs, sales of passenger cruise tickets and, in some cases, the food costs, which include both our passenger and crew sale of air and other transportation to and from our ships.
food costs, and The cruise ticket price includes accommodations, most other ship operating costs, which include repairs and meals, some non-alcoholic beverages, entertainment and maintenance, including minor replacements and dry-dock many onboard activities, and expenses, port charges, insurance, entertainment and all the sale of goods and or services primarily onboard our other shipboard operating costs and expenses.
ships, which include bar and some beverage sales, casino For segment information related to our revenues, expenses, gaming, shore excursions, gift shop and spa sales, photo operating income and other financial information see Note 11 and art sales, and pre and post-cruise land packages.
in the accompanying financial statements.
These goods and services are either provided directly by page 36 | Carnival Corporation & plc Selected Information and Non-GAAP Financial Measures Selected information was as follows: Years Ended November 30, 2006 2005 2004 Passengers carried in thousands...................................................... 7,008 6,848 6,306 a a Occupancy percentage............................................................... 106.0% 105.6% 104.5% b Fuel cost per metric ton............................................................. $334 $259 $194 a Occupancy percentage includes the three ships chartered to the Military Sealift Command MSC in connection with our Hurricane Katrina relief efforts in the first quarter of 2006 and the fourth quarter of 2005 at 100%.
b Fuel cost per metric ton is calculated by dividing the cost of our fuel by the number of metric tons consumed.
It assumes that each cabin we offer for sale accommodates two passengers.
ALBDs are computed by multiplying passenger capacity by revenue producing ship operating days in the period.
Carnival Corporation & plc | page 37 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued Fiscal 2006 2006 Compared to Fiscal 2005 2005 Costs and Expenses Net cruise costs increased $484 million, or 9.3%, to $5.68 Revenues billion in 2006 from $5.20 billion in 2005.
The 4.6% increase Net cruise revenues increased $535 million, or 6.2%, to in ALBDs between 2005 and 2006 accounted for $238 million $9.22 billion in 2006 from $8.68 billion in 2005.
The 4.6% of the increase whereas $246 million was from increased net increase in ALBDs between 2006 and 2005 accounted for cruise costs per ALBD, which increased 4.5% in 2006 com- $398 million of the increase, and the remaining $137 million pared to 2005 gross cruise costs per ALBD increased 3.9%.
was from increased net revenue yields, which increased 1.5% Net cruise costs per ALBD increased primarily due to a $75 on both a current and constant dollar basis in 2006 compared increase in fuel cost per metric ton, or 29.0%, to $334 per to 2005 gross revenue yields increased by 1.7% in current metric ton in 2006, which resulted in an additional $209 million dollars.
Net revenue yields increased in 2006 primarily from of expense, and a $57 million increase in share-based comhigher cruise ticket prices, higher onboard revenues and, to pensation expense, which was as the result of our adoption a lesser extent, a 0.4% increase in occupancy.
123 R see Notes 2 and 12 in the accompanying revenues increased $680 million, or 6.3%, in 2006 to $11.42 financial statements.
This increase was partially offset by the billion from $10.74 billion in 2005 for largely the same reasons non-recurrence in 2006 of a $23 million MNOPF contribution.
Net cruise costs per ALBD as measured on a constant dollar Our 2006 cruise ticket prices for Caribbean itineraries basis increased 4.8% in 2006 compared to 2005.
On a were less than 2005, which was offset by price increases constant dollar basis, net cruise costs per ALBD, excluding we achieved primarily from our Alaska and European cruises.
increased fuel prices and incremental share-based compenWe believe that this reduction in Caribbean pricing was the sation expenses were flat, compared to 2005.
Gross cruise result of weaker consumer demand caused primarily from the costs increased $629 million, or 8.7%, in 2006 to $7.88 billion lingering effects of the unusually strong 2005 hurricane seafrom $7.25 billion in 2005 for largely the same reasons as net son and higher fuel and other costs adverse impacts on our cruise costs.
Other non-cruise operating expenses increased $67 million, Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues or 18.7%, to $425 million in 2006 from $358 million in 2005 of $694 million in 2006 and $638 million in 2005.
Onboard primarily due to the increase in the number of cruise tours and other revenues increased in 2006 compared to 2005, prisold in Alaska.
marily because of the 4.6% increased ALBDs and increased Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $86 passenger spending on our ships.
million, or 9.5%, to $988 million in 2006 from $902 million Other non-cruise revenues increased $72 million, or 15.6%, in 2005 largely due to the 4.6% increase in ALBDs through to $533 million in 2006 from $461 million in 2005 primarily the addition of new ships, and additional ship improvement due to the increase in the number of cruise tours sold in Alaska.
page 38 | Carnival Corporation & plc Nonoperating Expense Income revenues increased $1.31 billion, or 13.9%, in 2005 to $10.74 Net interest expense, excluding capitalized interest, was billion from $9.43 billion in 2004 for largely the same reasons $323 million in both 2006 and 2005.
This flat interest expense as net cruise revenues.
was primarily due to lower average borrowings offsetting Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues the impact of higher average interest rates on borrowings.
Onboard Capitalized interest increased $16 million during 2006 comand other revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004, pripared to 2005 primarily due to higher average levels of investmarily because of the 8.5% increase in ALBDs and increased ment in ship construction projects and higher average interest passenger spending on our ships.
Other non-cruise revenues increased $63 million, or 15.8%, Other expense in 2006 included a $10 million expense for to $461 million in 2005 from $398 million in 2004 primarily due the write-down of a non-cruise investment.
to the increase in the number of cruise tours sold in Alaska.
Income Taxes Costs and Expenses Income tax expense decreased by $33 million to $39 million Net cruise costs increased $604 million, or 13.2%, to in 2006 from $72 million in 2005 primarily as a result of lower $5.20 billion in 2005 from $4.59 billion in 2004.
The 8.5% U. S. income taxes related to the MSC charter in 2006 comincrease in ALBDs between 2004 and 2005 accounted for pared to 2005, and the reversal in 2006 of previously recorded $391 million of the increase, and the remaining $213 million tax liabilities and deferred tax valuation allowances, which were was from increased net cruise costs per ALBD, which no longer required based upon the results of tax authority increased 4.3% in 2005 compared to 2004 gross cruise audits and other factors.
Net cruise costs per ALBD increased primarily due to a $65 increase in fuel cost per Fiscal 2005 2005 Compared to Fiscal 2004 2004 metric ton, or 33.5%, to $259 per metric ton in 2005 and a Revenues $23 million MNOPF contribution see Note 12 in the accomNet cruise revenues increased $1.18 billion, or 15.8%, to panying financial statements.
Net cruise costs per ALBD $8.68 billion in 2005 from $7.50 billion in 2004.
The 8.5% as measured on a constant dollar basis compared to 2004 increase in ALBDs between 2005 and 2004 accounted for increased 3.9% in 2005 and were flat excluding increased $638 million of the increase, and the remaining $546 million fuel prices and the MNOPF contribution, compared to 2004. was from increased net revenue yields, which increased 6.7% Gross cruise costs increased $730 million, or 11.2%, in 2005 in 2005 compared to 2004 gross revenue yields increased by to $7.25 billion from $6.52 billion in 2004, which was a lower 5.0%.
Net revenue yields increased in 2005 primarily from percentage increase than net cruise costs primarily because higher cruise ticket prices, a 1.1% increase in occupancy and of the lower proportion of passengers who purchased air higher onboard revenues.
Net revenue yields as measured on transportation from us in 2005. a constant dollar basis increased 6.4% in 2005.
Gross cruise Carnival Corporation & plc | page 39 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued Other non-cruise operating expense increased $50 million, Liquidity and Capital Resources or 16.2%, to $358 million in 2005 from $308 million in 2004 Sources and Uses of Cash primarily due to the increase in the number of cruise tours Our business provided $3.63 billion of net cash from opersold in Alaska.
ations during fiscal 2006, an increase of $223 million, or 6.5%, Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $90 compared to fiscal 2005.
We continue to generate substantial million, or 11.1%, to $902 million in 2005 from $812 million cash from operations and remain in a strong financial position, in 2004 largely due to the 8.5% increase in ALBDs through thus providing us with substantial financial flexibility in meetthe addition of new ships, and additional ship improvement ing operating, investing and financing needs.
During fiscal 2006, our net expenditures for capital projects Nonoperating Expense Income were $2.48 billion, of which $1.97 billion was spent for our Net interest expense, excluding capitalized interest, ongoing new shipbuilding program, including $1.23 billion for increased $31 million in 2005 to $323 million in 2005 from the final delivery payments for Holland America Lines Noordam, $292 million in 2004.
This increase was primarily due to a Princess Cruises Crown Princess and the Costa Concordia.
$36 million increase in interest expense from higher average In addition to our new shipbuilding program, we had capital interest rates on borrowings and a weaker U. S. dollar, partially expenditures of $335 million for ship improvements and refuroffset by a $5 million increase in interest income due to bishments and $176 million for Alaska tour assets, cruise port higher average invested fund balances.
facility developments and information technology assets.
Other expense in 2005 included a $22 million expense for Our fiscal 2006 long-term debt borrowings were $2.24 the write-down of a non-cruise investment, partially offset by billion, consisting of $904 million of euro-denominated long- $7 million income from the settlement of litigation associated term commercial paper, the issuance of a 750 million bond with the DLC transaction.
$985 million U. S. dollars at the November 30, 2006 exchange rate and $352 million under the Crown Princess debt financIncome Taxes ing facility.
Our fiscal 2006 long-term debt repayments were Income tax expense increased by $25 million from 2004 to $2.54 billion, consisting of $1.46 billion of long-term euro $72 million in 2005 from $47 million in 2004 primarily because commercial paper, $888 million of Costas indebtedness and we recorded approximately $18 million for U. S. income taxes $190 million of other long-term debt amounts.
We also received related to the MSC charter.
Commencing in September 2005, proceeds from short-term borrowings of $661 million under these three ships were chartered for six months, and pursuour short-term commercial paper programs and short-term bank ant to our agreement with the MSC, the net earnings from loans during fiscal 2006.
Finally, during 2006, we purchased the charter will be equal to the amount of net earnings we $841 million of Carnival Corporation common stock and would have earned on these ships if we had not entered into Carnival plc ordinary shares in open market transactions and this charter.
paid cash dividends of $803 million.
b Represents cash outflows for certain of our long-term liabilities that could be reasonably estimated.
The primary outflows are for estimates of our employee benefit plan obligations, crew and passenger claims, certain deferred income taxes, derivative contracts payable, and other long-term liabilities.
Other long-term liabilities, such as deferred income, fair value of hedged commitments and certain deferred income taxes, have been excluded from the table as they do not require cash settlement in the future or the timing of the cash outflow cannot be reasonably estimated.
c Represents legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and other goods and services made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements.
Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow us to terminate the contract with notice, and with or without a termination penalty.
Termination penalties are generally an amount less than the original obligation.
Historically, we have not had any significant defaults of our contractual obligations or incurred significant penalties for termination of our contractual obligations.
d Fixed rate interest payments represent cash outflows for fixed interest payments, including interest swapped from a variable rate to a fixed rate.
Variable rate interest payments represent forecasted cash outflows for interest payments on variable rate debt, including interest swapped from a fixed rate to a variable rate, using the November 30, 2006 forward interest rate curve for the terms of the loans.
e Foreign currency payments are based on the November 30, 2006 exchange rates.
Carnival Corporation & plc | page 41 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued In June 2006, a $1 billion stock repurchase authorization Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements was approved by the Boards of Directors subject to certain We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, restrictions 2006 Purchase Program.
This 2006 Purchase including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, Program does not have an expiration date and may be disconcertain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, tinued by our Boards of Directors at any time.
At February 9, that either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or 2007, the remaining availability pursuant to our 2006 Purchase future material effect on our financial statements.
At November 30, 2006, we had liquidity of $5.60 billion, Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risks which consisted of $1.18 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, $1.87 billion available for borrowing Our growing international business operations are conunder our revolving credit facility and $2.55 billion under comducted primarily through AIDA in Germany, Costa in Southern mitted ship financing facilities.
Our revolving credit facility Europe and China, P&O Cruises and Ocean Village in the UK matures in 2011.
A key to our access to liquidity is the mainand P&O Cruises Australia in Australia, which subject us to an tenance of our strong credit ratings.
increasing level of foreign currency exchange risk related to Based primarily on our historical results, current financial the euro, sterling and Australian dollar because these operacondition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing tions have either the euro, sterling or Australian dollar as their liquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient functional currency.
Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service of the euro, sterling or Australian dollar against the U. S. dollar requirements, dividend payments, working capital and other will affect our reported financial results since the reporting firm commitments.
In addition, based on our future forecasted currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U. S. operating results and cash flows for fiscal 2007, we expect to dollar and the functional currency for our international operabe in compliance with our debt covenants during 2007.
Howtions is generally the local currency.
Any weakening of the ever, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, as well U. S. dollar against these local functional currencies has the as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by various financial statement effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values factors including, but not limited to, those factors noted under reported for cruise revenues and cruise expenses in our Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May Affect Future Consolidated Statements of Operations.
To the extent that we are required, or choose, to U. S. dollar has the opposite effect.
fund future cash requirements, including our future shipbuilding We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign commitments, from sources other than as discussed above, currency exchange rates through our normal operating and we believe that we will be able to secure such financing from financing activities, including netting certain exposures to take banks or through the offering of debt and or equity securities advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered approin the public or private markets.
However, we cannot be cerpriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The tain that our future operating cash flow will be sufficient to financial impacts of these hedging instruments are generally fund future obligations or that we will be able to obtain addioffset by corresponding changes in the underlying exposures tional financing, if necessary.
Our policy is to not use any financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
page 42 | Carnival Corporation & plc One of our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks will increase or decrease based upon changes in the exchange is related to our outstanding commitments under ship conrates until the payments are made under the shipbuilding construction contracts denominated in a currency other than the tracts or we enter into foreign currency swaps.
These euro functional currency of the cruise brand that is expected to be commitments effectively act as an economic hedge against a operating the ship.
These currency commitments are affected portion of our net investment in euro and sterling-denominated by fluctuations in the value of the functional currency as comcruise operations.
Accordingly, any increase or decrease in our pared to the currency in which the shipbuilding contract is ship costs resulting from changes in the exchange rates will denominated.
We use foreign currency swaps to manage be offset by a corresponding change in the net assets of our foreign currency exchange rate risk from some of our ship euro and sterling-denominated cruise operations.
Based upon construction contracts see Notes 2, 6 and 10 in the accoma 10% hypothetical increase or decrease in the November 30, panying financial statements.
Accordingly, increases and 2006 U. S. dollar and sterling to the euro foreign currency decreases in the fair value of these foreign currency swaps exchange rates, the cost of these ships would increase or offset changes in the fair value of the foreign currency denomdecrease by $336 million.
Decisions regarding whether or not inated ship construction commitments, thus resulting in the to hedge a given ship commitment are made on a case-byelimination of such risk.
case basis, taking into consideration the amount and duration Specifically, we have foreign currency swaps for two of our of the exposure, market volatility, and economic trends.
At November 30, The cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the 2006, the fair value of these foreign currency swaps was an future for our cruise lines who generate their cash flows in unrealized loss of $26 million which is recorded, along with an a currency that is different than the shipyards operating offsetting $26 million fair value asset related to our shipbuildcurrency, generally the euro, is expected to be affected by ing firm commitments, on our accompanying 2006 balance foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Based upon a 10% strengthening or weakening of in the U. S. dollar relative to the euro over the past several the sterling compared to the euro as of November 30, 2006, years, the U. S. dollar cost to order new cruise ships at current assuming no changes in comparative interest rates, the exchange rates has increased significantly.
If the U. S. dollar estimated fair value of these foreign currency swaps would remains at current levels or declines further, this may affect decrease or increase by $96 million, which would be offset our ability to order future new cruise ships for U. S. dollar funcby a decrease or increase of $96 million in the U. S. dollar tional currency brands.
value of the related foreign currency ship construction comFinally, we consider our investments in foreign subsidiaries mitments resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
to be denominated in relatively stable currencies and of a However, at November 30, 2006, as adjusted for our ship long-term nature.
In addition to the strategy discussed above, orders through January 2007, we have six euro-denominated we also partially address these exposures by denominating a shipbuilding commitments aggregating 2.55 billion assigned portion of our debt, or entering into foreign currency swaps, to certain of our U. S. dollar or sterling functional currency in our subsidiaries functional currencies generally euros or operations, for which we have not entered into any foreign sterling.
Specifically, we have debt of $1.02 billion in euros currency swaps.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar cost of these ships and $419 million in sterling and have $1.25 billion of foreign Carnival Corporation & plc | page 43 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS continued currency swaps, whereby we have converted $267 million of Based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or increase in the U. S. dollar debt into sterling debt, $842 million of U. S. dollar November 30, 2006 market interest rates, the fair value of debt into euro debt and $143 million of euro debt into sterling our long-term debt and interest rate swaps would increase or debt, thus partially offsetting this foreign currency exchange decrease by approximately $120 million and annual interest rate risk.
At November 30, 2006, the fair value of these foreign expense on our variable rate debt, including the effect of our currency swaps was an unrealized loss of $169 million, which interest rate swaps, would increase or decrease by approxiis recorded in AOCI and offsets a portion of the gains recorded mately $12 million.
in AOCI upon translating these foreign subsidiaries net assets In addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or into U. S. dollars.
Based upon a 10% hypothetical increase or increase in Carnival Corporations November 30, 2006 comdecrease in the November 30, 2006 foreign currency exchange mon stock price, the fair value of our convertible notes would rates, we estimate that these derivative contracts fair values increase or decrease by approximately $145 million.
would increase or decrease by $125 million, which would be These hypothetical amounts are determined by considering offset by a decrease or increase of $125 million in the U. S. the impact of the hypothetical interest rates and common dollar value of our net investments.
stock price on our existing long-term debt and interest rate swaps.
This analysis does not consider the effects of the Interest Rate Risks changes in the level of overall economic activity that could exist in such environments or any relationships which may We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in interest exist between interest rate and stock price movements.
rates through our long-term investment and debt portfolio Furthermore, since substantially all of our fixed rate long-term strategies, which include entering into a substantial amount debt cannot currently be called or prepaid and $365 million of fixed rate debt instruments.
We continuously evaluate our of our variable rate long-term debt is subject to interest rate debt portfolio, and make periodic adjustments to the mix of swaps which effectively fix the interest rate, it is unlikely we floating rate and fixed rate debt based on our view of interest would be able to take any significant steps in the short-term rate movements through the use of interest rate swaps.
At to mitigate our exposure in the event of a significant decrease both November 30, 2006 and 2005, 72% of the interest cost in market interest rates.
on our long-term debt was effectively fixed and 28% was variable, including the effect of our interest rate swaps.
Bunker Fuel Price Risks Specifically, we have interest rate swaps at November 30, 2006, which effectively changed $932 million of fixed rate We have typically not used financial instruments to hedge debt to libor-based floating rate debt.
In addition, we have our exposure to the bunker fuel price market risk.
We estiinterest rate swaps at November 30, 2006 which effectively mate that our fiscal 2007 fuel cost would increase or decrease changed $365 million of libor-based floating rate debt to by approximately $3 million for each $1 per metric ton increase fixed rate debt.
The fair value of our long-term debt and or decrease in our average bunker fuel price.
interest rate swaps at November 30, 2006 was $7.79 billion.
