SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Business review 13 Key Performance Indicators Financial review The Groups Key Performance Indicators are: Including the unaudited Directors valuation of SVG Advisers, over the 12 months fully diluted Shareholder total return net assets per share increased by 24.2% to Net asset growth 859.2p per share, with fully diluted Shareholders 7 funds increasing by 21.3% to 810.1p per share.
Long-term net IRRs of the investment portfolio of underlying funds Shareholders funds do not take full account of the underlying value of SVG Advisers, based on its expanding and recurring income streams and Marketplace assets under management.
It is for this reason that the Directors have announced fully diluted In the wider private equity market, 2006 looks net assets per share of 859.2p, which includes set to be a record year in terms of fundraising with the incremental unaudited Directors valuation of over US$340 billion reported to have been raised SVG Advisers of 49.1p per share fully diluted.
A number SVG Capital has an over-commitment strategy of major groups have been fundraising in the last to private equity funds in general and Permira IV two years and may not be fundraising again until in particular, to which the Company committed 2009 10.
High levels of fundraising is, in itself, 12.8 billion during the year both directly and not a bad thing much of the money raised through various feeder vehicles.
In order to facilitate over the last two years has gone into the hands this strategy and take advantage of the relatively of experienced managers.
A very substantial benign interest rates environment, the Company amount of new money raised for private equity raised additional finance in July 2006 with the can be accounted for by a handful of rms, issue of 107.3 million of Senior Notes.
This was with the top 15 rms accounting for roughly complemented by also increasing our available loan 51% of the money raised, but only 12% of number facility from 1285.0 million to 1600.0 million during of funds raised.
What is more of a concern is if high the year.
Largely as a result of the Note issuance, investor demand continues and less experienced the cash and cash equivalents of the Company managers are able to raise too much money.
rose from 205.0 million at the start of the year to We do not believe that has happened yet.
The most significant What we have witnessed in Europe is a focus on cash movements during the year related to calls quality managers, rather than a general boom.
and distributions in respect of the private equity On the other side of the equation, money is being portfolio, which are discussed in more detail invested at a fast rate, with the global value of in the private equity portfolio review overleaf.
deals done in 2006 reaching US$720 billion.
It is In line with SVG Capitals borrowing policy and important to note, that whilst private equity has to take advantage of the relatively low interest become a mainstream asset class and represents rate environment, it is currently intended for the an increasing part of global M&A, it is still far Company to issue a further 1100.0 million of from the dominant source of capital, representing Private Placement Notes in the next 12 months.
only approximately 2% of western stock market capitalisation and therefore there is still significant scope for growth.
That said, auctions are competitive, multiples paid are rising, as are interest rates, and spreads between the two are therefore narrowing.
The increases in prices have largely been driven by high levels of debt finance available.
Here, there has been a systemic change in the banking market, as lending criteria has moved up to incorporate larger levels of debt, which are then typically widely syndicated.
For the time being, the sensible approach is to be cautious and not to overpay and this is the approach that Permira and our other managers are taking.
7 Shareholders funds in this context refers to audited consolidated net asset value per share.
