12581 Text 8 6 06 1:48 pm Page 33 Finance Report IFRS Dividends As highlighted in the interim report, TR Property The Group Income Statement shows the profit for the Investment Trust plc produces consolidated accounts and period before any distributions.
Dividends are shown in a therefore is obliged to adopt international accounting new statement: the Group Statement of Changes in Equity.
standards International Financial Reporting Standards or Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is IFRS for the financial year ended 31 March 2006. recognised as a liability in the financial statements for the period in which the dividends are approved.
The dividends The interim numbers were prepared on the basis of the shown in these accounts for the year to 31 March 2006 accounting policies expected to be adopted in these full are the final dividend in respect of the year ended year financial statements.
It was noted at the time that 31 March 2005, declared on 24 May 2005 and the changes to either the basis of accounting, or presentation, interim dividend declared on 23 November 2005.
This may be necessary due to changes in standards or the differs from the previous treatment, where dividends were issuance of new guidance notes.
There have also been accrued against the earnings to which they related, even changes in interpretation as accountants and auditors though they were not declared and paid until after the became more familiar with the use of the new standards.
The final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2006 announced on 23 May 2006 will be At the interim stage we explained the more important reflected in the 2007 accounts.
changes from the previous UK GAAP presentation.
We have produced a similar explanation below as there have Fair Value of Investments been some changes since the interim stage and also for IFRS requires that quoted investments are valued at fair the benefit of readers making a comparison to the prior value which equates to bid selling prices whereas year annual report.
previously they were shown at mid-market prices.
On the Group Balance Sheet, they are now included as nonThe financial statements and notes thereto are set out on current assets instead of fixed assets.
The impact of this pages 35 to 56.
The accounting policies adopted are set change is shown in each of the Opening Balance out in full, together with reconciliations of restated opening Reconciliations in notes 21 and 22 of the financial balances detailing the differences between the figures as statements.
previously reported under UK GAAP and under IFRS.
The description below is not intended to replace the notes in Transaction Costs the accounts, but to assist with the understanding.
There has been a change from the presentation at the interim stage in respect of transaction costs.
Group Income Statement The Group Statement of Total Return has been replaced As in prior years, the transaction costs have been treated by the Group Income Statement.
Under IFRS there is no as part of the cost, or deducted from the proceeds, of the differentiation between capital and revenue gains and transaction as appropriate.
They have not been included as losses.
However, as an investment company, only the an expense charged to capital and set out on the face of revenue earnings of TR Property Investment Trust plc may the Group Income Statement as they were at the interim be distributed.
The three-column presentation setting out stage.
These costs are separately identified by way of a revenue and capital items has therefore been retained by note to the accounts.
We believe that treating the costs as investment trust companies.
The total column of the Group an expense may result in them being included with Income Statement represents the profit and loss account administrative and operating costs in the Trusts total of the Group.
Expense Ratio TER calculation and that inclusion of transaction costs relating to investment activity would distort TER comparison between funds.
TR Property Investment Trust 33 12581 Text 8 6 06 2:44 pm Page 34 Finance Report continued Leasehold Investment Properties Gross Rental Income In countries with a leasehold tradition, such as the UK, Rental income includes all service charges and other costs leasehold investment properties have not, in the past, been recovered from the tenants.
The amounts paid to third treated very differently from freeholds.
The valuer makes parties for the provision of all services are then deducted allowances for the rent that the owner of the leasehold as an expense in the Group Income Statement.
Previously, must pay to the superior landlord, and for the fact that the only the net rental was brought into the rental income line.
property will ultimately revert to the superior landlord at The overall impact on net profit is therefore nil: however, the end of the lease.
the revenue and expense lines have been inflated by these service charge costs.
IAS 40 on investment properties and IAS 17 on leases allow leasehold investment properties to appear in the Valuation of Debt balance sheet as investment properties, but the In accordance with the recommendation made by the accounting treatment of freehold and leasehold properties AITC, TR Property Investment Trust plc has chosen not to is very different.
fair value the debt shown in the financial statements.
Debt is shown at amortised cost.
The fair value of the debt will As under the previous accounting convention, freehold continue to be disclosed in the notes to the financial properties are carried in the accounts at fair value i. e. statements in the full annual report.
Any leasehold property, however, must be treated as if it is held under a finance lease and the Deferred Tax present value of the rental payments to be made to the Under IFRS provision has to be made for any potential tax superior landlord over the life of the lease must be shown liability on revaluation surpluses.
As an investment trust, as a liability in the balance sheet.
The investment property the Company does not incur capital gains tax, so for all is carried at fair value i. e. valuation, with the present value assets held by the Trust this is not an issue.
However, of the rental payments made under the headlease added some properties have been held in subsidiaries, either to back as these have been allowed for in the valuation.
The ensure the investment trust status tests are not breached net carrying value is therefore the same as under the there are strict rules on sources of qualifying income or previous convention.
However, a balance sheet liability has for commercial reasons.
Provision for capital gains tax has been created where none was previously shown, thus therefore been made for the revaluation surpluses of introducing financial gearing where none existed before.
property assets held by subsidiaries to the extent that the gain cannot be sheltered by brought forward capital losses One property in our portfolio has been accounted for in or non trade debits.
An adjustment has also been made in this way: our long leasehold at Cambridge.
The liability for respect of the prior year figures.
the future ground rent payments of 1.6m is included in the Group Balance Sheet Current Liabilities.
Reported Daily NAVs TR Property Investment Trust plc reports a daily NAV to Under IAS 40, any revaluation gains on investment the London Stock Exchange.
It should be noted that a properties must be taken directly to the Group Income capital only NAV is reported in accordance with the AITC Statement rather than the revaluation reserve.
It does not reflect retained earnings presentation of this on the Group Income Statement does and is not on the same basis as the numbers reported in not differ from that shown previously on the Group these financial statements.
In the Group Balance Sheet, however, these gains form part of the retained earnings, Two NAVs are released, one valuing the debt at amortised rather than a revaluation reserve.
cost, as in the financial statements, and the second marking the debt to fair value.
