Operating and financial review Strategy, 12 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 resources and risks Strategy and objectives Resources C&R is a co-investing asset manager with teams specialising in The Group has the following key resources which assist in the retail and leisure property.
We have three well established funds in pursuit of its objectives: which we co-invest, and a further two in the making.
Our objective is to outperform by steadily building our business on a long-term People: our most important resource by far.
We have four largely and sustainable basis.
We aim to achieve this from organic growth independent divisions, each with its own CEO supported by leasing, within the existing businesses, and from identifying and developing financial and marketing expertise.
Business development, tax, teams in further properties with strong economic fundamentals corporate accounting and IT are the main functions run by the where active management can add value.
Matters of common interest are discussed at weekly meetings of the executive committee of the Board.
Description of the business Each of our three funds has its own specialist management team, incentivised to produce high returns for the fund investors.
Capital & Regional plc In each case the interests of the fund investors are represented Executive Committee by a fund manager.
Our Property Fund Property Shopping centres Retail parks Leisure Corporate funds segment manager manager division division division division The Mall Shopping centres Morley CRPM team of 62 The Junction Retail parks Morley CRPM team of 32 The Mall Junction team X-Leisure Finance X-Leisure Leisure property Hermes CRPM team of 32 Xscape IT FIX team SNO!zone Germany Two further portfolios are in the assembly stage.
We will only seek external capital for them when the portfolios have sufficient scale and track record.
We have 936 people employed on three payrolls: Capital & Regional Property Management for our central teams, Mall People for the At Mall teams and SNO!zone for the people employed by our ski Portfolio Property segment Value Dedicated team operator at the Xscapes.
German portfolio Big box retail 567m Two from CRPM local managers FIX UK Trade centres 110m Seven from CRPM Staff numbers 2006 2005 Shopping centres 62 58 Retail Parks including FIX UK 32 24 In addition we have a number of wholly owned properties and joint Leisure 32 27 Corporate 45 38 ventures.
These are only acquired after we have first considered whether they fall into the fund investment criteria.
If they do, we CRPM employees 171 147 Employed at the Malls 274 288 offer them first to the fund but there are a number of reasons why Employed at the leisure centres 25 17 they may not meet the fund managers criteria.
We try to restrict SNO!zone employees 466 217 ourselves to ventures where our management expertise can add Total 936 669 value.
The principal ones are listed on page 34.
Asset management and development opportunities Reputation and corporate culture: over 21 years as a public Our portfolios are rich in asset management opportunities which company an external reputation and internal culture has developed ultimately drive rental growth and investor returns.
Most of these which is believed to be an important resource.
The success of are reconfigurations and refurbishments within the existing Centerpoint Properties Trust, originally a C&R subsidiary, has also portfolios and will generate rental growth.
We also have a number given C&R a reputation in the USA.
of more significant development opportunities which are listed in the table below: Shrewd integrity are two words which we use to descibe our approach to business.
Our management is entrepreneurial and Total Significant sometimes audacious: but we pride ourselves on setting high Development capital spending Significant developments standards of integrity which enable us to work with the same opportunities potential developments 000 sq ft partners over long periods.
Mall 300m 350m Blackburn 100 Edgware 250 Wood Green 100 Junction 250m 300m Thurrock 400 Oldbury 460 X-Leisure 35m 45m Four schemes 80 Germany c 10m Toenisvorst 130 FIX UK c 10m Five schemes 150 Other retail park 65m 75m Cardiff 375 Including refurbishments, reconfigurations and developments.
13 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Brands Principal risks The Company has developed six brands as follows: Any business has risks, and it is our responsibility to manage them.
We have identified below seven particular risk areas of which shareholders should be aware: Brand Use Retail market risks: consumer spending patterns fluctuate, Shopping centre portfolio and there is always the risk of a systematic downturn and major retailer failures.
Our management teams are well prepared to minimise losses and fill vacancies quickly.
Property investment market risks: small changes in property Retail parks portfolio market yields can have a significant effect on the value of our portfolio.
These issues are monitored closely by the executive Leisure centre portfolio team on a weekly basis and reported publicly each month in our fund unit price valuations.
Changes in the tax and regulatory environment: our business Leisure complexes anchored could be affected by tax law changes, including those directed by ski slopes and cinemas at overseas investors, or by the increasing burden of regulation.
These risks are monitored by the Group Finance Director and Trade centres Chief Executive.
Loss of key management: our property management business is dependent on the active management skills of a small number The ski operator at of people, whose departure could adversely impact the business.
the three Xscapes This risk is mitigated by the development of a next generation of management and through the Companys long-term remuneration schemes, which defer payments for two to three Key relationships years and align shareholder and management interests.
Tenant relationships: our tenant relationships are of great Development risks: we have a substantial development importance to us.
Our largest individual relationships are with programme both inside and outside our funds.
This activity is Cineworld in our leisure division and B&Q in our retail parks.
Our subject to significant market, construction and commercial risks shopping centre business has nearly 1,250 retailers, the largest of which we mitigate by pre-letting a high proportion of the space, which is Boots which accounts for 3.1% of its rent roll.
In Germany and negotiating fixed price building contracts.
the Metro Group is an important tenant with which we are Interest rate risks: interest rate changes impact our cash flow.
beginning to cultivate a relationship via the Hahn group.
We normally use interest rate swaps to hedge between 50% and 100% of the risk for an initial period of about five years.
Fund investors: the institutional investors holding units in our Internet retailing and hypermarket diversification: there are three funds provide two-thirds of the equity on which our business well publicised fears about trade diversion from traditional retail is built.
The Mall has 45 such investors, including three from outlets to the internet and major supermarkets.
The Junction has 13 and X-Leisure has 18. trends carefully, and have ongoing research programmes that illustrate significantly differing actual purchasing habits by Fund managers: our fund managers, with whom we operate the sector.
three funds on a day-to-day basis, are also important to our business.
Morley Fund Management represents investor interests Post balance sheet events on the Mall and Junction Funds, and Hermes does the same for the Details of the post balance sheet events are set out in Note 30 X-Leisure fund.
The fund manager contracts are coterminous with on page 82. our management contracts as follows: Fund Manager Termination date Mall Morley Fund Management 31 December 2016 with an option for a further 5 year extension Junction Morley Fund Management 31 December 2011 with an option for a further 5 year extension X-Leisure Hermes Investment Management 16 March 2016 Our suppliers, professional firms, banks and joint venture partners also play an important and much appreciated role in our business.
