Operating and financial review Strategic update 06 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2006 Overview 917 million at 28 February 2007.
In 2006, The X-Leisure Fund delivered its strongest performance to date with a total return of Our performance in 2006 has been 30.4% for the year ended 30 December 2006.
Certainly it was enhanced by fund in the top quartile of all UK property funds.
yield compression but even without Our markets this the returns would have been in the We believe the long-term fundamentals for UK retail and leisure early teens.
This demonstrates the core remain strong.
A growing population with a high propensity to spend is serviced by a restricted supply of retail space, which strengths of our business model.
remains well below other developed economies, particularly the US.
Five years ago we refocused the Company on creating funds which we invested in as well as managed, and the results have been good.
In these circumstances long-term rental growth can be expected.
We earn significant management and performance fees from the There have been some concerns that retail investment yields have assets that we manage which cover our management overhead and fallen too far.
We are continuing to diversify into asset areas that are ripe for the application of our specialist skills.
In particular we see the reduction in IPD shopping centre equivalent yields from 7.3% in 2000 to 5.3% in 2006 as being in line with other Total property assets under management increased by 26% in real asset classes.
The margin over index linked gilts is close to its 2006, to 6.5 billion.
This is more than seven times the portfolio long-term average and therefore should be sustainable over time.
We continue to watch the development of the UK REIT with interest.
Most of the growth in our direct property portfolio came from the We have explained previously why REIT status will not suit C&R, expansion of our German retail park and FIX UK trade park portfolios, which already has a tax-efficient structure.
However, REITS may which now account for 23% of our total property exposure.
These attract new cash to the sector, and provide acquisition opportunities new ventures are generating excellent returns, and may well become for us, as long held assets with contingent gains are released.
funds in their own right in due course alongside our established UK shopping centre, retail park and leisure property funds.
Outlook We believe that the following factors position us well for the future, The Mall Fund, with assets of just over 3 billion, now owns whatever the economic background: 23 shopping centres, about 10% of the covered shopping centre We have experienced management teams, with strength market in the UK.
We believe that over the next three to five years in depth, specialisation and experience.
All are highly this fund can expand to 40 shopping centres, taking its market incentivised to perform.
We have a management business with long-term fee income streams which enhances our cash flow and strengthens The Mall Funds performance has been particularly satisfying: our business.
since inception it has outperformed its Shopping Centre IRR We are already seeding the next generation of specialist benchmark at an ungeared level by an average of 3.8% per annum, portfolios, in Germany and trade centres, which may become and has shown a total return to investors averaging 26.8% per annum.
The Junction Fund has grown from 336 million in 2002 to This has been our fourth year in a row with returns of more than 1.6 billion at the end of 2006.
There is substantial development 30%, ahead of a buoyant market.
The foundations of our business and redevelopment to take place in this fund over the next three to are sound, and we remain confident that our management teams five years which could produce substantial returns.
Since inception, will continue to outperform.
investors have enjoyed total returns averaging 26.6%.
Martin Barber Xavier Pullen The X-Leisure Fund was created in 2004 with initial assets of Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive 502 million, rising to 807 million at the end of 2006 and Martin Barber Xavier Pullen Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive
