24 Operating and Financial Review An increase in the adjusted net assets of the Group of just under 30% in a year is of some signicance.
This value creation was founded upon an exceptionally high level of activity with over 3.5 billion of capital turnover in the year.
Francis Salway Group Chief Executive Active capital management bn Twelve months ago we reported that there was a real sense of achievement across the Land Securities Group as we delivered a very strong performance.
This remains the case as we continue In Inv vestment estment R Receipt eceipt to deliver across all areas of the business.
Our combined portfolio outperformed the IPD quarterly 06 2 benchmark by 2.2%, we completed 161,000m of new development and Land Securities Trillium 05 made a substantial contribution to Group profit.
We are about to enter into a new environment for the quoted property sector with the introduction of REITs, which are widely expected to benefit both us and the industry.
In 03 addition, we believe that the property yield shift is almost complete, and therefore, the creation of 02 value will come from development and asset management activity rather than market-determined valuation movements.
One of our most important groups of customers, retailers, are facing more 01 difficult trading conditions and we will need to continue to work assiduously to ensure that we 2.5 1.5 1.0 0.5 0 -0.5 -1.0 -1.5 -2.0 -2.5 2.0 LS Trillium disposals Disposals provide them with the best possible trading environment.
After an outstanding year in terms of Property investment expenditure Development expenditure profit performance, Land Securities Trillium expects profits to decline as the Department for Work and LS Trillium acquisitions Corporate acquisition Capital returns Pensions DWP uses part of its exible accommodation allowance and as we invest in new business.
We also report our numbers differently this year: so we have tried to communicate clearly the principal changes under IFRS so that you understand fully the Groups financial position.
We endeavour to be at the forefront of reporting and this year we have also ofcially adopted the principles of the Operating and Financial Review OFR which we have been anticipating for the past two years.
We are delighted to report that our efforts on this front were recognised by the award for the second consecutive year of the EPRA European Public Real Estate Association Annual Report Trophy for best annual report in the European quoted property sector.
The demands of IFRS and the OFR have this year resulted in a longer report so, in order to minimise our impact on the environment, we are encouraging investors to sign up for online shareholder services, including online reports, further details of which are on page 158.
Core purpose and strategy At Land Securities our core purpose is making property work.
This simple statement masks the enormous inuence we have on the day-to-day lives of thousands of people across the UK.
For occupiers and clients it means providing buildings and services which help them to operate successfully every day.
For communities, it means providing the buildings and places where people live, work and relax.
For our people, it is the satisfaction of the positive impact we have Making property work on communities.
For shareholders it is the superior investment returns that we have generated.
It is to invest in commercial property in sectors where we have expertise and operational skills which give us competitive advantage.
In these sectors we will apply our risk management skills and actively recycle capital in order to deliver total returns in excess of our cost of equity.
To deliver this strategy, the business is focused on three core sectors of the UK property market: retail property, London ofces and property outsourcing.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 25 Operating and financial review continued Mark Collins left Chief Operating officer Martin Greenslade right Group Finance Director We discuss the financial strategy for our business later on in the review, but it is worth noting here that we operate in a capital intensive industry and our performance, therefore, is linked closely to the investment decisions taken by management.
One of the key decisions we made on this front was to invest more into development and property outsourcing activities and we are pleased to note that this strategic shift of focus has resulted in enhanced returns for shareholders.
Our investment property business comprises two business units operating in the retail and London property markets.
Combined, these businesses produced 469.7m of our underlying operating profit, representing approximately 85% of the total.
Their activities include property investment, development and management and, in our core markets of retail property and London ofces, we provide about 5.8% and 4% respectively of the market oorspace.
Land Securities Trillium, our property outsourcing business which provides bespoke property solutions incorporating the provision of property accommodation and related property services, produced 96.6m of our operating profit.
This relatively young business has a proven track record for returns and profit growth, having met its target of contributing 25% of Group operating profits in 2005, two years Developing property ahead of plan.
Last financial year we took capital out of the BBC contract through the sale of White City and this financial year we disposed of our interest in Telereal.
These actions have left us well We have the potential to deliver 2 positioned to invest in the new opportunities Land Securities Trillium is currently pursuing.
some 880,000m of new commercial accommodation across the UK by 2010.
The property outsourcing business offers the Group opportunities for growth in a market which is 2 not exposed to the property cycle or the economy in the same way as our traditional investment Floorspace million m property business.
It is also a market which offers significant growth opportunities through Government outsourcing and Public Private Partnerships PPP procurement.
With this growth Retail opportunity and diversication in mind, we apportion capital between our investment property 1.9 London Portfolio business and property outsourcing.
In addition, following publication of the proposed REIT 3.3 Land Securities Trillium legislation, we believe that the Land Securities Trillium business is capable of being included, 1.0 Other with the rest of our business, in a REIT.
Our markets Regulatory The Government published its proposed legislation for the introduction of REITs in the UK in April 2006.
The legislation is likely to be enacted in the Finance Act in July 2006 allowing REITs to be formed from 1 January 2007.
UK-REITs will be publicly listed, limited liability companies resulting in no change in the corporate status for quoted property companies such as Land Securities.
Conversion to a REIT will involve a change in tax status, and is the means by which the Government intends to create a level playing eld in terms of taxation between owning shares in a quoted property company and direct ownership of property.
In return for paying a conversion charge, equal to 2% of the gross value of qualifying property assets, REITs will then be exempt from both corporation and capital gains tax on their qualifying property activities.
Dividends paid by REITs will be subject to withholding tax.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 26 Operating and financial review continued As detailed in the Chairmans Statement we are waiting for final legislation to be enacted, following which we will announce whether the Board believes conversion to a REIT will be in the interest of our shareholders.
At present, we consider it likely to be so.
Should the Board decide to make a positive recommendation we will need to alter our Memorandum and Articles of Association which will need the approval of our shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting.
Competitive landscape Land Securities operates wholly in the UK commercial property market.
We are the largest quoted property company in Europe measured by market capitalisation, which at 8.4bn represents 21% of the UK quoted property sector.
We have a diversied business model, focused on retail property, London ofces and property outsourcing.
Within these core sectors, our activities include property management, investment, development and the provision of property related services.
We are one of only two quoted property companies which operate on a significant scale in the property outsourcing market.
In the past year the investment property market has become even more competitive, with enormous domestic and overseas investor appetite for UK property.
This has been driven by the low cost of finance, economic and political stability and the UKs long-term lease structure described in more detail in the Owning property section of this review.
Our response has been to pursue more opportunities in development and property outsourcing where we see prospects to achieve higher returns, and to acquire property not openly available on the investment market.
While we are selective in our acquisitions, we have also been able to acquire portfolios of property through corporate acquisitions, benefiting from our financial strength and the cost efficiencies of corporate as opposed to asset specic acquisitions.
We believe that the scale of our business will continue to be a source of competitive advantage, as evidenced by our ability to finance large scale development and investment projects at a lower cost of debt than many others in the industry.
We also have a relatively large market share of the sectors in which we invest, providing competitive advantage in terms of relationship management with key customers.
Over time we plan to capitalise on this to increase further our market share in each of our core markets.
In 1988, at its peak, the property sector represented 5.65% of the FTSE Index.
Today it represents only Land Securities combined portfolio value at 31 03 06 2.25% as a result of the growth in the size of other sectors together with a number of quoted property companies becoming private.
However, with the expected removal of the tax inefficiencies of holding property in a quoted vehicle through the introduction of UK-REITs, we are anticipating growth in the quoted property sector.
We expect to see, over time, the emergence of substantial new quoted 12.9bn companies as owner-occupiers and pension funds use this opportunity to reduce their direct property holdings in exchange for UK-REIT shares which will be more liquid and less management intensive.
Last year we reported that the UK commercial property market had a total value of nearly 500bn, Commercial property market value excluding Government-owned property, with 50% of this market held by owner occupiers.
Of the balance, which comprises the property investment market, only 14% is held by the quoted sector.
Experience in other countries following the introduction of REIT structures suggests that it is 500bn reasonable to anticipate a doubling of the size of the quoted sector in the medium-term even if, as we expect, only a small proportion of pension funds and other property investors take advantage Source IPF: The size of the UK commercial property markets 2003 of the UK-REIT opportunity.
Business Although diversied in terms of our activities, there are some common elements to our business environment which impact on the business as a whole.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Buchanan Galleries Glasgow is the third biggest retail destination in the UK, and Buchanan Galleries is its premier retail development.
We were keen to establish a major presence, so through a complex jointventure transaction, we swapped a portfolio of industrial assets for shopping centre assets.
28 Operating and financial review continued While it is easier to predict the supply side for the property market by examining trends on new oorspace under construction, it is our experience that the demand side, whether it be business expansion or consumer expenditure trends, is a more important factor in determining growth in rental values.
Consumer trends are inuenced by earnings growth, unemployment levels and interest rates.
Trends in consumer expenditure also impact growth prospects for an increasing proportion of business in the UK.
While macro-economic conditions have remained reasonably stable over the past year, there is evidence of a weakness in consumer spending as the impact of tax increases, higher energy costs, personal debt and, in some regions, concerns about job security impact on the retail sectors prospects.
With continued growth in average earnings and unemployment still at relatively low levels, we do not expect severe weaknesses in the retail property sector, but rental growth prospects are likely to moderate.
By contrast, employment growth in London has been strongly buoyed by the performance of the financial services sector, which has generated rental growth for our London ofce portfolio and will continue to do so as vacancy rates for London ofces reduce to low levels.
There is also a correlation between property and interest rates or bond yields.
Last year we felt there Investment portfolio outlook % yield pricing was little scope for further yield shift.
The past twelve months have proven us wrong as bond yields 7 continued to fall during the 2005 calendar year.
We benefited from the buoyancy of the property 6 investment market both in terms of the underlying value growth of our portfolio and through our 5 sales programme.
In 2006, however, property yields have continued to fall whereas bond yields have 4 risen.
These contrasting trends make it unlikely that we will see sustained ongoing capital growth in property purely through yield shift, although the weight of money still looking to be invested in the 3 sector means that yield shift may continue for a few more months.
2 1 Our business model 0 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Later in the operating and financial review we examine in detail each of our separate business units 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 05 06 06 06 but we thought it would be useful to review here some of the common activities undertaken by Property equivalent yield 10 year gilt yield our business.
Difference between above yields Source: IPF and Reuters Owning property At the core of our activities is the ownership of commercial property.
One of the fundamental changes over the past few years is that we have concentrated our portfolio on larger assets which provide better opportunities for us to benefit from our scale and asset and property management skills.
We now own 220 investment properties across the country with an average property value of 58.6m compared to 24.5m five years ago.
The combined portfolio, which includes our share of the Combined portfolio valuations bn as at 31 March value of assets held in joint ventures, was valued at 12.9bn at 31 March 2006 by Knight Frank, our external valuers.
In addition, through Land Securities Trillium, we manage or own over 2,500 buildings.
Those we own are held as operating properties on our balance sheet at 0.6bn.
One of the differences between our investment and operating properties is that, with the former, we are free to sell the buildings when we like, whereas with the latter we can only sell when they are surplus to our clients requirements.
We hold the operating properties on our balance sheet at depreciated book cost and do not revalue them in the balance sheet, unlike the investment property portfolio which is independently valued twice each year.
efficiently nanced and actively managed, investment in well-let property is reasonably low risk and the vast majority of our portfolio is just that.
This is particularly true if the property benets from the traditional UK lease structure which has two unique attributes from an international perspective.
The first is the long-term nature of the leases which usually last more than 10 years and 02 03 04 05 06 in many instances can be as long as 25 years.
The second is that most leases include an upward-only Total retail property London offices Land Securities Annual Report 2006 3.5 3.5 3.2 3.9 3.0 4.5 3.6 5.3 4.8 7.6 29 Operating and financial review continued rent review clause.
This has and continues to create controversy between the owners of property and occupiers and we explain later in the review what we have been doing to address this particular issue.
We expect our activities to generate investment returns in excess of our cost of capital with target returns of 8-9% on investment property, before taking borrowing into account, and slightly higher returns from our property outsourcing and development activities reecting the higher degree of risk in these activities.
In Table 1 we list some of the key risks we believe are involved in property investment.
Table 1: Property investment risk management Risk Description Impact Mitigation Market cycles Property markets Underperformance of investment Diversied business model outsourcing is less impacted are cyclical portfolio impacting on by market cycles financial performance Secure income ows under UK lease structure Annual investment appraisals Property risk Asset value Poor performance of a single asset Diversied portfolio concentration having material impact on overall Largest property represents only 4.6% of combined portfolio performance Average investment property lot size of 58.6m Tenant risk Tenant concentration Impact on revenue if a major Diversied tenant base occupier fails Government largest single customer representing 9.4% of gross rents, the next largest represents only 2.1% Of our income 74% is derived from tenants which make less than a 1% contribution to rent roll Health, safety and environment risk Responsibility for Impact on reputation or potential Annual cycle of health and safety audits the safety of criminal proceedings resulting in Quarterly Board reporting visitors to our financial impact Dedicated specialist personnel for environment and properties and health and safety our environmental Established policy and procedures including award-winning performance health and safety system and BS8555 certied environmental system Active environment programme addressing key areas of impact energy and waste Developing property Table 2: Group development activity One of Land Securities key differentiators is our ability to deliver large, complex, mixed-use No of Floorspace TDC ERV 2 projects m m m developments both on our own behalf and for third party clients.
We are one of only a handful of Retail UK companies today which has these capabilities.
Our target investment return for development Programme 8 221,070 620 43 activities is between 11% and 14% depending upon whether the project is started with or without Proposed development 4 143,110 456 32 any lettings in place.
Total pipeline 12 364,180 1,076 75 London Portfolio Through development we continue to renew our portfolio and create assets of a quality seldom Programme 5 211,250 1,172 101 Proposed available on the open investment market.
It is an activity where our achievements demonstrate development 3 89,820 883 61 real competitive advantage, especially if you consider that negotiating the labyrinthine planning Total pipeline 8 301,070 2,055 162 system in the UK is but one element of an enormously complex regeneration process.
Land Securities Third party 3 157,610 n a n a Table 2 shows all the development currently being planned by us.
In the year under review we spent Land Securities Trillium Third party 2 55,360 n a n a 488.7m on development activity and we expect this level of spend will continue at similar levels as TDC: Total development cost compared to an average annual spend of some 250m in the previous five years.
ERV: Estimated rental value Land Securities Annual Report 2006 30 Operating and financial review continued Our ability to deliver complex development projects relies upon a range of skills built up over a Stakeholder groups number of years which incorporate site assembly, design, project management, public consultation Stage Stakeholder and change management capabilities.
We now have a team of 80 people involved in the delivery of Site assembly Adjacent owners Local authorities development projects addressing the numerous requirements of our stakeholder groups.
Design CABE Energy consultants and BREEAM Development is one way to create additional value for shareholders with our ongoing developments Heritage bodies Local authorities contributing 317.6m 32.9% valuation surplus this year to the uplift in our valuation.
However we Public consultation Businesses have to manage the risks inherent in this activity as described in Table 3.
Local authorities Residents Schools and other community Table 3: Development risk management organisations Transport Risk Planning Department for Communities Description Impact Mitigation and Local Government Site assembly risk Local authorities Third party interests Unable to progress development either Policy of buying into all or part of future development sites Local communities in part of site cannot at all or within budget for site assembly early as income-producing investments Experience of Compulsory Purchase Order procedures Construction Contractors be acquired Design team Planning risk Local communities Unable to progress Development expertise including: Development developments in a Skilled development management teams Letting Agents proposals fail to gain timely manner Public consultation and change management capabilities Occupiers sufficient support Long-standing relationships with key development and therefore stakeholders planning consent Reputation Construction risk contractors Construction cost Returns are eroded by cost Transfer of risk to specialist Skilled project management teams over-runs or poor overruns or project completion management of is delayed construction Letting risk mpact on profit Experienced and skilled in-house leasing teams Development I Risk evaluation model to ensure that dividend remains remains unlet after completion or covered by forecast earnings in the unlikely situation that all our London developments remain 100% vacant and fails to meet lettings target retail schemes are only 65% let Health, safety and environment risk Construction is a Advanced health and safety training programme Impact on reputation or potential high risk activity criminal proceedings resulting in in place, working in conjunction with our contractors in terms of health financial impact All our ofce development schemes are subject to BREEAM and safety: and energy performance ratings with a target rating of Very the environmental Good performance of Implementation of sustainable development process checklist a building is see below increasingly important Sustainable development Regenerating We are very aware of the long-term impact of development activities, both economically and With restrictive planning policies in the environmentally, on the communities these developments support.
We address this issue in greater UK, the majority of our activities are detail in both our recently published 2006 Corporate Responsibility Report and our sustainable on browneld sites helping to drive the development brochure which are available on our website and which detail the key aspects we regeneration of our towns and cities.
consider when planning a major new project as described below: significant environmental aspects Other sustainability issues Mitigation of local environmental import Economic regeneration and attracting inward investment Re-use and recycling of demolition waste and use of Community stakeholder involvement in decisionrecycled materials in construction making process Habitat enhancement to promote biodiversity Design and integration into existing communities, including uses and housing Reduction of carbon emissions of developments through design, energy efficient technology and use of renewable Building an effective social infrastructure energy sources Employment creation and skills training Inclusion of facilities for the storage and collection of Crime prevention through better design of public spaces waste to facilitate recycling Use of local labour, suppliers and materials Transport surveys and integration of developments with public transport systems Land Securities Annual Report 2006 New Street Square, London We recycled 93% of the waste that was created when we demolished the original building and gave 180 tonnes of carpet tiles to social projects.
When it comes to recycling we dont just stop at paper 32 Operating and financial review continued 2 Property outsourcing Property outsourcing m Property outsourcing is probably the largest transformation our industry has seen in the past 10 years.
Land Securities Trillium, the market leader in property outsourcing, is now responsible 2 for providing business accommodation across 3.32 million m of property as well as a wide range 3.32 million of property related services, including: Commercial accommodation under management Release of capital through sale of freehold properties Transfer of leasehold property risks Estate and asset planning Facilities management Maintenance and life-cycle capital investment Property development Property outsourcing differs from property investment in that it offers a tailor-made solution to a client in terms of their commercial accommodation requirements.
In the past an occupier has had to purchase or lease its business accommodation, procure separately all the services that it needs to maintain, manage and run that accommodation and retain a property team to manage its activities.
Through property outsourcing, an occupier can transfer the entire responsibility for this to the property outsourcing company, releasing it from the responsibility of running a property business.
The client will receive a capital sum for any freehold properties that are transferred while the property outsourcing provider will receive an annual index-linked all inclusive payment called the unitary charge.
This provides our clients with predictability of pricing.
We also offer clients exibility with the ability to vacate a proportion of their accommodation on a pre-priced basis and at a timing of their choice.
Land Securities Trillium has a different risk prole to the investment property business and detailed in Table 4 are its principal risks together with our mitigating activities.
Table 4: Property outsourcing risk management Risk Description Impact Mitigation New business risk Winning attractive Unable to establish new Dedicated new business team new deals business pipeline and close Established bid process framework deals impacts on growth Regular Investment Committee review strategy Service partners risk Performance of Impact on reputation and Regular assessment of service partners performance service partners potential financial penalties Ongoing suppliers performance reviews should service partners not Contingency plan set up with alternative suppliers deliver to agreed standards where appropriate Vacation of space risk Clients space remains Impact on income as a result of Specialist national disposals team manages surplus space unlet after vacation shortfall of rental income Head rent growth risk Ination on head Growth of head rent on leasehold Budgetary forecasts to asset level rents payable higher properties with negative effect Lease restructuring rent review processes than increases in on income statement Freehold buy-ins unitary charge Hedging income from freehold against leasehold properties Health, safety and environment risk Responsibility for the Impact on reputation or potential Annual cycle of health and safety audits health and safety and criminal proceedings resulting in Quarterly and annual board reporting environmental risks financial impact Dedicated specialist personnel for environment and on behalf of clients health and safety and their employees Established policy and procedures including Award winning health and safety system and ISO14001 certied environmental system Active environment programme addressing key areas of impact energy and waste Land Securities Annual Report 2006 33 Operating and financial review continued Our customers We are responsible for providing business accommodation to over 2,000 organisations across our 2 three million m investment property business and have a total of 5,000 separate leases with occupiers as well as six property outsourcing clients.
The majority of our relationships are long-term, with an average lease length of 8.7 years and an average property outsourcing contract length of 15.2 years.
Our investment portfolio customers fall into two main groups: occupiers of retail accommodation and occupiers of commercial accommodation in London.
Our tenants include multi-national retailers, leisure and restaurant operators, Government departments, financial service and banking organisations, law rms and consultancy practices, major corporations as well as small independent retailers and ofce occupiers.
Over the past few years we have seen enormous changes to the contractual relationship between occupiers and property owners.
The key drivers to these changes are global businesses seeking more exible ways to procure accommodation in line with practices overseas, together with occupier dissatisfaction with certain aspects of the typical UK lease structure.
In response to this our business units have developed a wide variety of different products for occupiers which include: Property outsourcing Landex Index-linked leases Outsourced service contracts Turnover-linked retail leases The majority of these products are focused on the ofce occupier but we continue to develop new Landex leasing products for retail occupiers who have different occupational needs.
We believe that there will still be demand for traditional leases but, as the demands of modern business change, so will the At the forefront of innovation we dynamics of the way in which we provide accommodation.
The challenge for us is to ensure that we introduced Landex.
This offers occupiers satisfactorily blend the introduction of new products with more traditional leases, which we believe lease exibility, service guarantee and will continue to be the preferred option for occupiers and for us in many situations.
New business Our new business activities incorporate the acquisition of single buildings or portfolios together with corporate acquisitions: the creation and expansion of joint ventures: identication and entry into new markets: the letting of new developments as well as the securing of lettings and renewal of leases across the investment portfolio and the winning of new property outsourcing contracts.
Much of this activity is conducted at business unit level.
For example, our Retail and London Portfolio businesses have leasing, asset and investment professionals who are focused on securing lettings across the development programme as well as ensuring that we minimise the levels of 2 vacancy across the portfolio.
This year we have let 83,600m of new developments, attracting seven new occupiers to the portfolio.
This represents future annual income of 31.7m.
Three years ago we created a Group business development team to assist with more complex corporate or portfolio transactions and to examine opportunities for expansion into new non-core activities.
Since formation it has been instrumental in the completion of some 2.3bn of transactions, including the property swap with Slough Estates, the corporate acquisitions of Tops Estates and LxB and the creation of our joint ventures with British Land and Delancey.
We report on Land Securities Trilliums new business activities later on in this review, since these are carried out by a dedicated team within this business unit.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 34 Operating and financial review continued Our people Employee satisfaction The Chairman remarked that we were becoming a more demanding employer which has resulted in a period of sustained change for our 1,800 employees.
In response to this, the past year has seen the Group make considerable progress in terms of the way in which it delivers its human resources 81% strategy which has now been structured into four core areas: of employees feel positive about their jobs Communication and engagement Rewards and recognition Learning and development Succession planning and talent management People are key to the ongoing growth and success of our business which drives our strategy to Land Securities as an employer become the employer of choice in the property company sector.
Our objective is to attract, retain and develop high performing employees who can add value to the business and to our stakeholders.
87% Over the next few months we will be facing the challenge of transferring our Media Services of employees believe Land Securities is a better employees to the BBCs new facilities management partner.
We have implemented change in the employer than other companies DWP contract as we consolidate the expanded contract and in the investment property business we have introduced new ways of working, including the implementation of a new accounting system.
We are very pleased by the way in which all our employees have embraced these new circumstances.
Communication and engagement We have a mobile workforce, with about half our employees located outside our headquarters Work life balance or regional ofces and we are keen to engage with these employees as well as their ofce-based colleagues.
We also want to ensure that all employees see communication as a two-way process.
To achieve this we have introduced business exchange forums in advance of legislative 74% requirements.
These forums, which meet every three months, comprise an elected representative of employees believe they have a reasonable group of employees who meet with senior management.
Last year we also took the opportunity work life balance to change our employee survey to provide more scope for employees to comment on business issues and increase the focus on employee engagement rather than just opinions.
We also have a wide range of communication tools in place, such as newsletters, intranet and videos.
Reward and recognition To remain competitive and to recruit and retain the people we need, we externally benchmark remuneration packages against a range of comparable organisations and professional skills areas.
In addition to base salary, the majority of our employees participate in performance related bonus schemes and are eligible for a range of benets including dened benefit now closed to new members or dened contribution pension schemes, health and life insurance, and a range of salary sacrifice benets.
We previously received approval from shareholders for a revised bonus and long-term incentive scheme which was introduced to managers last year.
This enables managers at all levels to be rewarded for their contribution at a personal, business unit and Group level.
In keeping with many companies we have reviewed our final salary pension scheme following extensive consultation with participating employees.
Having received Trustee approval, we have Engagement introduced some changes to this scheme which we describe on page 42 of this review.
Business exchange forums allow elected representatives to meet and engage with senior management.
Land Securities Annual Report 2006 Eastbourne Terrace, London While renovating this 1970s block into highly desirable ofces, we drilled down into Londons water table, and now pump up grey water for all the heating and cooling requirements.
You dont add to a drought problem if you have your own borehole 36 Operating and financial review continued Business planning Land Securities has in place a rigorous business planning process, with a five-year rolling Group forecast supported by annual Group and business unit plans and balanced scorecards.
Every six months our performance against these is reviewed and communicated to employees.
Business plan Our business plan is produced annually and updated after six months.
It is based on inputs from our five-year asset based forecast, which reect the current structure of our business together with our predictions for market conditions.
We then overlay assumptions on target gearing levels and capital allocation across our core sectors and between investment acquisitions and sales, development and outsourcing.
The objective is to ensure a balance between maximising growth in net asset value and ensuring ongoing growth in earnings.
Balanced scorecard We are strong advocates of balanced scorecards which look at quantitative performance measures across the full spectrum of finance, customer, employee, process and innovation.
We have had a balanced scorecard in place for two years and it has particularly helped us to focus on customer service and the interaction between our people and customers.
We see the results of the nonfinancial elements of the balanced scorecard as a lead indicator for the health of the business and include selected key performance indicators in Our performance section below.
Our performance Before moving on to comment in more detail on our financial performance for the year to 31 March 2006 as well as examining more closely the activities of our individual business units, we thought it opportune to discuss here the Groups core business objectives, our key performance indicators extracted from the balanced scorecard and our performance against these as set out in Table 5.
Total property returns year to 31 March 2006 Table 5: Key performance indicators Land Securities IPD % pa %pa Business objective All property 23.3 20.6 Key performance indicators Progress 1 Retail 19.3 19.1 To create sustainable, long-term returns for shareholders 1 London Portfolio 28.3 24.6 Sustained real growth in earnings per share Normalised adjusted earnings per share growth over three years to to be at least 3% per annum over rolling 31 March 2006 exceeded RPI by 7.5% per annum Source: IPD Quarterly benchmark to March 2006 three-year periods 1 Based on Land Securities business unit structure as dened on page 19.
Annual revenue profit to exceed budget target Achieved for this financial year To maximise the returns from the investment portfolio IPD outperformance in each core sector and Outperformed all three criteria, but Retail was below our target on an overall portfolio basis by 1% performance range see right To complete and let our development programme 11m retail development lettings to be completed Just under 11m of retail lettings achieved with a further 3m in solicitors hands 30m of ofce development lettings to be 12m of lettings achieved with a further 8m agreed after year end completed Slight delay in achieving practical completion at Cardinal Place, otherwise Development to be completed on budget and time schemes completed on schedule To grow our property outsourcing business by winning new contracts and expanding existing ones Secure two new business contracts, one with a Barclays and Norwich Union extensions and Mill Group joint venture new client Introduce new products and services which meet the need of our customers 2 2 Acquire additional 15,000m of accommodation Acquired 8,720m of new accommodation in one building for Landex Develop and introduce occupier portal Developed during year, introduced shortly after year end Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction Overall customer satisfaction in retail and London Achieved in year to exceed targets 90% satisfaction ratings from outsourcing clients Achieved in year Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance teams and individuals Employee engagement to exceed ETS industry Grand mean score of 2.96 compared to benchmark of 2.86 benchmark this is on a scale of 1 to 4 with over 3 being considered excellent Land Securities Annual Report 2006
