Ian Coull Chief Executive David Sleath Finance Director Operating and Financial Review We entered 2006 in good shape and we left it in even better shape.
With our clear strategic focus on Flexible Business Space, a highly motivated team and the right organisational structure, we have consolidated on the strengthened position of recent years.
Given the scale of our expansion in Continental Europe we are particularly pleased to be able to report that the European business delivered an outstanding performance in 2006.
The 19 per cent increase in underlying adjusted profit before tax highlights another strong operating performance in 2006.
Group lettings in the year increased to 440,000 sq m, with a further 159,000 sq m in pre-lets for the future benefit of the business.
Robust customer demand, our active management of assets and our sharpened focus on customer needs were the main factors behind this strong performance.
Continental Europe alone delivered an excellent 169,000 sq m. Across the Group, we invested 243 million in developments and 216 million in acquisitions, with 173 million of disposals crystallising 43 million of gains in value from previous investment.
In the UK we recycled over 170 million of capital but we were net sellers of assets.
The Group valuation surplus was 11.0 per cent, with the major UK industrial element of our portfolio up 11.5 per cent ahead of the equivalent IPD industrial index which increased by 11.3 per cent.
Even allowing for the non-cash effects of new shares issued for the preference share conversion and deferred tax charges, adjusted EPS growth was 3.3 per cent.
Implementation of strategy During 2006 the UK team has concentrated on shaping the portfolio to produce stronger returns by four primary routes.
We acquired estates or assembled a critical mass of properties in areas that enabled customers to expand their businesses within our holdings and for the most cost-effective provision of services.
We disposed of underperforming or non-conforming assets where there was limited opportunity to add value with 173 million of disposals.
We aggressively pursued and delivered redevelopments that allowed us to effectively replace older buildings and recycle the portfolio whilst retaining key holdings.
We also worked closely with our customers to provide a level of service that contrasts positively with other landlords.
Opportunities in Continental Europe currently offer attractive yields, low borrowing costs and strong prospects for growth.
Employing fundamentally the same model as in the UK, the strategy has been to identify the areas with the best growth potential in each country and then to assemble a critical mass or cluster of properties in these locations.
We have already secured this critical mass in the northern sector of Paris, France, and in the Dsseldorf region, Germany, where SEGRO is now established as the leading provider of modern and flexible light industrial, office and logistics space.
We are also already very well established in the vicinity of Brussels airport in Operating and Financial Review SEGRO Annual Report 2006 13.
With our clear strategic focus on Flexible Business Space, a freshly invigorated team and the right organisational structure, we have made good progress on all fronts.
Its particularly encouraging that in the first year after a significant expansion in the scale of its operations, our business in Continental Europe has delivered well ahead of our own expectations.
Belgium and Schiphol airport in the Netherlands where space.
As expected, the potential from development further land and income-producing properties have been completions coming on stream and from vacancy actively acquired in these important strategic areas.
During 2006, acquired with major new properties resulted in headline SEGRO made some major and highly-successful inroads vacancy in the UK increasing, from 10.9 per cent to into Central European locations providing a platform for 11.6 per cent.
We selectively acquired 145 million future growth in that region.
As our strategy evolves, we of properties in the UK, in attractive locations.
seek to acquire and develop industrial and logistics space, Continental Europe as well as land for development, in the growth zones of Having doubled in size and firmly established a key markets across Continental Europe.
presence in Central Europe at the start of the year, our Continental European business delivered an outstanding A 70 million acquisition and leaseback agreement with performance in 2006.
Its excellent 169,000 sq m of Antalis, was largely complete by 31 December 2006.
This lettings increased the rent roll by over 7 million pa and agreement included properties in two new major target brought investment property vacancy levels down from countries, Italy and Spain, and provides SEGRO with a 10.2 per cent to 8.7 per cent, with overall vacancy levels platform in key locations, including potential to make including trading properties down from 12.3 per cent further strategic acquisitions.
77 per cent of our pre-lettings were In the USA, the business focuses on the implementation delivered in Continental Europe.
of the biotechnology strategy and on value-adding USA opportunities in major biotechnology clusters in the In the USA, the business had a good year with the San Francisco Bay Area and San Diego County.
0.9 billion book valuation at the end of 2006 The business model concentrates on development, representing a 28 per cent increase on the end of 2005, redevelopment, conversions and strategic acquisitions.
reflecting development completions and yield In 2006 investment momentum accelerated in response compression in a market which is increasingly seeing to biotechnology industry activity during the year, buoyed biotech real estate as an attractive asset class.
Gross by increased funding from the major pharmaceutical rental income increased 25.3 per cent to 76 million, companies and the venture capital community.
During reflecting the full year effect of some strong lettings in the year, we have added several new clients to the 2005 and the benefit of development completions in portfolio: clients who have the potential to provide 2006.
Further progress was made with lettings and with opportunities for future expansion.
new acquisitions for future developments, although the 2006 performance review market in San Diego County, unlike the San Francisco UK peninsula, has remained somewhat subdued, leaving the With most commentators forecasting the end of yield USA vacancy high at 18.9 per cent.
compression in the UK and in the context of the generally REIT Conversion positive rental levels, the UK team is demonstrating the Slough Estates became a Real Estate Investment Trust quality of its core property skills.
In 2006 we recycled REIT on 1 January 2007.
We believe SEGRO is well capital, completed the latest phase of the development placed to deliver superior shareholder returns as a REIT, programme and implemented our asset management with its strong development pipeline and pan-European strategy, successfully driving gross property rental business model.
In addition to the UK tax advantages income up by 10 million.
UK underlying year on year which REIT status provides for most eligible companies, vacancy levels by space remained unchanged at 8 per the UK REIT legislation also enhances our ability to cent, but we generated an extra 4 million of rental implement an efficient international tax structure income from space let over space returned.
We achieved enabling us to take greater advantage of the already overall rental growth of 3.7 per cent on rent reviews, stronger yields and lower borrowing costs available in ahead of the IPD industrial figure of 1.4 per cent.
The Board announced its new post growth on new lettings was flat, consistent with the REIT dividend policy in November 2006.
In future the priority we give to generating cash from unoccupied Operating and Financial Review continued Board ordinarily expects total dividends to exceed 14.
Strategy and Business Model the mandatory 90 per cent Property Income Distribution The Groups principal objective is the generation of PID element, and to comprise between 85 per cent and shareholder value through the investment, development 95 per cent of the worldwide recurring property rental and management of commercial real estate.
Our chosen earnings plus a proportion of trading property profits and sector is Flexible Business Space, which encompasses other income from non-property activities.
This new policy the provision of business accommodation to a wide will take effect during 2007 and is not reflected in the range of users from sectors as diverse as research, proposed final dividend for 2006. manufacturing, data centres, light assembly and distribution in pan-European and US locations, or Development clusters, which we believe will outperform over the Our 3 billion development pipeline, a key driver of our longer term.
future returns, is building momentum.
With 154,000 sq m of developments completed during 2006 and 338,000 We believe that we diversify our business and development sq m of construction in progress at the year end, the risk through the breadth and spread of not only the pipeline now stands at 2.4 million sq m with 226 million geographic reach of our portfolio but also the variety of rental income potential.
and quality of our customer base.
Given the differing local dynamics of the property markets, we manage the Outlook business through three geographic business units Market conditions are encouraging.
In the UK, enquiry the UK, Continental Europe and the USA.
We currently levels are in line with last year, with some areas seeing have a presence in strategic locations in 11 countries.
particular strength in rental levels such as Bristol, Heathrow and the Thames Valley.
Conditions are generally Our strategy is to build critical mass in each of our existing stronger across Continental Europe.
Our Central European markets and to identify and enter new markets where locations are seeing continuing strong demand across the there are attractive growth prospects and the potential board, there are also some specific areas of strength in to achieve attractive returns.
Whilst scale and access to Western Europe, such as in light industrial markets in international customers is an important dimension of our France and in the logistics market in France and in business, property is ostensibly a local business and our Belgium.
In the USA, demand for SEGROs biotech product philosophy, therefore, is to employ people with expert local remains strong in the San Francisco Bay area, but there knowledge who understand the dynamics, drivers and has been little pick up as yet in San Diego.
characteristics of each local market.
The momentum in the development pipeline continues Existing Markets to grow, with 338,000 sq m under construction at the end France Ile fide France, Paris of 2006 and with 734,000 sq m of construction starts Belgium Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent triangle expected during 2007 515,000 sq m of it in Continental Germany Cologne, Dsseldorf, Frankfurt, Berlin Europe alone underpinned by the healthy occupier and Hamburg demand levels across the Group.
The sale and leaseback The Netherlands Schiphol, Amsterdam agreement with Antalis in late 2006 moved us into a Poland Poznan, Strykow, Warsaw, Silesia number of high growth European business centres Czech Republic Prague including key locations in two new countries, Italy and Hungary Budapest Spain and gave us another important partnership Future Markets Key Target Locations relationship with a substantial corporate occupier, France Lyon, Marseille and Lille thereby enhancing our platform for growth.
We continue Spain Madrid, Barcelona, Valencia to see a steady flow of attractive investment and Italy Milan Turin acquisition opportunities.
With our strategy and structure Germany Munich now firmly in place, we are meeting or beating our targets The Netherlands Randstad and our growth plans remain firmly on track.
Poland Gdansk USA Strategic Review In November 2006 SEGRO announced that, consistent with Our strategy for achieving our objectives has three main its previously-stated strategy of focusing on the provision elements: of Flexible Business Space in the UK and in Continental 1.
Proactive asset management Europe, it was exploring the strategic options for its USA focusing on our customers needs business.
It was announced that the process involved delivering a strong leasing programme consideration of a range of possible options, including an the ongoing refurbishment and redevelopment immediate or phased divestment and also joint venturing of our buildings or merging SEGRO's USA business with a third party.
In recycling capital by selling mature assets where assessing the options the Board has regard to all relevant there is limited potential for SEGRO to add considerations including the current and potential future further value value of the business as well as the tax implications of the various options.
The process is well underway and we anticipate making a further announcement during the second quarter of the year.
SEGRO Annual Report 2006 Tax: as a UK REIT and soon also as a French SIIC 2.
'Socit d'Investissement Immoblier Cte, most acquiring income producing assets, which of our investments are tax free: however, in are undermanaged and or can be developed jurisdictions where tax is potentially payable, we expect Corporate partnering sale and leaseback the project returns to cover any expected tax costs transactions with income and scope for Geographic market risk: we demand a premium for development international investments, particularly in new or Taking advantage of higher yields and lower emerging markets borrowing costs in Continental Europe Construction and letting risk: we expect a premium 3.
Development over dry investments to compensate for any Executing the current programme of pre-let and construction risk and for letting risk speculative speculative developments under construction development projects are required to show a higher Preparing sites and seeking pre-lets to support expected return than pre-let developments.
the projects due to be started in 2007 8 Acquiring new greenfield and brownfield sites We believe the key differentiators of SEGROs business for future development.
compared to its competitors are its growth in Continental Europe, its very strong development pipeline We assess all potential investment opportunities and its core skills in asset management.
according to their strategic rationale, their risk profile and their expected financial returns both income and SEGRO announced its intention to grow its Continental total un-geared return.
Our current targets are to European business in 2005.
This focus was chosen achieve total pre-tax returns of 8 per cent to 10 per cent because the Group believes superior returns are available from investment activities and 9 per cent to 14 per cent from investing in major European business markets rather from development projects.
than being purely a UK player.
These expected superior returns are driven by the higher investment yields available We set different target return levels according to the tax in most Continental European markets, the expectation profile of each particular investment and according to our that yields will compress leading to capital growth, and assessment of the individual project risk.
We normally the superior economic growth prospects in several apply a premium to the minimum return that we expect markets particularly in the emerging central and eastern from an investment, to reflect: European countries.
We also believe there are synergies available by providing a consistent approach and service level to our growing number of international customers.
Development Pipeline Construction Potential Development Potential Developments in Progress Starts in 2007 2008 & Beyond Total programme Land area ha 55 151 264 470 Space: Industrial sq m197,510 619,511 735,4041,552,425 Offices sq m71,841 80,287 515,636 667,764 Retail sq m0 6,065 1,858 7,923 Biotech sq m 68,951 27,870 87,812 184,633 Total sq  Investment properties % 76 74 77 76 Trading properties % 24 26 23 24 Pre-Let %57 4 1 10 Planning status fully approved % 100 20 5 26 zoned outline approval % 0 58 55 48 Rental value when completed m 42.3 56.8 138.7 237.9 Current book value at valuation m 359.9 235.9 507.8 1,103.6 Forecast future costs to completion m 251.4 501.7 1,249.3 2,002.4 All amounts are indicative only and are liable to change.
Certain properties included above are currently income producing and are expected to be redeveloped: such properties have a current book value of 288 million and produce current rental income of approximately 12 million pa. www.
com Operating and Financial Review continued Our pan-European strategy is supported by the operation A proactive programme of capital recycling whereby 16. of an efficient tax and capital structure.
With REIT status we identify properties in the portfolio which have in the UK, and soon with SIIC status in France and the reached maturity and that are unlikely to deliver efficient use of lower-cost borrowings in Continental future returns at our required levels these Europe, SEGRO operates with a low overall tax charge properties are sold and the proceeds reinvested in and an efficient cost of capital.
other properties and development opportunities.
Market Context SEGRO has one of the largest development pipelines in From the perspective of global trading volumes and the industry, with the potential to build up to 2.4 million pricing, 2006 was a record year for property investors.
sq m of Flexible Business Space, equivalent to 64 per cent In the key markets of Asia, Europe and the USA, of the current built portfolio.
This could produce, at commercial property investment totalled US$645 billion, todays rental values and assuming full letting, some 33 per cent ahead of 2005 source: Cushman and incremental annual rental income of approximately Wakefield.
Furthermore, the data reveals the extent to 226 million including our share of joint venture which the markets have evolved over recent years.
Trading developments and after deducting rents currently volumes in the second half of 2006 were nearly equal to passing on buildings that are expected to be redeveloped the annual total for 2004 and indeed the quarterly average 82 per cent of the current annual rent roll.
for 2006 exceeded the full year total for 2001.
Risks associated with the development pipeline are Investment in Europe totalled US$295 billion and the carefully managed: region accounted for six of the top ten global investment Concentrating development activity in areas of markets, with the UK second behind the USA and proven economic activity Germany in third place.
Within Europe, the share of Paying heed to detailed local advice and our own investment accounted for by Central and Eastern Europe knowledge of occupier requirements in specifying has risen from 1 per cent in 2001 to 5.5 per cent in 2006, the size and nature of the space being delivered driven by increased investment in Poland and an Using initiatives to ensure best value is obtained in increasing interest in Russia.
During 2006 SEGRO moved The flow of money targeting real estate continues to to outsource the procurement of construction in line increase as the populations of many of the mature with industry best practice.
New relationships are economies increasingly focus on pension provision and being forged with external contractors and project these institutional investors are drawn to real estate for managers are employed to ensure completed its transparency, lease structure, relatively stability and schemes continue to be delivered on time and recent strong returns.
Over the past year demand for within budget commercial property in the UK has been driven primarily Working closely with local planning authorities and by institutions.
local communities to understand their requirements and eliminate areas of possible conflict However, commercial property prices are high and, Creating Flexible Business Space that will suit the looking forward, this may restrict the activity of some widest variety of businesses in different sectors.
As prices have risen, particularly over the past year, yield convergence across the globe has been All development projects are subject to strict financial evident not only in the emerging markets of Rumania, targets, as described above.
Bulgaria and the Ukraine, but more significantly in the SEGROs asset management skills are based upon: more established markets of the USA, western Europe and the UK.
Whilst there is some evidence that the rate A passionate focus on our customers to ensure that of yield decrease is now slowing, particularly in the UK, their current and prospective property needs are unless interest rates are quickly reversed, to secure being addressed, both locally and on an good returns investors will become increasingly reliant international basis on good management, development programmes and An ongoing programme of refurbishing, renewing growth in rental income.
and redeveloping existing estates and buildings to ensure our product remains up to date and In the UK, as a result of the recent interest rate rises, suitable for current market needs property is no longer self financing.
Looking ahead most commentators are expecting a slowdown in returns in 2007 as the fall in yields, which has underpinned much of the investment performance over the past five years, comes to an end.
SEGRO Annual Report 2006 The graph featured on the left from Capital Economics 17.
UK All Property Total Returns % independent macroeconomic research consultants 20 Nominal returns shows their forecast of a cooling investment market Real returns 15 with total returns falling from an anticipated 18.7 per cent in 2006 to around 9 per cent in 2007 and then falling 10 further to an average of 4 per cent in the period 2008 to 2010.
Given recent performance this could be viewed as 5 a bearish outlook, but in such an environment investors are likely to focus on the property fundamentals of 0 location, customer covenant strength and targeted development to drive performance.
Last 50y Last 30y Last 20y Last 10y Last 5y 2006 2007 2008-2010 Source: Capital Economics Key Performance Indicators SEGRO has a comprehensive suite of measures which Management and the Board use to set targets and assess performance in the context of our strategic objectives.
These measures are cascaded throughout most areas of the business and cover financial and non-financial matters, including corporate and social responsibility measures.
Work is ongoing to develop and evolve the capture and use of KPIs throughout all areas of the business and to ensure that they are fully aligned with the Groups objectives as a REIT.
The key measures currently used at Group level, and our performance achieved in 2006, are as follows: To deliver attractive total returns in the period Key Performance Indicator 2006 Performance & commentary Adjusted profit before taxation 142.7m 19% Adjusted earnings per share 25.1p 3% Total return 16.6% TSR performance 35% 23% To provide a platform for attractive future returns Key Performance Indicator 2006 Performance & commentary Total space let in the period 440,000 sq m Vacancy rate at end of the period 11.9% up 0.1% Contracted rent roll at end of the period 273m Construction starts in the period 475,000 sq m Land bank at end of the year 470 ha Capital recycled from divestments 173m To achieve high levels of customer satisfaction and retention Key Performance Indicator 2006 Performance & commentary Customer satisfaction level proportion of customers rating overall good or excellent 73% UK Lease renewal rate including percentage of break options not exercised 68% UK See glossary on page 140 for definitions of certain KPIs.
com Operating and Financial Review continued 18.
Risk Management Identifying and evaluating risks is a fundamental element of managing SEGROs business to achieve our objective of creating shareholder value.
The Group views effective risk management as integral to the day-to-day business decisions and encourages all its managers to asses risk on a continuous basis.
In addition, we carry out regular, formal risk assessments to identify and evaluate risks and to identify controls and other risk management techniques in place.
These assessments involve four key elements, as follows: Identifying significant risks to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives Evaluating the risks in terms of the magnitude of their impact and the likelihood of occurrence Developing action plans to manage risks, including the development of internal controls Reporting to the Audit Committee and the Board on the risk management process, the assessment of key risks and the status of risk management plans.
To assist the risk identification process, we categorise risks into three areas of: the external environment, operational risks ie the internal management processes and structures, and risks related to the production and use of management information.
As a property investment and development company, the main business risks we face on an ongoing basis are in the following table, along with their potential impact and any mitigating factors or risk management strategies we have in place.
Environmental, Social and Governance risks are separately addressed on pages 44 to 47 of this report.
Key Business Risks Mitigating factors and Description of risk Potential impact risk management strategies General Property Investment Risks Downturn in the demand for Flexible Portfolio underperformance due to Broad geographic Business Space-type assets falling values for commercial property spread of investments across Europe reduces dependence on any single market location Active monitoring and assessment of the portfolio to identify assets likely to underperform Downturn in occupier market conditions Lack of rental income Vacancy levels are carefully or over-supply of space as a result increased vacancy levels monitored and development of competitor activity due to weak occupier demand activity is reduced if occupier demand weakens Loss of rents and bad debts The Group has a wide spread of from occupier failures customers more than 1,760 in total, with no customer representing more 3.5 per cent of total rental income The largest concentration of risk in any one industry is the US biotechnology sector, which represents approximately 19 per cent of total Group rental income Lack of growth or even a decline in The majority of the portfolio market rents for Flexible is subject to upward-only rent Business Space reviews on existing leases in the UK, indexation adjustment in Continental Europe and fixed rent step-ups in the USA The expected returns from the development programme are not dependent on rental growth Inability to recruit, develop, motivate or Underperformance in any aspect Programme to develop management retain people with the necessary skills of the business and talent to deliver the Groups strategy Employee engagement survey carried out regularly SEGRO Annual Report 2006 Key Business Risks continued 19.
Mitigating factors and Description of risk Potential impact risk management strategies Development Risks Inability to source sufficient land Dilution of returns due to capital The operating management and and risk of holding too much invested in unproductive assets or the Group Capital Approvals development land inability to grow the portfolio and Committee carefully manage the deliver future returns due to lack of type, amount and location of growth opportunities development land.
See details of development pipeline in the Property Portfolio at page 125 Failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining, Erosion of expected financial returns Most sites acquired with planning consent on land held due to time delays or possible impairment outline zoning or planning for development in value of land holdings consent already in place Construction costs exceed budgeted Erosion of expected financial returns Contingencies built into all levels or there are delays in completing development appraisals construction projects Transfer of most risk to construction partners Use of specialist in-house project managers Regular project reviews Letting risk on speculative Erosion of total returns from Total exposure to speculative development schemes capital invested in non-income schemes is carefully monitored by producing developments the Group Capital Approvals Committee and details reported to the Board Sensitivity analysis carried out on all potential investments to ensure target returns can be achieved with delay to leasing assumptions Overall modelling of the impact of speculative development schemes is carried out to monitor and assess exposure Health and safety risks the risk Failure to achieve the Groups Group Health & Safety Manager of injury or illness to the Groups CSR objectives and damage to establishes appropriate policies and or third parties construction workers the Groups reputation and possible monitors accident reports all criminal or civil action significant accidents are reported to the Board Health & Safety training provided to all employees Geographic Risks The political and economic risks Loss of value of investments or failure to Careful analysis of each market is associated with investing outside the achieve adequate risk adjusted returns undertaken before investing in new UK, particularly in some of the markets.
Local offices set up in all emerging economies significant markets, staffed by employees who understand their local markets www.
com Operating and Financial Review continued 20.
Key Business Risks continued Mitigating factors and Description of risk Potential impact risk management strategies Financial Risks Liquidity risk a lack of available funds Inability to fund developments, The Group has a flexible funding to meet the Groups needs and requirement to sell properties strategy with substantial undrawn at wrong point in the cycle funds available Funds availability and financial ratios regularly monitored by the Group Treasurer and reported to the Board quarterly Interest rate risk Increased borrowing costs The majority of borrowings if interest rates rise are fixed see Financial Review Currency risk Reduction in the sterling value The majority of foreign currency of assets or earnings if foreign assets are matched by borrowings currencies depreciate against sterling of equal amount denominated in the same currencies Tax risks REIT compliance Potential tax penalties or loss of REIT Internal monitoring procedures status by failing to comply with the are in place to track compliance new REIT rules in the UK with the appropriate rules Risk of unexpected tax costs through Additional tax costs, reducing Recent appointment of lack of tax planning or execution in total returns a tax planning manager tax-paying jurisdictions Use of external advice, as appropriate SEGRO Annual Report 2006 In the UK we routinely commission independent Customers satisfaction surveys, share the findings with our SEGRO provides accommodation for more than 1,760 customers and act on the results.
Following businesses across the UK, Continental Europe and the significant feedback about the adequacy of security USA.
Our customers range from small organisations in industrial areas, we undertook a programme moving into their first business premises to major of introducing monitored CCTV closed circuit international companies for whom we provide bespoke television monitoring systems, across our major space designed to suit specific requirements.
Our commitment remains the same to be transparent, Our customers property is now protected by honest and helpful in all our dealings across the monitored CCTV at more than 50 per cent of portfolio.
We are mindful of the fact that improving our holdings by area and we are already seeing occupier retention and attraction is one of the main improved satisfaction ratings at the estates that ways we can distinguish our property from the benefit from this service.
Other recent initiatives competition and drive stronger returns.
The value of introduced in response to feedback from customers this approach is confirmed by the fact that more than include the introduction of well-supported Business 30 per cent of our lettings by rent are to existing Clubs and new caf bars at Winnersh and customers seeking new or additional space.
We are also pioneering innovative Particular ways in which we have forged stronger occupancy agreements at several sites, which relations with customers include: have proved to be a popular alternative to traditional leases.
The fast-growing USA business has been built on the foundation of excellent communications and In the last independent survey, 73 per cent of a management team responsive to the needs of our customers rated their overall satisfaction as a relatively small group of high-added-value life good or excellent.
science businesses based in San Francisco and Across Continental Europe we have fullySan Diego.
Most new opportunities have been the empowered local offices, which work closely with result of personal recommendation and our positive our customers to meet their needs.
New facilities reputation as a supplier that understands this introduced in 2006 include a fitness centre at specialised group of customers.
Pegasus Park, which is proving popular with corporate occupiers and a 200-seat restaurant at the Carr des Aviateurs light industrial estate in Blanc Mesnil outside Paris.
Our Continental European strategy involves concluding agreements with major multinational companies that allow our customers to realise the capital tied up in real estate.
The most recent such transaction with Antalis also provides for us to be a partner in satisfying future space requirements.
