Emmerich is a key Uniqema site which occupies a prime position adjacent to the Rhine river.
The site has its own harbour and is equipped to manufacture a wide range of fatty acids, Safety, Health and the polymerised fatty acids and glycerine.
The site was established in 1911 and has a distinguished history in oleochemicals.
Environment Croda International Safety, Health and the Environment SHE policy Croda International Plc is a manufacturer of speciality chemicals for the consumer care, industrial specialities and oleochemicals markets currently employing approximately 4,000 people worldwide.
The Company operates its business in a manner which actively seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of its operations causing harm to people, plants or animals.
We strive to provide the resources to educate and involve every individual in the Company in achieving this objective.
It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of safety, health and the environment is vital to ensuring the long term future and profitability of the Company.
Principles: The Group controls its business by the delegation Indicators of SHE performance 1.
We believe that all accidents, incidents and work 5.
We will continue to search out new ways of of much of its management responsibility, including In 2001 the Group published several safety, health related ill health are preventable and we manage conserving all the natural resources used in SHE matters, to its site directors and general managers.
Progress against these our business with this aim, including the provision our processes.
targets was discussed in detail in the 2003 annual of adequate resources for the prevention of major The overall strategy, development of policy and 6.
We will continue to innovate in order to improve report.
In view of the progress made, the opportunity accident hazards.
review of SHE performance within the Group is our products and processes so that their effect was taken to withdraw targets achieved or restate controlled by the Group SHE Steering Committee.
Because we are human, mistakes can be made: on safety, health and the environment is reduced.
original targets with stretch targets for the next five The Group SHE department assists in setting but because we are committed, intelligent human years and initiate new ones where appropriate.
We will continue to improve communication and standards, providing guidance, brokering best beings, we investigate to identify the basic causes doing so reference was made to the HSE targets as the exchange of views with employees, employee practice and auditing the sites against international and take action to prevent these mistakes stated in Revitalising Health and Safety and to the representatives, customers, contractors, suppliers, standards as well as Croda internal standards.
Chemical Industries Association Responsible Care neighbours and any other individual or organisation targets.
The newly stated targets use the performance 3.
As an absolute minimum we will comply with all affected by our business.
A Group Environmental Management System in 2003 as the baseline for improvement.
national regulations but in addition we set our own GEMS was implemented in 1995 to provide sites We have assessed the significant safety, health and demanding internal corporate standards on matters with a framework upon which their individual Where necessary, these objectives and targets have environmental hazards posed by the Companys relating to safety, health and the environment and environmental management systems could be been re-based on current operations manufacturing activities, and an appropriate set of arrangements endeavour to comply with them throughout our developed.
Sites have been regularly audited for at the end of 2006.
In the situation of one site being has been implemented to control these hazards.
compliance with GEMS and all Croda manufacturing assimilated into another, the statistics of both sites effectiveness of these arrangements is monitored and sites have been certified to ISO 14001. combined have been retained.
Site management teams within the Company are reviewed on a regular basis with action taken to redress measured for their contribution to the continuous any deficiencies and ensure continuous improvement.
Similarly a Health and Safety audit based upon The impact of the acquisition of Uniqema in improvement of safety, health and environmental Health and Safety Executive HSE guidelines September 2006 has been excluded from the performance in their area of responsibility.
Individual has been performed regularly by Group SHE 2006 performance statistics.
Mike Humphrey employees each have a responsibility to participate on all manufacturing sites.
Group Chief Executive in and contribute to the improvement of corporate Director responsible for SHE The results of these audits are used to focus the SHE performance.
Group SHE initiatives and the annual Group SHE objectives.
The audit process, used by the Group SHE department to audit the manufacturing sites, has been externally validated by BSI in 2004 as being in accordance with ISO 19011 auditing standards.
12 Safety, Health and the Environment Safety, Health and the Environment 13 Safety, Health and the Environment Indicators of SHE performance continued SHE management Waste disposal Objective: Target: Objective: Target: To continually improve the effectiveness All manufacturing sites to be certified To minimise the quantities of waste disposed All manufacturing sites to halve the amount of waste of our SHE management systems.
kg tonne manufactured disposed to landfill in 2003 by 2009.
Two sites Singapore and Hull became certified to OHSAS 18001 during the year.
The remaining sites all confirm suitable progress towards this target.
The waste data relates to waste generated by the manufacturing operations.
One off disposals of waste not directly associated with the manufacturing process, for example construction excavations or contaminated land remediation, are excluded.
Energy consumption Objective: Target: The reduction in waste kg tonne to landfill since 2003 is 45%.
This includes an improvement of 10% To continually improve the energy efficiency To improve energy efficiency GJ tonne in 2006. of our manufacturing processes.
manufactured at all manufacturing sites by 2% each year from 2000 until 2010.
Waste water discharges Since 2000 we have achieved a 40.2% improvement in energy used per tonne of manufactured product.
Objective: Target: However opportunities for significant improvements are becoming more difficult to identify and in 2006 To reduce the environmental impact the All manufacturing sites to achieve greater the contribution to energy efficiency was 0.8%.
Group has on controlled waters.
than 95% compliance with their effluent discharge consents in every year and for year Energy savings are also reflected in our compliance with UK Climate Change Agreements and the on year continuous improvement towards EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
As reported previously Croda has been studying new and alternative 100% compliance.
During the year planning permission was obtained for a wind turbine at our Hull site.
The target to improve the level of compliance with our effluent discharge consents to at least 95% was achieved for all current sites in 2003.
There have been successive improvements since, with 97.1% compliance being achieved in 2006.
Air emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs Objective: Target: To minimise the mass of VOCs released All manufacturing sites to reduce VOC emissions to air from our processes.
kg tonne manufactured by 40% by 2009.
Since 2003 there has been a 23% reduction in the amount of VOCs released per tonne.
This reduction was achieved despite a 21% increase in 2006 which was due to the increased demand for one key product which involves the use of solvent.
Plans are in preparation to reduce the environmental impact of this product.
Consumption of mains water Objective: Target: To reduce the Group requirements All manufacturing sites to reduce the use of mains 3 for mains water.
water m tonne manufactured by 25% by 2009.
The reduction in mains water used since the baseline year of 2003 is 39%.
This includes a contribution of 6.5% in 2006.
14 Safety, Health and the Environment Safety, Health and the Environment 15 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE initiatives 2006 New indicators of SHE performance for 2007 2010 Accidents and enforcement action SHE management There was an increase in the reportable accident rate in the Group in 2006.
However, the overall reduction Objective: Target: in accident rate is 51% since 2000.
The Group received one notice of violation in USA for non compliance To continually improve the effectiveness of our All manufacturing sites to be certified to OHSAS with transport regulations for which it was fined $1,400 in 2006.
There were no prosecutions in 2006.
Former Uniqema sites have until the end of 2010 to be certified to ISO Soil and groundwater investigations 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
The Group believes it has already identified its major liabilities with regard to historical contamination of the ground and groundwater.
To date, remedial strategies are either in place or being developed for the cost effective control of this contamination at all relevant sites.
Energy consumption Objective: Target: Indicators of safety performance To continually improve the energy efficiency Based on 2006, to improve energy efficiency GJ Croda recognises that whilst the personal injury accident rate is a useful indicator of SHE performance, of our manufacturing processes.
tonne manufactured at all manufacturing sites it is also important to monitor those events which might lead to process incidents and or loss of by 2% each year 8% overall until the end of 2010. containment, so that action can be taken to reduce their frequency.
The Group has implemented a system for monitoring the performance of those engineering control Air emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs measures which are critical to the safe operation of its hazardous processes.
The system, which will Objective: Target: be extended to the new Uniqema sites by the end of 2007, allows the sharing of learning opportunities To minimise the mass of VOCs released Based on 2006, all manufacturing sites to reduce in relation to the loss of process controls.
to air from our processes.
VOC emissions kg tonne manufactured by 5% per year 20% overall until the end of 2010.
Acquisition of Uniqema The acquisition of Uniqema in September 2006 has had a marked effect on many aspects of the Croda group.
Although there are many products and processes in common there are also significant Consumption of mains water differences, such as the addition of commodity fatty acid manufacture to the product profile.
Objective: Target: To reduce the Group requirements Based on 2006, all manufacturing sites As a result, the manufactured tonnage has increased more than tenfold.
Since all the Croda targets are 3 for mains water.
to reduce the use of mains water m tonne normalised to the manufactured tonnage this has a large effect on the performance target statistics.
manufactured by 2.5% per year 10% overall until the end of 2010.
Since the Croda five year targets were rebased on 2003, the targets for energy reduction 40.2% improvement against a target of 20%, waste water discharge compliance 97.1% compliance against a target of 95% and mains water reduction 37.8% against a target of 25% have been achieved within Waste disposal three years.
The remaining targets for VOC releases 23% reduction against a target of 40% and waste Objective: Target: to landfill 45.2% reduction against a target of 50% are both on schedule to be met in two years time.
To minimise the quantities of waste disposed Based on 2006, to reduce the amount of waste to landfill.
kg tonne manufactured disposed to landfill by Although very good progress has been made, it is noticeable that the incremental amount of improvement 5% each year 20% overall until the end of 2010. has been getting harder and harder to achieve each year as the sites have exhausted the opportunities for large improvements.
Waste water discharges As a result of these factors Croda has decided to rebase the targets for the combined Group on 2006 Objective: Target: data and to review all the targets for the next four years to the end of 2010.
To reduce the environmental impact the All manufacturing sites to achieve greater Group has on controlled waters.
than 97.5% compliance with their effluent discharge consents in every year and for year on year continuous improvement towards 100% compliance.
16 Safety, Health and the Environment Safety, Health and the Environment 17 Michael Buzzacott BA, FCCA David Dunn CA Michael Ward FCA, MBA, MCT Independent non-executive director 59 Senior Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director 50 Board of director 62 Michael Buzzacott was appointed to the Michael Ward was appointed to the Croda Croda Board in August 2004 following his David Dunn was appointed to the Croda Board in 2001 and appointed chairman of retirement from BP, where he had spent over Board in 2000 and was appointed Senior the Audit Committee at the beginning of 34 years.
At BP he held a number of senior Independent Director and chairman of the 2002.
Following an early career in senior directors international roles including Assistant Remuneration Committee at the beginning financial roles, he was appointed Group Co-ordinator Europe, Regional Finance of 2002.
He has held a number of senior Managing Director of Lloyds Chemists Plc and Control Director of Asia, Chief Executive financial and general management positions in 1996.
Upon the acquisition by Gehe AG Polymers and Olefins Division and finally with UK plcs.
He joined Scapa Group Plc in in 1997 he became Chief Executive Officer Group Vice President Petrochemicals.
He 1987 where he served as Finance Director, of the newly formed AAH Lloyds Group and was appointed a non-executive director of Chief Executive and non-executive Chairman was appointed to the Gehe AG Management Rexam PLC in 2000 and is currently prior to his retirement in 2002.
He is currently Board in 1998, as the European retail director.
Chairman of Biofuels Corporation plc.
a non-executive director of FirstGroup Plc, He was with Apax Partners from January 2004 SMG Plc and non-executive Chairman of until March 2006 when he was appointed Brammer Plc.
Managing Director of Harrods Limited.
Martin Flower BA Mike Humphrey Sean Christie BSc, FCMA, FCT Member of Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Non-executive Chairman 60 Group Chief Executive 55 Group Finance Director 49 Martin Flower was appointed to the Croda Mike Humphrey was appointed to the Sean Christie was appointed to the Board in May 2005 and took over from Antony Croda Board in 1995 and became Group Croda Board as Group Finance Director in Beevor as Chairman at the end of September Chief Executive at the beginning of 1999.
He has held a number of senior 2005.
He is chairman of the Nomination He joined Croda in 1969 as a management finance positions in Northern Foods Plc Committee and, since December 2006, a trainee and was appointed Managing and was Group Finance Director from member of the Remuneration Committee.
Director of Croda Singapore in 1988, Croda 1994 to 2004.
He is Senior Independent He has formerly held various senior executive Application Chemicals in 1990 and Croda Director of Kingston Communications positions over 36 years with Coats plc, Chemicals in 1991.
He is a member of the HULL Plc and a non-executive director culminating in a period as Chairman before Nomination Committee.
of Cherry Valley Farms Ltd. his retirement in 2004, and he was Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc until June 2006.
He is a non-executive director of The Morgan Crucible Company plc and Chairman of Alpha Airports Group Plc.
On 1 January 2007 he was appointed a non-executive director of Low & Bonar PLC.
18 Board of directors Board of directors 19
