Business Review 28 FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW THE PURPOSE OF THIS REVIEW IS TO OUTLINE KEY ASPECTS OF THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE OVER THE LAST YEAR AND OF ITS FINANCIAL POSITION.
PETER WILLIAMS Accounts the statutory figures, because we believe FINANCE DIRECTOR As a listed company, we have been required the alternative measures give a more for the first time to prepare the Group comparable indication of the Groups Accounts under International Financial underlying business performance.
This has led to considerable changes in the format of our We have continued to prepare the Company primary statements, to increased volatility accounts under UK law and UK accounting of the numbers within the Income standards so as not to lose the exemptions Statement and to a far longer and more available under the Companies Act and UK complex set of Accounts.
IFRS seems financial reporting standards.
to favour the use of fair values over the KEY FIGURES traditional measure of historical cost Revenue and increasingly appears to be driven by The Groups revenue in the year of 2,176 UNDERLYING REVENUE GREW BY 2% academic theory, at the expense of million was 2% higher than the previous commercial reality.
There was revenue growth from all 2% standards follow the UK principles-based of our divisions, with the exception of our approach, enabling the exercise of newspapers which experienced difficult OPERATING PROFIT GREW BY 6% professional judgement, several of its trading conditions.
Excluding the impact newer US-influenced standards have of acquisitions and disposals, we estimate introduced complex rules and this trend underlying revenue growth was 2%.
The analysis of revenue by activity, EARNINGS PER SHARE GREW BY 7% IFRS lacks the prescriptive profit headings illustrated in Graph 1, shows that there has of FRS 3: in particular there is no concept been little overall change in the shape of or definition of operating profit, nor of the Group in terms of revenues.
DMGT has chosen to if their digital activities are excluded from present its Income Statement as closely as our newspaper divisions, the percentage Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and permitted to UK GAAP.
We have also sought of revenue from newspapers has fallen to amortisation and impairment of intangible assets to align our published figures to the way 60% from 67% in 2002.
Graph 2 shows the All references to prior year numbers are to figures we manage our businesses.
In particular, geographic split of revenue.
This shows that prepared under IFRS under IAS 19, the total pension charge is 75% of revenue by source was generated by made up of two components, the current UK businesses, compared with 80% in 2002, service cost and a finance credit.
This but we estimate that 40% of overall Group finance credit is the difference between revenues is now invoiced in US dollars.
the return on the assets and the interest charge, due to the increase in the year Operating profit of the present value of the defined benefit The Groups operating profit amounted obligations.
We have included both to 300 million, an increase of 6% on the elements within operating profits.
equivalent figure for last year.
This figure The divisions operating defined benefit is stated before charging 41 million as schemes principally the newspaper exceptional operating costs.
This charge divisions are charged the cash funding comprised principally the costs of rate, with the difference between this the second phase of Northcliffes and the total IAS 19 charge included in reorganisation programme, together unallocated central costs.
with the professional costs of its strategic review, reorganisation costs within Whilst the Groups Accounts are likely Associated and a restructuring charge to be more difficult for shareholders to within dmg world media.
The charge for understand, this Financial Review focuses amortisation of intangible assets on the adjusted numbers, in addition to rose by 22 million to 51 million due to Daily Mail and General Trust plc 29 Euromoneys associates.
These were GRAPH 1 partly offset by the absence of a REVENUE BY ACTIVITY MILLION contribution from GWR Group plc which merged into GCap Media plc in May 2005 with the Groups interestnowaccounted 1,000 forasaninvestment.
Also included are 800 start-up losses from Metro Ireland and lower profits from GLM, the North 600 American gift exhibition organiser.
400 Net financing costs 200 Investment revenue, excluding interest on deposits, rose by 23% to 3.2 million.
This 0 included a first full years dividends from GCap Media, which outweighed a fall in 1000 dividends from Reuters Group plc, resulting NATIONAL NEWSPAPER BUSINESS-TO-BUSINESS EXHIBITIONS AND RELATED from the Group selling its remaining AND RELATED ACTIVITIES INFORMATION AND CAREERS ACTIVITIES interest.
Net interest payable excluding 800 REGIONAL NEWSPAPERS EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL RADIO dividend income and deemed finance AND RELATED ACTIVITIES INVESTOR charges fell by 4.4 million to 48.3 million.
600 Other income statement items acquisitions made during the current and prior year.
The Group also made an The Group recorded other exceptional gains GRAPH 2 400 and losses of 189 million.
Of these, profits impairment charge of 59 million, REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHIC principally in respect of its Vega radio on disposal of businesses of 175 million AREA MILLION arose from the sale of Aberdeen Journals licences, Associateds Loot business and 200 a number of consumer and gift shows.
and Study Group and profits of 17 million arose on the sale of investments, mainly 2,000 After deducting these charges, the Groups 0 reported operating profit fell by 37% to from the sale of the remaining shares in Reuters.
Profits of 9 million arose on the 150 million.
1,500 sale of properties and other fixed assets.
These profits were offset partly by write The analysis of operating profit by activity 1,000 is shown in Graph 3.
This shows strong downs resulting from a review of the carrying values of the Groups investments.
growth again from our business-to- 500 business information division, smaller Profit before tax rises from our national newspaper division, 0 Euromoney Institutional Investor, despite The statutory profit before tax of 311 million was 59% higher than last a 3 million increase in the charge for its capital appreciation plan, and dmg world years figure.
Excluding amortisation UK and impairment and exceptional items, media.
These increases totalling REST OF EUROPE 30 million were offset by falls of 9 million the adjusted profit before tax figure was 2000 2000 260 million, up 9% on last year.
in our regional newspaper division, partly NORTH AMERICA due to the sale of Aberdeen Journals, and by REST OF WORLD Taxation increased losses within radio of 4 million.
1500 1500 Central costs were 5 million lower.
The tax charge of 60 million represents 19.3% of profit before tax and 14.2% of profit Associateds performance was boosted by strong growth from its digital operations, before amortisation and impairment.
The 1000 1000 adjusted tax on adjusted profits amounted both organically and from acquisitions, although the newspapers proved resilient in to 62 million and the resulting rate is 23.9%, up from 22.1% last year due to a the face of a further decline in print 5 500 00 advertising income.
higher proportion of profits coming from the United States, albeit partly offset by Generally strong growth by the Groups the accounting benefit of the last of the 0 0 Groups unrecognised US tax losses.
This is business-facing divisions and the rapid expansion of the digital operations of our still well below the UK corporate tax rate, where the Group currently makes most of newspaper divisions means that 47% of this years operating profit has been generated its profit.
The Groups effective tax rate in the UK is higher than this due to other than by the Groups print newspaper titles, up from 40% last year.
expenditure disallowed for tax purposes.
The Group is still benefiting in the amount of Joint ventures and associates tax paid from carried forward losses in the US, but this will reduce over the next two The Groups share of the results of its joint ventures and associates rose by years as US Federal tax becomes payable.
Adjusted profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Over the next few years the adjusted tax rate 2.0 million to 7.1 million due mainly to lower losses from Northcliffes digital is expected to increase from 24% to Adjusted share of the results of joint ventures and associates before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
associates and to a larger contribution from Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2002 2003 2004 2005 2002 2003 2006 2004 2005 2006 Business Review 30 FINANCIAL AND TREASURY REVIEW CONTINUED Cash flow and net debt was 1.9 times.
The Groups Standard & Overview IAS 7 does not permit a reconciliation to net Poors credit rating remains at BBB, as The Group has adequate committed debt to be given adjoining the Cash Flow does our rating from Fitch.
debt finance to meet current trading Statement: this is shown instead as requirements.
Foreign exchange risk on note 13 to the Accounts.
Net debt fell during At the year end, the Group had 654 million transactions is not a large issue for the the year from 767 million to 738 million, a of Bonds due for repayment in 2013, 2018 Group as the majority of its businesses are reduction of 29 million.
It also had 260 million of domestic.
In principle, the underlying due to the strong trading cash flows and committed banking available to it until currency of net debt after taking account of proceeds of disposals which exceeded March 2008 and 300 million until derivatives is managed in proportion to the the high level of capital expenditure and September 2009.
It is intended to refinance EBITDA in each currency.
A growing acquisitions, together with the outflow the 2008 bank facilities with longer-term proportion of the Groups profits are earned from taxation, interest and dividends.
finance within the next year.
The Group has in foreign currencies.
As the Group is only Graph 4 summarises the Groups sources sufficient committed debt facilities to meet partially hedged by its foreign currency of free cash flows and use of those funds its foreseeable requirements.
It had surplus debt, economically it is exposed to declines during the year.
The net cash inflow from committed facilities of 377 million at the in value of the US dollar in particular.
The operations, joint ventures and investment year end.
Group has a prudent level of fixed interest was 382 million, which represented 98% rate debt to reduce the impact of interest of operating profit and income from joint Since the year end, Euromoney has rate fluctuations.
ventures and investment after adjusting completed the acquisition of Metal Bulletin, 120 for non cash charges depreciation, including a cash and loan note component a Liquidity risk amortisation and impairment and similar.
It is the Groups policy to have sufficient 100 In general, the Groups profits are converted surplus borrowing headroom such that its rapidly into cash.
Treasury policies development is not constrained.
The Group 80 The following paragraphs are a summary is funded by a mixture of equity, debt and Capital expenditure of 118 million was of the Groups treasury policies.
Debt consists mainly of 60 higher than last years level, reflecting the aims to have sufficient liquidity to meet both committed bank facilities and bonds.
40 construction of Associateds new plant in operational and capital cash flows and to The bank facilities provide the Group with Didcot, Oxfordshire.
Acquisitions and impose the minimum cash constraints on flexibility for operational requirements and 20 investments cost 343 million, the largest the management and operation of the acquisitions.
Uncommitted and overdraft items being the purchase of Genscape Group.
Financial instruments, including facilities are also utilised.
The bonds 0 for 73 million and 110 million spent on derivatives, are used by the Group in order currently in issue consist of three sterling Associateds digital division.
Disposal to manage the principal financial risks that Eurobonds.
Maturities of debt are -20 proceeds amounted to 241 million, arise in the course of business.
These risks maximised and spread in order to avoid the principally from the sale of Aberdeen are liquidity or funding risk, foreign requirement for significant repayments at Journals and Study Group.
exchange risk, interest rate risk and any point in time, as shown in Graph 6. counterparty risk.
The instruments are Surplus funds are generally used to pay The Groups interest cover, calculated as used within the parameters set by the down debt.
If temporary surpluses arise, the ratio of adjusted profits before interest Finance Committee of the Board, and are they are generally deposited in money and depreciation EBITDA to net interest not traded for a profit.
The Groups priority is market accounts with banks that provide payable, was 7.8 times this year, up from to address the economic impact of financial bilateral credit lines.
7.2 in 2005 see Graph 5 and above the risks using the most efficient or appropriate Groups current target of six times.
This may result in IFRS Covenants on debt instruments are Groups ratio of year end net debt to EBITDA accounting volatility.
kept to a minimum, even if this results in marginally higher interest costs.
External finance is unsecured and is usually an obligation of the company or its GRAPH 3 immediate subsidiary, rather than of OPERATING PROFIT BY ACTIVITY MILLION trading subsidiaries.
This gives operating management maximum flexibility to run the business without the distraction of meeting 120 short-term financing requirements.
100 80 b Foreign exchange risk i Transaction risk 60 Most of the Groups businesses do not 40 transact cross-border: hence multi- 20 currency transaction risk is not substantial.
0 The main exception is Euromoney which 20 has net receipts in US dollars and net payments in sterling.
Euromoney has a series of US dollar forward sale contracts in place up to three years forward to meet its NATIONAL NEWSPAPERS BUSINESS-TO-BUSINESS EXHIBITIONS AND sterling outgoings.
Other than Euromoney AND RELATED ACTIVITIES INFORMATION AND CAREERS RELATED ACTIVITIES there were no significant foreign currency REGIONAL NEWSPAPERS EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL RADIO forward contracts in existence that hedge AND RELATED ACTIVITIES INVESTOR UNALLOCATED CENTRAL COSTS revenues or costs.
The sterling value of Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Inflows 320.9m 31 Outflows -48.3m capital expenditure in foreign currency is and options are used to help attain the GRAPH 4 fixed using forward currency purchases.
Groups target level of fixed interest rate CASH FLOWS BY ACTIVITY MILLION debt.
The maturity dates are spread in order Tax on non-trading exchange rate to avoid interest rate basis risk and also to movements is hedged, using cross negate short-term changes in interest 800 currency swaps and forward currency rates.
At the year end, fixed interest rate 600 contracts.
The Groups acquisition financing debt represented approximately 90% of 400 structures may give rise to foreign exchange total net debt.
Options are not treated as 200 gain or losses in the UK which are either effective hedges under IFRS.
The Group enters 0 into market derivatives to hedge this d Counterparty risk -200 exposure in economic terms.
However, IAS Counterparties and their credit ratings are -400 39 prohibits such items from being shown regularly reviewed by Group Treasury.
The -600 net in the tax line and as a result increased Group has counterparty limits for banks volatility is introduced in the income with long-term credit ratings of AA or HEDGING OTHER 25M 800 statement.
This years profit before taxation better, and a lower limit for single A rated DISPOSALS 241M has been increased by 17 million 2005 banks.
Typically this is banks that extend 600 TRADING INVESTMENT 382M Nil in relation to the structure and tax credit facilities to the Group.
The Group 400 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE -118M payable has been increased by a similar does not expect any counterparties to be 200 amount.
Both have been removed in unable to meet their obligations.
OWN SHARES -36M 0 arriving at adjusted profits.
ACQUISITIONS -343M e Debt levels -200 TAXATION -21M ii Translation exposure The Group currently aims to have a 6:1 ratio 400 -400 Borrowings are principally incurred in of EBITDA to net interest costs and seeks to DEBT SERVICING -47M -600 sterling, with lesser amounts in US dollars ensure that the ratio of net debt to EBITDA EQUITY SERVICING -56M 300 and Australian dollars.
Generally, the does not normally exceed 2.5:1.
It is proportion of foreign currency debt after believed that this achieves close to the 200 allowing for any hedging instrument optimum level of gearing for the Group, but GRAPH 5 to total net debt is managed to be leaves it with sufficient headroom should it RATIO OF EARNINGS BEFORE 100 approximately equal to the proportion of desire to increase its debt levels without INTEREST, TAX AND DEPRECIATION foreign EBITDA, compared to total Group reducing the Groups quoted debt below AND AMORTISATION TO NET EBITDA.
This is expected to continue.
As such the ratio will 0 PAYABLE INTEREST.
A substantial proportion of US dollar and not be met consistently, but will define the Australian dollar debt liabilities are created medium-term target level of net debt.
-100 through the use of foreign exchange 9 derivatives and treated as net investment Going concern 8 -200 hedges.
The consequence of this policy is The Directors have continued to adopt the 7 that the Groups significant foreign earnings going concern basis for the preparation of 6 -300 are not hedged back to sterling.
This has been done since, 5 after considering relevant information, 4 3 iii Economic exposure they have a reasonable expectation that 2 A substantial proportion of the Groups the Company and the Group have adequate 1 value relates to foreign subsidiaries, in the resources to continue in operational 0 US in particular.
The foreign currency debt existence for the foreseeable future.
described above is only a partial hedge of this economic exposure.
PETER WILLIAMS EBITDA: Net interest FINANCE DIRECTOR iv Netting The Group may offset currency risks on trading, capital expenditure, tax and GRAPH 6 borrowings and only hedge the net MATURITY PROFILE OF GROUP NET exposure.
This may result in not obtaining DEBT MILLION IFRS hedge accounting.
c Interest rate risk 800 The Group aims to have approximately 70% 700 of forecast net debt to 80% of target net debt 600 as fixed interest rate liabilities.
It aims to 500 achieve this ratio over the medium term 400 and it is applied to each of the Groups main 300 currencies.
The predictability of interest costs is deemed to be more important than 200 the possible opportunity cost foregone of 100 achieving lower interest rates.
Borrowings are made in either fixed or floating rates.
