REVIEW OF TRADING AND OPERATIONS For the year ended 30 September 2006, revenue increased by 15.9% over the prior period, as the Group continued to gain market share in Network Integration and in most of our lines of business, including Security and Converged Communications.
Gross profit for the period was $647.9 million, up 16.5%, with gross margin stable at 21.1% compared to 21.0% in 2005.
In particular, Asias gross margin was 1.7% better at 18.8%, reflecting strong Product and Services margins, CFOS OPERATING REVIEW while Africa reported better Services margins.
1 Total overheads increased by 12.7% to $562.9 million, and the ratio of overheads to turnover improved to 18.4% from DAVE SHERRIFFS [ ] 18.9% in 2005 reflecting operating leverage in the Group, despite ongoing investment in the development of Services offerings and our lines of business.
1 Operating profit was $85.0 million, up by $28.3 million 50% 1 on 2005, and the Group operating margin improved from 2.1% to 2.8%.
Operating profit is reconciled to adjusted operating profit in Note 8 to the annual financial statements.
2 Adjusting for the impact of currency movements, and assuming acquired businesses had been held from the beginning of the comparative period.
PAGE 15 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CFOS OPERATING REVIEW continued In order to represent the underlying organic specialist, Bellerephon, in 2005.
Performance in Data Centres growth of the business, in the analysis of lines of and Storage was mixed, with overall growth of 7.1%.
Africa business and revenue streams below, revenue and Australia reported very good growth, while reductions in growth is adjusted for the impact of currency Asia and Europe reflect a decision to redeploy resource and movements, and assumes businesses acquired in focus on other lines of business.
2005 and 2006 had been held from the beginning A poor performance from Merchants outsourced contact of 2005. centre operations in the UK and Ireland, resulted in modest growth of 3.2% in our CIS line of business.
Excluding LINES OF BUSINESS Merchants where revenues declined by 14.6%, CIS was up Revenue growth adjusted as above was 13.4%.
Network 14.2% reflecting solid demand for the Groups contact centre Integration grew by 13.6% and was again the biggest integration and management solutions.
During the year, contributor, comprising 48.7% of revenue.
The USs Network Merchants contact centre operations in Cork ceased trading Integration growth was especially robust, up by 32.0% and and centres elsewhere in the UK were downsized.
benefiting from increased traction on the West Coast, strong Services growth and increased demand from large, multinational The Group has certain regional businesses, together comprising accounts.
Africa was up by 16.0%, while Asia, Australia and 20.6% of revenue, which while strategic in the region within Europe grew by 5.7%, 12.1% and 5.7%, respectively.
In this core which they operate are not intended to be expanded globally.
line of business, convergence around the IP network and the These include Internet Solutions in South Africa, which grew by requirement for robust, standardised, service-oriented network 15.7% and Express Data the Australian IT distribution architectures are supporting demand for infrastructure upgrades.
Plessey, a pan-African provider of infrastructure solutions to the telecommunications Our other global lines of business Converged Communications, industry, grew by 1.5% having been included as a whollyCustomer Interactive Solutions CIS, Data Centres and Storage, owned subsidiary for the first time.
Operating Environments and Messaging, and Security together comprised 30.7% of revenue and grew by 15.1%.
REVENUE STREAMS Product revenue grew by 15.6%.
The US and Africa Services Converged Communications growth of 31.3% was fuelled by growth was very strong 38.1% and 24.8% respectively, strong demand for IP telephony solutions.
The Group was Ciscos Australia grew by 13.2% while Asia and Europe were up 4.6% Global IPC partner of the year, confirming our ability to benefit and 4.1% respectively.
In the US in particular, growth was from the convergence of voice and video over the network.
Our supported by demand from our multinational accounts.
Our consistent IP telephony deployment methodologies and global footprint, backed by our procurement, logistics, managed IP telephony offerings are important differentiators in installation and support capabilities continue to differentiate us.
Services revenue grew by 10.1% to $1.2 billion.
The US and Security was up 25.4%, as IT security continues to feature Africa Services growth was strong at 13.9% and 12.5% prominently in IT spending budgets.
While Europes Services were up by 7.7%, gross affect all aspects of IT infrastructure, and our Security offerings margins were affected by delivery issues on certain contracts.
include both network-based foundation security, as well as other Asia and Australia grew Services by 7.9% and 7.1% advanced security offerings for other technologies and lines of respectively.
Operating Environments and Messaging was up 10.9%.
This Managed Services were up by 11.3% to $772.4 million.
line of business is still relatively small, but important as the Excluding Merchants, where revenues declined by 14.6%, Group positions itself to benefit from the expected growth in growth in Managed Services was solid at 14.6%.
All regions Microsoft infrastructure services and Unified Communications.
other than Australia 6.1% reported double digit growth, and Growth was supported by desktop upgrade opportunities Africa was particularly strong at 17.3%.
flowing from our acquisition of Microsoft infrastructure Notes: 1 Excluding exceptional items.
2 PAGE 16 Adjusting for the impact of currency movements, and assuming acquired businesses had been held from the beginning of the comparative period.
Professional Services turnover increased by 8.0% to The revenue, gross margin and operating profit in the table $418.3 million.
The US and Europe reported good growth below are as reported, whereas the growth percentages are 2 14.4% and 17.7% respectively.
Australia grew by 8.1%, while adjusted as detailed in footnote.
Africa and Asia were broadly flat.
Asias growth was impacted by the discontinuation of part of its training business.
Gross margin improvements, OPERATING PROFIT Four of the Groups five operating regions reported excellent especially in Professional Services, and overhead containment supported by the ongoing standardisation of the back office operating profit expansion.
Africa, Asia, Australia and the US environment, resulted in excellent operating returns.
Australia, both our Network Integration and Express Data distribution business reported solid performances for the year.
In Africa, the acquisition of the remaining stakes in Plessey and Internet Solutions provided the platform for the Group to Strong revenue growth in the US, together with the successful leadership of a new management team, resulted in continued benefit from its comprehensive range of IT services across the African continent.
Demand in the traditional South African operating leverage benefits for the operation.
enterprise market was strong, with particular support for our Europe reported a sharp reduction in operating profit to Converged Communications solutions.
We experienced very $1.5 million compared to $14.8 million in FY2005, although good growth in the public sector as well as in new markets in there was some improvement in the second half of the year.
Firm Product and Services margins this amount, Merchants contact centre operations in the UK and resulted in good operating leverage and operating profit Ireland reported losses of $3.4 million compared to an operating expansion.
The remainder of the European Within Asia: Asean, Greater China, India and New Zealand business generated an operating profit of $4.8 million compared performed strongly.
Chinas return to profitability in the second to $12.7 million in FY2005.
While there were some encouraging PAGE 17 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CFOS OPERATING REVIEW continued performances in particular Germany, Spain and Italy losses in Fourth, the Group reported a foreign exchange gain previously France and Switzerland and a much weaker performance from included in translation reserves, now included in the income the UK contributed to the reduction.
Management of the UK and statement, as a result of the intention to settle the loan in the short term.
Continental European operations was combined at the start of the year, and new management was appointed in France, Fifth, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset in South Africa Switzerland, the UK and Italy.
as a result of the improved performance of the South African business, as well as the acquisition and subsequent The net Central cost of $34.5 million compared to FY2005s divisionalisation of Internet Solutions, and accordingly the tax $42.1 million.
Despite ongoing central investment in the Groups charge for the year includes an exceptional tax credit of Solutions and Services capabilities, the improvement reflects cost $18.0 million.
containment and a strong contribution from the Groups central trading operations.
SHARE OF RESULTS OF ASSOCIATES As a result of the acquisition of the remaining 51% of Plessey ACQUISITIONS in November 2005, the contribution from associates decreased The Group concluded two significant acquisitions during the year, to $3.9 million.
The remaining associates are largely South acquiring the remaining stakes in Internet Solutions and Plessey.
African businesses, of which the most significant contributors Full ownership of Internet Solutions, the leading South African during the period were: communications services provider, provides opportunities to benefit from the deregulation of the South African Paracon, listed on the JSE Limited and specialising in IT telecommunications market.
Through Plessey, a pan-African resourcing and business solutions: and supplier of telecommunications solutions, the Groups footprint across the African continent is further established.
Two companies in the Groups Protocol venture capital stable, namely Automate a provider of software solutions to the automotive industry and Healthbridge involved in EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS transaction switching in the healthcare industry.
Five exceptional items were reported during the period.
First, in 2002 and 2003 certain provisions were made relating to INVESTMENT INCOME AND the non-recoverability of trade receivables in China.
Following FINANCE COSTS submission of claims to its insurers, the Group received a Investment revenues of $13.0 million were generated on the $5.2 million payment under its insurance policies for the losses Groups total cash and cash equivalents, which stood at previously suffered.
Second, in 2005 we recorded a write down of long outstanding Finance costs were $32.1 million.
These included $23.5 million in work in progress, claims and receivables in respect of our respect of the capitalised property finance lease in South Africa, cabling business in the UK, reported as a division of the $5.6 million on bank loans and overdrafts and an interest cost of Network Integration line of business.
Extensive investigations $1.7 million on the Groups $100 million convertible bonds.
These into these balances in 2006, including a forensic audit during bonds were converted to equity on 26 May 2006, but interest the period, have necessitated a further provision of ceased to accrue on 31 December 2005.
Third, during the year, the Groups contact centre business, TAXATION Merchants, incurred a $4.2 million cost in discontinuing its The Group reported a tax charge of $8.3 million for the period operations in Cork, downsizing its operations in Milton Keynes 2005: $20.6 million.
Excluding an exceptional gain of and elsewhere in the UK, and rationalising its global $18.0 million arising from the establishment of a deferred tax management structure.
asset in South Africa, the tax charge was $26.3 million.
This Note: 1 Excluding exceptional items.
PAGE 18 1 represents an improvement in the effective tax rate to 37.7% Group does not establish deferred tax assets in the event of from 49.1% in the prior period.
taxable losses being incurred unless there is clear evidence of sustainable future profitability.
As loss making entities within This effective rate remains relatively high as certain entities the Group improve profitability, the Groups tax rate should within the Group, particularly in Europe, are not yet sufficiently continue to improve.
profitable to fully absorb allocated Group costs.
Equally, the BALANCE SHEET Non-current assets were $352.9 million, of which $191.1 million was property, plant and equipment.
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment increased during the period to $57.5 million from $53.8 million in 2005.
Depreciation Capex $ million 2006 2005 2006 2005 Africa 22 19 42 29 Asia 8 8 6 6 Australia 4 4 3 4 Europe 8 9 5 14 US 2 2 1 1 Group 44 42 57 54 Current assets, before cash and cash equivalents, were CASH FLOW $954.8 million 2005: $717.7 million, and current liabilities Group operating cash flows before working capital movements $952.7 million 2005: $781.1 million.
Growth in these assets improved from $111.9 million to $141.9 million for the period.
and liabilities reflects the increase in volumes in the business, The Group invested a net $62.0 million in working capital assets the impact of acquisitions made, as well as an investment in net for the year.
Of this, $53.9 million related to increased inventory working capital of $62.0 million for the period see below.
Almost all of this increase was in respect of allocated resale stock attributed to specific client orders and was for the Total cash and cash equivalents were $347.9 million 2005: most part funded by a corresponding increase in trade payables.
Trade and other payables increased by $128.9 million, reflecting Non-current liabilities were $160.5 million 2005: $296.9 million.
the increased volumes within the business.
There were no This included property finance leases of $125.8 million and changes in trading terms with our major vendors.
$21.4 million of other bank loans.
Trade and other receivables increased by $138.8 million.
Most Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent was of this increase was volume related, although an increase in the $437.0 million, compared to $296.5 million at the end of 2005. ageing of receivables in Internet Solutions, the US and parts of This increase was supported by VenFin Limiteds conversion Europe also contributed.
Adoption of new ERP platforms in during the period of its $100 million convertible bonds to an Internet Solutions and the US frustrated collections, but effective 12.2% interest in the expanded share capital of the improvements are expected as these platforms bed down, while Company.
the increased ageing of trade receivables in some countries in Europe is receiving management attention.
PAGE 19 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006 CFOS OPERATING REVIEW continued PRINCIPAL RISK FACTORS communicating effectively, leading with passion and by As a result of a change in EU law, the UK Companies Act 1985 example to engage employees around our strategy execution.
has been amended to require a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Risk is inherent in all VENDOR RISK businesses.
The process through which the Group assesses, The Group forms close and mutually beneficial partnerships with manages and mitigates risks is set out in the Corporate leading technology providers within the respective lines of Governance report on page 32.
Set out below are certain risk business.
This enables the Group to bring its clients the most factors which the Group has identified which could have an advanced and flexible technology solutions.
The Groups impact on the Groups long term performance.
The Groups relationship with these key partners and its suppliers is important results could also be affected by other factors.
The factors to its continued success.
discussed below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties Terminations of a supply or services agreement or a significant facing the Group.
change in partner or supplier terms or conditions of sale could negatively affect our operating margins, revenue or the level of capital required to fund our operations.
PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY EXECUTION, DELIVERY, CLIENT SATISFACTION The Group actively develops and sustains these partner and The design, support, and project management nature of most supplier relationships and where possible enters into contractual customer engagements requires application of the highest alliances to formalise the terms of these relationships.
standards of process control, compliance and delivery ability.
If the clients expectations are not met, the Groups reputation LIQUIDITY RISK could be damaged and the Group could be subject to increased Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its risk of litigation.
The Group could also be required to provide obligations as they fall due.
Liquidity management within the corrective services to clients at no charge.
The Group has Group focuses on working capital metrics, cash and cash implemented robust internal processes to ensure quality in its equivalents as well as the extent of the Groups borrowing delivery and project management processes.
In managing its overall liquidity, the Group analyses and are continuously improved upon through the Group takes into account the effect of all business activities in assessing undertaking regular client satisfaction surveys.
The Group also the investment in working capital.
The short term liquidity needs carries general liability insurance coverage.
of the Group are also managed on a daily basis to ensure that contractual cash flow obligations, and potential cash flows arising PEOPLE RETENTION from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations, Failure to retain and recruit key personnel could harm our ability can be met as they arise from day to day.
CURRENCY RISK A key aspect of the Groups strategy is to provide an The Group has operations in over 30 countries and receives outstanding employment experience that offers current revenues and incurs costs in numerous foreign currencies, the employees the opportunity to grow personally and most material of which are the South African rand, the Australian professionally and to attract high quality prospective employees dollar, Sterling and the Euro.
It is not the Groups policy to hedge to the Group.
foreign currency earnings and as a consequence, movements in The Group has implemented a comprehensive programme to exchange rates can affect the Groups results.
When Dimension ensure that the people strategy can be measured, including: Data invoices in local currency and has a foreign currency exposure active promotion and support of career development, the to suppliers, it generally uses forward exchange contracts to hedge incorporating of a balanced scorecard methodology and metrics its foreign exchange risk, or adjusts the price charged to clients to into our employee incentives, bringing discipline and take account of exchange rate fluctuations.
In particular, many of consistency to reward and recognition, and the Groups leaders the products resold by the Group are paid in US dollars.
PAGE 20 The following table reflects the average and year end exchange rates against the US dollar of SA rand, Australian dollar, Sterling and Euro: 2006 2005 Average Year end Average Year end South African rand 6.691 7.764 6.515 6.390 Australian dollar 1.337 1.341 1.312 1.313 Sterling 0.559 0.535 0.556 0.568 Euro 0.808 0.789 0.815 0.831 Furthermore, in 2006 the Group changed its revenue BUSINESS CONTINUITY RISK recognition accounting policy to account for its role in certain The ability to seamlessly and continuously provide customers transactions as that of agent rather than principal.
The 2005 with high service levels is a critical element of the Groups reported revenue has accordingly been restated, with the result service offering.
This service delivery is highly dependent on IT infrastructure and people to continue operating.
The Group has that 2005 comparative revenue decreased by $81.8 million developed a business continuity plan to address this risk.
3.0% and cost of sales by the same amount.
Gross profit was unaffected, while 2005 gross margin is 0.6% higher than previously reported.
NEW PRODUCT AND TECHNOLOGY RISK The market for the products and services offered by the Group is characterised by rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards, changes in client requirements, frequent new Dave Sherriffs product introductions and enhancements and short product life Chief Financial Officer cycles.
The Groups success depends upon its ability, on a cost effective and timely basis, to continue to adapt to changes in IT related products and services and to develop and introduce new services that take advantage of technological advances.
The Group invests significantly in this area by ensuring that our offerings align with market needs by understanding the needs and value propositions required, building our skills and capabilities in focused areas, and by developing world-class depth of skill and competence in our prioritised growth markets.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The Group has adopted as its primary accounting basis International Financial Reporting Standards for the first time for the year ended 30 September 2006.
As anticipated, there were no material changes to the reported results over what would have been the case under UK GAAP, other than in respect of the accounting for IFRS 2 Share-based payment an expense of $13.9 million.
PAGE 21 DIMENSION DATA ANNUAL REPORT 2006
