Financial review The Groups results for the 9 months New product releases PS2 PSP Xbox 360 Xbox PC to 30 June 2005, previously reported Total Overdose 44 44 44 under UK Generally Accepted Conflict: Global Storm 44 44 44 Accounting Practice GAAP, have been restated under IFRS.
A Championship Manager 44 44 44 44 reconciliation of the results for the 25 to Life 44 44 44 9 months to 30 June 2005 was Commandos: Strike Force 44 44 44 announced on 31 March 2006 and is Tomb Raider: Legend 44 44 44 44 44 set out on pages 62 to 67 of the Rogue Trooper 44 44 44 Annual Report.
Hitman: Blood Money 44 44 44 44 Results from operations Urban Chaos 44 44 The Group regards EBITDA as a key measure of profitability.
EBITDA Product releases future returns or price adjustments are provides a key measure of the Groups We launched nine new titles in the deducted from total revenues.
operating performance and excludes financial year.
In addition we earned 69% of revenues for 2006 were non cash charges such as depreciation significant revenue from the continued sales of new published titles.
It is the measure distribution of Lego Star Wars.
most significant contributors to these most commonly used by the financial revenues were sales of Tomb Raider: community to assess the Companys Revenue Legend and Hitman: Blood Money.
Total revenues for the year were Back catalogue titles continuing Adjusted EBITDA before exceptional 179.1 million 2005: 18.0 million.
sales from titles first released in a items and share based payment Revenues were substantially higher previous financial year accounted for compensation a non cash charge than in the previous financial period 12% of total revenues.
arising under IFRS for the 12 months because of our acquisition of Eidos in 16% of revenues for 2006 were to 30 June 2006 was 28.8 million May 2005 and an increase in the sales of products distributed jointly 2005: loss of 5.4 million.
This number of titles released.
under the Eidos and third-party labels.
compares to our original target of Total revenues includes sales of This relates to Lego Star Wars.
Profit before tax was games to retailers and distributors at The remaining 3% of revenues were 8.1 million 2005: loss of invoiced amounts plus royalty derived from the exploitation of the 13.4 million.
This review includes payments invoiced under licence of the Groups game franchises in areas other details of the difference between right to distribute games in certain than the sale of console and PC games.
adjusted EBITDA and profit before tax.
territories or to exploit certain This includes New Media income from intellectual properties.
Provisions for sale of the Groups products on mobile 07:06:06 SCi on FTSE4Good SCi met all CSR inclusion criteria for the FTSE4Good index, demonstrating the Groups commitment to responsible business practice.
30:06:06 Corporate governance update Changes to Board structure announced including appointment of Tim Ryan as non-executive Chairman.
14 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Financial review continued phones as well as merchandising, film margins earned from new products.
We period in which the Group expects to and other licensing income.
have experienced some absolute price earn revenues from the product.
61% of total Group revenues arose decline in the retail prices of products In addition the Group incurred in Europe, with the largest markets sold on the PS2 and Xbox platforms.
exceptional development charges of being in the United Kingdom, France, This has been compensated by 1.1 million.
These charges comprised Germany and Spain.
36% of revenues stronger prices on newly launched further costs incurred in 2006 on a arose in North America and the platforms such as the Xbox 360 and loss making development contract remaining 3% arose in the Rest of the Sony PSP.
entered into by Eidos prior to the World.
The gross profit on back catalogue acquisition.
This contract has now products was 30% of revenue.
Gross profit gross profit in distribution of third party During 2006 the Group spent The Group made a gross profit of products was approximately 19% of 57.4 million on development in the 103.8 million 2005: 5.0 million.
The gross profit on licence financial year, building the investment The increase reflects the greater scale and New Media income was 94% of in products and technology that will of the Group following the acquisition revenues.
This level of Eidos and the strength of the of investment has enabled the Group Groups products.
Development costs to double the product releases Gross profit represents turnover Development costs charged to the planned for 2007 and also invest less the direct costs of selling a game.
income statement for the year were significantly in the 2008 pipeline.
Direct selling costs principally 27.0 million 2005: 5.7 million.
In At 30 June 2006 the Group had comprise the cost of manufacturing common with the majority of global capitalised development costs of and delivering physical copies of the video game publishers, and consistent 46.1 million 2005: 16.8 million.
finished product including the disc, box with the requirements of IFRS, The major titles in development at 30 and packaging.
They also include development costs are capitalised June 2006 include Reservoir Dogs, Just royalties to third parties in respect of during the course of development from Cause, Bionicle Heroes, Championship products distributed by the Group.
the point at which a product is Manager, Battlestations: Midway, Tomb Gross profit was 58% of revenue in considered to be technically and Raider Anniversary, Chili Con Carnage, 2006 2005: 28%.
The capitalised Kane & Lynch and Nintendo versions reflects the strength of the products amounts are shown as capitalised of Tomb Raider: Legend.
All of these released in the period.
development costs non current, products are planned for release in The gross profit on new published intangible assets in the balance 2007.
The Group has also invested in products was approximately 70% of sheet.
Capitalised development costs a number of products for 2008 revenue.
There was little overall are charged to the income statement onwards including Tomb Raider 8, change during the year in percentage from the games release over the Highlander, sequels to Just Cause and 17:07:06 Trading update Following the success of Tomb Raider, Hitman and Championship Manager, new distribution agreements signed, and 19 new product launches planned for the financial year including Bionicle Heroes and Just Cause, the Groups prospects look bright.
25:08:06 The first release of the new financial year is the game version of Quentin Tarantinos legendary movie Reservoir Dogs.
SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 15 Financial review continued Urban Chaos and new products from 2005: 5.7 million.
The charge for publishing and the closure of Eidos our key development studios.
administrative expenses of 47.8 former distribution offices in Japan and million includes 10.6 million of Australia.
Advertising costs amortisation relating to intangible The Group incurred exceptional The Group spent 19.4 million 2005: assets acquired on the acquisition of charges of 0.7 million relating to 1.0 million on advertising in the Eidos, 2.4 million of goodwill continued integration costs.
This reflects the major impairment, 1.8 million of campaigns, including global TV depreciation charges on plant, property Depreciation advertising, organised to market our and equipment and software The charge for depreciation of plant, products and re-establish key amortisation and 4.4 million of share property and equipment and intangible franchises such as Tomb Raider, based compensation.
The underlying software amortisation increased to Hitman and Championship Manager.
level of cash based overheads was 1.8 million in the financial year from Advertising costs include all 28.6 million.
For the 12 months to 0.6 million in 2005. external costs incurred to promote the 30 June 2005 the combined sale of the Groups products.
The administrative costs for the two groups Intangible assets and amortisation largest proportion of advertising costs was 41.8 million.
This illustrates that Intangible assets comprise brands, is TV, radio, outdoor, print and internet the majority of the 14.0 million cost software and technology.
Advertising costs also savings have been achieved within this for amortisation of brands and include promotional and PR area.
technology intangible assets increased campaigns.
All advertising costs are The Group incurred a 4.4 million to 10.6 million from 1.2 million in expensed as incurred.
accounting charge arising under IFRS 2005.
This was the first full year in to expense the Groups Share Option which the brands acquired with Eidos Administrative costs Scheme.
This is an accounting charge have been subject to a charge for Administrative costs comprise all the only and does not result in any cash amortisation.
costs of running the Groups corporate, leaving the Group.
The charge Under IFRS the Group is required to publishing and distribution functions.
principally relates to the effect of value intangible assets purchased These include staff and associated issuing new share options to Eidos through an acquisition.
Our acquired costs employed in sales, distribution, staff to bring them into the SCi Share brands and technology have been marketing, PR, IT, localisation, quality Option Scheme.
assurance, customer service, new The Group has implemented plans After accumulated amortisation of product acquisition, new media, to reduce combined administrative 11.8 million, we show the net value of finance, HR, legal and licensing.
costs: particularly through the 105.1 million as an intangible asset Excluding exceptional charges, total elimination of duplicate corporate in the Groups balance sheet.
administrative costs were 47.8 million costs, the rationalisation of UK The brands valued in the balance 12:09:06 12 BAFTA nominations The quality of the Groups products is recognised by the nomination of six of our products across 12 BAFTA categories.
25:09:06 Roger Ames appointed non-executive director The appointment of Roger Ames, with many years experience in the music and entertainment industries, strengthens the Board.
16 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Financial review continued sheet include seven titles with lifetime available to carry forward to set Earnings per share sales of one million units or more.
against future taxable profits, subject Trading profit per share, which is These are Tomb Raider, Hitman, to agreement with appropriate tax calculated on a basis consistent with Championship Manager, Thief, Deus Ex, authorities.
These losses principally market expectations, is 37.6p 2005: Legacy of Kain and Shellshock.
In arose on the acquisition of Eidos.
The calculation of trading addition the Conflict series and In addition the Group has profit per share is set out in note 8.
Carmageddon have also each sold over substantial overseas tax losses, Basic earnings per share were one million units.
However their values principally in the United States, 18.5p 2005: loss 37.5p.
are excluded from intangible assets as potentially available to carry forward they have been internally developed.
These Goodwill The value of the intangible assets losses arose on the acquisition of Goodwill relates to the acquisitions of is amortised over 15 years for brands Eidos and their future use is subject to Eidos and Pivotal.
The net book value and eight years for technology, agreement with overseas tax of goodwill at 30 June 2006 was representing the estimated useful authorities.
It is not currently possible 4.7 million 2005: 5.1 million.
economic life of the intangible assets.
to quantify the value of overseas During the year the Group fully wrote losses that may be available to the off all remaining goodwill relating to Profit before tax Group or the period in which the Group the acquisition of the Actualize Group.
Profit before tax was 8.1 million.
This will benefit from these losses.
The is stated after depreciation, Group has not recognised a deferred Working capital amortisation and impairment charges tax asset in respect of overseas At 30 June 2006 the Group had of 14.8 million.
37.2 million of cash and no borrowing.
principally arise because of the After assessing the prospects for The Group started the year with amortisation of intangible assets the 2007 financial year, the Group has 46.1 million of cash and, before described above.
recognised a deferred tax asset of allowing for working capital movements 2.1 million and a deferred tax liability and investment in future products, Taxation of 15.4 million.
Included in these generated 27.0 million from profitable There is a net tax credit of 5.4 million numbers is a prudent estimate of the operations.
The closing cash figure of for the year 2005: 0.5 million.
The losses that may be utilised in the 37.2 million reflects substantial net tax credit comprises an overseas 2007 year end and an estimate of the investment in future products and a tax charge of 2.6 million, a UK tax tax charge that would arise if the higher than normal level of working charge of 0.2 million and a deferred Group sold its brands and technology capital because of product releases tax credit of 8.2 million.
at their balance sheet values.
close to the end of the financial year.
At 30 June 2006 the Group had UK During the year the Group raised tax losses of approximately 50 million 17.4 million net of costs of cash Autumn 06 The growing strength of our New Media product portfolio will be illustrated by the release of Pandemonium, our first title for 3D BREW and Symbian handsets.
Early 2007 Prism: Light the Way Our first mobile title based on original IP, Prism: Light the Way also marks Eidos first PC title to be launched exclusively online to address the growing market for downloadable casual games.
SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 Financial review continued from the issue of new equity in order has been common in the film industry Pensions to capitalise on potential for many years.
Film Finances Inc, The Group offers all employees the opportunities, including new licences based in Los Angeles, is the leading opportunity to participate in an and opportunities in the casual games provider of completion bonds to the appropriate Company pension scheme.
film industry and, increasingly, to the As these are defined contribution As we continue to build the Group games industry.
schemes there are no circumstances we have reviewed our banking Both of the initial products covered in which the Group will face a future requirements.
Based on the increased by completion bonds, Rogue Trooper pension liability.
size of the Group we are finalising new and Urban Chaos, were completed on banking facilities of up to 30 million time and released in the 2006 Financial instruments with Lloyds TSB Bank.
This will provide financial year.
We anticipate further During the period, the Groups financial flexibility to the Group, cover shortuse of the completion bonding model instruments, other than derivatives, term working capital needs and give in the future and currently have one comprised cash, overdrafts and various the Group the opportunity to respond product in development covered by items such as trade debtors and quickly to product and licence these arrangements.
creditors that arise directly from acquisition opportunities.
During the financial year we entered operations.
The main purpose of these into agreements in respect of two financial instruments is to finance the Completion bonding and investment in further products with the Ingenious Groups operations.
The Group also project finance Games Fund.
Under these agreements enters into derivative transactions in We continue to seek new ways of the Ingenious Games Fund agrees to the form of foreign currency contracts managing and reducing development invest directly into the total cost of in order to manage the currency risk and commercial risk.
arising from the Groups operations.
We entered into an agreement with The Fund will share proportionally in The Groups policy is, and was Film Finances Inc in the 2005 financial the profits of each game and will also throughout the period under review, not year to provide completion bonds on bear their share of any losses that to trade in financial instruments.
The two titles currently in development.
As the Group grows its portfolio main risks arising from the Groups The purpose of a completion bond of products we consider that such financial instruments are liquidity risk, is to provide assurance that a product arrangements are an effective method credit risk and foreign currency risk.
will be developed on time, on budget of sharing the commercial risks in The Board reviews and agrees policies and in accordance with agreed relation to certain products, for managing each of these risks on a specifications.
In the event of delay or particularly new franchises.
failure, the cost of the project will be to enter into further arrangements of guaranteed by the bond rather than this type in the future.
This arrangement 2007 A new puzzle game for PSP and Nintendo DS, Zendoku blends exciting puzzle battle action with addictive Sudoku gameplay, adding a variety of colourful characters and a comprehensive range of single-player and wireless multiplayer game modes.
2007 Pony Friends, is the new virtual pet game designed exclusively for the Nintendo DS system, where players can groom and personalise their own pony, undertake challenges, enter competitions or simply go for a gentle canter in picturesque woodlands.
18 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
