Operating & financial review Strategy Emaps plan is to build a brand-led, multiplatform media group.
The decisions and actions taken in the year will allow us to allocate resources behind this goal and will provide us with the building blocks for growth.
Our strategic priorities remain: targeted investment in core brands to accelerate growth: the launch of new products to meet changing customer needs: and acquisitions to strengthen our market positions and increase the Groups exposure to faster growth platforms.
In our 2006 financial year we have invested 480m in acquisitions, largely in radio and information businesses which are performing ahead of our expectations, and a record 25m on launches, mainly We have made significant progress against our in consumer magazines demonstrating our commitment to innovation.
The decisions and actions During the year we generated 152m through disposals and, in taken have been critical in positioning the Group February 2006, we announced the proposed sale of Emap France.
Media is experiencing significant change driven by the proliferation of new digital distribution platforms.
This has resulted in a fragmentation Tom Moloney, Group Chief Executive of audiences and the substitution of media formats.
In this environment, Emaps brand-led strategy, focused on delivering compelling content to customers when, where and how they want it, will position the Group for stronger growth.
Delivering on our key priorities in 2005 06 Establish Grazia Develop our Integrate our new, as first weekly glossy information services enlarged radio group Grazia has rapidly established Quick access to information is a The acquisition of Scottish Radio itself within its target audience of powerful business tool.
We aim Holdings plc has created one urban, fashion conscious women, to offer data-rich, value-added of the strongest radio groups enabling advertisers to reach information services to our in the UK reaching all the major this important consumer sector.
We have made The magazine sells over 170,000 and increasingly to deliver them substantial progress in integrating copies a week providing up to the online.
We expanded our the business and are already minute news and views on fashion, information offering this year by seeing the benets of operating health and beauty.
acquiring WGSN and DeHavilland as one Emap Radio.
and by launching a new product under the CAP brand.
Continue launching Emap France Accelerate the growth of digital businesses New launches are vital to the Our priorities this year were to growth of our consumer manage the business for growth As technology opens new magazines businesses and we and launch a major weekly title.
opportunities we are moving need innovative products to keep The successful launch of Closer more of our consumer brands consumers engaged and has strengthened the business onto digital platforms and interested.
Our record investment position in France and progress expanding our online information in new product development this in the year has enabled us to services for businesses.
We aim year supported the very start a process of realising value to build on this initial progress successful launches of Grazia in in order to concentrate on other and to keep developing our the UK, Closer in France and investment priorities.
digital businesses in order to ZOO in Australia.
keep pace with the changing environment.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 4 In order to pursue our plan while recognising these trends, our services, also benefited from investment in the sales function.
priorities for the 2007 financial year are to: Through our investment in talent and innovative programming and marketing we continue to support the strong positions of our leading target resources towards faster growing media platforms: radio brands, particularly Magic 105.4 FM, which is now the number one commercial radio station in London.
continue to launch innovative consumer magazines: increase cross-promotion: and Going forward, investment and innovation around our core brands will take on an increased focus.
We believe that in order to drive accelerate our business-to-business events and information activities.
underlying growth we need to respond to the media industrys Investment evolution and, where appropriate, migrate our existing brands onto We aim to grow our core business by investing in existing products or faster growing media platforms.
This applies particularly to our businesses to increase revenue, improve profitability or gain market consumer facing brands as consumers increasingly turn to digital share.
This can be achieved through improvements in editorial, design platforms for delivery of media content but also to our B2B brands and programming, or through innovations in promotion, marketing and where we aim to take a media neutral approach for the business sales.
We regard investment in our core business as an ongoing cost communities we serve.
We also have the opportunity to extend our of our operations and investment is expensed accordingly.
existing brands into other geographies.
During the year we invested in a number of our magazine titles to Innovation improve their propositions.
Several of our specialist titles, including The development of new and innovative products is critical to enable Digital Photo, Country Walking and Todays Golfer, have benefited us to respond to the changing demands from consumers and business from editorial and format updates.
In our lifestyle titles, especially communities.
As a general guide, we look to invest approximately the weeklies ZOO and heat, we continue to evolve editorial content 20m to 25m each year in new launches, with investment being and formats to keep the products fresh and interesting for consumers.
targeted at projects offering the most attractive returns, taking into In our business-to-business B2B division, investment in marketing account an appropriate level of risk.
Investment in launches and new resulted in increases in revenue and attendance at the Glee and products is funded by the reinvestment of funds generated by our Interbuild trade exhibitions.
Glenigan, one of our information ongoing operations.
Emaps key priorities for 2006 07 Continue launching Increase collaboration between different platforms The consumer magazine market thrives on new launches and Our consumer facing magazine, the constant thirst for news and radio and TV brands offer great gossip.
We plan to build on our opportunities for collaboration and successful launch record to make for transferring brands from one sure we continue delighting our platform to another.
Our ground-breaking title, drive further collaboration between First, was launched in May and our consumer platforms to make extends our strong portfolio of sure we continue engaging our womens titles.
We have a strong audiences across a wide range pipeline of launch ideas both in of media.
Target resources towards Accelerate B2B information faster-growing platforms and events The proliferation of media With names such as WGSN, distribution channels as a result DeHavilland, CAP, Cannes Lions of new technology is having a and MEED, we have a strong profound effect on the way portfolio of information services consumers and businesses and events and intend to develop obtain their entertainment and it further.
We want our information information.
To keep in step, we services to become an integral are increasingly targeting our part of workow and decisionresources, skills, content and making processes and our events brands towards these fastto offer valuable opportunities for growing digital media platforms.
businesses to meet face-to-face in an increasingly digital world.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 5 Operating & financial review Our record 25m of investment in launches in 2006 has been B2B business in 2006 and has seen strong growth in the first year largely focused on consumer magazines.
We have established a under our ownership.
good record of successful consumer magazine launches, launching a major title in each of the last five financial years.
It is our goal to Our strategy going forward will be to retain sufficient headroom launch at least one major title each year as innovative new products in our capital structure to allow us the exibility to continue to are critical for driving growth in the consumer magazine market and make strategic, bolt-on acquisitions.
Because of the lack of attractive our business.
On the basis of total retail sales value, launches grew opportunities in the UK consumer magazine market, acquisitions are the overall UK consumer magazine market by 4.2% in 2005.
On the most likely to be in our B2B business, in particular information same basis, launches grew our UK consumer magazines portfolio businesses and events, to extend our presence in our main industry by 5.7%.
In February 2005 we launched Grazia, the UKs first weekly sectors or internationally.
We may also acquire businesses or assets glossy magazine for women, and 8m of the 2006 launch spend has to support our ambitions in relation to migrating onto faster growing been in respect of this already highly successful title.
we launched Closer in France, which accounted for 8m of our spend, and the success of this launch has made an important Market overview contribution to Emap Frances performance.
In February 2006 we Macro-economic environment launched an Australian edition of ZOO, our popular UK mens weekly As a leading media group with the majority of our operations in the title, and the initial response has been encouraging.
In March 2006 UK, our performance is closely linked with the overall UK economic we announced we would be launching a new womens weekly, environment.
Our consumer focused magazine, radio and music and in May the inaugural edition of the ground-breaking title, TV businesses, in particular, are sensitive to levels of UK consumer First, went on sale.
advertising and consumer spending and our B2B operations are sensitive to overall UK gross domestic product GDP.
Our French In B2B we invested in the launch of a new product under the operations are similarly affected by French GDP and levels of CAP brand and launched Broadcast Freelancer and QS Week.
In Radio we have continued to invest in Kerrang!
105.2 FM after its launch in 2004 and in our ongoing digital radio initiatives.
In the UK, the economic environment during the last year has been characterised by high oil prices, relatively low interest In the 2007 financial year we will continue to support the launch and inflation rates and low overall growth.
GDP is estimated to costs related to Closer in France until Emap France is sold.
As a have grown by only 1.8% in 2005, compared with 3.2% in 2004, result, total funds allocated to new launches is expected to increase and is forecast to grow by 2.3% in 2006 and 2.5% in 2007 to approximately 27m in 2007.
This will largely relate to Grazia, source: Citigroup.
ZOO in Australia and First.
We also intend to allocate funds towards developing our presence on faster growing media platforms.
Going In France, the economy has continued to lag the UK with estimated forward, the majority of launch spend is likely to be focused on our GDP growth of 1.5% in 2005 source: Citigroup.
If the sale of our Consumer Magazines business where successful launches are French consumer magazines business is successful we will no critical to drive growth, but we will also direct funds to our digital longer be so directly exposed to French consumer advertising and initiatives and B2B opportunities.
consumer spending as our remaining interests in France are in the B2B market.
Acquisitions We aim to grow our business through the acquisition of businesses or Advertising accounted for 43% of Group revenue 2005: 43%, assets that t our existing portfolio or enable us to extend the portfolio showing that the Groups performance is closely linked to the health within a given market or geography.
We look for attractive returns and of the advertising market.
In the UK, the Advertising Association AA the ability to leverage revenue synergies and cost saving opportunities.
is recognised as a reputable source of information and estimates of future growth for the advertising market.
According to the latest AA In the 2006 financial year we spent a total of 480m on numbers Mar 06, the total advertising market in the UK grew by acquisitions.
The greatest proportion of this was in relation to 2.1% in 2005, compared with 6.0% in 2004, and is expected to grow Scottish Radio Holdings plc SRH which we successfully acquired by 3.1% next year and 4.3% in 2007.
Within the total UK market, for 280m in cash through an open offer to shareholders for consumer magazine advertising grew by 1.0%, B2B magazine the outstanding issued share capital not already owned by Emap.
advertising declined by 1.6% and radio advertising declined by The acquisition, completed in August 2005, has created one of 4.5% in 2005. the strongest radio groups in the UK, serving all of the major conurbations in England, Scotland and Northern Ireland as well In the UK advertising market, the fastest growing segment is internet as the Republic of Ireland.
advertising which grew by 73% in 2005 source: AA fuelled by increasing broadband penetration.
Internet advertising accounted In our B2B business during the year we acquired DeHavilland, which for around 7% of total UK advertising spending in 2005, more than provides online information on political and parliamentary affairs, radio or consumer magazines.
Within internet advertising in 2005, for 18m: JANGIL, a trade show organiser in the French food sector, paid-for search a market that we do not have access to accounted for 11m: and WGSN, a leading provider of fashion trend analysis for some 56%, display where we participate accounted for 25% in the retail sector, for 143m.
All these acquisitions have been and classied including recruitment accounted for 19% source: earnings enhancing.
PwC Internet Advertising Bureau WARC.
The growth of internet advertising is expected to be a continuing feature of the UK market Cannes Lions, the international advertising festival acquired in in the future and we are responding to this through innovative August 2004, has been a significant contributor to revenue in our advertising propositions to meet the changing market requirements.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 6 In France, the advertising market grew by 1.8% in 2005 compared Competitive environment with 4.0% in 2004 source: Merrill Lynch.
Within this, the consumer All our businesses operate in highly competitive market places.
magazine advertising market grew by only 0.5% in 2005.
We aim to occupy the number one or two position in the various markets segments in which we operate with strong brands and Advertising in the B2B market falls into two categories: display and editorial environments that attract audiences and advertisers.
In 2005, B2B display advertising Our ability to maintain or grow market share is a key indicator grew by 3.3% compared with 2.4% in 2004 and classied declined of the performance of the Group.
by 7.9% compared with growth of 4.2% in 2004 source: AA.
To some extent recruitment advertising spending is dependent Share of circulation in the UK consumer magazine market is on the dynamics of the different market sectors.
Certain of Emaps measured according to retail sales value RSV average circulation public sector recruitment titles have been particularly affected by the x frequency x cover price as recorded by the Audit Bureau of current situation in the UKs National Health Service NHS where Circulation ABC which releases gures twice a year.
In the UK budget constraints have forced a reduction or freeze in recruitment we are the second largest publisher of consumer magazines with and therefore a reduction in recruitment advertising spending.
This is an 18.5% share, measured on the basis of RSV in the Jul-Dec 05 reected by the decline in recruitment advertising from 4% of Group ABCs.
We have consistently grown our market share over the past revenue last year to 3% this year.
five years due to the strength of our portfolio and successful launch record and are now closest to the number one player than we have Circulation, including subscriptions for our B2B information services, been in the period.
In terms of advertising, Emap has also grown its accounted for 42% of Group revenue 2005: 45%.
Consumer share of the UK consumer magazine advertising market over the last magazine circulation can be affected by the strength of consumer five years increasing from 15.2% in 2004 to 15.6% in 2005.
Other confidence which has been subdued in 2005, although the low participants in the UK consumer magazine market include: IPC, part out-of-pocket cost of magazines mitigates this to some extent.
of Time Warner: the BBC: H Bauer Publishing: and The National B2B magazine circulation tends to be more resilient over any Magazine Company Limited, part of the Hearst Corporation in the US.
Revenue from subscription-based information services is also more resilient as subscriptions are typically on Magazine circulation market share in France is measured by the an annual contract basis with high renewal rates.
Ofce fide Justication fide la Diffusion OJD.
In terms of consumer Market and financial information Emaps acquisition spend m Emaps launch spend m Advertising growth m Source: IAB 1200 25 Television 480 21 1000 20 Press display 17 800 Press classified 600 Internet 154 400 200 66 Radio 38 17 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2003 2004 2005 2006 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Share of UK consumer magazine circulation market % Trade exhibition organisers by market position 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Total net No.
of top 25 % of top 25 2 2 Time Warner IPC 22.4 22.1 21.6 21.1 21.1 Rank Organiser space m trade exhibitions net space m Emap 15.215.816.817.718.5 1 Emap 276,393 6 39% BBC 8.3 8.3 8.0 8.2 8.1 2 Reed 118,525 4 17% H Bauer Publishing 8.9 8.9 9.1 8.6 7.8 3 UBM 98,011 3 14% Hearst Corporation Nat Mags 5.2 5.6 5.2 5.6 6.7 4 Clarion 36,419 3 5% 2 By net m sold space Source: ABC data Retail Sales Value Source: AEO 2004 Share of UK commercial radio listening hours % Paid-for circulation in B2B % Source: ABC 2005 BPA 2005 2005 Jan Mar 04 Jan Mar 05 Jan Mar 06 2006 GCap 36.1 34.4 34.2 63 60 Emap 22.8 23.3 23.2 Chrysalis 10.9 10.3 11.7 33 32 GMG 5.0 5.4 5.8 25 24 12 Virgin 3.0 3.6 4.1 11 Emap Reed Business CMP Haymarket Business Source: RAJAR Q1 2006 Communications Publications Ltd Information Ltd Publications Ltd Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 7 Operating & financial review magazine circulation, Emap France is number four by volume, with Any acquisitions of UK companies or assets entered into or a 10% market share, and number three by value, with a 12% share completed by the Company are likely to be subject to scrutiny by source: OJD.
Hachette, part of Lagardre, is the leader with a the UKs Competition Commission and the Ofce of Fair Trading 25% share of volume and Socpresse is number two with 24%.
Emap will also be subject to any applicable competition laws in countries outside the UK if we make acquisitions overseas.
In the B2B market we are the leading UK trade exhibition organiser on the basis of net stand space and by the number of exhibitions In the UK, our Radio activities are subject to regulation by the Ofce held source: Association of Exhibition Organisers 2004.
Emap Agor of Communications Ofcom under the Communications Act 2003. is the fourth largest trade exhibition organiser in France by revenue Ofcom is responsible for the regulation of the UK communications and through MEED we are growing our presence in events in the industry including issuing radio operating licences, maintaining plurality Middle East.
We are also number one in terms of paid-for trade in the provision of broadcasting, monitoring the quality of services magazines in the UK source: ABC, BPA.
Our main competitors in and protecting audiences against offensive or harmful material.
the B2B market in the UK are Reed Elsevier Group plc and United The Company works closely with other radio companies in the UK Business Media Plc.
and with Ofcom to ensure an efficient and fair industry framework.
There have been two major transactions in the UK radio industry The structure of the distribution system for consumer magazines during 2005 which have together resulted in a concentration of the in the UK has been under scrutiny by the OFT since 2002.
In May Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc the current system, magazines and newspapers are distributed by a merged to form GCap Media plc and in August we completed the small number of wholesalers with exclusive rights in allocated regions takeover of SRH.
Our main competitors in the UK commercial radio in return for universal delivery.
The UK Department of Trade and market are now GCap Media plc, Chrysalis Group plc and SMG plc.
Industry DTI recently announced it is considering taking the review over from the OFT as no ruling has been forthcoming.
Emap has Radio audience listening in the UK is measured by Radio Joint actively participated in discussions and consultations with the OFT Audience Research Limited RAJAR which issues listener numbers and DTI to work towards an efficient distribution system that enables on a quarterly basis.
Our Radio business is now number two in the all participants in the industry, including independent retailers and UK commercial radio market with a 23.2% share of commercial radio smaller publishers, to prosper.
listening hours based on the Jan-Mar 06 RAJAR gures.
Technological environment Our enlarged Radio division is one of the strongest in the UK, Technological change is having a profound effect on the media covering all the major conurbations.
On the basis of share of total industry.
Advances in technology are driving the proliferation of new survey area TSA, the majority of our Big City stations are the media platforms which give consumers and businesses huge choice number one commercial station in their area.
We also now have a as to how and when they receive their entertainment and information.
strong position in the Republic of Ireland through Today FM, FM104 Mobile telephony, digital TV and radio, SMS texting, email and the and Highland Radio.
internet, and now audio and video mobile broadcasting, podcasting and interactive TV, present both opportunities and challenges to A notable aspect in the UK radio market is the continuing strength traditional media content providers and advertisers.
Digital technology of the BBC which is partially funded by licence fees.
While average gives consumers enormous power and freedom to choose what they listening to all radio has remained broadly constant over the last five want, when they want it and in what format they receive it.
As a result years, the BBC has increased its market share to 55.4%, the highest advertisers are having to adapt to an environment where consumers level since RAJAR began its survey 14 years ago.
will be able to lter out advertising and receive content free of clutter.
Content aggregators such as Emap are faced with the challenge of The development of digital radio that is, radio listening via Digital extending their engagement with consumers over multiple media Audio Broadcasting DAB, Freeview, satellite and cable TV and platforms.
We believe we are well placed to take advantage of these the internet has been a strong feature in the UK radio market this trends with our strong portfolio of consumer and B2B brands.
year with the share of all listening via digital platforms increasing to 10.5% in Aug Sep 05 from 5.9% over the same period last year Risks and uncertainties source: RAJAR platform study.
Emap has a strong position in digital The mix of Emaps revenue streams serves to spread our exposure radio with all our major stations available over the internet and nine to business risks.
However, we are exposed to certain specic stations available on Freeview and digital TV.
Compared with our risks given our reliance on advertising revenue and circulation and competitors in the market we have the largest number of digital subscription revenue across all our businesses.
We have in place listening hours with 17.8 million source: RAJAR.
robust internal processes for the identication, monitoring and managing of our business risks and further details of the processes In TV, our seven UK music channels compete with MTV, part of involved are set out in the section entitled Systems of internal Viacom.
On the basis of share of music TV viewing in multi-channel control in the Directors report on page 36. homes we are currently number two in the UK market with a 35% share source: BARB TNS Apr 05-Mar 06, Adults 16-34.
Dependence on advertising Advertising represents a significant proportion of the Groups Regulatory environment revenue.
Any changes in the levels or trends of advertising spend As a listed UK public limited company, Emap is subject to the various could have a marked effect on our profitability.
However, the strength applicable laws, regulations and guidelines under UK Company Law, of our portfolio of market-leading brands and ability to place advertising the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, and the Panel on across a number of media formats limits our exposure to this risk.
Takeovers and Mergers, as well as European Union legislation.
Increased consolidation of media buyers in the UK has also increased Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 8 our exposure to concentration risk.
However, we have established to operate.
In the UK, the structure of the distribution system relationships with all the major players and have the scale necessary for consumer magazines is currently under scrutiny by regulatory to negotiate favourable shares of their spending.
authorities and any changes to the current system may have an adverse effect on our UK consumer magazine business.
Consumer spending levels and patterns The Group is also exposed to discretionary consumer spending.
We maintain strong relationships with regulatory bodies and Changes in and perceptions of general economic conditions, participate in early consultations with industry groups to ensure that including employment, levels of disposable income, interest rates, we are proactive in responding to changes in regulations.
We also consumer debt levels and taxation, may mean that in the event of monitor compliance with relevant regulations, including compliance an economic downturn, consumer spending is diverted away from our with the terms of our radio licences, and have a proven track record products.
However, given the low out-of-pocket cost for magazines, of radio licences renewals.
the risk is considered to be limited.
Financial We are also exposed to the risk that consumer spending patterns The Group is exposed to interest rate risk and foreign exchange move away from traditional media.
We are able to mitigate this risk risk, which it manages where appropriate via hedging arrangements through the continued broadening of the reach of our brands onto see Capital structure and treasury policy on page 23. new media platforms.
However, if we are unable to respond to rapid changes in consumer preferences, the Groups revenues or margins We currently benefit from an effective tax rate below the rate in individual markets could be adversely affected.
The migration of of Corporation tax in the UK and France through the continued our consumer brands onto faster growing platforms is an area of successful resolution of prior year issues and the benefits of strong focus for the Group.
There is a risk that this rate could return to a level more consistent with the rate of UK Corporation tax in the future.
Exposure to the economy The majority of the Groups operations are based in the UK, and The Groups current credit facilities contain certain covenants with as a result our revenues and costs are linked to the strength of the which we must comply.
We also have investment grade credit ratings UK economy.
The Group is currently also exposed to the economic implicit within which are certain cash ow criteria.
Changes to the and political environment in France and the associated employment Groups capital structure or a downturn in trading may adversely regulations which are more stringent than in the UK.
However, in affect the availability of external credit and may impact the Groups February 2006 we announced the proposed sale of Emap France credit rating.
after which our exposure to the French economy will be substantially reduced.
Acquisitions overseas may increase our exposure to other Group structure economies in the future.
The continuing operations of the Group are divided into five principal segments: Consumer Magazines UK, Consumer Magazines Ability to grow the business International and TV which sit within the Emap Consumer Media Our ability to grow the business depends on our capability to division headed by Paul Keenan : Business-to-business within Emap successfully execute our strategy.
Our strategy is reliant on our Communications run by Derek Carter : and Radio formerly within ability to identify and successfully complete growth-enhancing Emap Performance and now a separate segment run by Dee Ford.
acquisitions and on our ability to compete against nancially-backed On 28 February 2006 the Group announced its intention to sell acquirers in sale processes.
Our strategy is also dependent on the Emap France which is managed as the separate business segment, continued development of new products.
The highly competitive Consumer Magazines France.
environment in which we operate is subject to rapid change and we must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive.
Our proven track record of growth-enhancing acquisitions and new product development, together with the migration of our brands onto new media platforms, supports our belief that we will continue to execute our strategy successfully.
Recruitment and retention of talent Employees, including editorial, publishing, programming and creative specialists, are our most important assets.
An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to attract and retain these key employees and management personnel, and if we lose or fail to attract these key employees we may be put at a competitive risk.
We believe that our owner-manager culture and strong incentive and leadership programmes provide the necessary tools to attract and retain key staff in a highly competitive market place.
Regulatory environment Certain of our businesses, in particular our Radio division business, operate in highly regulated industries and changes in regulations, interpretation of existing regulations or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals or licences could restrict the Companys ability Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 9 Operating & financial review Normalised Group results The 2006 accounts are the Groups first to be prepared under the new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and reporting guidelines.
As a result, there are additional narratives, changes in format and more technical disclosures than previously.
The following commentary is based on normalised results for the Group.
We run the business using normalised results as these more closely align profit with cash generation and we believe this is a better way to explain our performance and reect management actions.
The normalised results exclude the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, profit or loss on disposal or closure of businesses or xed assets, unusual or one-off costs, and the tax impact of any of these items.
Note that the normalised results include the results of Emap France while the statutory results present the results of continuing operations and discontinued operations Emap France Our results for the 2006 financial year have separately.
We have provided a reconciliation of normalised to shown an overall improvement over the prior statutory results, together with a commentary, on page 22. year with normalised revenue, pre-tax profit and We maintain a strong focus on driving growth from our core earnings per share all showing good increases.
We measure this by looking at underlying revenue and operating profit, which are based on activities owned and operated Ian Grifths, Group Finance Director for the whole of the two financial years being compared, excluding all acquisitions, disposals, launches, closures and foreign exchange Financial information Dividend cover Underlying revenue change Dividend Emaps revenue mix DPS 3% 35 30.0p 2% 2.35 30 43% 43% Advertising 1% 1% 1% 1% 42% 45% Circulation 25 2.25 -3% 10% 8% Events 20 5% 4% Other 15 2.15 2.17x 10 2.05 5 Consumer Mags UK France Int B2B Radio TV Group 0 1.95 excl.
SRH 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Prior year in brackets Revenue tracker m Operating profit tracker m Normalised Normalised 5 5 3 39 24 76 6 Other Foreign France 3 Exchange 1,154 5 exCloser Public Sector Closures & Closures & 244 Disposals Disposals NPD 224 25 Core and Acquisitions acquisitions 7 1,068 Launches Underlying 1% 2% 3% 2005 2006 2005 2006 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 10 Our effective tax rate reduced from 25% to 23% as a result of a 2006 2005 Change one-off deferred tax credit.
This credit has arisen from our ability to m m Total Underlying access US losses through the US profits generated in the WGSN Revenue 1,154 1,068 8% 1% business.
In the 2007 financial year the effective tax rate is likely to return to 25%.
Operating profit 244 224 9% 3% Normalised earnings per share was up 11% to 65.0 pence Operating margin 21% 21% 2005: 58.4 pence.
Dividend per share for the full year was Pre-tax profit 223 205 9% 30.0 pence, up 20% in line with the revised dividend guidelines set out on page 23.
Organic revenue growth, which is underlying growth m m Total Underlying plus launches, is a key indicator of the performance of the Group.
Revenue 387 371 4% 3% Our results for 2006 show an overall improvement compared Operating profit 81 73 11% 14% with the prior year.
Group revenue of 1,154m increased by 8%, benefiting from contributions from acquisitions and launches.
Operating margin 21% 20% On an underlying basis, revenue was up 1%, with growth held back by the performance of Emap France and the ongoing weakness in B2B public sector recruitment advertising.
Excluding Emap Market France, Group revenue grew by 11% and underlying revenue Based on the last ABC figures, Emaps UK portfolio grew by was up 2%.
Underlying revenue including the benefit of launches 6% in terms of RSV, strongly outperforming the UK consumer organic revenue was up 3%.
magazine market which was down 0.7% on a like-for-like basis source: ABC Jul-Dec 05.
Our share of the UK consumer Compared with 2005, launches contributed an additional 25m in magazine market on the basis of RSV has grown to 18.5% revenue and acquisitions contributed an additional 76m.
closed or disposed of businesses and magazine titles that accounted for 16m of revenue in 2006 2005: 40m.
Average cover prices declined by 1% in 2005 due to the impact of high volume, lower priced titles.
We do not participate in the lower priced In terms of sources of revenue, advertising revenue increased by 8% end of the market and our approach is to raise cover prices where to 494m, representing 43% of total revenue 2005: 459m and opportunities arise and to use price tactically to drive sampling of 43%, reecting the contribution from SRH.
Circulation revenue product in certain circumstances.
which includes subscriptions from information services increased by 4% to 489m, representing 42% of total revenue 2005: 471m The UK consumer magazine market remains very concentrated, with and 45% due largely to strong growth in our B2B information the top 200 titles accounting for some 70% of the total RSV.
Based services and recent consumer magazine launches.
Revenue from on the most recent ABC gures, we currently have 28 titles in the events was 110m, up strongly by 23% representing 10% of total top 200, down from 30 last year due to closures.
revenue 2005: 89m and 8%, benefiting from growth in our established events as well as the contribution from Cannes Lions Over the past five years a key feature of the UK market has been in its first year under our ownership.
Other revenue, which includes the growth and popularity of weekly titles, particularly in the mens royalties and licences, was 61m, representing 5% of Group total.
There have been 11 weekly titles Within total Group revenue, digital revenue, including revenue from launched in the past five years, including our own highly successful our digital music TV channels and radio stations, online information titles, Closer, ZOO, heat and Grazia.
services, and other online and mobile services, was 94m, up 21% over 78m in the prior year.
The large UK supermarket chains continue to grow their share of magazine sales and the independent retailers, who have Normalised operating profit was 244m, up 9% due largely to traditionally been important outlets for magazines, have seen a acquisitions although this was partially offset by increased levels decreasing market share.
Supermarkets accounted for some of launch investment.
On an underlying basis, operating profit was 42% of magazine sales in the UK in 2005 compared with 39% up 3%.
Operating margin was 21%, unchanged on last year.
This trend impacts the magazine titles outside the top 200 as supermarkets tend to only stock the most We invested a record 25m in launches in the year 2005: 20m, popular titles.
Typically a supermarket will stock around 300 titles principally in respect of Grazia 8m and Closer in France 8m.
focusing on the brands that are number one or two in their We expect our investment in launches to rise to approximately 27m segment of the market.
Of Emaps 51 consumer magazine titles next year supporting our pipeline of new product developments with measured by ABC in the UK, 27 hold the number one or two part of this increase allocated to developing new digital concepts in position in their category by RSV.
For example in the celebrity both B2C and B2B.
market heat is number two, in golf Todays Golfer is number one, in music Q is number one and Kerrang!
is number two, and Empire Normalised pre-tax profit grew 9% to 223m 2005: 205m.
is the leading title in film.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 11 Operating & financial review The UK consumer magazine advertising market grew by 1.0% by Consumer magazine circulation revenue was up 4%.
On an underlying value in 2005 compared with 4.5% growth in 2004 source: AA.
basis, circulation revenue was up 3% and up 6% including the launch Emaps share of the consumer magazine advertising market has of Grazia.
Overall, while we have seen growth in some of our monthly grown over the last five years and in 2005 we had a 15.6% share and specialist titles, it is the strength of the weekly titles that has up from 15.2% in 2004. driven growth.
Closer, heat and ZOO all had good increases in circulation source: ABC Jul-Dec 05.
Our portfolio of music titles has also seen Performance good increases with a particularly strong performance from Kerrang!.
Our UK Consumer Magazines division delivered a good performance, However FHM, which is still the UKs leading mens monthly title, Max ahead of both the overall circulation and advertising markets.
Revenue Power, and our young womens titles have seen declines in circulation.
was 387m, up 4% with growth from launches being offset by the loss of revenue from titles closed and disposed of during the year.
Consumer magazine advertising revenue showed a 6% increase, On an underlying basis, revenue was up 3% with growth from our strongly outperforming the UK consumer magazine advertising market lifestyle weeklies being partially offset by revenue declines from our which is estimated to have risen by 1.0% in 2005 source: AA.
On an automotive and young womens portfolio.
Including the launch of underlying basis, advertising revenue was up 5%, 2% volume and 3% Grazia, organic revenue was up 7%.
yield, with strong growth from Closer, heat and ZOO.
This was again partially offset by weakness across the automotive and young womens Operating profit was 81m, up 11% despite record levels of launch titles.
Including Grazia, organic advertising revenue growth was 9%.
On an underlying basis, operating profit was up 14%.
The operating margin increased 1% to 21%.
Business developments In February 2005 we launched Grazia, the UKs first weekly glossy The two sources of revenue for this division are circulation, from magazine aimed at the urban, fashion conscious woman.
Grazias newsstand sales and subscriptions 63% of revenue, and second set of circulation gures showed a 10% increase to over advertising 37%.
Advertising has also been an Consumer magazines Source: Frontline Number of magazines in top 200 by publisher Source: ABC Jul-Dec 2005 Share of magazine sales by retailer % 2005 14.8 Retail Sales Value 2005 13.4 2006 2006 35 33 30 28 6.2 6.1 5.9 5.8 5.8 5.6 14 4.6 4.6 4.1 12 12 11 3.7 10 10 IPC Time Warner Emap BBC Nat Mags Bauer Tesco Sainsburys Asda Co-op Other grocery Morrisons Emaps top 10 titles by retail sales value Share of UK consumer magazine advertising by volume % Source: 2005 MMS Medialog Year-on-year 2006 Title Frequency growth Sector heat Weekly 8% Celebrity 19.4 19.2 Closer Weekly 15% Celebrity 15.2 15.6 FHM Monthly 13% Mens ZOO Weekly 17% Mens 6.8 6.6 5.3 5.0 Grazia Weekly n a Womens 2.3 2.3 1.3 1.3 More!
Bi-weekly 7% Young womens Emap Nat Mags Conde Nast BBC H Bauer IPC MCN Monthly 3% Automotive Match Weekly 23% Active Kerrang!
Monthly 29% Music Emap's revenue by segment New Woman Monthly 16% Womens 39% 34% Women's 17% 20% Automotive Source: ABC Jul-Dec 2005 Retail Sales Value 16% 17% Special interest 15% 15% Men's 13% 14% Music and Film Prior year in brackets Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 12 Grazia success by breaking the rules The challenge Although heat and Closer To succeed, the new publication would need has exceeded its advertising budget, reached have been star performers in the celebrity to attract advertising from premium clients its expected sales gures and become the weekly market, Emaps portfolio lacked an who have traditionally steered clear of UKs leading womens glossy as measured by upmarket glossy womens title.
To break unproven magazine brands.
Emap approached retail sales value.
It also attracts advertising into this competitive market segment, Emap the publishers of Grazia, an upmarket weekly from such quality clients as Armani, decided to break the rules with a weekly in Italy, and persuaded them to license the title Dolce & Gabbana and Este Lauder.
rather than monthly magazine a concept for the British market.
Named Launch of the Year by the Association The result Launched in February 2005, of Circulation Executives, Grazia also won The response Research confirmed that UK Grazias glamorous combination of news, Designer of the Year at the Periodical consumers would welcome a weekly glossy.
fashion, beauty and lifestyle is a success.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 13 Operating & financial review important driver of the success of this launch and we are encouraged TV listings titles remain important drivers in the French market, by the strong performance on both fronts.
accounting for 42% of the circulation market by volume and 17% by value source: OJD.
In 2004 the TV listings market was disrupted In March 2006 we announced a new weekly womens magazine and by the entrance of two new fortnightly titles.
This had the effect in May the inaugural edition of First went on sale.
First will extend of decreasing circulation of all the weekly titles and decreasing and complement our strong portfolio of womens lifestyle weeklies advertising revenues due to tougher competition in this market.
The market has now stabilised and through our weekly titles, Tl Star and Tl Poche, we hold the number two position in We continue to expand our First for Men portfolio geographically and the market with a 25% share of newsstand circulation.
in the year entered into several licence agreements for international editions of our titles.
These included FHM in Greece and Sweden, Total advertising spend in France grew by 1.8% in 2005, with ZOO in Spain, Arena in Denmark and Korea, Max Power in Norway consumer magazine advertising spending increasing by only 0.5% and Denmark, and Car in India and the Middle East.
Emap France publishes three of the top 20 weekly magazines and five of the top 20 monthly magazines.
In the period we closed or disposed of 10 titles, including Mixmag, This provides an attractive offer for advertisers and has given Emap Period Living, Slimming and Health Plus.
The closure of Smash France a 10% share of the French magazine advertising market by Hits!
magazine after 28 years was a significant move but the volume and value source: OJD, Secodip.
brand continues to reach the teenage audience through other platforms such as the internet and TV.
These titles did not have In the recent French magazine industry awards we won six of the the strategic fit or growth potential that we require and their 14 categories with Closer being named Best Launch of the Year closure or sale was necessary to position our portfolio for and Science et Vie Junior receiving the award for Best Magazine future growth.
We have been increasing our focus on migrating existing brands Performance onto digital media platforms.
The majority of our titles have an online Revenue from our French Consumer Magazines division of 300m presence and we are developing ways of generating additional was at year-on-year, benefiting from the successful launch of revenue streams from our strong brand afliation.
For example, Closer, but declined by 3% on an underlying basis.
Operating profit our lm title Empire is offering movie clip downloads to mobiles was down 25% at 38m.
This was mainly due to the anticipated and the offer is being expanded to a variety of online retail services.
drop in contribution from TV listings advertising, a reduction in We also recently announced the provision of an FHM TV channel contribution from the remainder of the portfolio due to weak for mobile broadcast.
newsstand performance, and the 8m investment in the launch of Closer.
As a result of these factors, operating margin dropped from Strategy 17% to 13%.
Excluding the investment in Closer, the operating The strategy for our UK Consumer Magazines business remains margin was 15%.
to invest in our core portfolio, reinvent existing titles and launch new titles.
We also plan to build on the First for Men proposition There are three main sources of revenue for this division: newsstand with further launches of international editions of FHM, ZOO, Arena, sales 35% of revenue : subscriptions 30% : and advertising 35%.
Going forward we will be increasing our efforts and spend on extending our brands onto new media Consumer magazine newsstand revenue was at year-on-year platforms and increasing collaboration with the Groups other but was down 7% on an underlying basis.
The decline from Tl Star consumer facing platforms.
and Tl Poche, which together accounted for 32% of underlying newsstand revenue, slowed to 4%, both benefiting from their Consumer Magazines France relaunches.
The remainder of the portfolio, excluding Closer, was down 9%.
Subscriptions have continued to be resilient and were 2006 2005 Change down 1% on an underlying basis.
m m Total Underlying Consumer magazine advertising revenue declined by 2%, down Revenue 300 300 0% 3% 3% underlying.
This decline was as expected and largely seen Operating profit 38 51 25% 11% in the first half due to our TV listings business following the weak newsstand performance last year.
Performance in the remainder Operating margin 13% 17% of the portfolio has been in line with the overall French consumer magazine advertising market which was estimated to be down by In February 2006 we announced that we had initiated a formal 0.5% in 2005 source: Merrill Lynch.
process for the sale of Emap France.
The process is progressing in line with our planned timetable and we expect to complete the sale Currency had a negligible impact on revenue and operating profit in the first half of the 2007 financial year.
Market Business developments In the OJD circulation gures for 2005, Emap France had a 10% The UK masthead Closer was launched in France in June 2005. share of consumer magazine circulation by volume and a 12% share The launch has been very successful, with average sales between by value.
launch and December 2005 of 400,000 per week source: OJD.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 14 Despite a difficult advertising market, Closer has received good deliver clear value in their sector and we are growing our presence interest from advertisers.
In 2006 we grew the number of conferences we organise from 253 to 297.
Consumer Magazines International New technology is enabling the delivery of information over digital 2006 2005 Change platforms and in the B2B market this has resulted in the migration m m Total Underlying of many services online, a trend which we expect will continue.
Our information strategy is focused on creating data-rich, value-added Revenue 46 47 2% 2% services that become embedded in the workow and decision making Operating profit 2 3 33% 31% processes of the business communities we serve.
Our portfolio of information products currently includes: Glenigan and MEED Projects Operating margin 4% 6% in construction: DeHavilland in the public sector: WGSN in retail: and CAP in automotive, all of which are delivered online.
Following the sale of the Malaysian and Singaporean business in April 2005, Emaps International Consumer Magazines business now Total advertising in business magazines declined by 1.6% in 2005 comprises a portfolio of wholly-owned titles, including New Woman, compared with 3.2% growth in 2004 and in particular classied Empire and FHM in Australia and FHM in the US.
advertising, which includes recruitment advertising, declined by 7.9% in 2005 source: AA.
In the public sector, the current financial Total revenue of 46m was down 2% due to the sale of the Asian problems in the NHS are well reported.
This has resulted in a freeze businesses.
On an underlying basis, revenue was up 2%.
The Australian or significant reduction in recruitment advertising which, given the business delivered good underlying growth of 5%.
In February 2006, Governments continuing focus on cost, is likely to continue for at we launched the UK masthead ZOO in Australia with a budget of 6m.
The title is following the successful UK format and is aiming to establish a circulation of 75,000 copies per week.
Initial indications Performance are that the launch is progressing according to plan.
Revenue from our B2B division grew strongly, up 12%, to 256m benefiting signicantly from the first Cannes Lions under Emap Trading in the US was at due to weaker circulation revenue and a ownership and the contributions from the acquisitions made in the tough advertising market.
FHM US is number three in its market with year, in particular WGSN.
On an underlying basis, revenue grew by a circulation of 1.2 million and as such is the largest edition in the 1%, with strong growth in events and information services being international FHM network.
held back by the weak performance in public sector recruitment advertising.
Operating profit grew strongly by 20% to 83m and The operating profit of the International Consumer Magazines by 2% on an underlying basis.
The operating margin improved from business was 2m, down 33% as a result of the investment costs 30% to 32%.
associated with the launch of ZOO.
Revenue in our B2B division is generated from events 42% of Business-to-business revenue, circulation, including subscriptions from our information services 24%, and advertising 34%.
2006 2005 Change m m Total Underlying Revenue from attendance at events including exhibition stand sales, conference delegates and awards tables, and festival entries Revenue 256 228 12% 1% and delegates grew by 27%, benefiting from Cannes Lions which Operating profit 83 69 20% 2% had record delegates up 14% year-on-year and awards entries up 18% year-on-year.
On an underlying basis, events revenue was Operating margin 32% 30% up 10%.
There was good growth in revenue from our major trade exhibitions, in particular Spring Fair, Glee, and Pure Womenswear, Market and also from our conference business.
Our French trade exhibitions The total UK B2B market is estimated to have grown from also saw good growth, benefiting particularly from the acquisition of 15.6bn in 2004 to 17.3bn in 2005, up 11% source: Gfk NOP, JANGIL and the launch of Orhopa in Paris, which complements our outperforming the general economy as measured by GDP.
This PrintOr jewellery tradeshow in Lyon.
growth is evidenced by the revenue performance of some of the larger companies in the sector this year.
B2B circulation revenue which includes subscriptions from information services was up 22% including the recently acquired information We approach the market differently to other companies, with products products WGSN and DeHavilland which are both performing ahead focused on five key market sectors retail, construction, public of plan.
On an underlying basis, circulation revenue was up 6% due sector including healthcare, media and automotive.
Within each to good growth from our existing information businesses, in particular of these sectors we aim to have the leading publications, events CAP in the automotive sector, which has benefited from new product and information services.
innovations, and Glenigan in the construction sector, where we have invested in the sales function.
Events are growing in signicance in the digital age as they enable business people to meet, network and transact business in an Within B2B advertising revenue, non-recruitment advertising revenue increasingly online world.
We aim to offer content-rich events that grew by 6%, up 5% underlying.
There were strong performances Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 15 Operating & financial review across the portfolio, with many titles showing good increases.
JANGIL, an independent trade show organiser in the French food Conference and awards related sponsorship revenue, in particular sector, was also acquired for 11m in September 2005.
JANGIL around MEED and our construction titles, has been a key source organises the highly successful CFIA and MDD trade exhibitions of growth.
which take place in March.
Recruitment advertising revenue was down 21%, following a 29% All the recent B2B acquisitions are ahead of plan and have been drop in the second half, due to continuing declines in Nursing Times earnings enhancing.
and Health Service Journal as a result of budget constraints in the NHS.
Together these titles were down 34% in the full year.
Excluding We have invested in new product development during the year, all public sector recruitment titles, recruitment advertising revenue launching a new product aimed at the insurance sector under the was up 3%.
CAP brand, and continuing to invest in MEED Projects, which is now the Middle Easts leading online business opportunity tracker in the Business developments construction sector.
We also converted QS Week from a print format During the year we acquired two information businesses, DeHavilland into an online recruitment magazine for quantity surveyors, and and WGSN, which have strengthened Emaps position in key sectors.
launched Broadcast Freelancer, an online recruitment service for DeHavilland, acquired for 18m in July 2005, provides online the broadcast media sector.
information on political and parliamentary affairs.
In March 2006 we enhanced DeHavillands offering by launching two new services.
In May 2005, following the Competition Commissions ruling, ABI WGSN, acquired in October 2005 for 143m including acquisition was sold for 13m.
costs, is a leading provider of fashion trend analysis in the retail sector.
WGSN offers a wholly subscription-based online product Strategy with strong annual renewal rates giving a high degree of visibility on The majority of our B2B businesses and brands are focused on five future revenue.
Overall the acquisition is performing well, with new key sectors: retail, construction, public sector, media and automotive.
customer additions running 10% ahead of plan, yield per customer Within these markets our strategy is to deliver a mix of media neutral ahead of plan and renewal rates of 90%.
solutions that satisfy the needs of the business communities we Business-to-business B2B peers revenue growth % Emap's revenue by sector 2003 2004 2005 34% 32% Retail T&FInforma N A1450 24% 26% Construction Emap Communications 11 8 12 20% 25% Public sector & Healthcare 14% 9% Media UBM CMPi -10 4 10 8% 8% Automotive Reed RBI -3 5 6 Haymarket 2005 gures not available 1 12 N A Reects acquisition of IIR Source: Published revenues Prior year in brackets Number of conferences Emap's revenue by source % Recruitment Events Non-recruitment Paid-for information 297 253 100 174 80 88 64 60 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 40 20 0 1994 1996 1999 2003 2006 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 16 WGSN a world leader in fashion trend analysis The challenge We aim to provide the leading faster, better information on fashion trends in Drapers magazine and Pure Womenswear publications, events and information services order to compete.
One business meeting this exhibitions recognised WGSNs potential in the business sectors we serve.
With the need is the online information service, WGSN.
and was keen to acquire it.
internet now rmly embedded in business processes, online information services are The response With subscribers in 60 The result Emap successfully acquired becoming ubiquitous.
In retail, the arrival of countries, WGSN delivers vast quantities of the business in October 2005 and we are fast fashion, with consumers demanding consumer research, trend analysis and other delighted to welcome the extremely talented wider choice, faster supply and lower prices, fashion information, enabling users to make and creative WGSN team into the Emap has changed the dynamics of the fashion informed decisions on what products to family.
WGSN has performed well since supply chain.
Sourcing has become more design, manufacture or sell.
Emap already acquisition and we are working to develop global and retailers and manufacturers need active in the retail and fashion markets with and extend this powerful brand.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 17 Operating & financial review serve.
Our emphasis is increasingly on accelerating our events and with a 7.0% share of total hours compared with 6.0% in the same information businesses where we aim to provide content-rich events period last year and 4.9% last quarter.
This represents a significant and value-adding information services.
We also aim to leverage our achievement for the business.
Kiss 100s share was stable quarterexisting brands and skills into new geographies.
on-quarter at 3.7% and we remain the number one station in London in the 15-34 year old market.
105.2 FM, Radio which we launched in 2004, continues to deliver audience growth and is now listened to by over 366,000 people on a weekly basis.
2006 2005 Change m m Total Underlying Listening across our Big City network, which now comprises 20 stations across the North of England, Scotland and Northern Ireland Revenue 141 98 44% 1% after the integration of SRH, remained broadly stable with a market Operating profit 33 22 50% 9% share of 14.2%.
Metro in Newcastle and Aire in Leeds showed growth year-on-year, while Clyde in Glasgow and Forth in Edinburgh Operating margin 23% 22% showed good gains in the quarter.
In the Republic of Ireland, our national station Today FM has a 10.5% market share source: JNLR Market and in Dublin FM 104 is the number one independent station.
Over the last five years average radio listening hours to all radio in the UK has remained broadly constant source: RAJAR.
As a result, Emap Radio is a major player in UK digital radio, with programmes the ability to increase market share is critical to driving growth in our being broadcast on DAB, Freeview where we are the largest Radio business.
commercial radio group, cable, satellite and online.
The digital radio market in the UK has grown substantially over the past year and now In the most recent RAJAR numbers for Jan-Mar 06, Emaps share represents 10.5% of all listening source: RAJAR platform study.
of UK commercial listening hours was 23.2%, including the newly Emaps national digital radio stations had 17.8 million listening hours, acquired stations.
In the important London market, Magic 105.4 FM up 11% over the same period last year, and now account for 17% gained the number one position as the most listened to radio station of Emaps total 104.5 million hours source: RAJAR.
Radio Increase in listening to digital radio % Share of listening Share of listening Platform Aug Sept 2004 Aug Sept 2005 DAB 2.4 5.5 Digital TV 2.3 2.9 Emap radio across the UK and Republic of Ireland Internet 1.1 1.8 CFM Radio Unsure of platform 0.1 0.3 Clyde 1 Clyde 2 Total listening via digital platforms 5.9 10.5 Cool FM Downtown Source: RAJAR platform study FM 104 Forth 1 Forth 2 Hallam FM Highland Radio Digital listening hours m Source: RAJAR Q12006 Kerrang!
digital 17.8 Key 103 16.0 Kiss 100 13.8 Kiss digital 10.7 10.8 Magic 105.4 FM 8.2 Magic AM network 4.3 Magic digital 3.2 1.8 1.0 0.8 Metro Radio 1.1 Mojo digital Emap BBC GCap Chrysalis GMG Virgin Moray Firth Radio Northsound 1 Northsound 2 Q digital Radio Aire Advertising revenue by category of advertiser % Radio Borders 2005 2006 Radio City Entertainment & Media 14.2 14.1 Rock FM Retail 16.1 13.6 Smash Hits!
digital South West Sound FM Motors 12.9 13.6 Tay FM Tay AM Government 9.1 10.6 TFM Radio Finance 7.5 8.7 The Hits digital Telecomms 8.3 7.1 Today FM Vibe 101 Business & Industrial 4.0 5.7 Vibe 105-108 Travel & Transport 5.4 5.0 Viking FM Household 5.1 4.6 Wave 105.2 Food 4.0 4.3 West FM Westsound FM Other 13.4 12.7 3C digital Source: NMR Data April 05 Feb 06 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 18 SRH creating a powerful force in commercial radio The challenge The Communications Act of The response Emap reviewed the options The result In August 2005, Emap 2003 opened the way for consolidation in the for industry consolidation and identied completed the acquisition of SRH for radio industry.
As larger players, commercial Scottish Radio Holdings plc SRH as 280m cash to create the UKs second radio companies would be better able to an ideal partner.
Like Emap, SRH owned biggest commercial radio company.
The day compete with the BBC for audiences and with market-leading radio stations in big cities the deal was completed, teams across Emap other media for advertising revenue.
In addition, in the UK and Ireland though with no began work to integrate SRH into the Group.
the savings from economies of scale could be geographic overlap and believed that local The sales operations were merged within used to fund innovative programming along radio should be rmly focused on the days and the process has continued to run with new licences and new ventures in digital local community.
The business is on track broadcasting and the internet.
The question to achieve the 5m in annual savings was how to make the most of the opportunities.
identied at the time of the acquisition.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 19 Operating & financial review Radio advertising as a percentage of total advertising spending in Strategy the UK has seen a decline over the last three years and in 2005 Our strategy is to continue to apply for new licences offered by represented 3.3% of total UK advertising spending, down 4.5% Ofcom in areas of significant size and where we believe our brands compared with the prior year source: AA.
However, commercial will expand listener choice.
radio remains a proven platform for reaching the important 15-44 year old age group with advertising.
In terms of national In digital radio we aim to continue to operate on all available and local airtime, both declined in the last quarter of 2005 with platforms, which we believe places us at a competitive advantage, national down 4.5% and local down 5.5% source: RAB.
Due to and will continue to look at opportunities to expand our presence the strength of our brands, the spread of our reach, and our ability in the digital space.
to provide innovative solutions to advertisers, we have been able to continue to outperform this tough market with our market share Television of radio advertising increasing to 19.3%, up from 17.8% last year, 2006 2005 Change and 24.7% including the newly acquired stations source: m m Total Underlying RAB Ofcom Company estimates.
Revenue 24 24 1% 1% In the recent 2006 Sony Radio Academy Awards we received Operating profit 7 6 17% 23% 19 nominations and won 13 awards with Kerrang!
105.2 FM winning four of our five Gold awards.
Operating margin 29% 25% Performance Revenue in our Radio division increased strongly by 44% to Due to a proliferation of channels there is now increased competition 141m, including the contribution from the newly acquired stations.
for viewing hours in multi-channel homes.
Emaps seven music TV Excluding the acquired stations, revenue was up 1%, a strong channels are broadcast in 15.7 million homes and have a 35% share outperformance of a market estimated to be down 7% source: of the music TV audience in multi-channel homes, down from 37% RAB, Company estimates.
This revenue growth has all been last year source: BARB TNS Apr 05-Mar 06, Adults 16-34.
We generated from national airtime and new competition and listener launched the FHM music TV channel in May 2005 demonstrating related revenues with local airtime revenues at.
We generated our ability to migrate strong brands in our portfolio onto other 5m in advertising revenue from our digital stations compared media platforms.
Operating profit increased by 50% to 33m benefiting from growth in Kerrang!
105.2 FM and the contribution Revenue from Emaps music TV channels was up 1% at 24m from the acquired stations.
Excluding SRH, operating profit was up against a competitive backdrop in the television advertising market.
Operating margin improved to 23% from 22% last year.
65% of revenue came from advertising, up from 63% last year, and 35% came from subscriptions and interactivity, compared with 37% Business developments last year.
Operating profit was 7m and operating margin was 29%.
Our Radio division was created in April 2005 when we separated our existing radio stations out of the Emap Performance division creating a separate radio business.
In June 2005 Emap announced the agreed takeover of SRH, a leading commercial radio operator in Scotland, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland.
The acquisition was completed in August 2005 and the integration of the acquired stations is proceeding well.
Immediately following the acquisition, the SRH corporate head ofce was closed and the national sales teams were merged.
Emap Advertising is now responsible for selling national advertising opportunities across all Emap-owned stations and this has been a key driver in the acquired stations good revenue performance post acquisition.
The acquisition is already earnings enhancing and we are on track to deliver the 5m of annualised cost savings identied at the time of the acquisition.
We will continue to focus on synergies that can be realised from our enlarged Radio division.
We have continued to invest in our core brands with a significant focus on Magic 105.4 FM where new talent and programming has resulted in increased share.
In addition we have continued to invest in Kerrang!
105.2 FM, which was launched in 2004 after winning the West Midlands licence, and increased its share to 3.5% from 2.7% last year source: RAJAR.
In March 2006 we learnt that we had successfully retained the licence for Today FM, a leading national commercial radio station in the Republic of Ireland.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 20 Digital future The challenge As technology changes, crucial in a cluttered marketplace and means radio diaries, first broadcast on Kiss 100, customers are accessing their entertainment brands such as Retail Week, heat, MEED went to number one in the US podcast charts.
and information in new ways.
With mobiles, and Magic can be offered in new formats We have enhanced Empire.
com to include the internet, radio and television all offering and still be known and recognised.
Over the daily news and launched the Empire Film Club new interactive possibilities, power is shifting year, the Group has been developing the offering ticket sales, lm reviews and movie clips from media owners to consumers.
For Emap, structure and teams and recruiting the skills on mobiles.
Broadcast magazine now has an the challenge is to give consumers what they to transfer content from brands such as online recruitment site for the television industry want, how and when they want it.
these to faster-growing digital media.
while the online automotive data business, CAP, has introduced a new service for the insurance The response One of Emaps strengths is The result Mobile users can now access sector.
More developments will follow as we the high awareness of its brands.
This is content through FHM mobile.
The Faceless continue exploiting the digital opportunity.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 21 Operating & financial review Statutory Group results the remainder of the lease terms, these costs have been incurred Reconciliation of statutory results in 2006.
Further post-acquisition integration costs of approximately Statutory results are reconciled to normalised results in the table below: 3m to 5m will be incurred in the 2007 financial year, primarily in relation to SRH and WGSN.
Continuing Discontinued Total During the 2006 financial year, the Group exited several activities operations operations Group either through closure or disposal, resulting in a net profit after costs m m m of closure and disposal of 3m 2005: 4m loss.
This primarily represents the profits on the disposals of Period Living and Normalised operating profit 206 38 244 Mixmag magazines.
Reallocation of overheads 3 3 Amortisation of intangible assets 34 13 47 After these items, the Groups statutory operating profit from continuing Impairment of intangible assets 14 14 operations was 153m 2005: 143m, an increase of 7%.
Post-acquisition reorganisation costs 5 5 profit loss on sale or closure The intangible asset amortisation charge for discontinued operations of businesses 3 1 2 Emap France, was 13m 2005: 17m and 1m 2005: nil Statutory operating profit 153 27 180 of costs were incurred on activities relating to the proposed sale.
Net finance costs 23 23 No impairment was charged in 2006 against the discontinued Share of joint ventures and operations goodwill or intangible assets 2005: 27m.
associates 1 1 The Groups share of results of joint ventures and associates for Statutory pre-tax profit 131 27 158 continuing operations was 1m 2005: 4m, the year-on-year Taxation 34 2 32 reduction reflecting the change in classification of SRH from Statutory profit after tax 97 29 126 an associate to a subsidiary from August 2005.
After net finance costs of 23m 2005: 24m, including foreign The statutory results for the Group include amortisation and currency and fair value adjustments, and taxation of 34m 2005: impairment of intangible assets and material unusual or one-off 31m, the statutory profit after tax was 97m 2005: 92m for items which are not included in normalised results.
As a result of the continuing operations and 29m 2005: 9m for discontinued announcement of the proposed sale of Emap France, the statutory operations, giving a total Group profit after tax of 126m results of the Group present the results of continuing operations 2005: 101m.
separately from the results of Emap France which are presented as a discontinued operation in accordance with International Financial Minority interests, primarily in relation to Auto Plus in France Reporting Standards IFRS.
and Frontline, Emaps UK distribution subsidiary, were 4m 2005: 5m.
The normalised results for Emap France include an allocation of Group overheads to Emap France on a basis consistent with previous Total Group earnings per share on a statutory basis was 47.6 pence years.
Under IFRS, overheads which the Group will continue to incur per share 2005: 37.7 pence per share.
The weighted average after Emap France has been sold must be allocated to continuing number of shares in issue in the year increased to 257m 2005: 256m, operations.
There are 3m of overheads allocated to Emap France due to the issue of shares in relation to the exercise of employee in the normalised results which will need to be absorbed by the share options.
remaining Group post the sale.
Balance sheet Within the statutory results for continuing operations, the amortisation The net assets of the Group increased by 69m during the year charge for intangible assets excluding software in the period was to 289m 2005: 220m.
The main movements in balance sheet 34m 2005: 17m, up on the prior year reecting the amortisation items were in intangible xed assets, reecting the recognition of of newly acquired intangible assets, including radio licences, editorial 162m of new intangible assets 2005: 58m and 338m of databases and customer relationships recognised through the goodwill 2005: 33m, following the acquisitions of SRH, WGSN, acquisitions in the year.
The charge also increased due to a reduction DeHavilland, JANGIL and Highland Radio, together with a related in the remaining amortisation periods for the Groups recruitment deferred tax liability of 48m 2005: 17m.
The Group recognised an impairment charge of 14m against the carrying value of its intangible assets 2005: 3m, primarily in Net debt and cash ow respect of Nursing Times.
This reects the continuing challenges For the eighth consecutive year, the Group exceeded its target for this title in its current market.
of converting over 95% of normalised operating profit into cash, achieving cash conversion of 108% 2005: 99% resulting in 253m The Group incurred post-acquisition reorganisation costs of 5m 2005: 229m of operating cash ow for the Group.
The ability to 2005: 2m, primarily in relation to SRH, WGSN and DeHavilland.
continue to achieve this target is a key indicator of the performance These costs are one-off and incremental in nature, and include of the Group.
redundancy costs, costs associated with exiting or terminating leased properties and back-ofce integration costs.
With the exception of During 2006 we completed the acquisition of the remaining 72.9% amounts relating to vacant property which will be incurred over shareholding in SRH not already owned by Emap for a cash Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 22 consideration of 280m including costs of 8m and the assumption Capital structure and treasury policy of 26m of net debt.
A further 178m cash including costs was The main objective of our financial management policies is to utilise paid in consideration for the acquisitions of WGSN, DeHavilland, funds from a range of sources, including debt and equity, to maintain JANGIL and Highland Radio and 4m of cash was acquired with an appropriate level of balance sheet gearing while at the same time these businesses.
enabling sufficient exibility to continue to invest in the business.
The gearing level that provides this exibility, and is consistent In the year we raised 152m of cash through the sale of businesses with our investment grade credit rating, is within a range of net and magazine titles, receiving 136m of cash on the sale of SRHs debt EBITDA of between 1.5x to 2.0x.
press business, Score Press Limited, 13m on the sale of ABI and 4m from other disposals.
Our existing debt and credit facilities comprise a 250m 6.25% Eurobond repayable in 2013 and a committed syndicated revolving Capital expenditure in 2006 was 11m 2005: 12m.
credit facility of 500m, expiring in 2009.
The bond does not contain any financial covenants.
The syndicated revolving credit facility After interest, taxation and dividend payments of 147m 2005: contains financial covenants of a maximum of 3.5x net debt EBITDA 140m, cash received from employees on the exercise of share and a minimum of 3.5x EBITDA interest.
We have historically had options of 7m 2005: 4m, the issue of 17m of loan notes in internal financial policy limits which are more stringent than those relation to the acquisition of SRH 2005: nil and other movements imposed by the facility, set at a maximum of 3.0x net debt EBITDA of 13m, net debt increased by 256m to 520m at 31 March 2006, and a minimum of 6.0x EBITDA interest but which have not primarily reecting the net nancing of acquisitions out of existing restricted our ability to continue to invest in our underlying business credit facilities.
Compared with recent years, the Group spent a record level of 480m on acquisitions in the year funded out At 31 March 2006, 230m remained undrawn under our syndicated of exiting credit facilities, and raised 152m through disposals.
revolving credit facility and the Group remained well within our Even with the increased net debt level and interest cost from funding internal policy limits on our net debt EBITDA and interest cover the acquisitions, we are still well within our internal financial policy covenants of 3.0x and 6.0x, respectively.
limits, with year end net debt EBITDA at 1.9x 2005: 1.1x and EBITDA interest at 11.5x 2005: 9.8x.
Dened benefit pension schemes In January 2006 we fully funded, on an IAS 19 basis at that time, The Groups cost of capital was maintained at 9.1% during the year our largest defined benefit pension scheme, the Emap Earnings 2005: 9.1%, and our credit ratings remained investment grade Related Pension Plan, with a one-off payment of 15m in addition as reected in Standard & Poors and Moodys ratings of BBB and to the accelerated funding payments already made during the year Baa1, respectively.
As a result of the acquisition of SRH, the Group has assumed two further defined benefit pension schemes, The Moodys credit rating, which is currently slightly higher than both of which were in small deficit positions on acquisition.
the rating given by Standard & Poors, imposes the Groups most At 31 March 2006, the deficit on our defined benefit schemes restrictive covenant of Adjusted Retained Cash Flow to Net Debt stood at 8m 2005: 22m, primarily in relation to the acquired which limits the amount of funding headroom available to us.
We will work with the Trustees of the SRH schemes To maintain this credit rating the ratio must be in the mid teens.
on a funding proposal to close these deficits.
The next full actuarial At our current debt levels we are at the higher end of this ratio.
valuations for the Groups UK schemes will be completed in our 2007 financial year, at which time all assumptions, including Both credit ratings were reviewed in February 2006 in relation to mortality, will be updated.
the impact of the potential sale of Emap France.
Standard & Poors reafrmed our rating at a strong BBB.
Moodys has put the Group Dividend on negative watch due to their slightly higher current rating of Baa1 We have historically followed a dividend policy of growing the dividend and the accompanying more restrictive ratios.
marginally behind the rate of earnings growth within a target range of dividend cover the ratio of normalised earnings per share to the The Groups treasury operations are managed within a treasury policy dividend per share of between 2.0x to 2.5x.
approved by the Treasury Committee, a sub-committee of the Board.
Any changes to the policy are approved by the Treasury Committee The Board has reviewed the dividend policy and believes, based and reported to the Board and performance against policies is on the strength of the underlying cash ows and our positioning reviewed twice a year by the Internal Audit function.
of the business for stronger growth, a more progressive policy is appropriate.
Therefore a dividend cover guideline of 2x normalised In accordance with our policy, we only enter into non-speculative earnings has been established and this years proposed dividend financial instruments and use derivative financial instruments to marks a significant step towards this.
economically hedge exposure to interest rate risk, foreign currency translation risk on foreign currency transactions and foreign currency For the year ended 31 March 2006, the Board proposes a final translation risk on the translation of the results of the Groups dividend of 21.4 pence per share 2005: 16.9 pence per share, overseas operations into Sterling, unless the cost of doing so is bringing the total dividend for the year to 30.0 pence per share considered disproportionately high.
We have strong relationships 2005: 24.9 pence per share, representing a level of cover of with our banking counterparties, who all meet certain minimum 2.17x normalised earnings 2005: 2.35x and 20% growth over credit-rating criteria in order to reduce the risk of loss on hedging the prior year.
or other transactions or that committed but undrawn funding will Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 23 Operating & financial review not be available, and policies are in place which stipulate how On behalf of the Board, I would like to extend our deepest thanks business is awarded across the banking group.
to Adam Broadbent who is retiring as Chairman.
When Adam became Chairman in 2001, at a difficult time in the Groups The Groups 250m 6.25% Eurobond due in 2013 has been development, his mission was to set Emap on a path to stability, swapped into oating rate debt.
To hedge against the risk of foreign confidence and momentum.
exchange losses on our investment in France, a large proportion of the Groups Sterling debt has been swapped into Euros using foreign Under his leadership, Emap has become a more focused, exchange swaps.
180m of this synthetic oating rate Euro debt confident organisation, making steady progress towards its was also swapped back into xed rate debt until 20 March 2006 strategic goal.
Due to the proposed sale of Emap France these interest rate swaps have not been replaced.
On a personal note, I would like to thank Adam for his support, wise advice and encouragement since my appointment.
Its been As a result of these arrangements, part of the Groups interest cost a privilege and a pleasure working with him.
is payable at Euro interest rates which are currently lower than UK interest rates.
The expiry of the interest rate swaps in March 2006 Tom Moloney, Group Chief Executive further reduced our interest cost as current rates are lower than the xed rates under the expired swaps.
In accordance with our treasury policy, once the Group has certainty Current trading and outlook over the proposed sale of Emap France, measures will be taken to Trading at the start of the 2007 financial year has continued in reduce the exposure to oating rate debt.
line with our expectations and the trends seen at the time of our trading update on 28 March 2006.
In our UK Consumer Magazines Forward foreign exchange contracts are also used to hedge cash business, the continuing strong performance from our weekly titles flow risk on all significant foreign currency payments and receipts.
should enable us to outperform the overall market although we are likely to be held back by trends in other parts of our portfolio.
Emap France The B2B division is performing well but continues to be affected On 28 February 2006 it was announced that, following a review of by public sector recruitment advertising.
Our Radio group continues the Groups strategic investment priorities, the Board had initiated a to outperform but the outlook for the radio market, while showing formal process for the sale of Emap France.
The process is expected improvement, remains cautious.
to complete in the first half of the Groups 2007 financial year.
It is anticipated that surplus net proceeds from the sale, the surplus being In the 2007 financial year we anticipate that underlying revenue determined by returning the balance sheet to an appropriate level of will, as expected, continue to grow at similar levels to last year.
gearing, as discussed above, will be returned to shareholders as soon Total Group revenue will benefit from our acquisitions and launches as practicable.
as well as any further investment activity.
We believe that with our portfolio of strong brands we remain well positioned to continue to The Board outperform our markets.
On 20 October 2005 Emap announced the appointment of Ian Grifths as Group Finance Director.
Mr Grifths had held the role of Acting Group Finance Director since April 2005, prior to which he was Director of Financial Control for the Group.
On 24 February 2006 it was announced that Alun Cathcart, currently a Non-Executive Director of Emap, would become Chairman at the conclusion of the 2006 Annual General Meeting AGM on 13 July 2006 when Adam Broadbent will retire.
Mr Cathcart became Deputy Chairman on the date of the announcement to facilitate an orderly handover of responsibilities.
Karen Jones, who has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company since 1997, will also be retiring at the conclusion of the 2006 AGM.
Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 | 24
