Operating and Financial Review This Operating and Financial Review has been prepared 1.
Description of operations for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a EMI Group is composed of two divisions: body, and no other persons.
It should not be relied upon recorded music, EMI Music: and, by any other party for any purpose.
music publishing, EMI Music Publishing.
This Operating and Financial Review contains forwardEMI Music looking statements that are subject to risk factors EMI Music is one of the largest music businesses in associated with, amongst other things, the economic the world.
We have one of the worlds most extensive and business circumstances occurring from time to time catalogues of recordings, with over 3m individual tracks.
in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group Of these tracks, approximately 600,000 are currently in operates.
These and other factors could adversely affect active release on nearly 60,000 albums.
Our record labels the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events include Angel, Astralwerks, Blue Note, Capitol, Capitol described.
By their nature, forward-looking statements Nashville, EMI, EMI Classics, EMI CMG, EMI Televisa involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions Music, Mute, Narada, Parlophone and Virgin and are because they relate to events and or depend on home to a diverse roster of some 1,300 artists who circumstances that may or may not occur in the future encompass a wide range of musical genres from classical, and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ jazz, country and Christian music to alternative, rock, materially from those expressed in or implied by the pop, rap urban and dance music.
For the year ended forward-looking statements.
It is believed that the 31 March 2006, EMI Music generated revenue of expectations reflected in these statements are 1,660.3m and operating profit before exceptional items reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range and amortisation EBITA of 145.1m.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Operating and EMI Music identifies potentially successful recording Financial Review will be realised.
The forward-looking artists, signs them under recording contracts, collaborates statements reflect the knowledge and information with them to produce recordings of their work, markets available at the date of preparation and will not be the finished recordings to consumers and radio, and sells updated during the year.
the releases into the retail trade in a variety of formats, primarily CDs, but increasingly in various digital formats.
The Operating and Financial Review discusses the We strive to achieve a balance across genres, between following areas: new releases and catalogue, across distribution channels and amongst repertoire sources.
Long-term strategy and business objectives p 9 Although the primary sources of global popular repertoire 3.
Results for the year ended 31 March 2006 p 10 have historically been the United Kingdom and the 4.
Key performance indicators p 10 United States, we are also focused on developing local 5.
Performance review for the year p 11 repertoire that appeals to consumers tastes in each ended 31 March 2006 of our local territories.
We continually invest in local 6.
Financial review for the year p 18 repertoire in most of our territories and, where there is ended 31 March 2006 opportunity, seek to transfer repertoire from one region 7.
Critical accounting policies and p 28 use of estimates 6 Gorillaz We also focus on exploiting our existing recorded music catalogue.
This catalogue is a dynamic asset that continues to generate a significant volume of re-releases with strong consumer appeal.
For example, The Beatles album, 1, has sold over 27m units worldwide.
We have a solid platform of sales from existing, so-called evergreen albums that is, albums which sell consistently well over many years which do not require significant incremental marketing expenditure.
Evergreen and other catalogue albums generate approximately 30% to 35% of EMI Music unit sales.
EMI Music also compiles successful recordings from our catalogue and current roster into new compilation releases.
Compilations provide opportunities for new creative products, which can become brands themselves.
Compilations range from greatest hits albums of major artists to concept collections, such as Best Air Guitar Album in the World Ever!, and the Capital Gold series, to compilations of current hits, such as the Now Thats What I Call Music!
EMI Musics headquarters are in west London and also house the Continental European regional office.
In addition, EMI Music operates through a network of offices throughout the world.
The majority of these offices are held through lease arrangements.
We recently announced our plans to enter into sale and leaseback arrangements for certain of our freehold properties, namely the Capitol Tower in Los Angeles and two office buildings in Tokyo owned by our joint-venture company with Toshiba.
In the UK, we own and operate two recording studios Abbey Road and Olympic Studios.
7 Operating and Financial Review continued In December 2005, we sold our former manufacturing EMI Music Publishing acquires copyrights or a share plant in Gotemba, Japan to a consortium led by of the copyrights in musical compositions, or enters Memory-Tech Corporation.
This deal completed into agreements to administer copyrights or a share the outsourcing of all of EMI Musics worldwide of copyrights, and exploits the compositions by licensing manufacturing operations apart from a small facility in them for inclusion on records, film, television and other Canada.
We carry out our own distribution activities in media, seeking new uses for the compositions, and a number of territories, notably the UK, Ireland, US, Hong administering and collecting the proceeds generated.
In other territories, such In return for providing these services, we are entitled as Japan, Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, to a percentage of the royalty income, which varies from Malaysia, Taiwan and Scandinavia, we have entered into contract to contract.
EMI Music Publishing is constantly distribution joint-venture arrangements with other music refining its collection of songs with a view to having the companies.
In certain territories, such as Latin America, finest songs on offer to those who use musical Indonesia, India, Philippines, Benelux, France, Germany, compositions.
Italy, Spain and Portugal, distribution services are carried out on our behalf by third parties.
EMI Music Publishing derives its revenues from: mechanical royalties, primarily from the sale of music EMI Music Publishing in CD format, but also from DVDs, audio cassettes, Our other principal division is EMI Music Publishing, online downloads and items such as music boxes which is the worlds largest music publisher in terms of and player pianos 45% of EMI Music Publishing revenues.
Our roster of active songwriters is responsible revenue in the year : for many of the hit songs of today, and the songs they performance royalties paid for the performance of create are added to our valuable catalogue comprising a song on radio or television broadcasts, webcasts, over 1m copyrights in musical compositions which we cabarets, live concerts, sporting events, shops and own, control or administer.
For the year ended 31 March restaurants 27% of EMI Music Publishing revenue 2006, EMI Music Publishing generated revenue of in the year : 419.6m and EBITA of 105.4m.
synchronisation royalties, derived from the use of songs in visual works such as television Music publishing is the business of acquiring, protecting, programmes, films, advertisements, computer administering and exploiting rights in musical compositions.
games or karaoke 17% of EMI Music Publishing It is a business based on the songs themselves as revenue in the year : and, distinct from the recordings, films, commercials or other other uses, which include ring tones, ring tunes, ring media in which they are used.
Music publishers earn their backs, stage productions, sheet music, merchandise revenue from licensing the right to use their songs.
and music from our background library 11% of EMI Music Publishing revenue in the year.
Our publishing catalogues include SBK CBS Songs, MGM and United Artists, Filmtrax Columbia Pictures EMI Music Publishing has its worldwide headquarters and Television, Screen Gems, Virgin, Jobete Motown in New York.
In addition, it operates through regional and a substantial part of the Windswept Pacific catalogue.
and local offices, most of which are held on leasehold arrangements, in key markets throughout the world.
Long-term strategy and business objectives Digital technology is multiplying the ways in which we EMI Groups strategy is to create shareholder value can monetise our music assets and our key strategic by developing the best musical content at both our priority is to continue to position the business to recorded music business, EMI Music, and our music capitalise fully on the expanded revenue and profit publishing business, EMI Music Publishing, and to opportunity that this brings.
We are making our music exploit fully this valuable content on a global basis content available on all economically attractive through all economically attractive channels.
platforms, formats and services to ensure the widest consumer reach and we currently have relationships Our investment in artists and repertoire A&R is with almost 400 digital partners for products and fundamental to our ability to create new, exciting music.
services ranging from a la carte audio and video At the core of our A&R strategy is the identification and downloads to ring tones, ring tunes, subscription development of artists and songwriters with the potential and legalised peer to peer services.
to enjoy long-term commercial success across multiple releases and revenue streams.
Focusing on long-term One of our priorities is to establish the optimal career artists has favourable economics, driving infrastructure to operate most successfully in the digital increased sales and profitability.
We are making a significant investment in new process across geographies and musical genres, we technology to equip us for the new landscape, including have assembled in EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing the development of global marketing tools and royalty exceptional portfolios of music content which exhibit and payment systems.
At EMI Music Publishing, we are strength, breadth and depth.
driving the industrys efforts to implement appropriate payment and collection structures for the new digital EMIs overriding goal is to maximise the value of these revenue streams.
Most recently, EMI Music Publishing content assets and a key element of this is successful signed a heads of agreement with the UK and German marketing and promotion.
Our presence in over 50 collection societies to establish a pan-European countries enables us to exploit the valuable local licensing and collection mechanism for mobile and opportunities as well as giving us a powerful global online digital rights.
At EMI Music, specialised local marketing teams work alongside our dedicated international In summary, EMIs strategy is to create, develop and marketing team to share best practice and also to realise fully the value of high quality music content.
promote local A&R successes into global superstars.
In combination with an on-going focus on costs and Ultimately we seek to maximise revenues at a local cash generation, EMIs management believes that this and a global level.
strategy should deliver improved financial performance and growing shareholder returns.
EMI Music Publishing is creative in proactively marketing its songs for increased and new uses.
The business has dedicated teams that develop and maintain relationships with, for instance, advertising agencies, film and television producers and video-game makers.
This has resulted in a broadening of EMI Music Publishings client base and increased revenue generation.
9 Operating and Financial Review continued 3.
Results for the year ended 31 March 2006 Group revenue increased by 3.9% on a reported basis and by 2.1% at constant currency, with both EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing outperforming the global recorded music industry.
This strong performance reflects creative excellence across both divisions and, in particular, the ability to successfully develop new artists.
Group digital revenue more than doubled in the year, increasing by 65.2m to 112.1m.
Group operating margin increased by almost a full percentage point to 12.0% from 11.2%.
This improvement was driven by higher revenues, a greater proportion of revenues from digital, and the delivery of previously announced cost savings.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 12.9% to 159.3m from 141.1m.
Underlying diluted earnings per share increased by 19.8% to 15.7p from 13.1p.
The full-year dividend is maintained at 8.0p per share.
Financial summary Year ended Year ended 31 March 2006 31 March 2005 m m Revenue 2,079.9 2,001.2 EBITDA i 275.8 250.2 Underlying Group profit from operations EBITA ii 250.5 225.1 Underlying PBT iii 159.3 141.1 Total profit before taxation 118.1 98.8 Underlying diluted earnings per share iv 15.7p 13.1p Basic earnings per share 10.9p 9.6p Dividend per share 8.0p 8.0p Return on sales v 12.0% 11.2% Interest cover vi 3.0x 2.9x i EBITDA is Group profit from operations before depreciation and operating exceptional items and amortisation.
ii Underlying Group profit from operations EBITA is before operating exceptional items and amortisation.
iii Underlying profit before taxation PBT is before exceptional items and amortisation.
iv Underlying diluted earnings per share is before exceptional items and amortisation.
v Return on sales is defined as Group profit from operations before operating exceptional items and amortisation as a percentage of Group revenue.
vi Interest cover is defined as the number of times EBITDA is greater than Group net finance charges.
Exceptional items include operating exceptional items and finance exceptional items.
Operating exceptional items include impairment of goodwill and music copyrights and intangibles, gains losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment and remeasurement of listed investments.
Finance exceptional items include remeasurement of financial assets and liabilities to be included within finance charges and exceptional refinancing costs.
Key performance indicators 2006 2005 The Board and management of EMI use a number Group i of key performance indicators to assess the on-going Earnings per share diluted, underlying EPS 15.7p 13.1p ii Operating free cash conversion 93.8% 112.5% performance of the business, of which the principal ones EMI Music are disclosed in the table on the right.
We believe it is iii EMI Music market share 13.1% 12.9% important to look at performance on both a Group and iv EMI Music operating margin 8.7% 7.8% divisional basis.
Given the changing nature of the industry EMI Music Publishing v in which we operate, we believe it is most instructive to EMI Music Publishing revenue growth 2.6% 4.9% vi EMI Music Publishing operating margin 25.1% 24.9% assess EMIs performance relative to the overall industry performance where possible.
At this early stage of the digital markets development, we believe that there is no single measure on which one can assess the Groups digital business performance.
10 Notes i Earnings per share diluted, underlying EPS Definition: Underlying Earnings m Diluted Shares m. Calculation: Underlying Earnings is profit from continuing operations after taxation, adjusted for exceptional items, amortisation, finance exceptional items, minority interests and convertible bond interest.
Diluted Shares is the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue, adjusted for dilutive share options and convertible bond options.
Purpose: To assess the progression of underlying profit generation within the Group.
Source: Internal Company data and audited Financial statements.
ii Operating free cash conversion Definition: Operating Free Cashflow m Underlying EBITA m. Calculation: Operating Free Cashflow is calculated by taking underlying Group Profit from operations EBITA, adding back depreciation and other non-cash movements and deducting net capital expenditure and net working capital movements.
This is divided by underlying Group EBITA to reach a cash conversion percentage.
Purpose: To assess the ability of the Group to convert operating profits into cash.
iii EMI Music market share Definition: EMI Music global market share %.
Calculation:EMI Music revenue divided by recorded music industry sales.
Purpose: To assess how EMI Music is performing in its particular market.
Source: EMI internal estimates based on official data received from the global recording industry association, the IFPI.
Official IFPI data is used as it is the most reliable independently calculated estimate.
EMI measures its revenues for market share purposes following the guidelines used by the IFPI to measure the recorded music market in order to ensure comparability.
iv EMI Music operating margin EBITA % margin Definition: EMI Music EBITA after corporate costs m EMI Music revenue m. Calculation:EMI Music EBITA is stated after the deduction of Group central costs allocated on a share of revenue basis but before exceptional items and amortisation.
This is then divided by EMI Music revenue to obtain an operating margin percentage.
Purpose: To assess the progression of underlying profitability within EMI Music.
v EMI Music Publishing revenue growth Definition: Constant currency revenue growth %.
Calculation: Revenue growth is presented at constant currency.
The effect of currency fluctuations is eliminated by translating local currency data into Sterling at the same rate in both years.
Purpose: To assess EMI Music Publishing revenue progression, in the absence of third-party market share data.
vi EMI Music Publishing operating margin EBITA % margin Definition: EMI Music Publishing EBITA after corporate costs m EMI Music Publishing revenue m. Calculation:EMI Music Publishing EBITA is stated after the deduction of Group central costs allocated on a share of revenue basis but before exceptional items and amortisation.
This is then divided by EMI Music Publishing revenue to obtain an operating margin percentage.
Purpose: To assess the progression of underlying profitability within EMI Music Publishing.
Performance review for the year ended In this past year alone, we have seen the first legal peer 31 March 2006 to peer agreement signed, iTunes expand to over 20 Recorded music industry countries, the launch of portable subscription services, Our two divisions continue to operate in a marketplace such as Napster To Go and Yahoo Music Unlimited, that is undergoing significant change, primarily driven and the introduction of a la carte music video services.
by the rapid development of digital music.
The industrys Consumers are now able to access up to 2m tracks digital sales more than doubled in value over the year, and 165,000 albums in a legitimate digital environment.
with both mobile and fixed line platforms enjoying rapid growth.
This strong digital growth significantly mitigated The industry has also continued to make progress in the 5.3% decline in physical sales, resulting in an overall combating both physical and digital piracy.
Notable legal industry decline of 0.9% for the period.
victories against illegal peer to peer sites Grokster US, KaZaa Australia, Kuro Taiwan and Soribada South The digital environment is proving to be extremely dynamic Korea have improved the business landscape for with new entrants, new services and new devices and legitimate music sales.
functionality appearing all the time.
Globally, according to IFPI statistics for 2005, there were 335 legal digital music services, up from 50 just two years previously.
11 Operating and Financial Review continued Robbie Williams 12 EMI Music EMI Musics strong performance for the year demonstrates EMI Music digital revenue by type 2005 2006 % both its creative excellence as well as its position at the forefront of the rapidly evolving digital landscape.
The divisions revenues increased by 1.9% at constant currency, significantly outperforming the global recorded music Fixed line 52.5 industry.
Within this EMI Musics digital revenues grew Subscription to 92.4m, increasing by 169% at constant currency.
8.2 Mobile Operating profit EBITA grew by 15.6% to 145.1m, 39.3 resulting in a substantial improvement in the operating margin to 8.7%.
This improved profitability was driven by the flow through of profits from the growth in revenues, an increased proportion of revenues from digital sales and delivery of the remaining 15m of cost savings announced in March 2004.
EMI Musics distinctive approach to the development of its roster focuses on making consistent investments in artists with long-term career potential and is designed to maximise both local and global sales.
This has shown clear results in the year, with the divisions sales coming from a broad range of artists including releases from EMI market share by region established superstars Coldplay, Gorillaz, the Rolling Value % Stones, Keith Urban and Robbie Williams, breaking acts Corinne Bailey Rae, Dem Franchize Boyz and KT Tunstall, and local artists RBD EMI Mexico, Radja EMI Indonesia and Raphael EMI France.
North UK & Continental Japan South Australasia Latin Global America Ireland Europe East Asia America 25 EMI Music is focused on creating the most attractive music 20.1 19.7 19.4 19.0 content for consumers and making it available where they 20 18.2 17.0 16.4 want it, when they want it and in the format they want it.
In 15.2 15 13.1 12.9 12.9 this way, we aim to maximise demand for our artists works 11.1 10.3 9.5 9.3 and, importantly, our financial return.
The creation of new 10 7.7 products, formats, distribution channels and partnerships is 5 now a routine part of our business and our energies are focused on harnessing these new possibilities to capture all 0 04 05 available revenue streams.
Over the year we secured over 05 06 220 new partnerships, further strengthening our digital Note: EMI Music market share based on combined physical and digital sales footprint across both online and mobile platforms, bringing our total digital partnerships to almost 400 and making our music now available in 56 countries.
EMI Music has EMI Music geographic review reached pioneering digital deals around the world, for North America example, in Europe with GNAB for peer to peer services, During the year, the North American market declined in China with Sohu for digital music and in the US with by 1.5%, with strong growth in digital sales substantially Sprint for over the air mobile downloads.
offsetting declines in physical sales.
In addition to establishing the right relationships on the right Against this backdrop, our North American business terms, we are at the forefront of the industry in exploiting the showed strong sales growth, gaining significant market new product, format and windowing possibilities that digital share.
Releases from Keith Urban, Dierks Bentley, enables.
For example, our innovative approach to content Trace Adkins, and Korn, in combination with the effective bundling and windowing meant that Coldplays X&Ywas marketing and promotion of international releases from the first-ever album available on iTunes as a pre-order and Coldplay, Gorillaz and the Rolling Stones, drove this US downloads included video interviews, a digital booklet performance.
Virgins Dem Franchize Boyz was established and two bonus tracks.
In fact, X&Y went on to become the as one of the most exciting new urban bands in the US, best-selling full digital album download on iTunes, as well as with the release of their debut album On Top of Our the highest-selling album, worldwide, in 2005.
So far, sales of ring tunes of tracks from this album gives just a flavour of the way that EMI Music is actively have topped 2m, fuelling purchases of the album itself exploiting the new opportunities that digital brings.
which has been certified as a gold release in the US.
13 Operating and Financial Review continued EMI Musics digital sales in North America almost tripled Our digital sales in the UK grew by 170% over the year over the year.
Our revenues from mobile products grew with fixed-line downloads tripling over the period.
at the fastest rate, increasing by a factor of nine times, In exploring the new opportunities which digital delivery as the likes of Verizon and Sprint launched new mobile brings for capturing new revenue streams, EMI Music music services.
Online downloads continued to represent will participate in a unique 18-month partnership the largest digital segment, accounting for almost 70% of between T-Mobile and Robbie Williams.
T-Mobile was our digital sales in the region.
The proliferation of new digital able to offer their consumers exclusive content as well products and services continues at a fast pace with, for as making certain content available to them earlier than example, iTunes introducing online music video downloads its general release.
For EMI, the partnership proved during the year.
EMI Music has consistently been an to be an effective and innovative platform from which innovator of new products and services, most recently to launch the album.
becoming the first major music company to trial advertiserfunded music video content for consumers mobiles.
Continental Europe Market conditions in Continental Europe were mixed We continue to focus on further strengthening our US over the year, with total industry sales declining by 3.7%.
business and during the year appointed Jason Flom Trends varied across the region, with France, Spain and as Chairman and CEO of Virgin Records.
Jason has 26 Italy showing an improving environment versus the prior years of experience in the music industry and, as founder year.
The of Lava Records, he discovered, signed and developed industrys digital sales virtually tripled in value over the year.
multi platinum selling artists such as Kid Rock, matchbox twenty and The Corrs.
With his exceptional A&R and EMI Music had another highly successful year, gaining business leadership skills, we believe that Jason is well significant market share across the region with particularly placed to improve further upon Virgins performance strong performances from EMI Music France, Spain and to date.
These share gains came from a broad range of established and new artists including Raphael, UK & Ireland Souchon, Diams, Camille, Wir Sind Helden, Bebe and In the UK market, physical sales declined by an estimated Amaral, in combination with effective marketing and 4.9%, with digital sales increasing by 170% to give a total promotion of our international repertoire.
industry decline of 3.0% over the financial year.
Weakness in compilation sales, particularly over the key Christmas We have seen enormous growth in our digital revenues period, accounted for the decline in industry sales.
in Continental Europe during the year, with sales increasing by 245%.
Mobile revenues represent a larger portion of The strength and depth of our UK artist roster was again digital sales in Continental Europe compared to the US demonstrated this year, with our business delivering an and the UK but fixed-line sales still account for the majority increase in revenues and gaining significant market share of digital sales in Europe.
We are at the forefront of digital in the UK and Ireland.
New album releases from development in the region and continue to be innovative international superstars delivered strong performances.
in the digital products, formats and services that we Coldplays X&Y sold almost 10m units across both create.
For example, for the launch of Placebos album physical and digital formats and was the biggest-selling Meds, we partnered with SFR to offer consumers a series album across the global industry in 2005.
Albums from of mobisodes along with standard product offerings Gorillaz and Robbie Williams sold in excess of 5m units such as ring tunes and over the air tracks.
A number of new UK artists also broke was specifically designed for use on a mobile and the through to success during the year, including KT Tunstall, content was targeted to the profile of a Placebo fan.
The Corinne Bailey Rae and The Magic Numbers.
KT campaign generated huge interest and Meds entered Tunstalls debut album Eye to the Telescope met with the French album chart at number 1.
The album has sold critical and commercial success, earning her the title almost 1m units worldwide since its March release.
of Best British Female Solo Artist at the industrys Brit Awards and selling 2.6m units during the financial year Japan alone.
Corinne Bailey Raes self-titled debut album was The Japanese market recovered during the financial year released in February and entered the UK album chart and, taking physical and digital together, grew by an at number 1. estimated 6%.
14 While we saw success from artists such as Tokyo Jihen, Latin America Noriyuki Makihara, Tomoyasu Hotei, Coldplay and the The industrys sales in Latin America enjoyed good growth, Rolling Stones, our Japanese business lost market share rising by 6.1% over the year.
Argentina and Colombia saw in the year reflecting a lack of local releases.
In April 2006, the strongest growth rates across the region.
we announced a major restructuring of this business to improve the efficiency of our operations, to reinvest a Our Latin American business had a very strong year, proportion of these savings in the key areas of A&R showing robust revenue and profit growth.
EMI gained and marketing, and to introduce a new multi-label market share in every Latin American territory, with the organisational structure.
We believe that these initiatives largest out-performance in Brazil.
Local superstars RBD will create a company which is better positioned to had a terrific year, with total sales of over 3m units across increase revenues and profits in the coming years.
Releases from local artists Marissa In conjunction with this restructuring, we recently Monte, Quintanilla III, Intocable and Thalia, as well as announced our plans to enter into a sale and leaseback releases from international artists Coldplay and Robbie of our two Tokyo freehold properties, with a substantial Williams, drove sales in the region.
In July 2005, we cash inflow expected from the transaction.
We sold our announced a major new joint venture with Grupo T elevisa former manufacturing plant in Japan to a consortium led S. A. the largest media company in the Spanish-speaking by Memory-Tech Corporation on 26 December 2005. world, to develop and exploit new Latin music both in Latin America and the US.
EMI Musics digital sales showed strong growth, rising by 130%.
Mobile products continue to be the most EMI Classics popular platform in Japan and have again shown robust EMI Classics had a strong year and grew its global share growth, almost doubling in value.
Augusts launch of with particular successes in Continental Europe and iTunes has helped to fuel growth in the online sector and Japan.
Notable achievements were the success in we have been extremely active in promoting our content Japan and many other countries of Best Classics 100, on this platform, with our online digital sales increasing and the release of Mozarts 100 which reached a number by a factor of over six times during the year.
5 position in the French pop chart.
Such recordings illustrate the considerable value of EMIs extensive South East Asia classical catalogue.
The major markets in South East Asia experienced a significant decline in physical sales as physical and One of EMI Classics most important releases during digital piracy continued to take their toll.
Rapid digital the year was the critically acclaimed studio recording of revenue growth across the industry partly mitigated this Wagners Tristan and Isolde with Placido Domingo and impact, to bring the overall market decline to 3.7%.
Nina Stemme, the distinguished Swedish soprano who has recently signed to the label.
Despite major releases from Indonesias Radja, whose album Langkah Baru sold over 1m units in the financial Virgin Classics also had a good year producing some year, as well as releases from S. H. E. Ada Band and The excellent new recordings, particularly with the world Flowers, EMI Music lost market share across the region.
renowned coloratura soprano, Nathalie Dessay, and We saw strong growth in digital revenues across all the young Mexican tenor, Rolando Villazon.
platforms, with mobile comprising the largest portion Note: All industry and share data are EMI internal estimates based on of our digital sales.
official data received from the global recording industry association, the IFPI.
EMI measures its revenues for market share purposes following the Australasia guidelines used by the IFPI to ensure comparability with the market data.
Market conditions in Australasia worsened towards the end of the financial year, with an overall industry decline of 6%.
EMI Music gained market share versus the prior period, driven by releases from local superstar Missy Higgins as well as international releases from Coldplay, Korn and Ben Harper.
15 Operating and Financial Review continued EMI Music Publishing Growth in digital revenues in music publishing continues EMI Music Publishing delivered another strong to lag the recorded music industry, reflecting an underperformance for the financial year ended 31 March 2006. developed infrastructure for the tracking and collection Reported revenues were 419.6m, an increase of 2.6% of digital royalties and a lack of agreements on digital at constant currency.
This reflects strength across the royalty rates for certain products in some regions.
EMI business, with almost all regions and revenue types Music Publishing is at the forefront of the industrys effort delivering underlying revenue growth.
Of particular to ensure that the right structures and rates are in place note, mechanical revenues grew by 3.2% at constant to identify and collect fully all past and future digital currency, the first growth in this revenue type for four revenues.
In a ground-breaking move, EMI Music years.
Operating profit increased by 5.8m to 105.4m Publishing signed a heads of agreement in January 2006 with operating margin improving to 25.1%.
These that represents the first steps towards a pan-European results reflect a continuation of EMI Music Publishings one-stop shop for the licensing of online rights.
EMI will successful and proven strategy of signing the best work with the UKs MCPS-PRS Alliance and Germanys songwriting talent in the industry and maximising all GEMA to license the rights of EMIs English language potential revenue opportunities, both existing and new.
songs across Europe for online and mobile usage.
A broad range of songs, songwriters and products underpinned this performance, reflecting the quality and depth of the catalogue and the innovative ways in which we are monetising it.
Notable successes during the period included songs by Arctic Monkeys, Black Eyed Peas, Natasha Bedingfield, James Blunt, Kelly Clarkson, Daddy Yankee, Jermaine Dupri, Eminem, Enya, Gorillaz, Jay-Z, Alicia Keys, Daniel Powter, Eros Ramazzotti, Kanye West and Pharrell Williams.
Digital revenues continued to grow strongly, increasing by 46% at constant currency on the prior year, to 19.7m.
Revenues from digital music are currently classified amongst the various revenue categories mechanical, performance, synchronisation and other uses based on the varying status of income collection for these new uses in different countries.
James Blunt 16 The use of songs in mobile phone products remains the Synchronisation revenue most significant early digital revenue contributor for EMI Synchronisation revenue, which is generated by the use Music Publishing and continues to enjoy very strong of songs in audiovisual works such as advertisements, growth.
For the revenue from mobile products, we have television programmes, films, computer games and in seen the percentage contribution from ring tunes mobile phones, increased by 5.4% at constant currency, increase significantly during the year whilst the representing more than eleven years of consecutive contribution from ring tones has decreased, a trend we growth and now contributes 17% to divisional revenues.
would expect to see as the marketplace becomes more From the high level achieved in 2004 05, EMI Music developed.
Revenues from digital downloads and other Publishing was able to drive meaningful growth in newer products, such as video downloads, have also synchronisation by gaining greater penetration in grown strongly yet remain relatively small.
Recently, commercials and video, particularly in the US.
Significant EMI Music Publishing announced an agreement with licences were issued worldwide for a number of major the global internet communications company Skype.
advertising campaigns, including Coca Cola, the Automobile The deal, which was the first of its kind, opens up an Association, Fuji, Fiat and American Express as well as important new channel for the delivery of music in the for TV programmes such as American Idol, Supernanny, ever-expanding digital arena.
It enables the licensing Gilmore Girls, Nip Tuck, Crossing Jordan, Scrubsand Lost.
of song copyrights from our catalogue for downloading, subscription and ring tunes across Skypes online retail Other revenue store on a worldwide basis.
Other revenue typically represents about 10% of revenues, although the absolute amount can vary Mechanical revenue significantly from year to year.
An important driver of the Our mechanical revenues, which are derived from the growth in other revenue in recent years has been revenue sale of recorded music, reported growth for the first time gained from stepped up efforts in enforcing proper use in four years, increasing by 3.2% at constant currency of our copyrights.
By their nature, these revenues tend to despite the global recorded music market continuing be irregular and unpredictable, accounting for the overall to show year-on-year declines during the same period.
decline on a constant currency basis in this revenue Mechanical revenues now represent 45% of total category.
Excluding these items, the underlying growth divisional sales on a constant currency basis.
On a in other revenue was strong at over 20%, largely driven regional basis, our mechanical revenues were particularly by increased background library income.
strong in the US, reflecting income tracking initiatives that have been taken to ensure collections are maximised.
EMI Music Publishing revenue mix % Performance revenue Performance revenues, earned when a song is performed live on stage, played in a bar or other public Mechanical venue or broadcast on the radio or television, grew 45.1 by 3.4% at constant currency for the year and now Other 10.5 represent 27% of divisional revenues on a constant Synchronisation currency basis.
Key drivers of growth in this business 17.2 are the chart success of songs from our roster of active songwriters and the proliferation of new media channels, especially across Europe.
On a regional basis, performance income was particularly strong in the UK, reflecting the faster flow of royalties from the PRS, in the US, with a general increase in income from ASCAP and BMI, in Spain, where we saw favourable TV income, and in Performance 27.2 Germany, where a new tariff and income type for discos was introduced.
17 Operating and Financial Review continued KT Tunstall 6.
Financial review for the year ended 31 March 2006 Revenue Reported Group revenue increased by 3.9% or 78.7m to 2,079.9m.
The improvement, excluding the impact of currency movements, was 2.1% or 41.5m.
The favourable exchange movement was largely driven by a decline in the weighted average rate of the US Dollar against Sterling from $1.85 last year to $1.78 in 2005 06.
At constant currency, revenue in EMI Music grew by 1.9%, with notable increases in North America, UK and Ireland and Latin America.
At constant currency, revenue in EMI Music Publishing was up on the prior year in all major territories, apart from Italy and France, and by 2.6% at a divisional level.
The increase in revenue was driven by strong growth in mechanical, performance and synchronisation revenues.
Group digital revenue increased to 112.1m, up 135% from the prior year at constant currency.
Digital revenue represented 5.4% of total Group revenue for the year.
Costs During the course of the year, costs in both divisions were tightly controlled.
The underlying gross margin, after distribution costs, improved from 36.4% to 37.2%.
Royalty and copyright costs, manufacturing and distribution costs, together with marketing and promotion costs have increased modestly in total in absolute terms in the year, reflecting the increase in revenue.
However, these costs in aggregate have declined as a percentage of total revenue from the prior year.
During the year, we delivered the remaining 15m of cost savings from our restructuring initiatives announced in March 2004, taking the total annualised savings from this programme to 50m.
These savings were largely reflected in reduced manufacturing and distribution costs and overheads.
Group corporate costs were lower in comparison to the prior year in spite of increased legal, regulatory and consultancy costs.
Profit from operations i Group profit from operations EBITA increased by 25.4m or 11.3% from 225.1m to 250.5m.
Excluding exchange, the increase in EBITA was 21.6m or 9.6%.
Group operating margin increased from 11.2% to 12.0%.
EMI Music delivered EBITA of 145.1m, an improvement of 18.1m or 14.4% at constant currency on the prior year.
This increase in EBITA was largely driven by particularly good performances in Continental Europe, UK and Ireland, and Latin America.
Operating margin improved from 7.8% to 8.7%.
EMI Music Publishing generated EBITA of 105.4m, a growth of 3.5% at constant currency on the prior year.
Operating margin improved from 24.9% to 25.1%, reflecting improved net publishers share and continued strong overhead control.
18 Group turnover by origin The Groups share of profit in its associated company % investments reduced from 1.1m in 2004 05 to 1.0m in 2005 06.
Consequently, the underlying profit from operations for the Group increased from 226.2m United Kingdom 16.7 in the prior year to 251.5m this year.
ROW 5.5 Underlying Group finance charges rose by 7.1m to Asia Pacific 92.2m.
The largest items contributing to this increase 16.3 were the interest rate rises in both Europe and the US, two of our major funding territories, a lower gain from the amortisation of the 2003 swap unwind and higher average net borrowings over the year, offset only partly by savings Rest of Europe from the refinancing of our revolving credit facility 30.3 completed earlier in the year.
North America 31.2 Underlying profit before tax increased by 12.9% from 141.1m to 159.3m, reflecting both the increase in revenue and the continued tight cost control.
The underlying Group tax rate was 17.6% against 22.3% in the prior year.
The reduced rate reflected a movement in profitability towards countries where there were broughtforward tax losses available for offset.
The rate has been Group operating profit division % further reduced due to the settlement of prior liabilities at a lower amount than expected.
Recorded music As a result of the above, the Groups underlying profit after 57.9 taxation increased from 109.6m to 131.2m, an increase Music publishing 42.1 of 19.7%.
ii Underlying basic earnings per share were 16.2p, an increase of 2.8p from the prior year.
Underlying diluted earnings per share, the calculation of which includes the impact of the potential conversion of convertible bonds and related bond interest together with the possible exercise of dilutive share options, increased from 13.1p to 15.7p.
Notes: i Group profit from operations EBITA is before exceptional items and amortisation and before share of profit in associates.
ii Before exceptional items and amortisation.
Group turnover by business division Group operating profit by origin % % Recorded music United Kingdom 79.8 22.3 Music publishing ROW 20.2 5.7 Asia Pacific 7.7 North America 28.2 Rest of Europe 36.1 19 Operating and Financial Review continued Other items affecting earnings Cash flow and net borrowings Exceptional items and amortisation comprise operating Improvement in cash conversion and overall cash exceptional costs, finance exceptional costs and management remains a key area of focus for the Group.
amortisation of music copyrights and intangibles.
The net cash inflow from operating activities was 188.3m, a small reduction from last years inflow of 189.0m.
The Group is reporting operating exceptional income of 4.0m compared with costs of 17.5m in the prior year.
After the net cash inflow from operating activities, Operating exceptional income is net of property impairment we had cash outflows of 2.6m for investment activity charges of 1.1m in the UK in 2005 06 2004 05: 18.5m and 246.9m for financing activity including 61.2m for charge in Japan.
The remaining operating exceptional dividends.
Taking into account the loss on exchange income of 5.1m includes gains on property disposals, of foreign currency denominated borrowings of 42.8m, the gain on disposal of our manufacturing operation in year-end net debt has increased by 22.0m from Japan and fair value adjustments to listed investments.
The prior-year charge included income of 1.0m in respect of the same components.
The net cash inflow from operations after investing activities has approximated the operating result of both The Group is reporting finance exceptional net income divisions in recent years.
relating to remeasurements and refinancing costs of 4.7m compared to net income of 23.2m last year.
Funding and liquidity This primarily relates to the gain on revaluation to fair At 31 March 2006, the equity of the Group was 558.5m value of the convertible bond derivative of 4.1m 2005: 557.9m.
Equity comprises the aggregate of the 2004 05: 31.2m gain, the gain on revaluation of the fully paid Ordinary Shares of 14p and the share premium Eurobond embedded call feature of 8.2m 2004 05 0.2m account.
Further details of the equity are provided in loss and the foreign exchange loss on Euro borrowings Note 27 of the Financial statements.
The finance exceptional net income for 2005 06 includes exceptional refinancing With total net debt of 879.5m at 31 March 2006 costs of 5.2m in connection with the refinancing 2005: 857.5m, the ratio of debt to equity was 157.5% programme carried out in July 2005 2004 05: nil.
Amortisation of music copyrights and other intangibles Our cash requirements in excess of cash generated and impairment of goodwill amounted to 49.9m in by operations are largely funded by borrowings under comparison with 48.0m last year.
arrangements with commercial banks and debt raised in the capital markets.
The minority interest cost has increased from a credit of 0.5m in the previous year to a charge of 3.9m this year.
Current funding arrangements include: This is largely the consequence of increased profitability US$500m 8.375% Guaranteed Notes due and the absence of a property impairment charge in our August 2009: EMI Music business in Japan in which there is a 45% 325m 8.25% stepped up to 9.75% Sterling Bonds minority.
due May 2008: 425m 8.625% Senior Notes due October 2013: Profit attributable to members of the Company was 86.1m US$243.3m 5.25% Guaranteed Convertible Bonds, in comparison with an attributable profit last year of 75.4m.
due 2010 unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled: and, The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per a five-year 450m bank facility arranged in July 2005. share, maintaining a full-year dividend of 8.0p per share and reflecting our strong performance for the year and We seek to have sufficient facilities available to meet the our continued confidence in the outlook for the business.
anticipated needs of the Group for the period covered by the Groups budget and Medium-Term Plan.
Facility Reported results levels in 2005 06 averaged 1.5bn.
The 450m revolving Total Group profit from operations including share of credit facility enables us to manage the seasonal associates was 205.6m in comparison with 160.7m requirements of the business when borrowings are likely last year.
This increase was entirely due to improved to peak.
Net borrowing peaked at 1,305.6m at the end trading and reduced property impairment charges.
Total profit before taxation was 118.1m as against If appropriate, debt is refinanced prior to maturity.
This increase reflected the may be to take advantage of improved terms in financial improvement in Group profit from operations, partly markets or to match a change in revenue streams offset by the reduction in finance exceptional net income.
20 On 21 July 2005, the Group signed a new five-year After taking into account the above instruments, 58.6% 450m credit facility with a group of banks, allowing 2005: 55.0% of the Groups gross debt is at floating EMI to take advantage of more favourable terms in the interest rates and is, therefore, exposed to the risk of marketplace.
The five-year facility replaced a revolving increased interest rates.
Floating rate debt arises largely credit facility 250m, a 364-day facility 100m and a from the two swap instruments mentioned above.
In addition, two bilateral The effect of a 1% increase in interest rates for all of facilities 40m were not renewed.
More information the Groups floating rate debt would result in an annual is given in Note 19 of the Financial statements.
With increase of approximately 6.9m in the Groups net this exception, the Groups funding sources have not finance charge excluding post retirement benefit changed during the year, following the major restructuring finance costs.
Further detail of interest rate instruments is provided The average term of the net debt at 31 March 2006 was in Note 15 of the Financial statements.
5.4 years against 6.7 years as at the last year end.
Foreign currency risk management Treasury policy The Group faces currency exposure from exchange rate Treasury activity is carried out under a framework of fluctuations against Sterling.
Balance sheet exposures policies and guidelines approved by the Board.
The Audit are hedged to the extent that overseas liabilities, including Committee reviewed and approved the policy framework borrowings, provide a natural hedge.
Group policy is during the year.
Control and authority is delegated to the neither to undertake additional balance sheet hedging Treasury Management Committee, chaired by the Group measures nor to hedge profit and loss account translation Chief Financial Officer.
Transaction exposures are hedged, where there are material items that have a high probability of The Groups Treasury activity is managed by a specialised occurring, with the use of forward exchange rate contracts.
team based at Group headquarters in London.
All debt negotiations and cash management initiatives are directed The Groups profit and cash flows are denominated in by this team.
Borrowings raised centrally are lent to operating many currencies across the world, the most significant subsidiaries on commercial terms.
Where appropriate, outside the UK being the US Dollar, the Euro and the cash pooling and sweeping systems are in place to make Japanese Yen.
The income statement is translated at use of surplus cash in local bank accounts and ensure weighted average exchange rates for the financial year.
maximum efficiency in the use of cash resources across In the year ended 31 March 2006, the rates were the Group.
Financial instruments held by the Group comprise derivatives, borrowings, cash and liquid resources and Our debt is structured to match revenue streams in local other financial assets and liabilities, their purpose being currency, thereby providing natural currency hedges.
to raise finance for the Groups operations.
Treasury Our main committed banking facilities are provided in policies prohibit their use for speculative purposes.
Interest rate risk management At 31 March 2006, the Groups gross debt was split The Group borrows in various currencies and uses 38.6% US Dollars 2005: 40.8%, 30.4% Sterling swaps, caps and collars to manage interest rate 2005: 29.2%, 30.2% Euro 2005: 29.3% and 0.8% exposure.
The Group policy is that a minimum of 25% other currencies 2005: 0.7%.
Further details of the of the Groups term borrowings should be at currency mix of the Groups gross debt are given in fixed capped rates.
Note 19 of the Financial statements.
At 31 March 2006, the following interest instruments Credit risk management were in place: Details of our credit risk management are provided A US$500m interest rate swap where EMI receives an in Note 15 of the Financial statements.
8.375% fixed rate and pays a floating rate of three - month LIBOR 4.65%, maturing in August 2009.
This is a fair value hedge of the US$500m 8.375% Guaranteed Notes, due August 2009.
A 425m interest rate swap where EMI receives an 8.625% fixed rate and pays a floating rate of three - month LIBOR 4.40%, maturing in October 2013.
This is a fair value hedge for the 425m 8.625% Senior Notes, due October 2013.
21 Operating and Financial Review continued Pensions In April 2006, we announced a series of restructuring The Group operates a number of pension schemes initiatives aimed at further strengthening our business.
The main scheme, which covers These initiatives will involve most regions and will be employees in the UK, is the EMI Group Pension Fund focused on improving and re-aligning resources to the UK Fund.
The UK Fund is of the defined benefit type, ensure the organisation remains flexible and progressive.
as are the Groups pension schemes in Germany and A particular area of focus is EMI Musics Japanese Japan.
With the exception of these schemes, the other business where new skills and a new organisational defined benefit schemes operated on behalf of the Group structure will be introduced to enable the re-allocation are not material in size.
Staff engaged in other countries of resources into the key areas of A&R and marketing are covered by local arrangements which are usually of whilst maintaining an aggressive approach to digital the defined contribution type.
These initiatives together are expected to generate 30m of annualised cost savings.
The UK Fund was closed to new entrants on 1 November We expect that not less than 10m of these savings will 2005.
At that date, there were 900 active members of the be achieved in the financial year ending in March 2007, Fund, together with approximately 22,000 pensioners with the full run rate achieved by the end of the following and deferred pensioners.
UK employees who wish to financial year.
In conjunction with these restructuring join a pension plan after that date, have the opportunity initiatives, EMI Music plans to enter into sale and to join a new stakeholder administered defined leaseback arrangements for its two Tokyo properties contribution plan.
and the Capitol Tower in the US.
The lease costs that will be incurred as a result of these agreements have already As a consequence of the triennial actuarial valuation of been taken into account in our planned delivery of a net the UK fund as at 31 March 2003, the Group resumed 30m of annualised cost savings.
annual contributions in respect of future service to the UK Fund with effect from 1 April 2004.
This resulted in a In the current financial year, EMI Music is planning cash outflow of approximately 9.0m in 2005 06.
These releases from Chingy, Tiziano Ferro, Janet Jackson, contributions will continue until the outcome of the next Norah Jones, Stacie Orrico, RBD, Renaud, Joss Stone, triennial valuation is known.
This valuation is as at KT Tunstall, Keith Urban, Hikaru Utada and Robbie 31 March 2006 but will not be finalised until the Williams.
EMI Music Publishing expects to benefit from second half of the 2006 07 financial year.
releases from artists including Audioslave, Kelly Clarkson, Diddy, Embrace, Janet Jackson, Jewel, Pink, Scissor Full reporting of the Groups pension fund costs and the Sisters, The Zutons, Tool, Usher, Kanye West and adequacy of funding of its major plans is given in Note 26 Pharrell Williams.
On 3 May 2006, we announced that on 1 May 2006 the 7.
Future outlook Group made an approach to Warner Music Group Corp The recorded music market is undergoing significant Warner Music in connection with a proposed offer by change as it becomes increasingly digitised.
At this early EMI to acquire all of the outstanding shares of Warner stage, it is impossible to predict accurately how the Music for US$28.50 per share, in a combination of cash market will evolve.
However, our analysis, based on recent and EMI shares.
Subsequently, Warner Music informed industry trends, EMIs performance to date and proprietary us that it did not wish to enter into discussions regarding econometric research, leads us to believe that the global our proposal.
We continue to believe that an acquisition recorded music industry will return to growth in due of Warner Music by EMI would be very attractive to both course driven by consumer demand for digital music sets of shareholders but we will only pursue a transaction products of all types.
In this context, we anticipate declining that delivers enhanced value and earnings accretion to physical sales and have structured our business accordingly.
Given the current growth rate of digital music and our future expectations based on this analysis, we continue to believe that digital music sales could represent up to 25% of total global music sales by 2010.
We will continue to invest significantly in A&R, marketing, and in our systems infrastructure so that we remain positioned at the forefront of the industry in capitalising on the exciting opportunities arising from the markets evolution.
Risks and uncertainties Our business is in transition Our business faces a number of risks and uncertainties.
We are positioning our business to capitalise on the The principal risks and uncertainties are discussed below.
opportunities and to meet the challenges presented by We believe that we have in place a robust process for the digital distribution of music content.
Legitimate digital identifying and managing these risks.
In 2003, we appointed product and service offerings are still in the early stages a full-time dedicated Group Risk Director who steers an of development and their ultimate impact on our business annual process of identifying risks to our business, assessing cannot be predicted with certainty.
These new business the severity of each of the risks identified and developing models may not develop in a way which generates and installing controls within the business to eliminate significant profits for our business or they may result or alleviate the risks where practicable.
The Group Chief in lower or less profitable sales for us than comparable Financial Officer chairs a Risk Management Steering physical sales.
It may also be difficult for us to obtain Committee which is drawn from executive management transparency of revenues generated by our digital partners.
in all sectors and disciplines within our business.
The There are many and varied structures for exploiting music findings and assessments of the Risk Management digitally and some of the value chain models can be opaque.
Steering Committee are brought to the attention of the The transition to new digital business models requires Boards Audit and Executive Committees for discussion significant investments in areas such as IT infrastructure and approval on an annual basis.
and management systems and also requires many new business relationships to be established and managed.
Declining recorded music sales The value of the worldwide market for recorded music Piracy has declined by about 20% since 2001 according to Organised commercial physical piracy, the existence of data from the IFPI the worldwide recording industry illegal internet file sharing networks and the ubiquity of association.
Economic recession, physical piracy, illegal technological devices which enable unauthorised downloading and growing competition for discretionary consumer copying of music content, all represent risks to consumer spending and retail shelf space have all our business.
The IFPI estimates that the physical market contributed to this decline.
Whilst we believe that new for pirated product was worth US$4.6bn in 2004.
Internet digital music products and services will drive a return technology has made it possible for computer users to to overall industry growth, there are no assurances of the share unauthorised digital versions of music recordings timing or the extent of any improvement in the industry.
without the permission of the copyright owners and A continuing decline in sales of physical products could, without paying royalties to holders of applicable if not offset by increasing digital revenues, result in intellectual property or other rights.
As a result, a large reduced revenues and profits in our recorded music portion of our content is potentially subject to widespread division.
Additionally, it may have a negative impact dissemination on the internet without an economic return on our music publishing business which generates to us.
We are working to control these problems by a significant portion of its revenues from mechanical lobbying governments, by supporting legitimate digital royalties, primarily from the sale of music in CD and distributors and through collective legal action by the other recorded music formats.
music industry against unauthorised uploaders of music files.
Successes in legal proceedings against illegal peer to peer websites, such as Grokster in the US and KaZaa in Australia, are beginning to reduce the availability of unauthorised free music downloads on the internet but online theft continues to be at high levels.
We remain dependent on the introduction of stronger copyright protection laws and more stringent enforcement of current laws.
Advances in technology mean that new ways to disseminate unauthorised copies of our music content continue to emerge and hence the challenge of combating piracy is on-going.
Our results from operations and our financial position may suffer if efforts to stem piracy are not effective or succeed only partially.
23 Operating and Financial Review continued Industry structure and competitive environment Management talent The industry in which we operate is highly competitive.
The success of our business depends upon the Competition amongst record labels for artists and amongst continuing contributions of our executive officers and music publishers for songwriters could result in higher other key operating personnel.
Although we plan for royalty payments or failure to attract and retain key talent.
management succession, should these officers or key The intense competition amongst record companies for employees not remain with us, our operations could shelf space and retailer promotion could result in lower be adversely affected until suitable replacements with prices and or higher marketing expenses.
Declining appropriate experience can be found.
prices for competing entertainment products such as DVDs and video games, as well as the emergence of totally new products, could result in reduced demand Geographic spread for music content.
Each of these issues could have We operate on a global basis, and are thus subject a negative impact on our revenues and profits from to a range of risks, such as currency fluctuation, capital operations.
repatriation, varied regulatory and tax regimes, tariffs, duties and other trade barriers, higher interest rates, Retail environment recessionary trends, political or financial instability, There has been a significant shift in the retail environment varying commercial trade terms and different legal for music.
In many countries, mass merchandisers have protection and enforcement of intellectual property been taking increased retail market share in physical rights.
The failure to comply with applicable laws, rules sales.
This has given them significantly greater negotiating and regulations in these jurisdictions may result in legal leverage and hence resulted in downward pressure proceedings.
Additionally, changes in government on our revenues and profits.
Specialist music retailers policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation in any of have been losing market share which has, in certain the markets in which we operate may adversely affect circumstances, resulted in a significant weakening of our results.
This could have an adverse impact on our business through factors such as reduced availability Legal and regulatory environment of our catalogue at physical retailers and increased bad Certain government bodies or agencies may instigate debts.
The retail landscape for digital music sales is in inquiries or investigations into companies operating the very early stages of development and it is difficult to within the music industry.
Such inquiries or investigations predict with certainty how this will evolve over time and may divert the time and resources of management and the impact that this will have on our business.
The market produce unfavourable results which may adversely affect for online music downloads is currently dominated in our revenues and profitability.
many countries, notably the US and UK, by Apple Computer, Inc. s iTunes service, although other digital retailers are emerging over time.
Management of artist and songwriter roster and release schedule We are dependent on identifying, signing and retaining talented artists and songwriters whose new releases are well received and whose music will continue to generate revenues as part of our catalogue for years to come.
Competition for such talent is intense and our financial results would be adversely affected if we fail to identify, sign and retain artists and songwriters under terms that are economically attractive to us.
In addition, the timing, existence or absence of superstar releases can have a material impact on our results.
24 Legislation could be enacted or interpreted which could Impact of external bodies affect our relationships with certain artists or could enable External bodies, such as government entities, industry some artists to recapture rights in certain recordings.
associations or local third-party collection societies, have In the US, there have been attempts in recent years to significant influence on some of our revenues.
The two modify or reinterpret existing legislation that would limit largest sources of income of EMI Music Publishing are the length of relationships that record companies can mechanical and performance royalties.
In the US, have with recording artists or that would enable recording mechanical royalty rates are subject to negotiation under artists to terminate licences or assignments of rights in the US Copyright Act and outside the US are typically their copyrighted works.
Whilst these legislative initiatives negotiated on an industry-wide basis.
Performance rates have not progressed, there can be no certainty that are usually set by performing rights societies in our major legislation will not be formulated which could negatively territories and may be subject to challenge by licensees affect our business.
These processes of setting mechanical and performance royalties may result in the Whilst the period of copyright protection has been setting of rates at levels lower than we would wish and increased for sound recordings in the US and for musical may, therefore, adversely affect our ability to increase works i. e. compositions in the US and in the European the profitability of our music publishing business.
Union, the period of protection for sound recordings in the European Union and many other countries outside For our recorded music business, mechanical royalties are the US remains at 50 years.
As a consequence, over time a significant expense, whilst revenues from the US satellite a portion of our catalogue within Europe will become out radio industry have been driven by a compulsory licence.
of copyright or in the public domain.
This will become Changes to the rates or the nature of compulsory licence increasingly significant over time as some of the major agreements or the speed of licensing and collection of evergreen recordings in our catalogue were recorded monies by these third parties could negatively affect our in the 1960s.
When recordings fall into the public domain, revenues, profitability and cash flows.
we no longer have the exclusive right to exploit them and third parties will have the ability to market and sell those Risk of supply interruption same sound recordings in direct competition with us and In certain major territories, particularly the US, Europe, without financial compensation to us or our artists.
We Japan and Australia, we source our physical product are actively lobbying governments and legislators to through one primary manufacturer.
Although the industry increase the period of copyright protection beyond for CD manufacture has excess supply, our physical product current levels, but there can be no certainty that such flow could be interrupted if one of our manufacturing partners efforts will succeed.
As a result, our ability to exploit our had difficulty meeting our requirements.
For digital products, back catalogue and, therefore, our results of operations we utilise a third party for some of the digitisation and and cash flows may be adversely affected in future years.
other supply chain elements used to provide digital retailers with our music.
If the digital supply chain partner had difficulty meeting our requirements, our dissemination of digital music could be hindered.
In some key territories, the distribution of our CDs and DVDs is handled by a sole distributor.
Whilst we have the ability to terminate these arrangements and switch supplier if the existing distributor fails to meet its obligations, this could lead to a temporary interruption in the supply of our physical product to our customers.
Fluctuation in results of operations and cash flows may affect our ability to service our indebtedness Our revenues and profits, like those of other companies in the music business, are driven by the number and quality of products that our recording artists and songwriters release and the consumer demand for these releases.
We also make non-returnable advance payments to artists and songwriters that impact on our operating cash flows.
The timing of releases, associated marketing expenditures and advance payments are largely based on business considerations and other reasons rather than the timing of financial reporting periods.
As a result, there may be significant fluctuations from reporting period to reporting period.
25 Operating and Financial Review continued A substantial fluctuation or sustained period of lower than Keith Urban expected revenues or profit performance may constrain our ability to service the costs of our capital structure.
Our debt facilities of 1.5bn are sizeable and long term in nature, with an average maturity of 5.4 years.
The interest costs associated with our debt levels are considerable and portions of the debt will need to be repaid over time.
We have also distributed a significant dividend to our shareholders twice each year.
If our cash flows from operations are negatively affected by industry or business performance, we may have difficulty in meeting the costs of servicing our debt and in making dividend distributions to our equity holders.
We conduct some of our operations through joint ventures We currently have interests in a number of joint ventures and may, in the future, enter into further joint ventures as a means of conducting our business.
We cannot fully control the operations and the assets of our joint ventures, nor can we make major decisions with respect to our joint ventures unless our joint-venture partners agree.
Accordingly, although we may have the ability to veto decisions with respect to our joint ventures, we are not in a position to make unilateral decisions.
This may constrain the ability of our joint ventures to take action.
In addition, we structure certain of our relationships with artists and songwriters as joint ventures.
Pension fund valuations We maintain certain defined benefit plans around the world, the largest of which is our UK pension plan.
The asset values of our pension funds may rise or fall over time depending on a variety of factors, including in particular, increases or declines in share prices.
Pension funding requirements are dependent upon various factors, including interest rate levels, asset returns, regulatory requirements and changes to pension plan benefits.
Absent favourable changes to these factors, we may have to satisfy any under-funded amounts of our pension plans through cash contributions over time.
Currency exchange rate fluctuations The reporting currency for our Financial statements is Sterling.
We have substantial assets, liabilities, revenues and costs denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
To prepare our consolidated Financial statements we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into Sterling at applicable exchange rates.
Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of Sterling versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated Financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency.
These translations could, therefore, result in apparent significant changes to our results of operations from period to period.
Resources business is one of the largest in the world and our The Group has the following key resources which assist music publishing business is the worlds largest it in the pursuit of its key objectives: music publisher.
Our balanced portfolio of international businesses creates a more stable platform for us as A deep and diverse portfolio of music assets macroeconomic trends in one country are balanced generating strong results on a consistent basis and mitigated by trends in other parts of the world.
Our success in breaking new artists and promoting We have built an extensive bank of content in terms and sustaining the careers of our superstars ensures of international scope, breadth of musical styles and that we remain one of the leading music companies genre and quality.
This portfolio of music recordings in the world.
and musical compositions enjoys strong demand each year.
EMI Music has a catalogue of music Our management and employees recordings comprised of over 3m tracks including classics by The Beatles, the Rolling Stones, Pink We enjoy great depth of management expertise Floyd, Frank Sinatra, Queen and the Beach Boys, at both the corporate and the operating level.
as well as newer releases by artists including Robbie The managements of EMI Music and EMI Music Williams, Kylie Minogue, Coldplay, Gorillaz and Norah Publishing are widely regarded as among the best Jones.
These recordings continue to produce strong in the music business.
Alain Levy, CEO of EMI Music, cash flows with limited incremental marketing costs.
has more than 30 years experience in the industry.
EMI Music Publishing has the worlds largest and During this period, he built PolyGram now part of most extensive catalogue of musical compositions Universal Music Group into the industry leader in with over 1m copyrights owned, controlled or recorded music.
Alain joined EMI in October 2001. administered.
Both our historic and current catalogues Martin Bandier, CEO of EMI Music Publishing, also consistently generate high levels of uses and produce has more than 30 years experience in the music recurrent cash flows year after year.
Martin co-founded SBK Entertainment World Inc. in 1984, which now forms the core of our music Both EMI Music and EMI Music Publishing are publishing business.
Roger Faxon, previously the continuously adding content to our catalogues to Groups CFO, became co-CEO of EMI Music Publishing ensure they remain dynamic and growing resources.
Roger also has extensive experience both within EMI and the entertainment industry.
Long-term artist and songwriter agreements We are committed to maintaining superior Our contracts with our recording artists and songwriters management and creative executives at the regional generally give us the right to the creative output of and local level as well.
We focus on ensuring that we those recording artists and songwriters over several have highly capable leaders throughout the years.
As a result, when they are successful we organisation and use our talent identification and continue to share the future financial benefits of that performance review processes to develop and success and to recover our initial investment many expand upon our team of creative and businesstimes over.
We regularly enter into new contracts with minded professionals.
The strength of the EMI name our best artists and songwriters even when they have enables us continually to attract the best musical and fulfilled all of their contractual obligations to us.
For two years running, EMI Music 2002, Robbie Williams re-signed to EMI Records in UK was named as one of the 100 Best Companies to the UK in a ground-breaking multi-album, multi-rights Work For in an annual survey by The Sunday Times.
Our catalogue contains recordings by the Rolling More information on our employees is included on Stones first released over 30 years ago and the band page 32. continues to record for us today.
In addition to EMI Music Publishings exciting new writers, established Trade marks songwriters such as Sting, Enya and Cathy Dennis remain active creatively and enjoy success in terms Our trade marks and trade names are important to of both their back-catalogue and more recent releases.
We register our major trade marks and Equally important, our contracts provide us with trade names in each country where we believe it is flexibility such that if success does not occur or necessary for the effective protection of our business.
diminishes, we can end the great majority of our Our major trade marks that are owned worldwide contractual relationships with relatively minimal cost.
include EMI, Capitol, Blue Note, Hemisphere, Now, Now Thats What I Call Music!, Best Ever!, Established global position Parlophone and Angel.
The Virgin trade mark and the Virgin signature trade mark have been licensed EMI is one of the oldest, most established music in perpetuity exclusively to us by the Virgin Group for companies in the world.
We are a global business use worldwide in connection with the music business.
with a presence in more than 50 countries and with We monitor and defend against activities that might revenues spread across all geographic regions of infringe or dilute our trade marks and trade names.
Based on revenue, our recorded music 27 Operating and Financial Review continued 10.
Environmental matters education in the UK.
Other key partnerships include We recognise that our businesses have an impact on Londons Roundhouse, Teach First, Music House for the physical environment and we have identified our key Children and education work with the London Sinfonietta, issues as energy use and carbon management, other the California Institute of the Arts and Skidmores resource use, and waste management.
We have policies Summer Jazz Institute.
and reporting procedures in place to ensure that we measure these impacts and work to minimise them.
EMI is included in the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones In the UK, for example, close to 100% of our electricity Sustainability Index, both of which assess companies requirements are met through renewable energy sources.
social, environmental and ethical policies and During 2005 06, on a like-for-like basis, our worldwide performance.
energy use decreased by 5.7%: this was almost entirely due to the sale of our manufacturing plant in Japan at the More information on social and community issues can end of December.
Associated carbon dioxide emissions be found on pages 32 to 35 and in our annual social dropped 6.9% in absolute terms and 13% when related responsibility reports, which can be viewed at to revenue.
We are also subject to environmental laws and regulations 12.
Critical accounting policies and use of estimates in the countries in which we operate and believe that Our discussion and analysis of the Groups financial our existing businesses are compliant with all relevant position and results of operations are based upon our legislation.
In connection with former operations we have consolidated Financial statements, which have been been, and may become again, responsible for the costs prepared in accordance with International Financial of investigating or clearing up contaminated properties: Reporting Standards IFRS.
This is the first Annual to date, any such costs have not been material.
Report of the Group to be prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The transition More information on our performance in environmental date for the application of IFRS is 1 April 2004.
The management is included on page 35 and in our annual comparative figures for year ended 31 March 2005 have social responsibility reports, which can be viewed at been restated accordingly, except where the Group has www.
taken the option under IFRS 1 First-time adoption of IFRS as follows: 11.
Social and community issues EMIs responsibilities as a business also extend to the the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations communities in which it operates.
We are committed to have been applied prospectively from 1 April 2003: fair treatment of all our stakeholders artists, employees, certain properties were held at revalued amounts shareholders, customers, suppliers, governments and as at 31 March 2004.
On conversion, these revalued society at large.
We have a range of policies in place to amounts were frozen and deemed cost in the case support this, including a Standards of Business Conduct of these properties: policy for employees which underlines the importance all actuarial gains and losses in respect of defined of integrity, ethics, objectivity and accountability in our benefit pension and post-retirement schemes have dealings with others.
been recognised in full in equity from 1 April 2004: cumulative translation differences relating to net Any social and ethical issues that could cause risk to the investments in overseas companies that arose prior business are taken into account as part of the annual risk to 1 April 2004 have been set to zero and will not be review process see section 8.
While these issues are included in any subsequent calculation of profit or important, we do not think that they pose any loss on disposal: significant risk.
only those employee share options granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 1 January EMI has an active and on-going community investment 2005 have been remeasured at fair value: and programme.
Globally, the main causes we support are the Group has chosen to adopt IAS 32 Financial youth and education, arts and culture, and health and Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 welfare.
At Group level, we focus on promoting music Financial Instruments: Recognition and education and access to music.
This ensures that our Measurement from 1 April 2004. community investment activities are aligned with our core business: we believe it is also the way in which The preparation of the Financial statements requires our the business can best utilise its energy, creativity and management to make estimates and judgements that expertise to deliver long-term benefits to the community.
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues Our flagship initiative is the EMI Music Sound Foundation and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent which has, to date, awarded over 2.5m to boost music assets and liabilities.
28 On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, Kelly Clarkson including those related to sales returns, bad debts, intangible assets, income taxes, and contingencies and litigation.
Historical experience and various assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances form the basis for making judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Our significant accounting policies are detailed in full on pages 63 to 65 of the Financial statements.
The key policies are summarised in this section.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised after making provision in respect of expected future returns of goods and services supplied by the Group prior to the balance sheet date see below.
Licence income is recorded on an accruals basis where reliable estimates can be made of future receivables relating to income for the current financial year.
Where such reliable estimates cannot be made, income is only recorded once received.
Another area of judgement affecting reported revenue and net income is managements estimate of product sales that will be returned.
In determining the estimate of product sales that will be returned, management analyses historical return patterns, current economic trends, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products, as well as changes in our terms of trade.
Based on this information, management reserves a percentage of product sales that provide the customer with the right of return.
Accounting for jointly controlled operations The Group has a number of jointly controlled operations where there is no separate legal entity.
An example of such an arrangement is the Now albums which use content from a number of music companies.
The expenses that the Group incurs, and the share of the income that the Group earns from the sale of goods by these jointly controlled operations, are included in the Income statement.
Where EMI distributes the joint product, our share of the revenue and costs associated are reported line by line in the Income statement.
Where EMI does not distribute the product, the net profit attributable to EMI is reported within revenue.
The assets that the Group controls, and the liabilities that the Group incurs, in respect of these jointly controlled operations are included in the balance sheet.
29 Operating and Financial Review continued Accounting for advances to artists, writers and Accounting for pensions and other postrepertoire owners retirement benefits In the ordinary course of business, the Group pays The Group operates three major defined benefit pension advances, and other expenses recoupable from future schemes.
The cost of providing benefits under the royalties, to performing artists, songwriters, producers schemes is determined separately for each scheme and third-party repertoire owners.
One area of judgement using the projected unit actuarial valuation method.
affecting our Income statement is managements estimate of the recoverability of those advances on future royalties In reaching the valuations, actuaries must use judgement paid to artists, songwriters, producers and third-party about uncertain events including, but not limited to, repertoire owners.
discount rates, expected rate of return on plan assets, participation levels, salary increases and expected Advances are initially capitalised on our balance sheet healthcare cost trend rates.
to the extent that our management believes them to be recoverable.
This assessment of recoverability is based The actuarial valuations and the judgements therein upon the current and past popularity of the artists, the form the basis for: initial commercial acceptability of the product, the current the service cost charged against profit: and past popularity of the genre of music to which the the expected long-term returns on defined benefit product belongs, and projected revenue performance.
scheme assets and the interest on the defined benefit Based on this information, management expenses the obligation included as net finance charges in the portion of such advances that it believes is not recoverable.
income statement: Our policy is to provide at least 80% of the net account actuarial gains and losses charged or credited directly balance in those cases when an artist does not have to reserves through the statement of recognised a proven track record.
income and expense: and, actuarially calculated surpluses or deficits on the As revenue is generated by the product against which defined benefit schemes included within the an advance was made, we expense through cost of sales consolidated balance sheet.
the portion of the capitalised advance which has been recouped.
Management regularly reviews the recoverability All these amounts are sensitive to the assumptions made of capitalised advances and will make a provision to by the actuaries.
the extent that it no longer believes an advance to be recoverable.
Under IFRS, actuarial valuations of our principal defined benefit pension schemes for accounting purposes are required to be carried out every year.
The latest actuarial valuation for our UK pension plan for funding purposes has commenced and will be completed during 2006 07.
30 Intangible assets Measurement of financial derivatives Intangible assets include music copyrights and other Under IFRS, certain debt and related derivative instruments intangibles.
Intangible assets acquired separately are are remeasured to fair value, with the change in fair value capitalised at cost, whilst those acquired as part of a shown in the Income statement within finance charges or business acquisition are capitalised at fair value at the through reserves where the Standards allow.
The Group has debt and derivative instruments that require Following initial recognition, intangible assets with finite fair valuing at each balance sheet date.
The various lives are amortised on a systematic basis over their elements are: economic useful lives.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment if events or changes in circumstances the remeasurement of debt to market value offset indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Useful by the remeasurement of applicable interest rate lives are examined on an annual basis and adjustments, swaps to market value where hedge accounting can where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
be adopted : the remeasurement of the conversion option within Intangible assets created within the business that our US$243m convertible bond: cannot be distinguished from the cost of developing the remeasurement of the Eurobond embedded call the business as a whole are not capitalised.
Any relevant feature: and, expenditure is charged against profit from operations the remeasurement of foreign currency denominated in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
debt using exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Where the borrowing hedges a net investment, the Share-based payments change in fair value is booked to reserves.
The The share option programme allows certain Group change in fair value of any additional borrowing is employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair recognised through the Income statement.
value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The The remeasurement of these elements can give rise to expense is spread over the period during which the significant amounts within finance charges in the Income employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
Factors that affect the remeasurements include changes in interest rates, EMI credit spread, A binomial lattice model is used by actuaries to exchange rates and the EMI share price.
The above calculate the fair value of the share option at the grant adjustments have no cash impact.
In applying the model, actuaries must use judgement about uncertain events including, but not limited to, interest rates, the dividend yield, the volatility of the share price over the expected term of the option based on historic volatility up to the date of grant, staff turnover and the probability of early exercise of the options.
Judgement also exists in determining the point at which employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
These include the Groups best estimate of the number of awards that will ultimately vest and satisfaction of relevant performance criteria.
