World total consumer foodservice Operating and financial review Sales US$bn Our markets MARKET DRIVERS Around the world, consumer lifestyles are driving demand for food and beverages outside the home.
Increasing disposable income and consumer lifestyle changes have generated 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 cumulative growth in foodservice markets throughout the estimated forecasts 06-10 last 15 years, even during recessions.
These markets are Source: Euromonitor expected to continue to grow at the historic rate of approximately 5% per annum in the future.
In the past, Western Europe total consumer foodservice restaurant dining was considered a special event or treat.
Growth forecast % Today and continuing in the future, consumers in established and developing countries use the full range of foodservice 4.7 4.5 4.4 4.0 outlets as outsourcing of their home kitchen.
2.9 Supporting consumer demand, the number of foodservice 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.1 outlets continues to grow around the world, led by expansion of multi-unit operators in their domestic and global markets.
0.9 0.9 0.1 Simultaneously, the very definition of a foodservice 0.5 Spain Italy Other United France Europe operation is changing as consumer habits place new Western Kingdom demands on traditional operators.
The industry has moved Europe -1.9 beyond sit-down restaurants, counter self-service and drive Germany through windows in primary locations.
Increasingly, operators 05 06 06 07 Source: Euromonitor are extending their operations into non-traditional spaces and locations, creating alternate concepts, downsized locations, Chinas restaurant market grab-and-go kiosks, mobile merchandising and more.
Chinas restaurant market reached an estimated US$110bn in 2005 and is expected to maintain double digit growth to the The change in restaurant types is driving demand for new end of the decade menus and new types of equipment.
Accelerated cooking Full service technology, compact refrigeration at the point of service, 17% rethermalisation units and merchandising equipment are now among frequent purchases, along with more traditional primary cooking equipment, fryers, refrigeration, ice and Quick service clean-up equipment.
83% The Chinese market is made up of two key restaurant types Source: Technomic Asia Reason for equipment purchase 2006 estimate New store 18% Replace existing unit Store 56% refurbishment 26% Source: Botany Hill Management Inc. 16 Enodis plc Operating and financial review 1,335 1,390 1,446 1,508 1,579 1,671 1,775 1,864 1,958 2,063 2,169 2,278 MARKET GROWTH Estimated global food equipment sales $26.5bn 2006 forecast Global Foodservice Equipment Vending Foodservice equipment is a capital spend and market equipment statistics in North America suggest that sales growth is $3.2bn related to GDP with some time delay.
North America Foodservice Food $16.7bn retail The Technomic forecast for calendar 2007 is for market $6.6bn growth in North America between 4.25% and 4.75% in foodservice equipment.
Along with trends noted previously, energy cost and availability is emerging as a driver of equipment demand.
According to the National Restaurant Source: Botany Hill Management Inc. Association, more than half of operators report purchasing energy-efficient equipment over the past two years.
Estimated global foodservice equipment sales $16.7bn 2006 forecast Europe Other The UK and Continental European market for foodservice $0.7bn equipment is expected to increase by 2%3% in 2007, broadly in line with the food and beverage markets.
Asia-Pacific Helping to boost sales in the UK and Continental Europe $3.6bn will be strong demand for innovative types of catering North equipment, including those that offer energy-saving and America 8.2bn other environmentally friendly features.
Asia Europe $4.2bn Asia is a high potential region for Western-style food equipment.
Chinas restaurant market is expected to Source: Botany Hill Management Inc. maintain double digit growth up to the end of the decade.
Quick service restaurants are growing 20% per year as both Foodservice equipment manufacturers shipments North American market US$m local and foreign chains expand.
Of more than 3.5 million Excludes fabrication and sanitation segments restaurant locations in China, approximately 7,000 are chain outlets, with approximately 70% to 80% of those outlets owned indigenously.
Food Retail Equipment North America After several years of slow growth in grocery store sales, there has been a recovery to a growth rate of over 4% for the first three quarters of calendar 2006.
More and more, upscale retailers are enjoying estimated success as consumers look for more choices in ethnic, forecast Source: Botany Hill Management Inc. organic and fresh foods.
In addition, super-centres and retail clubs have continued to out pace the market as the venue Refrigerated display case unit shipments of choice for price focused consumers.
Beyond these trends, % change compared to same month in previous year the movement of populations, most notably toward the southern states, has created opportunities for new store growth.
In summary, having digested the entry of large cost driven competitors into the market along with the continued consolidation of retailers, the lethargy of the equipment market has given way to an aggressive approach by many retailers to competing for the retail dollar.
People Enodis is... We will continue to develop a winning team with the right people, in the right positions, with the right skill sets who are customer focused and results orientated: Technology 2.
Lean systems and processes We will continue to develop Lean processes throughout all Innovation Brands aspects of our business in order to achieve best in class practices across the Group, including implementing a common ERP system to deliver real time information: Service FINANCIAL DRIVERS: 3.
Top line growth Global growth through innovation in technology, premium brands and exemplary service, achieving organic revenue growth of greater than GDP 2% through the cycle enhanced STRATEGY REVIEW by ongoing synergistic acquisitions: In the summer we performed a thorough review of strategic 4.
Key conclusions are: Continuous improvement in pricing, productivity, product and 4 it is clear that the momentum gained from our dedicated purchasing aimed to achieve EBIT margins pre-corporate focus on commercial food and beverage equipment costs of 12% in FY09.
At a divisional level we are targeting solutions is delivering results and this will remain a core Foodservice North America to be at 15%, with both element of our strategy: Foodservice Europe Asia and Food Retail being 8%.
4 part of this success, particularly in high growth segments, Long term we are establishing a goal of 14% pre-corporate is rooted in innovation and we intend to accelerate our which represents estimated best in class industry margins technology efforts: and applied to the businesses in our Group: 4 we are now able to use the strength of our balance sheet 5.
Cash generation for synergistic acquisitions and share buy-backs.
Rapid conversion of profit to cash, optimisation of tax We have benefited from end user industry consolidation rates and efficient use of our balance sheet achieving cash and will continue to focus on global chains that are outpacing conversion days of less than 35, a Group percentage tax rate the market and who typically favour fewer suppliers.
in the low 30s and leverage ratios of around two times net Organic growth remains a priority and we are now able debt to EBITDA: and to enhance this with acquisitions.
Use of balance sheet STRATEGY REFINEMENT We will balance the requirements of capital expenditure, As we move forward, we continue to refine our strategy.
acquisitions, dividends and share buy-backs to optimise We are focusing our strategy around Innovation in shareholder value: Technology, Brands and Service that enables our customers to increase their revenue and profit, specifically: 4 we anticipate an ongoing capex requirement of 15m to 25m per annum: 4 innovative technology that enables our customers to 4 we will pursue an ongoing synergistic acquisition deliver consumer experiences in food and beverages programme: and where and when they want: 4 innovative high performance brands that individually 4 we plan to progressively move dividend cover to and collectively provide best in class solutions to our 2.5 times over the next two years.
customers: and Consistent with the above strategy and long-term goals, we intend to initiate an ongoing, on-market share buy-back 4 innovative service supporting our customers before, programme.
We anticipate purchasing up to 10% of the during and after the sale.
Companys share capital over the next 12 months to enhance shareholder value whilst maintaining gearing near our target levels.
18 Enodis plc Operating and financial review In Europe, Africa and the Middle East, we have also increased People our management staffing.
David Daniels, formerly of Frymaster now heads distribution and service activities for the region.
Jean-Luc Bekaert was recruited to be the MD for the Benelux region.
Eric Weiss was hired to manage Enodis-Italia and Pere Taberner joined Enodis to lead our efforts at Enodis-Spain.
We will continue to develop a winning team with the right We rededicated ourselves to developing and retaining the good people in the right positions with the right skill sets who people we have.
We sent a number of high potential managers are customer focused and results orientated.
to the Center for Creative Leadership in the USA for skill building and self awareness.
We enrolled almost 50 senior We continue to believe that our human resource management managers at the University of South Carolina MBA programme strategies have been instrumental in the success of Enodis.
for a week of instruction in strategy formulation and global We develop our people through training that specifically business issues.
We plan to enroll another 50 this year.
Five of targets our business goals, and we align the efforts of all our executives attended a senior level seminar in strategy employees with Enodis objectives through performance development at the University of Chicago Business School.
management goal-setting and feedback, as well as through our pay for performance approach to compensation.
This year our hourly workforce demonstrated significant improvements in productivity, quality, safety and delivery Much of the talent upgrading that we have done over the performance.
In contract negotiations, our unions gave us past few years in the areas of supply chain, marketing, additional work rule flexibility to initiate Lean manufacturing engineering and Lean manufacturing has paid off handsomely.
changes, as well as some help with our rising medical costs.
We organise ourselves primarily along geographic lines, thereby staying close to our customers in the various parts of Finally, we are moving from the culture of a manufacturing the world in which we do business.
This keeps us on top of and distribution business to that of a technology company changing local tastes and market conditions, allowing us to specialising in innovation and service.
Rick Caron, our develop product and service solutions for our customers Chief Technology Officer, has firmly established the Enodis which keep them profitable.
Technology Center ETC as the preferred destination for customers who want to partner in the search for newer and To lead this activity in North America, Bob Nerbonne was better equipment solutions to drive essential menu changes.
promoted from the presidency of Delfield to Group President, The ETC, supported by the sales and marketing teams, is also The Americas, responsible for sales, service and distribution in now firmly established as an education and training centre for North and Latin America.
The presidents of our North American our customers and employees.
Above all this, however, is the foodservice operating companies also now report to Bob.
noticeable spirit of entrepreneurship that pervades.
These are Replacing Bob at Delfield is externally recruited Kevin Clark.
exciting times at Enodis and we are finding that our employees Another President added this year is Jim Laycock, who took are responding with increased engagement and discretionary over the reins at Kysor Warren.
Julian Turner was recruited to effort in pursuit of our shared vision to be the number one lead our global tax department.
Finally, Steve Beck, our commercial food equipment supplier in the world.
President of Merrychef USA, was given the additional role of President, Commercial Business Development.
In this capacity, Steve leads our focus on large global chains.
Further to our global chain strategy we have strengthened our infrastructure outside North America.
Chris Karssiens, our Group MD Asia Pacific recruited an entirely new management team.
Based in our Shanghai office, we now have Ian Dixon in charge of operations, Renee Zhang running Marketing, Daniel Han overseeing supply chain activities, and Kitty Hua in Finance.
Roger Li has been recruited to be Commercial Director for China and Ken Ee holds the same role for ASEAN countries.
We have also consolidated a number of operating company sales and service personnel in the region into this organisation.
19 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Information T echnology Lean systems and processes We will continue to install and roll-out a common Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system, real time information and lean processes to achieve best in class practices across the Group.
The function of Information Technology is to provide the Lean processes appropriate, cost effective application infrastructure and 2006 was another year of continuous improvement for the solutions directly linked to a clearly defined business model Enodis Lean Enterprise initiative.
The first annual Whiteley and strategy.
Significant progress toward this end has been award recognition event served as the vehicle by which achieved since FY03 through the execution of several Global we were able to share best practices once again across Technology initiatives including the deployment of the ERP our companies.
system, establishment of a Central Application Hosting facility, a common email system, and the consolidation of WEB Scotsman Beverage Systems was singled out for effectively applications.
The specific components of this strategy are using their Lean achievements as sales and marketing tools.
as follows: Their factory layout has become a showcase for customers to appreciate the competitive advantages gained through Common ERP system: Lean achievement.
Deployment of a common global ERP system based on Scotsman Ice turned in another remarkable year.
Their Fairfax, common data standards, common Best Practice procedures South Carolina plant was recognised as one of the ten best and processes, and measured by the same business metrics in the nation by Industry Week.
Scotsman was also a finalist is the foundation of this strategy.
Execution of this initiative for the coveted Shingo Award.
Scotsman management report is accomplished through a consistent methodology directed that recent progress there has been fuelled by consistent through the Enodis Global IT organisation and augmented benchmarking of other world class companies and through with a small number of outside consultants.
The strategy is the effective use of employee teams.
based on developing business processes consistent with common practices and minimising software customisations.
Kysor Warren distinguished themselves this year by using This Common Model allows for the reuse of solutions as Lean methodologies to handle dramatic upsurges in customer future businesses are migrated to this solution.
The immediate demand while maintaining customer responsiveness and objective is to complete the ERP deployments to all key product quality levels.
businesses over the next 24 months.
Ice-O-Matics highly motivating hourly reward and recognition Central Hosting facility: system was adopted by a number of companies across Enodis.
This best practice drives both performance and employee The most cost effective execution of a global systems strategy satisfaction, essentially by stimulating plant-wide feelings of is accomplished through the use of a Central Hosting model.
shared accomplishment as key business metrics are achieved.
This ensures consistency of performance, improved security, and simplifies Disaster Recovery requirements.
A small, highly Our formal Lean Enterprise Assessment process once again skilled technical staff is leveraged across all businesses freeing served to focus attention on Lean opportunities.
Furthermore, the operating companies to focus on business objectives, not a number of our operating companies responded to the Lean technology issues.
challenge by upgrading key staff and expanding Lean-related training.
Finally, significant investment in automation, such as Real time information: new fabrication equipment and robotic welding, has begun to The benefits of a common global data model are significant pay off in terms of labour savings and shorter lead times.
when aligned with business intelligence tools.
All functional Overall, our Lean efforts have saved Enodis approximately areas are provided with advanced tools to proactively manage 6m during this past year.
Even more encouraging, however, based on real time data.
These tools are currently being is the employee enthusiasm that has generated additional deployed as part of the ERP migrations.
momentum for continuous improvement on into fiscal Common email system: year 2007.
Email systems have evolved to become one of the primary communication technologies used in businesses.
Reliability, security, and performance are fundamental to the deployment of this technology.
Internal and external communication linked to business applications and the internet is mandated by customers and suppliers.
Major upgrades to the global email system have been initiated in FY06 and the strategy will be completely deployed in FY07.
This includes enhanced data security, spam email control and advanced network access capabilities.
20 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Top line growth strategy Management of key risks The Board has identified the following potential risks and Our top line growth strategy will be achieved by uncertainties that could have a material impact on the outperforming major US competitors through product Groups performance, and has put in place internal processes innovation, integrated solutions and leveraging distribution and and controls designed to mitigate each risk.
These risks are service networks.
We will drive our strategy through a passion for customer service before, during, and after the sale.
consistent with those identified in FY05.
See page 38 for reference to the Groups statement of internal control.
Through our focus on chains, we have benefited from end user consolidation of the industry.
Global chains have been growing at almost twice the rate of independents and these Risk Internal processes chains typically favour fewer suppliers capable of providing and controls global service.
4Adverse change to macro 4Detailed planning process and Specically our strategy by region is as follows: economic condition of appropriate contingency plans major markets 4Regular monitoring of market 4 North America technology led, focusing R&D on and company trends core next generation products brands and Accelerated Cooking Systems.
We will align our marketing and product 4Diversification of geographic specication efforts on the specic requirements of our footprint customers while leveraging our distribution network and 4Competitive pressures 4Lean manufacturing and STAR service offerings.
purchasing initiatives 4 Asia Pacific we will follow our global chain customers 4Multi-source purchasing into China and Asia and offer them a full service and distribution network to improve support.
We will 4Major product recall 4Embedded new product leverage our local manufacturing capabilities in China development protocol and source locally.
4Quality control procedures 4 Europe we will focus investment on Accelerated Cooking Technology products delivered by Merrychef and 4Strategy not aligned 4Appropriate planning Convotherm and will continue investment in our Beverage with capabilities processes and Ice businesses.
We have Enodis distribution and 4Strengthening of talent pool service companies to support global chains, enhanced during the year by the acquisition of Frau in Spain.
We have 4Succession 4Robust review and established sales and support ofces in the Middle East development process for and increased our presence in Eastern Europe.
all employees 4Specific HR plans reviewed We will enhance our existing top line growth strategy through at Board level acquisitions that focus on technology or product gaps or that offer a new route to market.
4Acquisitions and disposals 4Clear financial targets 4Rigorous due diligence processes 4Board approvals 4Vigorous defence coordinated 4Litigation loss of by Board Committee Consolidated Industries cases 4Flexibility obtained within banking facilities 4Tax rate increases 4Implemented appropriate tax structures 21 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Current year performance against our long-term goals Performance applicable in FY06 was: Goal: 2006 2005 2004 Top line organic sales growth GDP 2% 11% 9% 5% Like-for-like Food Equipment operating profit margin 12% 10.7% 10.0% 10.1% FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Covenant leverage ratio 11.5x 0.5 1.1 1.3 Group revenue in FY06 was 768.3m FY05: 667.9m an increase of 100.4m 15% over the prior comparative period.
FY06 US GDP 2% approx 5.4% On top of the 75.5m increase in like-for-like Food Equipment Following our strategic review we have refined, and added to, revenue we benefited from a favourable impact of 15.0m our long-term goals see page 18 for details.
arising from the translation effect of foreign exchange rate movements and a contribution of 8.1m resulting from the Groups recent acquisition of the Frau group in Spain.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Prior year numbers include 4.3m from the Vent Master The Groups Food Equipment operations comprise our Global businesses which were sold in March 2005.
Foodservice Equipment businesses approximately 80% of revenue which provide primary cooking, ovens, storage, In FY06, Group operating profit before exceptional items preparation and holding, ice and beverage equipment to adjusted operating profit was 70.8m FY05: 54.6m, restaurants and other customers worldwide and our Food an increase of 16.2m 30%.
This was principally due to Retail Equipment operations approximately 20% of revenue an increase of 12.9m 19% in like-for-like Food Equipment which provide walk-in cold storage and refrigeration display operating profit and a small favourable impact of 1.3m cases to supermarkets and convenience stores C-stores arising from the translation effect of foreign exchange in North America.
Pre-exceptional corporate costs reduced by 1.6m, in FY06 was an exciting year, during which we introduced over part as a result of our successful FY05 capital restructuring 30 new products or product line extensions, completed our programme and the resultant elimination of costs in first acquisition in a number of years, continued to establish respect of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act following infrastructure in China and made further excellent progress deregistration from the SEC.
Corporate costs also benefited across all areas of the Group.
from 0.8m of gains on nickel hedges, arising in H206, which We grew Food Equipment revenue by 11%, operating profit did not meet IAS39s denition of a hedging instrument and by 19% and margins improved to 10.7% from 10.0% in FY05.
Global Foodservice Equipment In FY06, adjusted profit before tax was 64.0m FY05: We continued to improve our performance in FY06 achieving 44.1m an increase of 19.9m 45%, reecting the revenue growth of 9% reecting a 6% increase in the first improved adjusted operating profit performance and a half and 12% in the second.
This was on top of the 7% reduction in net nancing costs of 3.7m 35% to 6.8m growth achieved in FY05.
Operating profit increased 16% as we saw the benets of our FY05 capital restructuring with second half growth of 23% on top of 7% in the first.
programme and lower principal debt balances.
In FY06, Operating margin improved by 0.7pts to 11.4%.
profit before tax was 62.2m FY05: 15.1m reecting the reduction in exceptional costs to 1.8m FY05: net cost Revenue Operating profit of 29.0m.
2006 2005 Change 2006 2005 Change m m % m m % profit after tax was 39.3m FY05: 25.4m as improvements North America 445.7 416.4 7 60.7 53.0 15 in profit before tax were partially offset by additional tax Europe and Asia 166.0 145.7 14 9.3 7.4 26 charges of 33.2m.
The Groups tax charge reects an overall 611.7 562.1 9 70.0 60.4 16 rate of 35.8% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Tax is discussed further below.
Operating margin 11.4% 10.7% Adjusted diluted earnings per share calculated on the North America same basis used for the last two years increased by 48% to 13.5p FY05: 9.1p.
This includes adjusting for both Revenue growth of 7% reects a 4% increase in the first half exceptional items and deferred tax including significant and a 10% increase in the second half.
This came on top of credits in the prior year in respect of US tax losses.
the 9% achieved in FY05 which benefited from a number of Going forward, we would expect to adjust solely for chain roll-outs.
Operating profit improved by 15% with a 22% exceptional items as the Group returns to a more increase in H2 and a 6% increase in H1.
Operating margins normal tax rate.
On this basis, current year adjusted were 13.6% FY05: 12.7%.
This increase was driven by diluted earnings per share were 9.9p.
improved performances at our oven, refrigeration, fryer and ice businesses, the benets of volume leverage and our Basic earnings per share were 9.7p FY05: 6.3p.
purchasing, Lean and other cost savings activities which more than offset materials and other cost ination.
Throughout the Review of Operations, references to revenue or operating profit refer to like-for-like revenue or like-for-like adjusted operating profit dened as follows: Prior year revenue and operating profit adjusted for exceptional items, disposals and foreign exchange.
Current year revenue and operating profit are adjusted for the effect of exceptional items and acquisitions.
See Other unaudited financial information in the attached financial 22 Enodis plc Operating and financial review statements for details.
We benefited from a number of market factors including: manufacturing systems and robotics at a number of factories to improve quality, efficiency and capacity in our fabrication 4 a vibrant market, with food and beverage sales areas.
The ongoing implementation of a common ERP up 4%, led by the segments on which we focus, system across the Group is also paying dividends in Lean in particular chains, growing at c5%.
In addition, as we have introduced new equipment market growth was estimated to be product lines and upgraded existing products, we have between 4.75% and 5.25%: focused on reducing product cost by partnering with our 4 continued demand for customer solutions to meet key suppliers.
consumer demands profitably, in particular for our These efforts were recognised when Scotsmans Fairfax Accelerated Cooking Technology ACT : and facility in North Carolina was again recognised in a national 4 Continued replacement equipment catch up.
manufacturing excellence programme, making it to the final four of the Shingo Award, the Nobel prize of manufacturing.
Our focused approach on commercial food equipment has allowed us to benefit from these trends.
The highlights of More customers visit our Technology Center each year to the year included: seek ways of taking advantage of innovative technology solutions to enhance their business, supported by our 4 a successful North American Food Equipment expanding sales and service network worldwide.
Manufacturers NAFEM show in September 2005, which kick-started the year with 12 new products: In summary, a significant number of new products contributed to revenue growth and this, along with price 4 the successful introduction of the Convotherm brand increases, the ongoing commitment to Lean manufacturing of combi-ovens to the North American market which and purchasing savings and continued progress on exceeded our expectations.
The higher volume Information Technology, combined to improve margins.
Convotherm 3 product models are manufactured by our Cleveland subsidiary based in Cleveland, Ohio: Europe and Asia 4 following the formation of Merrychef USA in FY05, in Revenue growth was very strong at 14% with 12% growth FY06 we had a particularly successful introduction of in H1 and 16% in H2.
This was on top of the 4% achieved the Merrychef brand into the US and introduced the new in FY05.
Operating profit was up 26% in FY06 with 23% in high speed Merrychef 402S to the North American and H1 and 27% in H2.
Margins improved to 5.6% compared European markets.
Merrychef supplied a roll-out of over to 5.1% in FY05.
Margins in Europe are diluted by mix 650 ovens to Wawa, a North Eastern convenience store with approximately 25% of revenue relating to our chain, enabling them to rapidly deliver hot deli sandwiches distribution companies.
There are a number of other In FY06, we benefited from: exciting opportunities being pursued: 4 our restructuring programme completed in FY05: 4 Frymaster introducing several new products including the H55 high efficiency fryer, the unique multi-technology 4 stronger market conditions in a number of countries: and 4 Applications Series and the E electric fryer: 4 new product introductions.
4 Jackson achieving an impressive increase in sales and The highlights of the year included: profitability primarily by supporting a major customers business expansion, as well as significant operational 4 the signing of a three year strategic partnership with improvements from Lean manufacturing: Marks & Spencer to supply the equipment for a number of their new concepts: 4 Garland, Deleld and Ice-O-Matic all substantially improving profitability by focusing on new products 4 on top of US successes Merrychef enjoyed 17% growth and operational improvements: as a result of strong domestic sales including sales to Marks & Spencer, Little Chef and Tesco and, in addition, 4 Lincoln introducing the new Fusion high speed toaster increasing international penetration with chains such as and Merco rolled out a new holding unit to Tim Hortons: Starbucks, StatOil and KFC.
Including intercompany sales and to Merrychef USA, revenue was up 41%: 4 Scotsman achieving double digit revenue growth whilst 4 another outstanding year for Scotsman Beverage investing in Prodigy, a new, energy efficient ice cuber Systems, with over 25% revenue growth as a result product line with smart controls.
Prodigy was previewed of continued new product innovation and penetration in August at the Western Show, USA, where it was voted of new accounts, including Heineken.
profitability was the best new product.
also spurred by continuing their very successful Lean Margin improvement has been an important focus in the year manufacturing efforts and the benets of the FY05 and we have been successful despite significant increases restructuring programme at the German factory: in commodity costs particularly steel, aluminium and copper.
4 a record year at Convotherm as the new 3 design Volume leverage has been supplemented by our continued gained traction around the world.
Reduced marketing and purchasing and Lean manufacturing initiatives and these, launch costs and improved efficiencies led to substantially together with price increases, have more than offset improved operating profits: materials cost ination.
For example, we invested in exible 23 Enodis plc Operating and financial review 4 our European Ice Group continued its success achieving In addition, super-centres and retail clubs have continued solid gains in sales and profitability, enhanced by to out pace the market as the venue of choice for price several new products introduced at the Milan Show focused consumers.
in November 2005: The highlights of the year included: 4 our European distribution companies grew strongly, 4 a record sales year for Kysor Panel Systems KPS, including benefiting from the success of recent product which came from continued penetration of the leading introductions such as the Convotherm 3: and supermarket chains, increased focus on convenience 4 in Asia Pacic, our new organisation is taking shape.
stores, an expanding non-food business including The operating units in Asia achieved very strong growth, environmental rooms, and niche plays in the foodservice albeit on a small base and hold significant promise for sector.
Factory capacity constraints impacted both the future.
Operating profit was adversely impacted by revenue and profit at KPS in the second half.
the planned investment in infrastructure of c1.0m which Construction of a new facility in Fort Worth, Texas included the formation of a new trading company, Enodis scheduled for operation next month will provide much Shanghai, in July 2006 which will begin distributing all needed capacity to support this business which has Enodis products in FY07.
grown by 40% over the last three years: and 4 revenue growth at Kysor Warren of over 30% with Acquisition of Frau substantially improved profitability, the highest in five On 31 January 2006, the Group acquired the Frau group of years.
This came from continued focus on customers companies Frau, based in Madrid and Barcelona, Spain.
We are investing Frau consists of a distribution business concentrating on ice in sophisticated fabrication equipment, to be delivered machines and combi-ovens, together with a service and in FY07, to achieve increased capacity and lower costs.
installation business which trades under the name of Teuros.
The continued improvement in rapid delivery of high The acquisition signicantly expands the Groups owned quality products is expanding business with current and distribution and service capabilities in the Spanish market for new customers in a highly competitive marketplace.
its existing Scotsman ice products, the new Convotherm 3 combi-ovens and other Enodis products, including our wide Food Equipment like-for-like revenue by destination range of ACT and beverage systems.
Revenue 2006 2005 Change The total cost was 6.9m represented by 5.8m paid on m m % completion, 0.7m deferred for one year and acquisition North America 548.1 493.4 11 expenses of 0.4m.
EMEA 167.8 151.2 11 This years performance was slightly better than our Asia Pacific 38.1 33.9 12 acquisition expectations and Frau contributed revenue of 754.0 678.5 8.1m and reported a small operating profit despite incurring Our revenue in the EMEA regions 22% of revenue grew initial integration expenditure.
We expect that it will be by 11% on top of 15% last year.
The integration of our UK earnings enhancing in the future and encouragingly the sales force, investment in sales infrastructure throughout the early signs are that we have been successful in introducing region and increased focus on the Middle East and Eastern the Convotherm 3 combi-oven to the Spanish market.
Europe all combined to deliver continued strong growth.
During FY07, to improve efficiency, we have consolidated several facilities into one new facility located in Barcelona.
Our focus on Asia Pacic 5% of revenue and China in particular started to pay off with growth of 12% compared Food Retail Equipment to 4% last year, which included several chain roll-outs.
We enjoyed another year of very strong growth with revenue The Chinese economy is growing at approximately 9% with up 22% on top of 15% growth last year.
Operating profit was the chain restaurant industry growing at approximately 20%.
up 45% and margins improved to 7.4% from 6.3% in FY05.
A number of major Western chains, including Starbucks, McDonalds and KFC have announced plans to expand in Revenue Operating profit the region, and we are expanding our local presence to 2006 2005 Change 2006 2005 Change m m % m m % serve them.
Food Retail 142.3 116.4 22 10.6 7.3 45 Our core market, the Americas 73% of revenue showed strong growth, up 11% in FY06 on top of 8% growth in Operating margin 7.4% 6.3% FY05.
This was driven by a combination of extremely robust In FY06 we benefited from our continued focus on customer growth in our Retail Division and 8% growth in foodservice service and the strongest food retail equipment market in powered by our strong brands, a strong distribution network some time.
In recent years the retail market has faced the and our STAR service which was introduced in Canada during entry of large cost driven retailers along with continued the year.
The recent market growth has spurred These results demonstrate the success of our multi-brand investment in new and remodelled stores.
More and more, regional organisations focused on customer service before, upscale retailers are enjoying success as consumers look during and after the sale.
for more choices in ethnic, organic and fresh foods.
24 Enodis plc Operating and financial review FINANCIAL REVIEW At the start of the current financial period, the Group applied IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and International Financial Reporting Standards Measurement for the first time resulting in a transitional Under European Union EU regulations, these increase in net debt of 1.7m arising from the different consolidated financial statements have been prepared in valuation principles prescribed in IAS39 compared to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards UK GAAP.
This increase is reconciled as follows: IFRS, International Accounting Standards IAS and m Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Net debt at 2 October 2005 under UK GAAP 79.1 Standards Board IASB, as adopted for use in the EU Transitional effect of applying IAS39 effective at 30 September 2006. predominantly due to adjusting the interest element of cross currency swaps to market value 1.7 This is the first year that the Group has presented its Net debt at 2 October 2005 restated for IAS39 80.8 consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
The Groups comparative information presented for 2005 was initially In accordance with IAS39, comparative information is prepared under United Kingdom generally accepted not restated.
accounting principles UK GAAP and has been restated The IASB has issued revisions to certain IFRS which are in accordance with IFRS.
The Group has applied IFRS1 not applicable to the Group in FY06 although they will First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting impact future reporting: Standards IFRS1 in determining its IFRS results.
IFRS1 includes a number of optional exemptions available to 4 IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and entities when they adopt IFRS for the first time.
The IFRS1 Measurement: During 2005, the IASB published an exemptions applied by the Group are set out in the Groups amendment to IAS39 relating to Financial Guarantee IFRS Restatement of Financial Information for 2005 Contracts.
The amendment to IAS39 extends the balance announced on 26 January 2006 which is available on the sheet recognition to cover certain forms of financial Groups website: http: www.
An explanation guarantees currently regarded as off balance sheet and is of the impact of IFRS, when compared to UK GAAP, on the applicable to the Group from the start of FY07.
The Group Groups retained profit, equity shareholders funds and cash has not finalised its assessment of the impact of adopting flows is included in note 34 of these financial statements.
this amendment, but does not anticipate that its impact on the income statement will be material: and These financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments 4 IFRS7 Financial Instruments: A new standard relating to and pension assets and liabilities which are measured at the disclosure of financial instruments is applicable for the fair value.
These amendments to disclosure requirements will have no effect on the The Groups income statement prepared under IFRS is reported results.
presented in accordance with IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements which does not provide definitive guidance on The Group does not consider that any other Standards or the format of the income statement but states key lines that Interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, should be disclosed.
It also requires additional line items, will have a significant impact on its financial statements.
sub totals and headings to be presented on the face of the Significant accounting policies income statement when such presentation is relevant to an understanding of the entitys financial performance.
In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, Factors to be considered include materiality and the nature which are described in note 1, the Group has made and function of the components of income and expense.
The following accounting The Group believes that items referred to as exceptional policies have been identified by the Board as being the items under UK GAAP should still be separately identified most significant of these and where there is most risk of to assist in understanding the financial performance of the causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of the Group.
Such items will still be disclosed by the Group as Groups assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
Additionally, the Group These policies concern the following: also excludes any profit or loss arising from the disposal 4 warranty liabilities: of businesses from operating profit loss.
Such gains and losses are reported separately from operating profit loss so 4 goodwill impairment: as to highlight the underlying operating results of the Group.
4 non-operational accruals particularly in respect of onerous property leases: 4 retirement benefits: and 4 deferred taxation.
25 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Interest Period end net debt m The Groups pre-exceptional net interest cost in the period was 6.8m, an improvement of 3.7m from the prior year.
139.7 This reduction is principally the result of the Groups capital restructuring programme completed in H205 whereby we made a successful tender offer for, and repurchase of, 91.3 79.1 80% of the Groups Senior Subordinated Notes Notes.
The remaining 20% of the Notes are held in a trust which will exercise its call option to buy-back the Notes in April 2007.
41.8 The Groups debt is now funded primarily by our current 2003 2004 2005 2006 senior credit facilities.
We have also benefited from lower average principal balances and lower borrowing margins.
As at the end of FY06, our leverage ratio was 0.5x EBITDA.
Exceptional items 1 Covenant leverage ratio During the second half of FY06, we incurred costs of approximately 1.8m, principally professional fees, 2.1x considering and responding to the conditional approaches from The Manitowoc Company Inc and The Middleby Corporation.
In FY05 we incurred a net 29.0m on our 1.3x capital restructuring programme, our European restructuring 1.1x programme, additional property provisions in respect of the Groups surplus leasehold properties and the sale of the 0.5x Vent Master businesses.
2003 2004 2005 2006 Property Property activities represent management of the Groups legacy freehold and leasehold property interests.
2 Covenant interest cover The loss in the period of 0.9m FY05: loss of 0.6m represents the ongoing costs of running our property segment.
The results of our property segment are 13.5x dependent upon the sale of land principally at our residential development site at Felsted, UK.
In the current period, the Group sold a small piece of land at 6.8x Felsted.
As indicated last year, there was no profit associated 4.9x with this transaction.
We have embarked on a number of 3.7x planning applications that require public enquiries and potentially there will be land sales in FY07 and or FY08.
2003 2004 2005 2006 Taxation In FY06, our tax charge represented 35.8% of profit before 1 The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, exceptional items, tax, depreciation, tax and exceptional items FY05: credit of 2.5% recognising amortisation and impairments.
the utilisation of our brought forward US tax losses, partially 2 The ratio of adjusted operating profit before depreciation and impairments to offset by the expected benefit of tax planning opportunities total interest.
implemented during the second half of the year.
Of the charge of 22.9m only 8.0m approximately 12.5% of profit before tax and exceptional items is payable in cash.
The balance is represented by deferred tax movements.
The prior year tax credit arose due to recognition of all the remaining benets of our US federal tax losses.
We now have in place strategies that are expected to reduce the Groups overall percentage tax rate to the low 30s as our tax planning structures are implemented and we start to use UK tax losses.
We expect the cash tax rate to remain around 15% until at least the end of FY07.
26 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Dividend The Group generated an operating cash inow before exceptional items and tax of 78.4m FY05: 58.2m including The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of an outow in respect of working capital movements of 5.9m FY06 of 2.17p per share FY05: 1.3p payable on 15 February FY05: 6.5m.
The outow in working capital resulted from 2007 to shareholders on the register on 19 January 2007. increased levels of trade debtors reecting the improved This makes the total dividend in respect of FY06 3.0p, a 50% trading performance, with movements in trade inventory increase on the full prior year equivalent of 2.0p.
and trade payables broadly offsetting.
The resulting increase The Groups future dividend and capital structure policies are in trade working capital was partially offset by reductions discussed further below.
in inventory following property sales and other creditor movements.
Cash conversion days, the Groups measure Pensions of working capital conversion, were 34 compared to 29 The Group operates a number of defined benefit and at the end of FY05 reecting the timing of working capital defined contribution schemes as discussed in note 28 to conversion, particularly due to the significant volume the accounts on pages 81 to 84.
Under IAS19, we have a net increases in our Retail segment.
Our operating cash ows pre-tax pension liability in respect of defined benefit and post were again higher in the second half reecting the seasonality retirement medical obligations of 10.0m FY05: 15.2m.
of some of our businesses.
Cash contributions to our defined benefit plans are Net capital expenditure in the period was 18.1m determined following actuarial advice and were 2.2m FY05: 11.9m.
We continued to invest in our businesses FY05: 1.2m.
We expect the annual funding level to to improve our product range through innovation, enhance increase in FY07.
our Lean capabilities and improve the quality of information through our ERP system implementations with two further Cash flow businesses coming on line in the second half.
We incurred At the end of FY06 our net debt was 41.8m compared 2.0m on capex for the development of ice machines to 80.8m at the start of the year.
The principal factors including Prodigy and 1.4m to enhance our capability to behind the 39.0m decrease in net debt in the period manufacture controls in-house.
In FY07 we expect capital were as follows: expenditure in the range of 18m to 20m.
m m Food Equipment cash conversion days goal of 40 days revised to 35 days going forward Net debt at the start of the period 80.8 Operating cash ow before exceptional items 78.4 36 Net capital expenditure 18.1 34 Tax and interest 11.3 30 29 Free cash ow 49.0 Acquisitions 4.7 Dividends 8.6 Share issues 1.4 Other movements in debt 0.9 Foreign exchange 2.8 2003 2004 2005 2006 Net debt at the end of the period 41.8 1 An analysis of the Groups free cash flow is as follows: 2006 2005 m m 1 Operating profit 70.8 54.6 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 14.4 11.6 Other non-cash items 1.2 1.8 Utilisation of provisions 2.1 3.3 Working capital 5.9 6.5 Net capital expenditure 18.1 11.9 Cash inflow from operating activities, after capital expenditure 60.3 46.3 Net interest paid 5.1 13.3 Taxation 6.2 7.4 Free cash inflow 49.0 25.6 1 Before exceptional items.
27 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Liquidity Foreign exchange and treasury management Our borrowing requirements are primarily funded by our Treasury management $400m committed credit agreement the Facility, $225m The Group Treasury function of Enodis is responsible of which matures in September 2009 and the balance, for ensuring the availability and flexibility of funding $175m, matures in October 2010.
The drawings under the arrangements in order to meet the ongoing requirements Facility bear interest between 0.75% and 1.5% above LIBOR of the Group.
In addition, it is responsible for managing as periodically determined by reference to certain agreed the interest rate risks, liquidity risks, foreign exchange and financial ratios.
Current drawings bear interest at LIBOR commodity risks of the Group.
Appropriate policies that 0.85%, although this will reduce to LIBOR 0.75% with the regulate the activity of the Group Treasury function are in leverage ratio falling below one.
place and have been approved by the Board.
The Group Most of our significant subsidiaries are guarantors under Treasury function, in turn, has implemented policies the Facility and have unconditionally guaranteed all of the and guidelines to regulate and monitor the activities of outstanding obligations under the Facility.
Following the tender offer to repurchase 100m Senior We use derivative instruments and forward foreign exchange Subordinated Notes Notes in 2005 the Group irrevocably contracts to hedge our foreign exchange, interest rate and transferred the remaining liabilities of 19.9m with a current commodity risks where applicable and, with the exception value under IFRS of 20.6m into a trust administered by Bank of our hedging of nickel purchases, the hedging of these of New York the Trustee together with UK government exposures is effective under IFRS.
gilts and cash sufficient to meet all remaining future liabilities Foreign exchange risk management arising under the notes including an early redemption fee payable in April 2007.
We sell products in over 100 countries and have manufacturing operations in eight countries.
Therefore, we In certain circumstances, it is possible for the assets face transactional currency exposure when our operating and liabilities to be returned to the Company.
subsidiaries enter into transactions denominated in currencies These circumstances, which are considered to be other than their functional currency.
Foreign exchange remote are: transaction exposures are identified and managed directly 4 that a court, government or similar authority issues an by operating subsidiaries within policies and guidelines order preventing the trustee from applying the funds to established by Group Treasury.
Group Treasury enters settlement of the debt obligations: into foreign exchange hedging transactions on behalf of subsidiaries in accordance with our policies and procedures.
4 circumstances in which the transfer is not effective due to insufficient funds being initially deposited: and It is the Groups policy not to hedge income statement foreign exchange translation exposures.
We estimate that a 4 if any amounts remain unclaimed by April 2009. one cent movement in the US dollar will affect our adjusted Accordingly, the Notes and associated gilts and related cash operating profit by approximately 0.3m and net debt by are not derecognised from balance sheets of the Company approximately 0.3m.
The Trustee has been given irrevocable Enodis has significant capital employed in overseas instructions to call the Notes in April 2007, realising the operations.
As a result, the Groups balance sheet can defeasance trust assets.
Accordingly both the trust assets be affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
and liabilities have been shown as current.
The Group has a policy to hedge this risk, where appropriate, Share buy-back to limit the impact of foreign exchange rate movements.
Accordingly we have loans in the same currencies as the Consistent with our strategy and long-term goals we intend capital employed in the Groups main overseas operating to initiate an ongoing, on-market share buy-back programme.
Cross currency swap instruments may be used We anticipate purchasing up to 10% of the Companys issued where appropriate to convert the currency of the Groups share capital over the next 12 months whilst maintaining borrowings to such functional currencies.
gearing near our target levels.
28 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Interest rate risk management The Group finances its operations through a mix of retained profits and borrowings.
Borrowings are predominately made at fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Group may use interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements to generate the desired interest profile and to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
As at 30 September 2006, the Group had gross borrowings of 114.8m: the interest rate on 73.1m of these borrowings was fixed, principally through interest rate swaps.
Together with other minor fixed rate borrowings, these represent 64% of the Groups total borrowings, 41.7m 36% remains floating or non-interest bearing.
The interest rate profile is in line with the Groups objectives.
Commodity risk management The Group contracts to purchase a range of materials.
Some of the Groups purchase contracts fix the price variations.
The Group has exposure to the price variations for nickel, aluminium and copper.
To reduce exposures to fluctuations in the price of these commodities, the Group often enters into contracts for difference that have the effect of fixing the overall price paid.
29 Enodis plc Operating and financial review Ethical code Corporate Social Responsibility We publicly acknowledge our responsibilities to the wider community through the Enodis Code of Ethics.
This document helps to instil a set of core values and high standards of conduct across the Group.
Available on our website, the Code addresses, among other things: Introduction 4 fair business practice: Enodis believes in the importance of social responsibility 4 staff relations and dignity: in its business practices.
To this end, the Company and 4 bribery and corruption, its businesses seek to achieve the highest standards consistent with its obligations to its shareholders, 4 supply-chain issues: and employees and customers.
Operating throughout the world, the Board recognises the Ethical performance is monitored regularly using independent need to reflect local conditions in our approach to Corporate surveys and prior to publishing financial results, management Social Responsibility.
So while we apply a number of policies obtains representation letters from all operating companies across the Group, for example the Group Code of Ethics, confirming complete disclosure and compliance with internal we also look to each operating company to develop its own and external requirements.
particular programmes and policies that are relevant to their own business environment.
Each company across the Group also undertakes a range of initiatives to: 4 support our people: 4 benefit the communities in which we operate: and 4 reduce the impact on our environment.
Responsibilities to our people General Without our people we will not be able to succeed.
Having the right people, with the correct training and tools is critical to our success and we therefore prioritised development, succession planning and organisation.
Driven by Robert Eimers, our Executive Vice President, Estimated number and cost of workers compensation claims Global Human Resources we have a number of initiatives FY04 to FY06 in place which are described on page 19.
334 We seek to create a work environment where our employees 318 know that we value the contributions they make to Enodis success.
This includes encouragement to contribute to the 238 weekly CEO update, which is published throughout the Group, and staff communications particularly following $879,772 $1,081,312 $793,129 the announcement of Group results.
Health & Safety FY04 FY05 FY06 We believe that we should provide a safe working environment for our people.
Accordingly, the Group Health & Safety policy, initiated and pioneered by the Group CEO, David McCulloch, requires regular reporting Numbers of workers compensation claims of incidents or, preferably, their absence.
Losses: FY04 to FY06 In the US we have a dedicated corporate team focused on improving our health and safety performance.
With regular 334 318 training, on-site inspections and advice, significant 201 201 improvements have been made.
We implemented a structured 238 monitoring and evaluation system in the USA in 2002 and 135 expanded worldwide in 2003.
Since then we have reduced 126 114 Group-wide accidents by some 50%.
Examples of progress 85 achieved are: Frymaster recently completed one million hours 18 7 without a lost time accident: Scotsman and Garland both 3 recognise and reward employees for safety ideas and safety FY04 FY05 FY06 performance, and partly as a result, Scotmans accident incident Incidents Medical claims Medical and indemnity claims rate is 50% below the US national average.
The charts above show our three-year history of US workers compensation losses, claims and indemnity payments.
30 Enodis plc Operating and financial review In FY06 the UK employers liability insurance premium reduced Responsibilities to our environment by 15% despite payroll costs rising by 45%.
This was in part Our communities and our Company rely on a sustainable due to the excellent safety record achieved at Scotsman natural environment.
This is becoming a more important Beverage Systems.
personal motivation, but also an important driver of change Responsibilities to our communities in companies.
Safety, and our investments in advanced training, help create Enodis has a Group-wide environment policy, requiring an overall culture that recognises employees contributions each operating company to manage its own environmental to their company.
Empowering employees to contribute to the impacts.
In many cases, such as Convotherm in Germany, direction of the business improves performance, morale, and a this includes certification to the ISO 14001 environmental sense of pride in themselves and their company.
We run many management system.
programmes throughout the Group with a view to involving Response to climate change and energy efficiency are employees in our corporate goals.
In addition we take important across the Group.
These impact not only how we opportunities where appropriate to involve families in our run our business, but also the products that we develop for community.
On a more practical level we support work based customers.
Lean and value engineering techniques lead to education for our families such as the Cleveland programme efficient processes, reduced waste and effective material which gives children an opportunity to see what their parents utilisation.
For example, at Viscount, in the UK, we have do at work and to learn why it is important to stay in school to identified energy reduction strategies through research develop the skills needed in todays world.
undertaken in partnership with the Department for Trade and Recognising our involvement in the wider community we Industrys Manufacturing Advisory Service.
At Scotsman in have numerous examples of companies working in the locality.
the US, our new Prodigy line of ice machines dramatically For example: reduces water and energy usage, already beating the US energy standards planned for 2010 by 20%.
4 in Germany, Convotherm has contributed equipment and staff time to support good causes, including a We are also taking a proactive approach to environmental hospital treating Chernobyl victims and Tabaluga Haus, issues, such as by researching refrigerant alternatives a centre for children that have suffered trauma: that have less impact on both ozone-depletion and global warming.
Many companies, such as the Garland Group, 4 following the Hurricane Katrina tragedy last year in go beyond legal requirements and recycle all scrap metal, Southern USA, Enodis companies including Frymaster and timber, cardboard, and paper, often working in collaboration Ice-O-Matic collected and contributed thousands of dollars with local specialist suppliers.
to the Katrina Relief Fund, as well as equipment for use in temporary kitchens and to help businesses destroyed by Jackson is committed to protecting the environment and they the hurricane: and demonstrate that commitment daily.
Their plant is located in a designated wetlands area.
As such, they have collaborated 4 with their MD in goal, Merrychef in the UK competed with county and state environmentalists to devise a unique in a charity five-a-side football tournament in September, and successful filtration system for wastewater from the raising money to improve educational facilities in Ghana.
They constructed and continually monitor a filtration Whether they are inside or outside work, many of our people pond that is a complete and thriving ecosystem in itself.
continue being a part of their community.
By helping our It features native plants and fish and other necessary employees to support their communities, we can improve elements to completely filter the wastewater before it is morale and strengthen employees commitment to support released into the wetlands area.
Working with our partners Enodis support of our communities starts right from the top, We recognise that one company acting alone cannot solve and a number of the Groups senior executives volunteer their environmental and social problems, and so we welcome time to coach childrens sports teams, raise money for charity, partnerships.
For instance, Castelmac in Italy are co-founders or volunteer at local hospitals.
of a consortium created to promote end-of-line recycling The Enodis Foundation also provides a vehicle through which of our products.
Frimont, also in Italy, works with a our US-based companies can provide grants to charities, and in local cooperative to source components from physically 2006 we were able to donate approximately $190,000.
31 31 Enodis plc Enodis plc Operating and financial review
