Finance Directors Review IFRS This is the first occasion on which the group reports its full year results under IFRS.
A transition document providing a full reconciliation of comparative information was issued to shareholders on 1 December 2005 and is available on the groups website www.
Benchmark measures In order to ensure consistency of reporting the group has, in common with other companies in its sector, identied measures of benchmark profit from operations, profit before tax and earnings per share which it believes will aid in understanding its business.
Benchmark measures are stated before amortisation of acquisition intangibles and before exceptional items such as restructuring costs, gains or losses on disposal or closure of businesses, and goodwill impairment charges.
In the current year, Benchmark measures also exclude a one-off profit on the sale of land which had been held as an investment for resale.
Revenue Group revenues grew by 11% to 527.8m 2005: 474.0m.
profit Benchmark profit before tax increased by 8% to 49.2m.
In addition, a 2.9m profit was realised on sale of land which had been held for resale.
profit before tax decreased to 35.1m from 41.5m primarily reecting the increased restructuring costs of 16.1m 2005: 3.3m incurred during the year.
Return on sales on a Benchmark basis decreased slightly to 9.3% from 9.6% reecting the improved performance of the Educational Supplies division offset by the impact of the difficult retail environment encountered by the Home Shopping division during its main customer recruitment period in September 2005.
The charge for amortisation of acquisition intangibles increased from 0.7m to 0.9m reecting the impact of a full year charge in relation to prior year acquisitions.
Divisional performance Operating margins for both the Home Shopping and Educational Supplies divisions are discussed in detail within the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, as are average order values and retention rates within the Home Shopping division.
Within Educational Supplies, average order values improved from 191 in 2005 to 211 in 2006 reecting the impact of a successful strategic initiative to increase order values, contributing signicantly to the overall performance of the division during the year under review.
Within NRS, on-time collections and deliveries were over 92%, a level comparable with the previous year.
Maintaining these service levels is imperative for the continued growth and development of the NRS business.
Taxation The groups effective rate of tax, calculated on a Benchmark basis, has decreased from 28.0% to 25.7%.
This continues to be lower than the UK standard rate, as a result of lower rates of company taxation in relation to the groups Hong Kong subsidiary, the utilisation of tax losses brought forward from prior periods and an increased contribution from the groups associates.
The prospective Benchmark rate of tax is expected to be approximately 27%.
Shareholder return and dividends Basic earnings per share were 35.58p in the year to 31 March 2006 compared to 35.41p last year.
Benchmark earnings per share were 47.04p compared to 39.05p last year.
The board has proposed a final dividend of 14.2p per share, a rise of 1.3p or 10% on last year.
The dividend for the year as a whole of 18.0p, a rise of 10% on last year, is covered 2.6 times from benchmark earnings.
Net assets Net assets amount to 122.2m, a rise of 16.1m in the year.
This is equivalent to 144p per share compared with 125p last year.
Share price and total shareholder return The share price of Findel ranged from a low of 401p to a high of 559p during the financial year.
On 31 March 2006 the mid market price was 557.5p, giving a market capitalisation of 473m at that date.
Total shareholder return the increase in the value of a share including reinvested dividends has been 644% in the nine years since the demerger of the group in 1996.
This compares favourably with the total shareholder return for the average for the FTSE 350 General Retailers which was 53% over the same period.
6 Cash ow The groups free cash ow before acquisitions and nancing was an outow of 18.3m, compared with an outow of 4.7m in 2005.
This includes cash costs of 9.7m relating to the restructuring of the Educational Supplies division undertaken during the year, along with contributions of 2.3m over and above the normal funding costs of the groups pension schemes.
Taxation payments reduced to 7.9m from 11.8m, principally due to the utilisation of losses and the resolution of prior year issues.
Acquisitions totalling 33.9m made in the third quarter of last year increased interest costs by 1.3m in the year.
Capital expenditure in 2006 was 16.4m, 7.4m higher than last year and equivalent to 237% of the depreciation charge in 2006, again reecting the impact of the restructuring undertaken during the year within the Educational Supplies division and also increased investment in IT within the Home Shopping division.
It is anticipated that the level of capital expenditure in 2007 will be less than that in 2006.
Liquidity and funding The maturity and currency prole of the groups borrowings are shown in Note 24 to the financial statements.
At 31 March 2006, 92% of the groups borrowings were drawn under long-term facilities, the earliest of which expires in March 2009, and there were undrawn committed facilities of 84.2m.
During the year, the group successfully renewed its securitisation facility.
The gross amount of the facility was increased by 5m to 105m, the actual amount available being dependent on certain debtor balances within the groups Home Shopping division.
At 31 March 2006 the amount drawn under this facility was 84.2m.
Treasury and risk management The groups treasury function seeks to reduce or eliminate exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
It does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
It operates policies and procedures which are periodically reviewed by the board and is subject to regular audit control reviews.
Interest rate risk management The groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of xed and oating rate borrowings, and by the use of cap and oor derivative arrangements.
The group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate uctuations.
At 15.2m, net interest costs were 2.5m higher than last year.
This principally reects increased interest costs arising from the 33.9m expenditure on acquisitions in the prior year.
The net interest charge was covered 4.2 times by Benchmark operating profit.
Currency risk management Approximately 30% of products sold through the groups Home Shopping division, and a growing proportion of those sold through the Educational Supplies division, are procured from the Far East, principally through the groups Far East buying ofce.
The currency of purchase for these goods is principally the US Dollar, with a proportion being in Hong Kong Dollars.
The group has a policy of hedging these foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward exchange purchase contracts.
Credit risk The groups exposure to credit risk is managed by dealing only with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties that could impact the performance of the group.
The group has a comprehensive system of risk management installed within all parts of its business to mitigate these risks as far as is possible, as described in detail in the Corporate Governance report on pages 16 and 17.
Home Shopping The Home Shopping division is signicantly impacted by movements in interest rates and the state of the wider consumer credit market.
Any adverse movement in interest rates could have a consequent adverse impact on the performance of the Home Shopping division.
The group undertakes appropriate interest rate hedging to mitigate this risk.
co. uk 7 The Home Shopping industry is witnessing increased penetration of the market by internet based businesses challenging the historical dominance of catalogue based Home Shopping businesses.
The Home Shopping division has responded to this challenge and is fully e-enabled, leaving it well placed to respond.
During the year under review, internet sales grew by 31% and now account for 23% of all orders within the Home Shopping division.
Educational Supplies The Educational Supplies division is inuenced by government spending on Education.
Any downward movement in government spending on Education may adversely impact the performance of the Educational Supplies division.
The March budget confirmed the continued spending priority of the government on Education such that this risk is not perceived to be significant in the short term.
The Gershon report issued by the government suggested that significant savings were anticipated to be generated from Education spending through more efficient procurement techniques.
There is a risk that this expectation may lead to more pressure on prices and margins with an adverse impact on business performance.
As the Educational Supplies division is a large, efficient supplier of educational products, this may widen the opportunities available to the company due to its scale and efficiency.
The NRS business is reliant on a small number of contracts for substantially all of its revenues.
There can be no guarantee that each of the contracts will be successfully renewed when the current contract terms expire.
However, the business is the market leader within the industry, and thereby it is well placed to renew its current contracts and successfully bid for any new contracts that are put to tender.
Finally, each of the groups trading divisions are dependent on third party carriers to distribute the groups products.
The group employs several carriers so as to spread this risk over a number of parties to avoid over dependence on a single carrier.
Restructuring costs The restructuring of the Educational Supplies division begun in the previous financial year was completed in the year.
This involved rationalising systems, premises and product ranges, and the separation of the Healthcare activities of the division.
The costs of this restructuring in the current period amounted to 16.1m and have been reported as an exceptional charge against the operating profit of the division.
Share of profit of associates The groups share of the profit generated by its associates increased from 0.8m to 1.9m, primarily reecting an improved contribution from Webb Group Limited, in which the group has a 30% interest.
Minority interests profit attributable to equity minority interests in 2006 of 0.5m relates to the share of profit attributable to the minority shareholders of Home Farm Hampers, net of the interim dividend paid to the shareholders during the year.
Minority interests in the balance sheet represent the minority share of the net assets of Home Farm Hampers.
Pensions The groups dened benefit pension schemes were in deficit at 31 March 2005.
To improve the funding of these schemes, the group made additional voluntary contributions totalling 2.3m during the year.
The deficit for all retirement benefit schemes was 12.6m net of tax relief at 31 March 2006.
The net deficit is equal to around 2.7% of the groups market capitalisation and can prudently be resolved over a period of time.
Accounting Policies and Standards The principal accounting policies used by the group are shown on pages 34 to 38.
There have been no changes to accounting policies beyond those set out in the IFRS Transition Document.
David Dutton Group Finance Director Benchmark measures are stated excluding amortisation of acquisition intangibles 0.9m 2005: 0.7m, restructuring costs 16.1m 2005: 3.3m, both in the educational supplies division, and profit on sale of land held for resale 2.9m 2005: nil in the Services division.
