14 Operating and Financial Review continued Security Services The security services business now comprises manned security, security systems and justice services.
Margins improved to 8.2%, mainly as a result WE PROVIDE SECURITY SOLUTIONS of good cost control.
We saw strong demand in TO A WIDE RANGE OF MARKETS, justice services, relating to increased volumes in our electronic monitoring contract and at HMP Parc.
THE In addition, we won several contracts for higher SERVICES WE PROVIDE INCLUDE margin project work during the fourth quarter, which is evidence of our high levels of customer service.
MANNED SECURITY, ELECTRONIC SECURITY, SECURITY CONSULTANCY, The management structures of UK security services In Europe, we produced organic and justice services were merged at the end of the ELECTRONIC MONITORING AND growth of 5.0%, with year to create a market facing, customer focused margins of 5.8%.
Growth in the UK will be achieved by targeting specific market segments and customers.
These target segments include retail, facilities management, events, aviation and rail & maritime.
Our security services model is built on our broad We will also use the public sector expertise of the In the UK & Ireland, range of specialist services, which enables us to justice services business as a platform for moving into margins improved to manage risk, security and safety for our customers.
the provision of services to new areas of government, 8.2%, mainly as a result This combined security solutions offering, under one for example defence, nuclear, the Foreign Office, the of good cost control.
organisational structure and in tandem with our courts, the Department for International Development diverse geographic reach, allows us to provide and UK embassies around the world.
The Netherlands had another exceptional year, In 2006, security services achieved organic growth of supported by a recovering economic environment, The Netherlands had 6.9% and margins were maintained at 6.2%, despite despite the renegotiation of our justice services another exceptional tough comparatives in 2005 and some pressure in contract in the prior year.
The business achieved year, supported by a Europe in the first half of the year.
double-digit organic growth and improved margins recovering economic environment.
and won several important contracts with multiIn Europe, we produced organic growth of 5.0%, national organisations, including a major international with margins of 5.8%, compared to 5.9% in 2005. oil & gas company.
The business was also successful There was modest organic growth in the UK & in winning significant project work, including some Ireland during the year, with negative growth at the training activity for the prison system and the half year, but growth in the last quarter of 2006 at transportation network.
Belgium continued to perform well and the business France delivered good organic growth, but a The Baltics had was successful in increasing the scope and activities of restructuring programme and on-going wage another strong year several important existing contracts, in particular for pressures had some impact on margins.
Nevertheless, with double-digit some high profile political organisations.
Denmark with a new management team in place, a high quality organic growth and achieved good organic growth and margins, customer base and a strong product offering, there is high margins.
supported by another strong performance from its much potential for margin progression in the future.
market-leading systems business which implemented We are currently preparing for a national licensing the countrys largest ever systems project during the programme, which we expect to be implemented year.
Sweden was impacted by some contract losses, at the end of 2007. but these were partially offset by several good Greece won several important contracts during the contract wins during the year.
A new management second half, partially offsetting some material contract team is in place and we are well positioned to take reductions earlier in the year, one of which had a advantage of our unique capability of offering sizeable associated termination cost.
We saw an customers combined security solutions.
The Baltics increase in labour costs during the year, as a result had another strong year with double-digit organic of new social security laws, but a new collective growth and high margins, driven by some large bargaining agreement has been signed and is contract wins with Finnish retailers and our wide expected to benefit the industry going forward.
range of services in the region.
16 Operating and Financial Review continued Security Services continued Despite a challenging socio-political environment resulting in higher levels of un-billed overtime for In the United States in Israel last year, good progress is being made in much of 2006.
Good management of risk, claims, we won some large finalising a new collective bargaining agreement.
incident losses and healthcare programmes mitigated contracts in the In addition, our electronic monitoring contract these overtime cost increases.
commercial sector continued to grow.
Our systems business had an together with additional Canada had a good year, supported by project excellent year as we maintained our position as the business from existing work won during the year and some large national customers.
sole supplier of integrated security solutions.
In 2007, contract wins in the fourth quarter, including with significant combined security services and cash services a major car manufacturer and a multi-national IT contracts have been won in Turkey and Romania, services organisation.
the latter for a key public sector institution.
We have had a presence in many developing markets North America delivered another year of good for nearly 50 years ensuring that, as well as being a Canada had a good organic growth and margins in 2006.
Excluding year, supported by global organisation, we have an expertise suited to turnover related to high levels of short term project work and local markets and an understanding of local cultural response work after Hurricane Katrina during 2005 some large national and social issues.
In these countries, where customers and early 2006, underlying organic growth was contract wins.
generally tend to buy an array of products and around 8% for the year as a whole, and particularly services, we are well placed to offer them a full range strong in the fourth quarter of 2006 at 10%, of security solutions to meet their requirements.
measured on the same basis.
Margins were maintained at 6.0%, despite the tough comparable In New Markets, organic growth continued to be numbers in 2005. strong at 16.1%, with margins increasing to 7.6%.
In New Markets, organic growth In the United States, whilst the market continued to The Middle East achieved 21% organic growth, with continued to be strong be very competitive, we won some large contracts margins of nearly 9%, as our market-leading position at 16.1%, with margins during the second half in the commercial sector in the region continued to have a positive impact.
together with additional business from existing On-going investment in countries like the UAE and customers.
We also achieved increased manning Saudi Arabia continues to benefit the group, as a levels at a number of nuclear power plants.
In the growing number of companies rely on us as a key government sector, we won a contract to provide supplier of a range of security and cash services.
security and transit services at the Mexican border.
Our contract in Iraq continued to perform in line Margins were maintained compared to the previous with our expectations.
year despite stronger pressure on labour resources Group 4 Securicor | Annual Report & Accounts 2006 17 Latin America saw 20% organic growth with margins Asia achieved exceptional organic growth of 17% Latin America improving to 5%.
There was excellent organic growth and good margin progression to 8%.
Our marketsaw 20% organic in Argentina driven by several important contract leading position and prominent reputation, as well growth with margins wins, including a large systems installation, and solid as our wide range of service offerings, continued improving to 5%.
margin progression, supported by an on-going focus to have a beneficial impact in India, where strong, on contract efficiency.
Guatemala generated doubledouble-digit growth and good margin improvements digit organic growth and margins, partly as a result of were achieved.
In Hong Kong we continued to an acquisition which was completed and integrated win a number of small to medium-sized contracts, during the year.
Colombia had a good year due to a ensuring the business is on a firm platform going Asia achieved strong performance from its toll service business and forward.
Macau performed extremely well as we exceptional organic as a result of increased corporate investment in the continued to see the benefits of the countrys growth of 17% local economy by both domestic and international burgeoning tourist industry.
The Caribbean region performed progression to 8%.
strongly as it continued to offer its services across an expanding geographic base.
Africa produced good organic growth of 9%, with margins of 8%.
South Africa, our largest business in the region, had a challenging year due to a restructuring of the business, completed at the start of the year, and the indirect impact of industry-wide strike action, which was settled during the first half.
A long term union agreement is now in place and the business is extremely well placed going forward.
Kenya, Botswana and Namibia produced excellent organic growth with solid margin improvements due to the businesses unique offering of combined security solutions.
Nigeria also had a strong year driven by our activities in the thriving local energy sector.
18 Operating and Financial Review continued Cash Services ATM and cash processing performed particularly WE ARE ONE OF THE LEADING The UK & Ireland well, and we continued to offer new services, such as GLOBAL PROVIDERS OF A RANGE saw continued good helpdesk monitoring and cash forecasting to existing growth and further customers.
Whilst attack levels increased on the prior OF CASH SERVICES SOLUTIONS, margin development, year, good progress is being made in reducing attacks supported by several INCLUDING THE TRANSPORTATION in certain regions and we continue to develop new significant contract wins.
technologies to reduce attack losses.
We have AND MANAGEMENT OF CASH, commenced the pilot of our retail cash management ATM MANAGEMENT, ENGINEERING solution, one of several significant growth opportunities going forward.
AND REPLENISHMENT AND FULLY Good margins were OUTSOURCED CASH CENTRE Good margins were maintained in the Netherlands maintained in the and the business achieved some important contract Netherlands and the MANAGEMENT.
renewals, winning 100% of all tendered existing business achieved contracts.
During the year, we also supported two some important Investment in technology is a key priority for us, contract renewals.
major existing customers with end-to-end ATM as it enables us to enhance our security procedures, solutions, during an intensive roll-out of their ATM improve our efficiency and drive product networks.
In Sweden, we saw a decline in attacks, development, all of which benefit our customers.
due to an increased investment in security, with all We can utilise our leading-edge technology, our wealth vehicles now using intelligent systems.
Our business of experience and our industry knowledge to support delivered further margin progression and we won There were strong our customers around the world, as different markets performances in a number of contracts during the year, the most progress through the various phases of development Sweden, Belgium, the significant being a major Swedish financial institution, in cash services.
This enables us to provide customers Baltics and Hungary.
There were strong with innovative cash solutions including the performances elsewhere in Europe during the year management of ATM networks, ATM engineering in particular Belgium, the Baltics and Hungary saw services and fully outsourced cash processing.
robust organic growth with good margin improvements.
In 2006, cash services produced strong organic growth of 7.6%, compared to 6.2% in the prior year, During December 2006, we reached agreement whilst margins increased to 10.1% from 9.8%.
to divest our cash services business in Germany.
The market had become increasingly challenging and Overall organic growth in Europe increased to 6.7%, the situation had developed into a distraction for from 5.8% in the prior year, with margins increasing divisional management.
Given the disadvantageous to 10.4%, from 9.7% in 2005.
The UK & Ireland impact the business was having on our divisional saw continued good growth and further margin results, we believe disposal was the most development, supported by several significant appropriate option.
contract wins with major retailers and banks.
Group 4 Securicor | Annual Report & Accounts 2006 19 Turnover PBITA Margins Organic At constant m m Growth exchange rates 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 Europe 661.7 619.4 68.7 59.9 10.4% 9.7% 6.7% North America 85.3 80.5 1.8 3.0 2.1% 3.7% 1.7% New Markets 126.0 99.1 17.4 15.4 13.8% 15.5% 18.5% Total Cash Services 873.0 799.0 87.9 78.3 10.1% 9.8% 7.6% Exchange differences 1.1 0.0 At actual exchange rates 873.0 797.9 87.9 78.3 In North America, there was organic growth of 2% The Middle East delivered another outstanding Asia saw good in Canada, compared to negative growth of 5% in the performance.
The region experienced double-digit organic growth and prior year, with margins decreasing to 2% from 3.7% organic growth and margins as a result of our marketmargin progression.
The market continued to be challenging due leading position and the on-going favourable economic to aggressive pricing from some of our competitors conditions in the region.
In particular, UAE, Saudi and profitability was impacted by increased operating Arabia and Qatar delivered exceptional results.
costs following a major robbery in 2005.
Nevertheless, Africa achieved another excellent year of organic we were awarded some important contract renewals growth, buoyed by a particularly strong performance from major Canadian banks and we are optimistic in Kenya.
Morocco had a challenging year, partly as about the medium term outlook.
a result of new legislation surrounding the cash The Middle East New Markets delivered strong organic growth of management market resulting in an asset write-down.
delivered an 18.5%, compared to 19.8% in the prior year, with In February 2007, we announced the acquisition of a outstanding margins of 14%, compared to 15% in 2005.
Asia majority stake in Fidelity Cash Management Services performance, while saw good organic growth and margin progression.
This acquisition provides the group with Africa achieved Our businesses continued to be successful in providing a cash services presence in South Africa for the another excellent year of organic growth.
customers with enhanced product offerings as the first time, as well as growing our exposure to other market dynamics in various countries, including markets, including Botswana, Namibia and Lesotho, Malaysia and Indonesia, become further advanced.
thereby increasing the potential for cross-selling In Hong Kong, whilst the market is less developed, opportunities in these markets.
we continue to benefit from being the only major provider of a full range of cash services.
