OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW With a full year of the Southeastern franchise, the continuing recovery of deregulated bus margins, London is often quoted as the UKs leading example of successful growth in bus use, yet the growth in aviation profitability the truth is that even more impressive results have consistently been achieved in the city of Brighton and Hove for over a decade and and continuing solid results in where almost all bus routes are provided on a commercial basis requiring no direct public funding.
the London regulated bus market, Roger French Managing Director prospects for 2007 are encouraging.
The companys market share increased SUMMARY signicantly during the year with the acquisition of Stagecoachs bus interests in the Lewes to Tunbridge Wells and Seaford to Eastbourne corridors.
The opportunity was 2006 2005 taken to improve coordination of services with m m better integration of tickets.
This development along with more high prole marketing of the Revenue 1,463.6 1,302.1 citys network of bus routes and continued Operating profit 97.8 97.0 partnership working with the local authorities Cash ow generated from operations 116.9 131.7 led to further organic growth in the business.
profit before exceptional items, 1 amortisation and tax 91.9 95.5 Earnings per share adjusted 118.4p 116.3p Dividends paid and proposed 56.0p 48.0p Before exceptional items and amortisation Underlying the lower profit before exceptional items, amortisation and tax compared with the previous year is a significant recovery in the second half of the year compared to the first.
In the first six months, operating profits were down from 50.9 million 2 in 2005 to 46.3 million this year.
In the second half, operating profits increased to 51.5 million from 46.1 million last year.
The year started with the pressure of high fuel costs in our bus division and the events of July 7 and 21 putting pressure on rail division volumes.
The group has recovered from these factors for the following reasons: The group was successful in winning the Integrated Kent railway franchise.
The operation of the resulting Southeastern rail franchise in the final quarter of our financial year delivered a 1 The Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company acquired the business interests of better than expected contribution.
Stagecoach in Lewes and Seaford in September 2005.
15 buses were acquired and 65 staff Rail volumes, particularly in Southern, recovered from the transferred under TUPE together with the consequences of the July events, partly through the achievement goodwill of three key bus routes.
of record operating performance, delivering the double benets 2 In conjunction with Brighton and Hove City of improved performance regime payments and improved Council, real time bus information is now passenger volumes.
available for all the citys 2,000 bus stops on a special website.
Continuing progress in our aviation operations which showed particular improvement in the second half of the year.
Cost management and restructuring in the deregulated bus division delivering benets in the second half.
With a full year of the Southeastern franchise, the continuing recovery of deregulated bus margins, the growth in aviation profitability and continuing solid results in the London regulated bus market, prospects for 2007 are encouraging.
6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 The share buy-back programme and effective management of the groups tax exposure have delivered growth in adjusted earnings per share despite the fall in profits.
Risk factors remain, particularly the continuing pressure on energy prices and the effects of terrorist activities disrupting the ow of, and demand for, transport services.
The group is, however, well In the year we consolidated the business positioned to meet these challenges.
with improved service quality, providing a springboard for development of the market DIVISIONAL REVIEW and the reversal of long term decline.
Peter Huntley Bus Managing Director Go North East provides a comprehensive network of urban, inter-urban and rural 2006 2005 services in Tyne & Wear and Durham.
m m We operate to all of the significant urban centres in the region including Newcastle, Revenue Sunderland, Middlesbrough, Durham, Continuing 450.0 412.9 Gateshead, Stockton, Hartlepool and South Acquisitions 10.0 Shields with a eet of almost 700 buses.
We work closely with stakeholders to contribute 460.0 412.9 to the evolving economy of the area.
1 Operating profit Continuing 47.2 51.6 Acquisitions 0.5 46.7 51.6 Margin Continuing 10.5% 12.5% Acquisitions 5.0 % Overall 10.2% 12.5% 2 Revenue growth Regulated 5.5% 7.9% Deregulated 19.4% 8.1% Volume growth Regulated miles operated 1.3% 0.6% Deregulated passenger journeys 12.2% 1.0 % Before exceptional items and amortisation 1 The R19 is an example of an innovative partnership which has allowed us to provide Examples of benets achieved to date new high quality services via new busway links in North Tyneside.
are a 1% reduction in absenteeism 2 Passenger numbers have grown with investment in our prime inter-urban links between Durham, Sunderland and levels over the year and improved Washington such as X20 and X50.
On a like for like basis, compared to last year, the cost of fuel increased by 9 million on top of a 6 million increase last year, decreasing further the margins posted for this division since a peak was achieved in the first six months of 2004 when margins reached 14.4%.
Excluding the acquisition of operations in Birmingham, however, margins increased from 10.3% in the first half to 10.9% in the second half of the year.
Margin progression is expected to continue in the current financial year, including Birmingham.
A number of initiatives have been instigated to improve margins.
As well as actions to address fuel consumption, mainly related to vehicle engineering, fuel technology and driver training, initiatives have been, and are being, put in place to reduce utility costs and improve labour productivity.
Examples of benets achieved to date are a 1% reduction in absenteeism levels over the year and improved rostering productivity.
7 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Growth prospects are further underpinned by recent acquisitions.
Specic actions have also been taken, particularly The acquisition of two Black Country based in the deregulated area of business, on a company by company basis: bus companies will give the group an excellent springboard into the expanding market that is Integration of the groups South Coast operations following the the West Midlands.
During the past six months acquisition of Southern Vectis in June 2005 saving over 1.3 million we have concentrated on restoring a good level of operational robustness and moving of overheads on an annualised basis.
towards integrating the two businesses.
Network revisions on the South Coast, particularly the Isle of Philip Kirk Wight, Southampton, Poole and Bournemouth, delivering volume Managing Director growth on reduced mileage operated.
Go West Midlands operate a eet of over 200 buses throughout the West Midlands Completion of the Metrobus Depot expansion programme conurbation and in surrounding shire counties.
delivering greater capacity with much reduced costs expected Many bus route contracts are provided for into the new financial year.
Centro together with a small network of high frequency radial routes to and from Investment in new vehicles linked with network revisions Birmingham City Centre.
in Oxford delivering passenger growth for the first time in 1 several years.
Quality improvements in the North East stabilising patronage linked with a new commercial strategy designed to deliver selective growth at lower cost in the current year.
1 During the year volumes have increased.
Excluding acquisitions made in the current and prior years, like for like deregulated bus passenger journeys increased by 0.7%.
Growth momentum was particularly strong towards the end of the year, the principal examples 2 being as follows: During the last month of the year Southern Vectis achieved 16% volume growth on the Isle of Wight compared to the previous year, driven by the revised network and the new free concessionary fare scheme.
2 Despite a 10% reduction in mileage in the Poole, Bournemouth and Christchurch conurbation, patronage was up 23% year on year.
1 The garage at Tividale near Dudley is one In Oxford the patronage increase, compared to the previous year, of two operational sites at which our local bus was 5.7% in the last quarter.
12 coaches operated on behalf of National Express are also based Growth prospects are further underpinned by recent at Tividale.
acquisitions: a new operating base in Birmingham has been established 2 Birmingham City Centre is the hub of current operations.
The redevelopment of the Bull Ring with the acquisition of Birmingham Coach Company Limited in includes the futuristic Selfridges store seen December 2005 and the business assets of Probus Management Limited here behind one of over 100 low oor easy in March 2006: the acquisition of Hants & Dorset Trim Limited in access buses in the present eet.
January 2006 in the Southampton area: and the acquisition from Stagecoach by the Brighton & Hove subsidiary of operations around Lewes.
As part of the North East rationalisation programme the group also sold its operations in the South Durham area.
Other than in Birmingham, these actions have helped support the improvement in the divisions second half profitability.
In Birmingham, initial start-up issues, particularly in upgrading engineering standards to the quality requirements of the group, have been detrimental to profitability in the short term.
These initial stages are now complete and plans are being developed to deliver profitable and growing operations in the key West Midlands conurbation, the biggest deregulated bus market in the country.
8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 Continuing property investment is being made to support growth.
As well as for Metrobus, the group has built new depot facilities in Brighton and is about to start a project in the North East to develop a new super depot replacing three existing depots, funded by property disposal proceeds.
Property disposal proceeds have been realised on the Isle of Wight, allowing the development of a new bus station in Newport.
Investment upgrades to the depots in Birmingham will take place this year, including expenditure to allow the re-opening of the Redditch depot, mothballed by the previous Probus management.
The Blandford site in Dorset, referred to last year, now has planning consent and The financial year has been a particularly will be developed shortly while expansion plans are in hand at the good one for London Central & Eastleigh depot in Southampton.
We successfully retained all of our existing route contracts and won an additional six.
The company now stands at its largest ever in terms of revenue, By the end of the year, the mileage operated and number of buses in service.
It has also produced the best ever groups London operations were operating performance in terms of both mileage operated and quality standards.
at their largest scale to date.
John Trayner Managing Director A major factor in this success London Central & London General operate bus route contracts on behalf of Transport for London.
Under the Mayors Transport Plan had been the achievement of buses have been a success in London and this year there was further growth in passenger record operating performance.
London Central & London General have contributed to this success with the delivery of good quality services.
They have The London regulated market has been the main beneciary put quality of operation and an investment in 1 of the development of the Metrobus depot capacity.
Whilst the table training staff at the very heart of their business and as a consequence have dominated London on page 7 shows volume growth in the regulated market of only 1.3%, Buses quality league tables for the past year.
this was much more marked in the second half of the year.
By the end 1 of the year the peak vehicle requirement of the groups overall London operations had increased by 7.5% compared to the start of the year and this growth in volume will be reected in mileage operated in the coming year.
This trend is in line with that predicted in last years report and by the end of the year, the groups London operations were at their largest scale to date.
A major factor in this success had been the achievement of record operating performance.
This has been reected 2 for most of the year in London Central and London General generally being top of the TfL performance league tables in the critical areas of mileage operated before losses due to trafc and excess waiting time.
2 The benefit not only underpins the groups credibility and ability to win contracts but has also delivered 11 million in quality incentive bonuses 2005 9 million.
It has also allowed the groups businesses to take advantage, under the quality incentive regime, of extending all its eligible contracts for a further two years at the end of their normal five year period.
The regulated market, however, remains competitive and 3 management remains focused on the cost reduction measures noted above.
As expected last year, operating margins continued to reduce in the year leading to a reduction in absolute profit despite the modest 1 Enviro 400 First standard buses in the growth in volume.
In the current year, growth in volume is expected to country to meet Euro 4 emission standards.
offset a further fall in margins to what is expected to be a sustainable Used on Routes 196 and 37, operating from Stockwell and Peckham Garages respectively, level in the longer term.
they reinforce London Central & London The growth of overall bus operating margins in the current Generals position at the vanguard of year is, therefore, expected to be delivered entirely by improvement in environmentally friendly operations the deregulated bus market.
The principal risk in achieving this growth 2 Diesel-electric hybrid buses trialled at London Central.
Working in partnership is a further material escalation in the price of fuel.
No hedging is in place with London Buses, it is hoped to minimise for the current year.
Every penny of movement in the cost of a litre of 2 CO emissions and lead the way to ULS diesel alters divisional costs by approximately 1 million per annum.
The group constantly monitors the price of fuel and seeks opportunities to put in place appropriate instruments to provide a hedge against future fuel price volatility.
Given the high fuel price and premium required for forward cover, however, the group has not entered into fuel hedges in the recent past.
9 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Rail 2006 2005 m m Revenue 744.9 617.9 Operating profit 42.5 39.9 Metrobus not only relocated one depot Margin 5.7% 6.5% and rebuilt another, it further expanded its activities by 1.5 million miles.
In the year the Passenger income growth emphasis will be rmly on building the quality of operation without the distraction of Southern 7.1% 6.1% upgrading our infrastructure.
Thameslink 5.3% 2.2% Alan Eatwell Managing Director Volume growth Southern 2.8% 4.6% Metrobus was established in 1983 with Thameslink 8.8% 0.8 % six vehicles at Orpington in Kent and had expanded to some 200 vehicles when acquired Before exceptional items and amortisation by the Go-Ahead Group plc in 1999.
The company now operates a eet of over 360 The passenger income and volume growth gures for the three months of Southeastern buses while employing over 1000 members operation are not included in the above table as comparable gures for last year are not available of staff.
Metrobus operates in large parts of Surrey, East Sussex and West Sussex and also operates bus contracts for Transport It is indeed gratifying that Southern for London.
Metrobus is the operator of the innovative Fastway Guided Bus System in Crawley.
was recently awarded best rail 1 company in the National Transport Awards.
Passengers are clearly enjoying the improvements with the customer satisfaction rating reaching 81% from 71% last year.
2 This was a very successful year for the groups rail businesses, despite the initial difficulties following the events of July 7 and 21.
The fate of Thameslink was already determined before the start of the year but transfer management has proved successful.
In Southern, superb operating performance and consequent volume growth provided an excellent result.
The Southeastern franchise has started well.
By the second half, Thameslink had recovered its volume growth pattern and this, combined with tight cost control, excellent operating performance, and the asset transfer values achieved at the end of the franchise, meant that the result for the period to the end of March was ahead of expectations this time last year.
1 The second route of the Fastway Guided Bus System commenced operation on 28 August 2005.
Building on the success of the first route approximately 5.5 million passenger journeys have been made on both routes.
2 Metrobus has invested around 5 million retting the Croydon building to create a fully functioning depot complete with eight purpose built engineering bays allowing vehicles to be serviced efficiently.
10 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 In Southern, record operating performance was achieved.
The public performance measure was showing over 90% of trains running on time by the year-end.
The huge investment in new rolling stock and support facilities is helping to deliver this and has had several benets: The performance regime has delivered 10.7 million net benefit compared to the previous year.
A year of significant improvement, as investment in new buses and AVL equipment The 5% discount given to season ticket holders as compensation paid off.
In the last quarter, passenger for the companys past underperformance was removed in the numbers were up nearly 6% as service quality and reliability reached new heights.
year for the first time since 2001.
Philip Kirk The quality of product now being delivered is supporting growth Managing Director in passenger journeys.
Oxford Bus Company provides a network of high frequency local bus services in the central Oxfordshire sub-region, specically in Oxford, The group continues to pursue Kidlington, Abingdon and Didcot.
It operates Park & Ride services into Oxford city, and high opportunities when attractive frequency coach services to central London and Heathrow and Gatwick airports.
franchises are up for re-tender.
1 Whilst the overall growth in passenger journeys was relatively modest, this reects the initial effects of July 7 and 21.
In the final third of the year, volume was up by 5%.
It is indeed gratifying that Southern was recently awarded best rail company in the National Transport Awards.
Both Southern and Thameslink were subject during the year, 2 to profit sharing regimes with the Department for Transport DfT.
This mitigates the full benefit of the years achievements being realised in these results.
This does not apply to the new Southeastern franchise where a revenue share mechanism is in place, which has not been triggered to date.
The new Southeastern franchise has had a number of challenges.
To date these have been robustly tackled and in the last quarter the business made a good contribution to the groups result beyond plan.
Key issues being addressed are organisational structure, where significant 1 Investment in new technology has been a cost benets will be realised in the near future, and ensuring that key element of the improved performance customers can and do pay for travel.
Investment in staff and equipment in at Oxford Bus.
A partnership with Oxfordshire the retail environment is moving at a pace.
County Council has brought Automatic Vehicle Location to every bus, enabling control staff The principal risk for Southern and Southeastern in the last to pro-actively manage services in a quarter of the current year and beyond is the 65% prospective price congested city.
Compared to the current price the 2 Eleven new high specication Mercedes buses annualised cost of this increase to the division is 21 million.
Discussions were added to the Oxford Bus eet in 2006.
There was a double-digit increase in use on are taking place with industry and regulatory bodies to explore how this service City2 following their introduction.
Management actions to boost revenue and reduce costs in all areas are also being investigated to ensure that the effects of the traction electricity are mitigated as far as possible.
This issue, together with other cost increases and subsidy changes, is expected to affect the results of the division in the current year.
As seen in July 2005, terrorist action, or equivalent incidents affecting the rail network, can have a material impact on future results and the group remains vigilant.
The group continues to pursue opportunities when attractive franchises are up for re-tender.
This approach has proved highly successful to date and has meant that third party costs expensed in the income statement for bidding in the year were limited to 1.4 million 2005 1.3 million.
As well as the success in winning the Integrated Kent franchise, the group has been short listed for the TfL London Rail Concession.
In the current year the group has also submitted prequalication submissions for new franchises in the Midlands region.
11 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Aviation services 2006 2005 m m Revenue 258.7 271.3 Operating profit 8.6 5.5 Margin 3.3% 2.0% Revenue growth General handling 2.9 % 5.0% Cargo 10.4% 6.0% Car parking 7.0 % 22.0% Volume growth General handling aircraft turnarounds 5.8 % 4.0% Whilst each of the businesses in the Go South Cargo tonnes 6.8% 4.0% Coast grouping face ongoing challenges of cost Car parking transaction volume 3.1 % 51.0% pressures, we are encouraged by the growth in patronage which is being achieved where Before exceptional items and amortisation quality has been raised and services have been simplied to stimulate travel by new users.
In the general handling business, the reduction in turnarounds Alex Carter reects the strategy to increase focus on the full service airline sector Managing Director away from high volume but low margin charter and low cost sector.
Go South Coast comprises six public transport The result has been that ground handling revenue has reduced but the businesses.
Wilts & Dorset, Solent Blue Line value per turnaround has increased by 5%.
This, combined with a strategy and Southern Vectis provide local bus services to improve efficiency by restructuring the cost base, has increased throughout Wiltshire, Dorset and Hampshire, in the Southampton urban area and on the operating margins in general handling from 0.5% in 2005 to 1.75% Isle of Wight.
Damory and Tourist Coaches in the last year.
This modest success disguises the improving trend as operate a mixture of coach and bus services the year progressed.
Recent contract wins at Heathrow, where the whilst Hants & Dorset Trims business is in the refurbishment, painting and trimming of vehicles.
group is the leading independent handler, of Emirates and South African Airways will further support the growth in profitability.
The division is 1 also well positioned to support airline outsourcing strategies.
Current opportunities are being investigated with a number of major airlines.
There have been further successes in establishing new contracts with airport authorities at Cardiff for baggage handling and Aberdeen and Durham Tees Valley for new ramp operations.
The group is also prominent as the first handling agent of the new A380 aircraft at Heathrow.
The first airline expected to deploy these aircraft at Heathrow in the current year is an aviance customer.
The cargo area was the most rewarding activity in the last 2 year.
The large volume increase was a combination of organic growth from successful existing customers and new and recent customer wins.
These include SAS at Heathrow and Etihad at Manchester.
This has meant improved utilisation of operating infrastructure and margins have improved from 6.4% for 2005 to 9.4% in the last year.
ft. warehouse is currently being built at Heathrow to start up operations in April 2007.
Negotiations are nearing completion to pre-sell all this space.
The sector remains competitive and subject to volatility in 3 customer strategy, world economy and events, including terrorism.
In recent months customers have been trimming their schedules to optimise returns and cargo growth has slowed.
Although the recent terrorist threat will put further pressure on consumer demand, the division is well placed to balance consequent losses with gains driven by continuous improvement of operational quality and efficiency.
1 New Mercedes Citaro buses to more specication, together with simpler timetables, have brought significant passenger growth to the Canford Heath routes.
2 Southampton is the main cruise port in the UK.
During the summer Solent Blue Line provide a fascinating tour of the docks by open top buses.
3 The re-branding of Southern Vectis has added a refreshed image and simpler network, helping to increase passenger volumes on the Isle of Wight.
12 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 The cargo area was the most rewarding activity in the last year.
The large volume increase was a This franchise represents an opportunity to revitalise the railway in this part of the UK, combination of organic growth from to contribute to growth that Kent is set to experience over the next ten years, and to deliver a growing railway for a growing region.
successful existing customers and Charles Horton Managing Director new and recent customer wins.
Southeastern took over the operation of the The Meteor car parking business has held its own in profitability Integrated Kent Franchise IKF on 1 April 2006.
The IKF includes routes on the national terms against the background of a declining airport business.
Airports rail network throughout Kent, parts of East remain a dominant area of business for the company with over 80% Sussex and south east London.
It will also of revenue being derived here.
However, the landscape has been changing include new high speed commuter services from St Pancras making use of the Channel with airport authorities seeking to improve their revenue from car Tunnel Rail Link CTRL from 2009.
Hitachiparking operations which, in most cases, is the leading source of airport built trains designed for both the CTRL and revenue.
This has resulted in lost business in Edinburgh, Newcastle conventional railway lines will bring greatly improved journey times in parts of Kent.
and short-stay at Stansted and a change in arrangements at Heathrow to a management contract from the previous concession, all of which 1 has contributed to the 7.0% fall in revenue.
The value of Meteors diversication, referred to last year, is now proving of benefit, if not in replacing volume, in replacing profits with higher margin business.
In the current year this re-focusing will continue with growth of the airport valet parking product, rail contracts, retail parking, security, technology and other related activities around the core business.
The progress being made in the division, as a whole, is illustrated by comparing the financial performance of the respective half year 2 results.
In the first half profits were the same as the previous year at 3.7 million.
In the second half profits increased to 4.9 million from 1.8 million in the previous year.
The prospects for the division in the current year are encouraging.
ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL MATTERS Exceptional items The exceptional items recorded are mainly in respect of 1 Enhanced safety and security will be an redundancy and reorganisation costs.
As noted in the respective important feature of the franchise.
Rail Enforcement Ofcers provide a strong, visible, divisional reviews, significant reorganisations have taken place in the reassuring presence for passengers.
aviation division and the South Coast bus operations.
Actual and planned 2 Improving communication with passengers redundancies on the new Southeastern rail franchise had either been and stakeholders is an area the company will completed by the year end or detailed plans had been communicated to focus on.
A Stakeholder Advisory Board will be established in the coming year to ensure the workforce in respect of redundancies to take place in September constructive engagement with passengers this year.
All these costs have been provided for in these financial and employees.
In the Metrobus subsidiary significant additional costs were incurred during the depot restructuring programme referred to above and these costs have been treated as exceptional due to the infrequency of such a re-organisation.
Separately, the group has concluded a number of property disposals in the year which yielded a net profit of 1.2 million.
The sales were principally of former bus depot sites.
13 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Goodwill and intangible amortisation Amortisation in the year is in respect of goodwill, and intangible assets associated with the Southern and Southeastern railway franchises, as well as amortisation on computer software costs.
Amortisation also includes that of the intangible assets associated with pensions accounting in the railway companies.
The Southern team will continue to build on the business improvements made over the past Pensions few years to ensure that we become the natural choice to win the franchise in 2009.
Pensions have been accounted for in accordance with IAS19.
Chris Burchell IAS19 has been applied to the rail schemes in accordance with Managing Director the approach adopted by other railway operators.
This accounting The investment Southern is making in treatment applies a franchise adjustment to reduce the full actuarial its infrastructure, its passengers and its deficit or surplus to recognise that individual train operating companies people is being rewarded with measurable improvements in its business performance, are exposed to pension deficits or surpluses only in so far as they which is contributing to Southerns are expected to be funded by the train operating companies over growing reputation as one of the best the anticipated period of franchise ownership.
Any net liability or train operators in the UK.
asset thereby recognised at the start of a franchise is matched by a 1 corresponding intangible asset or deferred income balance so that the balance sheet effect is initially neutral.
The respective balances are amortised over the period of the franchise and as a consequence, over the franchise as a whole, the net charge for pensions to the profit and loss account reects the equivalent of employer cash contributions paid.
Under the terms of IAS19, the rate of net charge to profit is determined by actuaries at the commencement of the respective financial year.
Material deviations from the actuarial assumptions used in calculating the charge are dealt with through the consolidated 2 statement of recognised income and expense.
In the last year, the particular feature consequently not recorded in the profit and loss account is the high returns on the groups non-rail pension assets over and above the return assumed in the actuarial calculations.
In the year the additional return amounted to 29.9 million.
This is the principal reason for the fall in the non-rail IAS19 pension deficit from 101.1 million to 87.5 million.
The most material change in actuarial assumptions this year is to increase mortality rates.
Taxation 1 The Mayor of Brighton and Hove, Bob Carden ofcially launches the new Brighton to Ashford In comparison to last year, under IFRS, the tax charge has direct service at the start of its inaugural been materially reduced from 27.4% to 23.2%.
Part of the reduced journey.
The journey time for the service has been reduced by 35 minutes.
rate against the standard rate of 30% is due to settlement of 2 The programme to increase cycle storage outstanding issues at the end of last year with HMRC.
The effective facilities at Southern stations continued with management of asset finance arrangements has also delivered benefit.
the majority now equipped with cycle In 2005, under UK GAAP, the tax rate was recorded at 23.4%.
The principal reason for the difference is that last year the tax deduction available in respect of the groups share schemes was deemed a permanent tax difference.
Under IFRS, the tax deductions for scheme costs recognised under IFRS2 are dealt with through deferred tax.
Dividends The total dividend for the year of 56p, comprising this years interim dividend paid and proposed final dividend, represents an increase of 17% over last year.
The dividend cover is now 2.1 times adjusted earnings compared to 2.4 times last year.
The boards stated intention remains to reduce cover to 2.0 times by the year ending 2007.
14 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 Cash ow Cash generated from operations was 116.9 million 2005 131.7 million.
The result for the year is distorted by cash ow movements in connection with the transfer of the Southeastern rail franchise.
In particular, cash has been absorbed by the rapid build-up of working capital from the date of transfer, as the transfer of franchise assets excluded debtors.
This was somewhat compensated by cash that was received at the date of transfer of the franchise as compensation for the transfer of net creditors from the previous franchisee.
Capital expenditure was, again, high at 70.9 million Following the appointment of a new 2005 72.3 million.
New bus expenditure amounted to 50.2 management team significant progress has been made during the year in the key business million 2005 29.6 million.
This was higher than expected at the areas of health and safety, operations and start of the year because of the success in winning new regulated financial performance.
bus contracts in the London market.
Arthur Dodgson A significant feature in the year has been the share Managing Director buy-back programme in which the group has invested 52.6 million We provide outsource service provisions to 2005 14.1 million in acquiring 3,204,000 shares, representing the airline and newspaper publishing industries 6.2% of the issued share capital.
The programme has continued in including ground handling, passenger check in, lounges, ticket administration, cargo handling the current year and shareholders will be asked to renew the and newspaper distribution and administration.
authority at the forthcoming annual general meeting to enable the 1 programme to be extended.
Shares held in treasury as a consequence of buy-backs to date represent 9.3% of the issued share capital.
Over the year as a whole, the group has increased net borrowing by 75.4 million 2005 31.9 million.
In addition to capital expenditure and share buy-backs, the group has continued to be active in its acquisition policy and has absorbed further cash through its dividend policy.
Balance sheet Year end net debt amounts to 138.8 million 2005 63.4 million.
Excluding restricted rail cash deposits, the gure is 199.5 million 2005 146.5 million.
In addition, there are operating lease commitments, banking bonds and guarantees set out in note 19 to the financial statements, and the pension deficit, set out in note 22 which affect the groups effective debt capacity.
Other elements of the balance sheet have been materially affected by acquisitions and transfer of rail franchises, in the year.
In particular, Southeastern has led to material increases in the carrying values of various categories of asset and liability, as referred 2 to in note 25.
After recognising distributions to shareholders in the form of dividends of 25.3 million and share buy-back of 52.6 million, net assets have not materially changed in the year.
Treasury management policies The groups policies in relation to funding and risk management are set out in note 23 to the financial statements.
1 We have invested in the provision of a new state of the art occupational health centre for Accounting policies and international financial reporting our staff at Heathrow to treat musculoskelatal standards IFRS injuries and improve employee welfare.
2 aviance and Plane Handling are at the As required under IFRS1, First Time Adoption of International forefront of technological investment in the Financial Reporting Standards, note 26 to the financial statements industry with new equipment already in place sets out a reconciliation of net assets, profit and cash ow under UK to support their leading role as service providers for the new A380 aircraft GAAP to IFRS.
As reported last year, the material issues affecting at Heathrow.
the groups profit are in relation to pensions IAS19 and share based payments IFRS2 both of which have resulted in increased charges to group profit compared to UK GAAP.
15 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Taking a responsible approach to business is an established part of our group culture and has been since the earliest days of our formation.
A responsible approach to business makes business sense.
The delivery of profits in line with forecast, It directly contributes to achieving our business objectives, but also despite a challenging year, illustrates the value reects our commitment to operating in accordance with both our of the diverse portfolio.
The airport sector group values and in line with the principles of sustainable development.
continued to represent the main focus of activity.
Our performance on issues such as service reliability, safety and security are among the factors that help us grow patronage on our Stephen T urner Managing Director buses and trains.
At the same time, concerns over environmental issues and changes to the global climate have never been more acute.
Meteor operates nationwide under a number In a devolved group, we recognise the importance of shared of different brands, particularly at airports where it provides more than one service.
values and principles of working.
This is why we have adopted a common Brands include Pink Elephant Parking, Park 1, set of corporate values supported by a responsibility grid developed eparking and Chauffeured Parking Services.
following a structured programme of consultation with passengers, 1 employees and other stakeholders.
The grid identied the key responsibility factors that inuence the use of buses and train services and those issues that stakeholders expect us to manage and mitigate our impact: Safety and security Reliability, convenience and punctuality Accessibility for all Affordability 2 Local air pollution and congestion Emissions of greenhouse gases, particularly relating to fuel and electricity We measure, manage and report against these factors and issues.
This year, we have changed the way that we manage corporate responsibility by integrating the setting of targets for social and environmental performance into our wider business and financial 1 Meteor was awarded the airside-bussing planning process.
The board also continues to review a common set of contract at London City Airport.
key business performance indicators at each company board meeting.
2 A major ret of Meteor Pink Elephant Business In line with our devolved structure, each of our operating Car Park at Heathrow proved very successful.
companies sets its own corporate responsibility objectives and targets.
For a second year, each of our operating companies has also published a local report based on their performance against our responsibility grid.
These operating company responsibility reports are a companion to the executive summary group report.
We were the first group in the public transport sector to report directly to local stakeholders and continue to be committed to innovate and lead our sector across all aspects of the responsibility agenda.
We benchmark our performance in a range of ways.
We commissioned an independent study from the TAS Partnership that confirmed that Go-Ahead leads in having the most environmentally friendly bus eets in Britain.
We also enjoyed external recognition by rising 15 places in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, a voluntary initiative rating company effectiveness at measuring, managing and reporting on responsible business practice.
For the second year, we were the highest ranked public transport company among those that participated.
The group also retained its position in the FTSE4Good UK Index, which comprises companies that meet minimum corporate responsibility standards.
A hard copy executive summary environmental and social report is available from the group or can be downloaded from our website.
A detailed web-based companion report containing full details of the environmental and social responsibility performance of the group will be available later in the year on the groups website at: www.
16 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 1 July 2006
