Land Mobile Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 06 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 07 Land Mobile Broadband for a mobile planet CNN in action In 2006, revenues from the land mobile sector were US$116.1m, a decrease of US$5.7m, or 4.7%, compared with 2005.
Although revenues from data services were slightly lower compared to last year, due to a reduction in traffic in the Middle East and competition from fixed satellite operators, we have been very encouraged by the consistent performance of our R-BGAN service and growing contribution from our new BGAN service.
In the last quarter of 2006, with the contribution from these two services, our land data revenues showed an increase that more than offset the increases in volume discounts we would normally see in the fourth quarter of the year.
2006 was the first time we reported BGAN performance figures and it was promising for us to report how the service is growing.
One characteristic of the BGAN service is that we receive subscription revenues per terminal, which provides a regular revenue flow.
Already we are seeing different usage patterns developed.
It depends upon situational use but we often see multiple users accessing their office LANS and making calls through one terminal whereas others may use the service as a back-up, ensuring that communication channels will be available if needed.
BGAN has been deployed in more than 175 countries to date, with uses ranging from live CNN and BBC news reports in Asia Pacific to storm chasers in the southern US.
Since its launch, our BGAN service has been Inmarsats fastest growing service over its first year of introduction and with 2007 as the first full year contribution from the two Inmarsat-4 satellites, we are very excited by the prospects for the year ahead.
We have seen BGAN used more widely in our core markets and deeper penetration in new markets.
Our services are delivered to end customers by a world-class network of innovative distribution partners.
Eight new BGAN distribution partners were appointed during 2006, bringing the total to 16, and we believe that these new partners will help to drive demand from new customers in new market segments.
Our market share of voice revenues in the land mobile sector continued to reduce during 2006 due to increasing competition from other handheld satellite operators and, in some areas, from terrestrial operators expanding their coverage area.
There was a small revenue contribution in the last quarter from the handheld service we now operate through the ACeS collaboration.
As a result of these arrangements, we not only began servicing on a wholesale basis an active base of handheld terminals, but we now also have a talented and capable workforce in Batam, Indonesia.
We expect revenues from our handheld business to grow strongly over the coming years, over an enlarged footprint in 2007, and even more widely at the end of 2008 when it will be extended further over the Inmarsat-4 satellites.
We believe that our entry to the handheld market extends and enhances our portfolio offering and positions us to offer users continuity of service on the Inmarsat-4 satellites well beyond the next decade on a global basis.
This offers clear service benefits to customers compared to other handheld operators.
Land Mobile Overview Land Sector MSS revenue 2006 Land revenue 2006 17% 24% 76% 83% Land 24% Voice 17% Other 76% Data 83% Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 06 CNN in action As every journalist knows, news becomes CNN used BGAN to file hundreds of live less newsworthy as time passes, so filing video reports during the recent conflict in copy fast and getting your version into the Middle East.
The use of BGAN gave print before the competition does is CNN the added flexibility to move across crucial.
This rule applies equally to and report from all over the region, television news, where broadcasters giving the network a distinct reporting compete to be first on air with live advantage, said Maddox.
While CNN footage from the latest war zone or carried live shots over BGAN from disaster.
But here the process is not as wherever their reporters were located, simple as for print reporters, who can other networks were reduced to doing always file copy as long as they have phoners, losing the key element of live access to a telephone.
The television images as the conflict was unfolding.
news reporter requires heavy-duty He continued, Due to the combination technology, such as a microwave or of our impressive newsgathering satellite connection, to broadcast outside operation and our mastery of BGAN the studio and into our living rooms.
technology, no other network could match CNNs manpower.
The arrival of our BGAN service has the potential to kick start a revolution in While basic news priorities never television coverage of breaking news.
change, the race to be first with a story The service presents a compelling is becoming hotter than ever.
Because proposition to the professional of BGAN, the excuse we couldnt get broadcaster, because the terminals are a satellite link no longer applies.
small and as easily portable as a laptop Broadcast-quality live digital video, at computer.
BGAN also has two core video a few minutes notice, is now part of the options for broadcasters: live video, via picture for professional newsgatherers streaming IP or ISDN, and store-andmaking newsgathering and live reporting forward video via streaming IP, ISDN more immediate than ever before.
or standard IP, giving great flexibility to the broadcaster, depending on how aggressive their deadlines may be.
CNN, one of the worlds leading broadcasters, has been an early and enthusiastic adopter of live video over IP and of the BGAN service.
We have successfully and consistently filed more live video over IP than any other news organisation and have established CNN as the leader in live reporting with BGAN 1BGANs combination of compact size technology, said Tony Maddox, senior and advanced functionality presents a vice-president of news operations for compelling proposition to professional CNN International.
1 Aeronautical Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 08 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 09 Aeronautical Healthy growth and in-flight to Broadband French Navy surveillance initiative During 2006, revenues from the aeronautical sector were US$30.7m, an increase of US$8.0m, or 35.2%, compared with 2005.
Throughout the whole of 2006 we saw a healthy growth in our classic aeronautical services and a continued increase in demand for our Swift 64 high-speed data service, which targets the government aircraft and business jet markets as well as being used by commercial airlines.
The installed base of Swift 64 terminals continued its strong growth during the year with each quarter eclipsing the preceding quarter in numbers of new installations.
Inmarsat avionics from our hardware partners have become factory options for a range of airframe manufacturers in business aviation and air transport and have also become standard equipment on certain aircraft.
During the year, there have also been announcements from our hardware partners of the first factory inclusion of Inmarsat avionics on commercial narrow body aircraft and we expect the first airlines to start to use the services this year.
Looking ahead, our focus is to ensure that our SwiftBroadband service will be commercially available in the second half of 2007 and we believe that we are on track to achieve this.
The first early entry avionics took to the air at the end of 2006 and all the major avionics manufacturers are now developing SwiftBroadband avionics.
SwiftBroadband will initially be available over the two Inmarsat-4 satellites that are already operational and after the launch of the third Inmarsat-4 satellite, the service will achieve near global coverage.
SwiftBroadband will provide cost efficient, always-on aircraft connectivity which will enable new applications and usage that has not been possible to date.
An example of this is the trials of in-flight use of mobile phones and other communication devices such as PDAs and Blackberrys being conducted by our distribution partners.
For existing Swift 64 users, SwiftBroadband will provide a natural migration path to IP based services and the benefits this will bring.
Aeronautical Overview Aero Sector MSS revenue 2006 Aeronautical revenue 2006 6% 16% 84% 94% Aeronautical 6% Voice 16% Other 94% Data 84% Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 08
