Financial Review 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The year ended 30 April 2006 was a challenging period for the Group... 13 Operationally we have seen progress in developing some of our international markets, however, this has been overshadowed by the delays and complexities surrounding the National Programme for IT NPfIT in England.
Overview The year ended 30 April 2006 was a challenging period for the Group.
Operationally we have seen progress in developing some of our international markets, however, this has been overshadowed by delays and complexities surrounding the NPfIT in England, which severely affected financial performance in the second half of the year.
Accounting policies The Group's financial statements have been prepared following International Financial Reporting LORENZO in action Standards IFRS for the first time, implementing a 01 change in revenue recognition policy announced in Scott Waldron is unwell but can't June 2006 and adopting a new treatment of certain work out why.
Feeling tired and thirsty all the time, he's been contract financing activities.
finding it difficult to get through The Group reported under the new IFRS regulations a full day's work.
Tender loving care makes a difference of for the first time when it announced its unaudited course, but it's not the full results for the half year to 31 October 2005.
He's reached a stage for the full year ended 30 April 2006 have been where there's no alternative but prepared and fully audited under IFRS for the first to call an ambulance.
time and a reconciliation between previous Continued on page 24. standards and IFRS is included in note 31 to the accounts.
The adjustment relating to contract financing obligations was not reflected in the unaudited half year results.
The key differences that affect iSOFT are as follows: arrangements be recognised on the balance sheet.
This increases the liabilities recorded at Development expenditure - the Group previously 30 April 2006 by 58 million to a total of expensed all development expenditure as 62 million and increases the finance costs for incurred, under UK GAAP.
IFRS requires that, the year then ended, as detailed in note 31. providing certain criteria are met, such expenditure should be capitalised and amortised The Board considers that a change is taking place in over its useful life commencing from the date at the nature of the Group's business, with an which the asset is available for use.
increasing proportion of sales being derived from larger, more complex and long-term contracts Goodwill amortisation - the Group previously requiring a period of implementation.
At the same amortised goodwill on a straight-line basis over its 14 time, a much smaller proportion of upfront estimated useful economic life of up to 20 years payments are now available in the early stage of under UK GAAP.
Under IFRS, goodwill is not contracts.
Consequently, the Board announced on amortised, but the Group is required to conduct a 8 June 2006 that it had reviewed the revenue full impairment review at each balance sheet recognition policy and, as a result of that review, date, or more frequently, as appropriate.
Any decided that a change in policy is appropriate.
impairment charge is recorded in the Income Statement.
Licence revenues were previously recognised on delivery of the software product to the customer but Share-based payments - under UK GAAP the cost will now typically be recognised over the period of of share options was based on the difference implementation, which may range from a few between exercise price and the market value of months to a number of years from contract options at their date of grant.
Since grants made signature, or over the full duration of the contract in under the Group's share option schemes have the case of bundled services.
Full details of the normally been made at an exercise price equal to background and implementation of the new policy the market value, they have not normally resulted are contained in note 2 to the accounts.
in any charge to the Income Statement.
Under IFRS the Group is required to recognise the fair The change in revenue recognition policy has been value of all share options granted since implemented by way of a prior year adjustment, as 7 November 2002 that have not fully vested at required by IFRS 1.
This requires the Group to 1 May 2005, using an option pricing model, and provide comparable figures prepared on a consistent record a charge in the income statement.
basis for the financial year ended 30 April 2005.
A reconciliation is contained in the notes to the Contract financing obligations - formerly accounts and involves reversing revenues of contract financing obligations were considered 76 million, 54 million and 44 million which were non-recourse and were therefore not recognised recognised in the years ended 30 April 2005, 2004 in the balance sheet.
It is now considered and 2003 or earlier, respectively.
Those revenues will appropriate to recognise these obligations as a now be recognised in future years in accordance balance sheet liability.
At the time of reporting with the provisions of the new accounting policy.
the unaudited results for the half year to 31 October 2005 the Group, in consultation with its As a result of work carried out by the auditors to auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, recognised the review the adjustment of past revenues, possible liabilities in respect of 6.1 million of the Group's accounting irregularities have come to light which contract financing activities at 30 April 2005.
In have been independently investigated by Deloitte & reporting the results for the year ended 30 April Touche LLP and Eversheds LLP.
The investigation 2006, following a detailed review of contract concerns several contracts where revenue may not financing activities as part of their audit, Deloitte have been recognised in the financial years ended & Touche LLP has advised the Company that the 30 April 2004 and 2005 in accordance with the liabilities in respect of all of the contract financing accounting policy in force at that time.
The Companys investigation is complete and a more formal investigation by the FSA is underway.
Financial Review 2006 Annual Report and Accounts In the year to 30 April 2006, revenue for the Group increased 8.4%, from 186.1 million to 201.7 million and the underlying organic growth of the Group during the year was therefore 6.0%.
Trading results We have continued to invest in our dedicated 15 In the year to 30 April 2006, revenue for the Product Development Centre in Chennai India, Group increased 8.4%, from 186.1 million to and the Solution Centre in Hyderabad India.
The acquisition of Novasoft Sanidad number of application specialists in India grew over S. A. in Spain in October 2005 contributed revenue the course of the year from 956 to 1,454, of 4.4 million and the underlying organic growth representing approximately 50% of the total of the Group during the year was therefore 6.0%.
Investment in the Product Development Centre is expected to peak in the year Operating profit before goodwill impairment was to 30 April 2007.
We anticipate a reduction in the 13.3 million compared with 8.5 million for the number of core products and variants being previous year.
The operating margin of 6.6% reflects maintained as these are replaced over the medium a substantial level of expenditure on maintaining term by the LORENZO product suite.
existing products and developing the LORENZO platform.
At the current time the Group is The level of Group profitability is clearly below our continuing to maintain nearly 30 core products medium-term expectations and, therefore, to within the Group's intellectual property portfolio improve efficiency and streamline the cost base, we whilst at the same time developing LORENZO.
In have embarked on a programme to reduce costs in 2006, the cost of product development and all areas of the business, particularly indirect and support, net of the amounts capitalised in non-billable costs and including Group overheads.
accordance with IFRS, was 22.6 million, which At 30 April 2006 the annualised total cost run rate compares with 15.9 million in the previous year.
was 209 million, the cost base having risen though This is an essential commitment to maintaining the the year as a result of increased costs of product Group's position as a leading healthcare software development and support for the NPfIT.
Other operational Actions already in hand include a reduction in costs remain too high for the revised level of headcount of at least 150 employees in the UK, revenue generation and action is being taken to including a significant reduction in Group overheads.
There will be further headcount reductions in parts Information is also contained below relating to the of our international operations and a broad review status of NPfIT in England.
This outlines a number of of non-staff costs is on-going throughout the difficulties with regards to the progress of contracts business.
The Group is also seeking to dispose of during the year, including an exchange of formal non-core assets, including freehold properties.
All of correspondence alleging material contractual breach.
the above actions are anticipated to reduce the cost base significantly in the current financial year and we expect to exit the year at an annualised total cost run rate of not more than 185 million.
Actions currently in hand are expected to give rise to a one-off cost in the year to 30 April 2007 of at least 7 million and longer-term actions may require additional one-time costs.
Operating performance In Europe and Asia we have delivered LORENZO into The iSOFT strategy is to develop and promote a early adopter sites at the University Hospital Aachen common software application offering that is and the Robert Bosch hospital in Germany and at adaptable for all markets and this continues to SingHealth, the largest cluster of public healthcare provide a focal point for our operational and institutions in Singapore.
The systems are being marketing activities.
The directors believe that the vigorously tested for scalability and functionality LORENZO application offering is being positively and we are making solid and satisfactory progress.
Product roll out is taking In Australia, iSOFT won a major order to supply the place at early adopter sites in Germany and State of Victoria HealthSmart Patient and Singapore that will be testing and implementing the Management System over ten years, reinforcing our product during the 2006 calendar year and we presence in that region.
16 expect to see the commencement of LORENZO user In Europe, the Group acquired Novasoft Sanidad S. A. functionality in the United Kingdom from late 2007 during the year, providing a base of operations in onwards.
The Group's mainstream activities in the Spain ahead of the increase that is expected in United Kingdom, Europe and Asia Pacific therefore regional public tender activity.
This adds to our continue to sell and support the existing product strong existing presence in The Netherlands and portfolio, aided by the pull of the LORENZO Germany and the opportunities that we are product roadmap.
considering in France and Italy.
We believe that Our activities in the United Kingdom remain many of the major countries in Western Europe will dominated by the provision of services around a introduce standardisation in the provision of strong installed base of existing clients.
Work under healthcare systems in the coming years, in order to the NPfIT is building up, with the initial delivery of reduce their costs and improve services.
This existing products such as iSOFT Patient Manager represents a significant opportunity for iSOFT in i. PM and iSOFT Clinical Manager i. CM into many the future, benefiting from its experience in the health trusts.
Existing systems are being packaged United Kingdom.
with core elements of LORENZO technology, Interest enabling those systems to communicate with the Net interest in the year was 5.6 million NHS National Data Spine and the new national 2005: 6.3 million.
This reflects the benefit of high network.
Existing applications will be upgraded to levels of upfront payments from customers received LORENZO functionality from late 2007 onwards.
This in the previous financial year, offset by the increase will provide customers with a phased, low-risk in finance charges relating to contract financing migration of their systems.
The net interest charge comprises: Subsequent to the year end, the Group has reached 2006 2005 an agreement whereby the iSOFT National Programme software will be installed in seven '000 '000 hospitals in the London and Southern regions.
Additionally, iSOFT has reached agreement with CSC Interest paid on term loan 2,338 3,087 in relation to rescheduling payment milestones for Interest paid on overdrafts 1,252 856 the remainder of the NPfIT in England.
Facility non-utilisation and margin on LOCs 608 278 Contract funding finance charges 3,726 2,558 Other finance costs 824 755 Total finance costs 8,748 7,534 Investment revenue 3,099 1,254 Net interest charge 5,649 6,280 Financial Review 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The Group's mainstream activities in the United Kingdom, Europe and Asia Pacific continue to sell and support the existing product portfolio, aided by the pull of the LORENZO product roadmap.
Goodwill impairment Risk factors 17 At 30 April 2006 the Group carried goodwill with The Group's financial condition and results of a gross book value of 495.5 million, of which operations could be materially affected by a number 404.2 million derived from the acquisition of Torex.
of internal or external events or factors.
These risks The carrying value of this goodwill has been are broadly categorised under the following headings: reviewed by the directors in accordance with IFRS.
Market-related risks Based on the Group's anticipated future cash flows, the Board has decided that it would be appropriate The competitive position of the Group to recognise an impairment charge of 351.4 million, The National Programme for IT in England reducing the carrying value of goodwill on the balance sheet to 144.1 million.
The key assumptions The financial position of the Group and estimates involved in calculating the discounted Additional risks not currently known to the Group, cash flows used to derive this impairment are or risks that we currently regard as immaterial, could explained in note 11. have a material adverse effect on the Group's Taxation financial condition or the results of operations.
The current tax charge in 2005 remains as it was These may be considered either as downside risk - under the old accounting policy, since the effect of the risk that something can go wrong and result in the prior year adjustment for tax purposes is treated a financial loss or financial exposure for the Group - as a current year item.
The 2006 current tax credit or volatility risk.
Volatility risk is the risk associated of 6.4 million reflects the benefit of carrying back with uncertainty, which means that there may be an losses arising from the prior year adjustment.
opportunity for financial gain as well as financial loss.
The tax charge in 2005 has been restated to Market-related risk incorporate the tax effect of the revised accounting iSOFT operates in the international healthcare IT policy for revenue recognition which impacts market.
The use of IT systems in healthcare provision deferred tax only.
However, in the current remains comparatively low compared with other circumstances the Group is obliged to write off a industries.
US healthcare spending is already high as substantial portion of the deferred tax asset created, a percentage of gross domestic product GDP, but under the provisions of IFRS 1, at 30 April 2005.
The spending is rising rapidly in many other developed write off of the deferred tax assets has resulted in economies and represents an increasing proportion an overall tax charge of 38.4 million for the year of government spending, especially due to the ended 30 April 2006. ageing profile of the population.
Improving the efficiency and effectiveness of healthcare provision is Loss earnings per share therefore a priority in many economies and The basic loss per share was 165.1p 2005: earnings healthcare IT spending is increasing at rates between per share of 2.6p.
The Group therefore believes that it is operating in a market with above-average growth prospects into the foreseeable future.
Political or social risk: the Group operates mainly Key employees: the Group's success depends on in Western Europe, Asia, Australia and New Zealand recruiting and retaining key management, and believes that the risks of disruption to its development, support and sales staff.
Given the operations in these regions is comparatively small.
current circumstance surrounding the Group, the risk of the Group not being able to retain and Environmental or other regulatory risk: the recruit high calibre employees is increased.
The Group does not operate in a significantly hazardous Group therefore employs a range of policies and industry, nevertheless it takes reasonable steps to practices to incentivise, motivate and retain key ensure that it complies with regulations relating to employees, but the Group is at risk if it does not the disposal and recycling of computer equipment, take adequate steps to retain such employees.
the control of water discharge and air emissions and 18 that it minimises paper use.
Reputational: The recent phase of events and publicity surrounding iSOFT, including the profits Competitive position warnings in January and April 2006, and the change Customer dependence: the Group has a large in revenue recognition policy has had an adverse number of individual customers.
The Group impact on the reputation of iSOFT with regard to its recorded revenues of 35.5 million under England's products and its financial structure.
These concerns National Programme for IT in the year ended surrounding iSOFT have had an impact on the 30 April 2006, representing 18% of total revenues, propensity of customers to enter into contracts with although this was mainly in respect of two the Group.
In this regard the Group has revised its customers, each of which was a regional prime bank facilities, providing a period of stability during contractor under that project.
Were the Group not which it can consider and implement a suitable long to be involved in NPfIT it would have a material term financial strategy.
The Group continues to adverse impact on the Group's revenues and profits.
focus on delivery under its existing contracts, To manage the risk the Group continues to apply demonstrating the quality of its software.
significant focus and resource to ensuring that the requirements of this complex programme are The National Programme for IT in England fulfilled.
Sales to the next largest customer Through its subsidiary company iSOFT plc, the amounted to 3.5 million.
Company entered into two principal contracts the Contracts to deliver software and services as part Technology and intellectual property rights: the of the National Programme for IT NPfIT.
On 2 April Group develops and installs administrative and 2004, the Company signed a contract with clinical healthcare software systems.
Its future Accenture UK Limited Accenture, a Local financial success depends on continuing to develop Service Provider LSP, to deliver software and systems with better functionality and lower costs of services to the North-East and East Midlands clusters ownership for its customers.
iSOFT has a history of the Accenture Agreement.
On 28 April 2004, developing advanced products since its launch in the Company signed a contract with CSC Computer 1998 and the current development of LORENZO is Sciences Limited CSC, an LSP, to deliver software expected to maintain the Group's technology lead.
and services to the North-West and West Midlands However, the Group is at risk if its systems do not cluster the CSC Agreement.
function properly, if competitors are able to develop similar technology independently and more quickly, The functional requirements established at the and if the Group does not adequately protect its outset by the National Programme for Information intellectual property or does not take steps to Technology in the NHS are for software with the prevent the misappropriation or infringement of its same overall functionality to be delivered by intellectual property.
However, the contractual frameworks used by Accenture and CSC to pass these functional requirements on to the Company differ, in particular with respect to the requirements due to be delivered during different phases of the NPfIT, the responsibility for testing and acceptance, the payment profiles and penalties for delays.
Financial Review 2006 Annual Report and Accounts iSOFT has a history of developing advanced products since its launch in 1998 and the current development of LORENZO is expected to maintain the Group's technology lead.
The Contracts provided for deliveries under the iSOFT is working with CSC and Accenture to deal 19 initial phases of the NPfIT to be satisfied using with these challenges, prioritise development and existing software that had already been successfully manage delivery in a collaborative way.
iSOFT has deployed to NHS Trusts and for later phases to be expanded its product development resources in India satisfied using a combination of existing products at a rapid rate, both to complete its future product and iSOFT's next generation product - LORENZO.
LORENZO and to support the needs of its existing product base, especially arising from specification The NPfIT is an ambitious programme to deliver changes demanded by individual hospital and GP integrated electronic patient records nationally.
This rapid expansion in creation of a national electronic patient record development resources has caused some processes requires departmental, patient administration and and resources to be stretched, resulting in delivery general practitioner software to communicate on a delays, including delays in resolving faults within the national basis and on a scale that has not previously required contracted expected timescales.
The been attempted anywhere in the world.
It is a Company is taking action to strengthen both ground-breaking programme and there are a management and processes in this area, particularly number of challenges facing the programme, most in project management.
of which were summarised in the recent National Audit Office NAO report published on 16 June 2006.
The Company has taken, and continues to take, additional steps to improve quality standards and Within the NHS, hospitals and general practice control, including more rigorous and intense testing surgeries vary enormously in the sophistication and of, and rectification to, the Company's existing inmaturity of their use of IT and their methods of use products, in response to NPfIT customer working.
The functional requirements which the requirements.
CfH, CSC and Accenture have software has to satisfy are also open to a number of conducted on-site reviews of the Company's different interpretations, which has led to product development activities and recommended disagreements with the LSPs about whether additional processes and procedures, whilst confirming software meets the functional requirements.
that the product is what is strategically required.
Therefore, rather than one software solution for all, differing software solutions have been required.
A number of difficulties experienced on the iSOFT has responded to the LSPs by developing an programme are outside the Company's control, but incremental approach to the development of some have resulted in formal correspondence being software which has required extra effort involving exchanged between the Company and both the diversion of resources from the primary software Accenture and CSC, alleging material contractual development effort.
The Company has denied all of the disputed allegations of breach.
To date, none of this correspondence has resulted in notice to terminate the Contracts being given, or any formal claims being made.
The Company has registered claims for additional work done outside the scope of the basic contracts.
The Company has taken legal advice from its Financial Position lawyers, Ashurst, on these matters.
However, due to Liquidity: The Group's overall objective is to ensure the complexity and nature of the contracts there are that it is at all times able to meet its financial differences in the interpretation of functional commitments as and when they fall due.
Note 1 requirements and their delivery and, in the absence outlines a number of uncertainties and assumptions of any formal claim, it is not possible to establish the which could impact this objective.
To this end, and likelihood nor the quantum of any potential liability.
to the extent possible, surplus funds are collected Having reviewed the legal advice the Board has centrally and managed to retain flexibility, whilst taken the view that, in view of the complexity of the ensuring reasonable interest receipts and minimal potential claims and counter claims, a commercial credit risk.
The Group has renegotiated the maturity settlement is the most likely outcome.
Given this of all of its bank borrowing facilities in August 2006, 20 position and the existence of a net receivable due to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity.
The Group's for contractual services performed, no specific bank borrowing facilities mature in November 2007. provision has been made in relation to this matter.
Funding and cash flow: the Group may require Were any claims to be brought against the capital to sustain or expand its business in future.
Company, the Board would continue to dispute the At present the Group has established sources such liabilities and would defend its position vigorously.
as cash flow from operations, bank debt, equity or Whilst no claims have been made, claims are the realisation of non-core assets and believes that contractually limited to 1 in respect of Accenture, the sources of funding currently available will be 5 million per annum for liquidated damages by sufficient to fund its operations.
If the Group's plans way of delay deductions and otherwise to or assumptions regarding its funding requirements 15 million per annum in aggregate: and 2 in change, it may need to seek other sources of respect of CSC, 4 million per annum for liquidated financing such as additional lines of credit with damages by way of delay deductions and otherwise commercial banks or institutions, to renegotiate to 18 million per annum in aggregate, with an existing bank facilities or seek additional equity overall cap of 50 million.
The renegotiated facilities carry stepped interest which is explained further below in On 11 August 2006, iSOFT signed a Memorandum revision of bank facilities.
The Group intends to use of Understanding MOU with CSC confirming the the period of stability provided by the revised schedule under which it will provide deliveries to facilities to consider and execute a longer term CSC up to a value of 153 million in respect of the financial strategy.
CSC Agreement including 36 million already delivered, subject to the satisfactory achievement of Investigations into accounting irregularities: As delivery milestones, with the opportunity to win detailed in note 1 to the accounts the Company has additional NPfIT business in future through CSC in commenced an investigation into possible certain circumstances.
Under this agreement, iSOFT accounting irregularities.
The initial investigation has made a number of commitments with respect to completed on 7 August 2006 concluded that there the future development of its products for the NPfIT were grounds for a more formal investigation, which and the costs that it will bear for that work.
CSC is being conducted by the FSA.
It is not possible for will have the right to take over the management of the Board to conclude what implications, if any, may the development team in the event that iSOFT is arise from the conclusion of the investigation.
unable to fulfil those obligations with respect to the future development.
However the rights to the IPR remain with iSOFT under all circumstances.
This agreement offers greater certainty of cash flow to iSOFT as payments are tied to specific milestones tied for the most part to software incremental releases.
Financial Review 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The Group has renegotiated the maturity of all of its bank borrowing facilities in August 2006, to ensure that it has sufficient liquidity.
Pension schemes: the Group operates both defined previous year due to the establishment of the 21 benefit and defined contribution pension plans, the Solution Centre in Hyderabad and other IT majority of which are in the United Kingdom.
The cash outflow in The UK defined benefit scheme was in deficit by the year was as follows: 10.7 million at 30 April 2006.
Deterioration in asset prices or long-term interest rates could lead to m an increase in the deficit or give rise to an additional funding requirement.
Cash generated by operations 1.9 Volatility: There are a number of additional Income taxes paid 17.8 volatility risks concerning the valuation of assets and Net interest paid 2.2 liabilities, currency fluctuations and interest rate Purchase of fixed assets and capitalised costs 6.5 exposures, which are set out in note 19 to the Purchase of own shares 3.8 financial statements.
Acquisition of subsidiaries 8.5 Balance sheet and funding Dividends paid 6.0 At 30 April 2006 the Group had net loans and Issue of new shares 7.0 overdrafts of 41.8 million 2005: 1.6 million as Net loans raised 3.2 detailed in note 19, including contract financing Other 0.1 arrangements, with cash and cash equivalents of Reduction in cash balance 32.6 77.5 million 2005: 110.1 million.
Cash generation in the year was weak.
Cash generated from operations amounted to only 1.9 million At 30 April 2006 the Group had banking facilities 2005: 92.4 million, reflecting the operating which amounted in total to 144 million, comprising difficulties of the business and the net impact of a term loan of 39 million and a revolving credit unwinding customer upfront payments received in facility of 105 million.
At the balance sheet date previous financial years.
those facilities were almost fully utilised.
The term The reduction in net cash, which is summarised loan was fully drawn at the balance sheet date.
Cash drawings of 16 million, together with letters below, also reflected increased tax payments of of credit and other guarantees amounting to 17.8 million in the year due to the level of profits 88 million, fully utilised all but 0.8 million of the reported in the year ended 30 April 2005, and timing differences due to a change of year-end in revolving credit facility.
However, the Group had the Netherlands.
In addition, the Group paid the cash and cash equivalents amounting to 77.5 million and therefore had adequate resources at that date.
cash element of the purchase of Novasoft Sanidad S. A.
Cash deposits are managed within the Group to in Spain of 6.1million and capital expenditure of retain flexibility whilst ensuring reasonable interest 6.5 million, this includes capitalised development costs of 0.7 million, which was higher than in the receipts and minimal credit risk.
Additionally, to assist with the funding of the If the warrants are issued prior to 31 October 2006 business during a period of high development then no exit fee is payable.
The issue of these spending, the Group previously utilised contract warrants will require shareholder approval which will financing arrangements.
Amounts payable to thirdbe sought at the AGM.
Additionally, further fees are party providers of this funding from the proceeds of payable on facilities outstanding post 31 December collections from customers amounted at the balance 2006.
These additional fees are payable at the end sheet date to 62.0 million 2005: 56.7 million of the facility term or, if earlier, at the date of any and have been included on balance sheet.
The refinancing of the facilities.
The fees, calculated on Group has ceased using third-party non-recourse the total facility available, represent PIK interest from contract financing arrangements because of the 1 January 2007 of 5.0% per annum for the three high relative cost.
months to 31 March 2007, 7.5% per annum for the 22 three months to 30 June 2007, and 10% per Given the anticipated further impact on cash flows annum thereafter.
of the unwinding of customer prepayments, delays in payment from the NPfIT and the generally lower The costs of the revision of the banking facilities are levels of upfront payments available from customers, not included in the financial statements for the year the Group has established agreed revised bank ended 30 April 2006.
Such costs are estimated to facilities and related covenants, details of which are amount to 1.2 million in cash refinancing charges, set out below.
the write off of 0.6 million in unamortised fees relating to the old terms, and professional fees of Revision of bank facilities approximately 1.0 million.
The cost of interest will Following the repayment of 3 million of term loans also increase in accordance with the revised margins in May 2006, in August 2006, the Group secured which range from 200-450 basis points over LIBOR.
the revision of 141 million of facilities and an additional facility of 25 million, which is conditional.
The new terms will provide the Group with a period The facilities following the revision include: of stability during which the corporate finance strategy of the Group can be considered and 105 million revolving credit facility: executed as required by the banking agreements.
36 million term loan facility: and Details of the revised banking facilities are set out in note 19 to the accounts.
25 million facility, available following disposal of non-core assets.
Foreign currency The maturity date of the above facilities is Foreign currency transactional exposure is monitored on an ongoing basis and is managed using natural 14 November 2007.
The financial terms have also hedges where possible.
Where natural hedges for been amended to better reflect the Group's revised business expectations and revenue economic exposures are not available, a mixture of recognition policies.
non-deliverable forward contracts and currency options are utilised to hedge the Group's exposures.
Warrants over 3.7% of the issued Share Capital of Working capital the business are to be granted to the lenders with an exercise price of 10 pence per share.
The The Group's working capital defined as inventories warrants will be exercisable between issue and and trade and other receivables less trade and other payables, excluding corporation tax recoverable and 36 months from the date of the revision of the deferred consideration amounted to 87.4 million facilities, however any shares acquired on exercise at 30 April 2006, compared with 107.7 million at cannot be sold until six months following the date of the revision of the facilities.
An exit fee of the end of the previous financial year.
As a result of 15 million is payable at the end of the facility, the change in revenue recognition accounting policy that has been introduced, creditor balances include on refinancing or on change of control of the 96.8 million for deferred income, including upfront Company, and if the warrants are not issued prior payments made by customers in previous financial to 31 October 2006. years.
The Group expects to need significant additional working capital facilities over the next two years to fund operating costs as these upfront payments unwind.
Financial Review 2006 Annual Report and Accounts The new banking terms will provide the Group with a period of stability during which the corporate finance strategy of the Group can be considered and executed.
Trade receivables at 30 April 2006 amounted to As part of an agreement with the trustees of the 23 34.4 million, representing 75 days' of sales scheme to reduce the deficit, annual payments to outstanding, compared with 67 days at the end the scheme have been increased from 0.7 million of the previous financial year, on a comparable in the year to 30 April 2006 to 1.3 million in the restated basis.
Acquisitions Dividends In October 2005 the Group acquired 100% of the During the year an interim dividend of 0.8p per share capital of Novasoft Sanidad S. A. for share was paid in respect of the year ended consideration of up to EUR 15.6 million.
Following the impairment charge company, based in Malaga, is a leading provider of recognised against the carrying value of investments healthcare applications in Spain, specialising in the in April 2006, the Company does not have retained provision of hospital information systems and distributable reserves from which to pay dividends to associated services.
holders of ordinary shares and therefore is not able to pay a final dividend for the year ended The initial consideration of EUR 12 million comprised 30 April 2006.
The Board intends to evaluate the EUR 9 million in cash and the issue of 470,199 opportunities for altering its existing capital structure iSOFT ordinary shares.
Further consideration of up to in order to address the distributable reserves deficit, EUR 3.6 million may be payable if certain financial but future dividends will only be paid as and when targets are certified as having been achieved in the the Board considers that the Company has period to 28 February 2006. adequate resources.
Pensions The Group operates a mixture of defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes, the former having been acquired as part of the merger with Torex.
The Torex Medical Systems defined benefit scheme was closed to new members in April 2000.
This Gavin James pension scheme is accounted for in accordance with Group Finance Director IAS 19.
At the balance sheet date, the IAS 19 deficit 25 August 2006 in respect of the scheme was 10.7 million, which is recorded in the accounts with a corresponding deferred tax asset of 3.2 million.
