Good progress has been made this year on multi-skilled projects Operating where two or more of the divisions within the Group are working and financial together.
This is an area in which Kier has a competitive advantage and which, I believe, will continue to strengthen our position in review the marketplace.
Chief Financial performance executives Revenue for the year at 1,838.3m 2005: 1,623.2m was review 13.3% ahead of last year with strong growth from our Construction, Support Services and Homes divisions.
Operating profit, after the John Dodds Chief Executive amortisation of intangible assets and joint venture interest and tax, was 20.8% ahead of last year at 59.2m 2005: 49.0m and profit before tax increased by 23.6% to 59.1m 2005: 47.8m before exceptional profits of 6.7m.
Adjusted earnings per share before the amortisation of intangible assets and last years exceptional profits and tax increased by 24.4% to 124.8p 2005: 100.3p.
The trading result for the year was supported by strong cash generation.
Overall there was an inflow of 53.1m resulting in a year end net cash balance of 111.2m 2005: 58.1m after an outflow of 31.5m relating to special pension contributions to the Kier Group Pension Scheme in the last quarter of the financial year.
The strong cash balance is a reflection of excellent cash management in the Construction and Support Services divisions and the timing of land expenditure within the Homes division including the purchase of a number of sites on deferred terms.
The year to 30 June 2006 has been another successful one for the Group.
Activity levels Group structure and strategic developments have been high, with revenue across most of Kier Group comprises five divisions: Construction: Support Services: Homes: Property Development and Infrastructure Investment the divisions at record levels: cash generation investment under the Private Finance Initiative.
The Groups has been strong and all of the divisions have management structure and segmental analysis for reporting seen increased operating margins.
Our growth purposes are based on the five divisions.
record in earnings per share has continued The Group has a well established business model that has with a 25.1% increase on last year excluding underpinned its growth and development over a number of years providing both financial and operational synergies.
Financially, the impact of last years exceptional items the construction activities generate cash, albeit at relatively low and compound annual growth of 23% since operating margins whilst activities such as housebuilding and flotation in 1996. property require cash investment for growth but generate higher operating margins.
By combining the cash generative construction activities with housebuilding and property, we have created an efficient financial model that achieves excellent returns on capital.
Operationally the combined skills of our businesses are delivering a wide range of development schemes through a single source.
Such schemes include regeneration projects, mixed-use schemes and PFI projects, bringing together cross-divisional expertise in a total in-house solution.
The Group strategy is to build on our skills and expertise and grow each of the divisions by maximising opportunities in the markets in which we operate.
Much of our growth has occurred organically, particularly in the Construction division where our reputation for delivery and multi-skilled services has attracted a large number of opportunities.
In Support Services our growth continues to emanate, largely, from new contracts in the local authority outsourcing sector through our Building Maintenance division.
14 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Our Homes division is one in which we have generated growth both organically and through acquisition.
We have continued 1,270m this strategy with the acquisition, in July 2006, of Hugh Bourn Developments Wragby Limited Hugh Bourn Homes which Record Construction order book has formed the basis for the fifth housing operation within our at 30 June 2006.
Our Property development business has also grown both organically and through acquisition including, in December 2005, the 1,522 acquisition of a portfolio of nine properties to add to our existing holdings.
The strategy for Infrastructure Investment continues to Unit sales from housebuilding.
be to grow a portfolio of PFI projects yielding long-term income streams while providing a flow of negotiated construction contracts and operational facilities management contracts for the Groups other operating divisions.
22.8m Committed investment in the PFI portfolio.
Business review, markets and outlook Construction The Construction division comprises Kier Regional and Kier Construction.
Kier Regional benefits from unrivalled UK regional construction coverage focusing largely on mid-range building contracts, and encompasses our affordable homes and major building projects operations.
Kier Construction includes the Groups infrastructure and overseas business with rail, mining and remediation capability.
1 Revenue in the Construction division reached a record 1,218.1m for the year, 12.1% ahead of 2005s revenue of 1,086.3m.
Growth within this division was fuelled by a strong market supported by a high level of public sector expenditure.
Operating profit increased by 30.4% to 18.0m 2005: 13.8m and the operating margin reached our short-term target of 1.5% compared with 1.3% last year.
Cash generation, one of our key performance measures, has been exceptionally strong, with cash balances at 30 June 2006 over 40m higher than the previous year end and average cash balances for the year 38m ahead.
Contract awards were very strong during the year at 1,311m 2005: 1,372m, providing a record order book of 1,270m at 30 June 2006 2005: 1,030m.
Kier Regional business review 2 Kier Regional, with its wide network of UK construction businesses, continues to go from strength to strength and, once again, has achieved a number of records in the key performance measures of revenue, cash and new orders.
Revenue, at 1,092.8m, was 14.5% ahead of 2005: year-end cash balances of 243.0m were 38.2m ahead: and contract awards of 1,216m were 19.4% ahead of 2005s 1,018m.
The high proportion of negotiated and repeat business from long-standing clients, as well as national framework agreements, has remained a constant theme across all regional businesses.
Representing around 65% of work secured 2005: 59%, this provides us with a lower risk, more sustainable order book, particularly when combined with the fact that the average size of contracts within this business remains relatively low 1.
Built by Kier Partnership Homes for Presentation Housing Association on at 3.2m, 2005: 2.9m.
brownfield land in Dagenham, The Fanshawe development comprises 58 units of one and two-bedroom flats including two disabled units, all built in timber frame.
The development is a mixture of shared ownership and key worker accommodation.
This new development has revitalised what was previously a run-down area.
Built by Kier Northern for the University of Sheffield, the bio-incubator building embraces the principles of sustainability and is dedicated to scientific research and development.
It enables the Sheffield Universities to commercialise bio-science research whilst allowing other organisations to locate close to a centre of excellence in bio-sciences.
15 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Kier Construction business review Operating Revenue remained relatively stable in the year to 30 June 2006 and financial at 125.3m 2005: 131.7m.
In the UK, the civil engineering arm of Kier Construction saw the commencement of a rail framework review for the renewal of railway structures in East Anglia under a five-year Chief agreement with Network Rail.
The five-year Asset Management Programme 4 for United Utilities, in joint venture, has successfully executives completed its first year of operation, albeit with a longer lead-in review time than envisaged.
Our major infrastructure projects capability continues with the successful completion of CTRL contract 103 continued and increasing activity at Milford Haven for South Hook LNG.
Our mining business had another productive year at our opencast coal site at Greenburn, East Ayrshire, with coal production having exceeded one million tonnes.
1.3m tonnes of coal have now been extracted to date and over 66% of that remaining in the ground has been forward-sold at favourable fixed prices.
Our remediation capability, where brownfield sites are redeveloped for commercial, residential or mixed use, is being enhanced with a number of projects for other Group companies.
In Peterborough, work has commenced on a former Anglian Water site for our Homes business and in Uxbridge, Kier Construction is working with Kier Property to remediate a British Gas site ahead of development of a mixed-use scheme.
Overseas, our activities in the Caribbean continue to perform well.
A number of the framework agreements and strategic alliances are Good progress has been made on a large transportation centre with public sector clients including those designed to deliver an in downtown Kingston, Jamaica and the extension to Kingstons increasing number of social housing units.
Of particular note are Norman Manley Airport has started well with certain areas expected our framework agreements with Newlon Housing Trust and Dominion to be ready for the Cricket World Cup next year.
Our long-term Housing Group, both Registered Social Landlords, which are alliance with Alcoa continues to provide extensive work on projects providing high-rise affordable housing in London and which have at aluminium refineries in Suriname and Jamaica.
contributed to the 180m of residential awards for the year.
The continuing high level of public expenditure has led to an increase in Construction markets and outlook public sector awards to 43% of the total compared with 41% in 2005.
In the UK demand for building remains high, both in the public and private sectors and there is an increasing emphasis on remediation Education has remained a very strong sector for Kier Regional, with projects.
This demand can be satisfied by the combined skills of our over 350m of work secured this year, representing 29% of total Construction division and development expertise from elsewhere in awards 2005: 24%.
95m has been awarded under the private the Group.
finance initiative, including Norwich Schools and Oldham Schools both with Kier as an equity partner in the special purpose vehicle.
Our mining activities have good potential to contribute to future growth.
The current area in which we are mining in Ayrshire is Our involvement with private sector clients continues through expected to continue production until 2009, however, extensions partnering style arrangements with food retailers including Tesco, are being pursued and a new planning application has been made Waitrose, Morrisons and Sainsburys and developers such as Land to operate an opencast mine at an adjacent site.
If successful, this Securities Trillium, for whom we are carrying out the multi-phased will extend the life of the mine into 2011. refurbishment of the DVLA headquarters in Swansea.
From this contract, our relationship with Land Securities has strengthened.
Overseas, our established contacts are providing us with good opportunities, particularly in the Caribbean, with Alcoa, and in As previously reported, in November 2005 our client Castlepoint Romania, where we have recently secured a contract for a shopping announced the closure of a retail centre in Bournemouth due to mall and residential apartments with our joint venture partner.
We, as main contractor, worked In Dubai, where construction activity is plentiful, we remain around the clock to install temporary props allowing the centre to focused on our key area of expertise, infrastructure, and we fully re-open in mid January.
We are discussing with Castlepoint have recently been awarded a new contract to build roads and the dismantling and rebuilding of the car park and the minimisation infrastructure works for the new City of Arabia.
of any disruption on trading.
The costs of this exercise are expected to be covered predominately by insurance, with no material effect Our Construction order books, represented by confirmed contracts anticipated on the Groups trading position.
in hand, are at the highest levels ever at 1,270m 2005: 1,030m, supported by a significant pipeline of contracts in the final stages of negotiation.
With these strong, good quality order books, we can expect further growth in our Construction activities in the new financial year.
Completed by Moss Construction, 1 remodelling of the Camp Hopson department store in Newbury comprised the demolition of existing buildings to the rear of the store and construction of a new three-storey extension plus the refurbishment of the Grade II listed faade.
A new restaurant and two new shells for independent retail units were incorporated at ground level.
Kier Caribbean and Industrial is 2 delivering a new terminal building at Jamaicas Norman Manley International Airport in Kingston.
The total expansion works will encompass the ticketing and departure concourse, access roadways and public car parks, reconfiguration of the customs hall to ensure more efficient passenger movement and the creation of a cargo village.
16 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts Refurbished by Kier Eastern, the Sainsbury Centre for Visual Arts at the University of East Anglia included new exhibition areas, a larger reception area, education studio, refurbished caf and a lift for easier disabled access.
Temporary works design and accommodation were provided by Kier Engineering Services and Kier Plant respectively.
17 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Good results were achieved by the Building Maintenance division, Operating which now looks after around 185,000 homes for local authority and financial clients including Sheffield City Council, Islington Borough Council and Leeds City Council.
Revenue increased from 136.9m to review 172.5m, mainly due to the inclusion of Decent Homes work and Chief a whole year of revenue from the Leeds contract.
During the year we secured a five-year contract for the City of Lincoln which, whilst executives currently in the mobilisation phase, will provide 7m of revenue review per annum under the Decent Homes initiative.
Kier Sheffield, our partnership with Sheffield City Council, has achieved an increase continued in the volume of work carried out under the Decent Homes initiative.
It continues to benefit from Sharrow Industries, a sheltered workshop run by Kier Sheffield which supplies and manufactures kitchens, windows and doors under an exclusivity agreement with all five contractors under the Decent Homes initiative in the City, one of which is Kier Sheffield.
We were delighted that Sheffield City Council achieved Beacon status, the highest accolade a council can receive.
Kier Sheffields work was also influential in Sheffields housing services being awarded a three star rating the highest by the Audit Commission.
Support Services markets and outlook Whilst opportunities continue to emerge within the facilities management market for Kier Managed Services, we will continue to be selective in the contracts for which we bid.
In Building Maintenance both local authority expenditure, through Support Services housing repairs and maintenance budgets, and central government Support Services comprises four business streams: Kier Managed expenditure, through the Decent Homes initiative, are providing Services, providing facilities management services to public good potential for new work.
A strong list of opportunities is and private clients: Kier Building Maintenance, providing reactive emerging in the 10m to 40m per annum range and, although and planned maintenance mainly to local authority clients, disappointingly, we were unsuccessful on a bid for Manchester, housing associations and Arms Length Management Organisations: we have recently been confirmed as preferred bidder, subject to Kier Building Services Engineers, a specialist mechanical and negotiations on the heads of terms, on a contract for Harlow.
electrical design and installation and maintenance business: and With a revenue stream of 17m per annum this contract will Kier Plant, specialising in plant hire to Kier Group companies provide repairs and maintenance to housing stock, street scene and external clients.
In addition, we have been confirmed as preferred bidder on a 6.5m per annum contract Support Services business review in Southwark and have been short-listed as one of three on a Revenue in the Support Services division increased by 18.5% in 35m per annum repairs and maintenance contract for Stoke.
the year to 281.3m 2005: 237.4m, driven largely by our Building Maintenance business.
Operating profit, before deducting With our proven ability to fulfil these higher value contracts, we the amortisation of intangibles of 1.9m in both years, increased by are well placed to secure further work in this area.
26.1% to 8.7m 2005: 6.9m, providing an operating margin of 3.1% 2005: 2.9%, slightly ahead of our short-term target of 3.0%.
Homes The cash performance within the division has been strong with Kier Residential, our housebuilding division, was structured through 14.6m generated in the year to give a closing cash balance of four companies during the year: Allison Homes, which operates 12.5m 2005: overdraft of 2.1m.
Order books have also grown throughout Lincolnshire and north Cambridgeshire: Bellwinch during the year to 1,396m at 30 June 2006 2005: 1,204m.
Homes, with sites in the south and south east: Kier Homes, operating across the central belt of Scotland: and Twigden Homes, In Managed Services volumes have remained steady.
An increasing with activities in East Anglia and the West Midlands.
In July 2006 contribution to revenue arises from services provided under PFI: we acquired Hugh Bourn Homes operating in North Lincolnshire, however, other private sector work has reduced in volume as we which has formed the basis of a fifth operating area.
continue our focus on margin improvement.
New services have begun during the year for the National Offenders Management Homes business review Service in Newport and the Dogs Trust site in Harefield: both Kier Residential experienced a changed pattern to the timing of unit achieved through introductions from our Construction division.
sales in the year to 30 June 2006 with a greater bias towards the 1.
Kier Building Services Engineers 1 provide planned and reactive maintenance in addition to full M&E design and installation services.
Kier Building Maintenance KBM London won a British Safety Council International Safety Award 2005.
KBM quality inspector Eddie Skiff and KBM business support manager Josephine OConnor attended the presentation.
2 18 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Pannier Market Situated in the centre of Tiverton, the recently completed Pannier Market has undergone an extensive refurbishment by Kier Western.
The scheme has enhanced the setting of the historic and listed market buildings, creating a more flexible and extensive trading space, and a safer shopping experience for pedestrians.
19 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 a development site for a new hotel, some 250 apartments, offices, Operating shops and a new railway station.
and financial In Sunbury, a development of 96 homes and a hotel is progressing review on remediated land, in conjunction with Kier Property.
Bellwinch Chief is constructing three apartment blocks and Kier Property is building the 120-bedroom hotel.
Our affordable housing business, Kier executives Partnership Homes, worked with Bellwinch to obtain a housing review association contract for 48 units within the scheme.
continued On 31 July 2006 we acquired the shares in Hugh Bourn Homes for a total consideration of 53.3m, representing the market value of land, work in progress and other assets and liabilities.
20m was paid on completion, with the balance due in instalments on 2 July 2007 and 1 July 2008.
Hugh Bourn Homes forms the foundation for a fifth trading division of Kier Residential, expanding its reach to the north of Allison Homes operating area.
The majority of the 1,197 residential plots we acquired with the business benefit from a combination of outline and detailed planning consent and included a small number of built and partially built units.
In its first year of operation within Kier, Hugh Bourn Homes is expected to trade from 21 outlets.
Housing markets and outlook The housing market saw its usual quietening during the holiday season in July and most of August, although there are clear signs that it has begun to pick up in recent weeks.
Reservations during the second half of the year than in 2005.
Overall we sold 1,522 homes new financial year, on a like-for-like basis, excluding the effects of in the year, a 25% increase over 2005s 1,215 homes achieved from the acquisition of Hugh Bourn Homes, are 46% ahead of the same an 11% increase in outlets.
Average selling prices of 180,100 period last year and, taking Hugh Bourn Homes into account, they 2005: 181,700 provided revenue of 274.2m from housing sales are some 68% ahead of last year.
This has given rise to an order 2005: 220.8m.
A land disposal, of part of a large site, generated book at 31 August 2006 some 45% ahead of the same time last year a further 3.7m of revenue at a nominal profit of 0.1m.
The slight 38% excluding Hugh Bourn Homes.
reduction in average selling prices reflects a 2% reduction in unit size and an increase in the proportion of affordable housing sales We will be selling from approximately 27% more outlets during the from 12% of total sales in 2005 to 16% in 2006.
Operating profit year compared with last year and therefore we anticipate growth in from housing sales increased by 26.1% to 41.5m 2005: 32.9m unit sales for the full year of which 42% are already secure.
Similar at a margin of 15.1% on housing revenue 2005: 14.9% in line to 2006 we expect the balance of sales to be skewed towards the with our targets for this business.
During the year 93.3m was spent on selective land purchases, We anticipate further land expenditure this financial year, in including a significant amount on deferred terms, and at addition to the expenditure for Hugh Bourn Homes, in order to 30 June 2006 the land bank contained 5,863 units with planning maintain our land bank at approximately four years worth of sales.
consent 2005: 5,178 units which, at 3.9 years worth of sales, is in line with our target holding of four years unit sales.
Property In addition to land with planning consent, we also hold Our Property development business comprises activity across approximately 12,000 units of strategic land, mostly under option.
commercial, industrial, retail and mixed-use sectors largely on a Strategic land is proving a valuable route for land acquisition non-speculative basis.
It operates through Kier Ventures, a wholly as, historically, approximately 18% of our annual unit sales have owned subsidiary: and Kier Developments a joint venture with originated from this process.
Continuing the theme of mixed-use and regeneration sites, Property business review Kier Residential is making good progress on remediating a Kier Property has had another active year, cementing its position as former Anglian Water site near the centre of Peterborough.
Kier one of the UKs leading commercial property developers.
Despite Construction is carrying out the work, which, when completed, will the commercial property market in the UK experiencing high levels provide a site for 550 residential units, comprising a combination of investment demand, with investors chasing limited availability of of flats and houses.
In Aylesbury, at a former Kier Property site, sales stock, Kier Property acquired some 15 new sites during the year and targets are being achieved following remediation of the site adjacent crystallised considerable value on several existing properties to the station.
Planning consent has now been granted at Poole through lettings, sales and obtaining planning consents.
Harbour, subject to signing the agreement for the Section 106 works, for redevelopment of a mixed-use site previously owned Notwithstanding all this activity, the number of developments sold by Network Rail.
Kier Construction will relocate the rail sidings during the year fell resulting in a reduction in revenue from 62.2m and carry out other infrastructure works which, in time, will provide in 2005 to 47.5m in 2006.
Operating profit, similarly, reduced 20 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 from 10.4m to 9.2m in the year, although operating margins 1 moved ahead from 16.7% to 19.4%.
Kier Property has developed a portfolio that now totals over 5m sq ft of developments, with a prospective completed value of around 734m.
The portfolio offers a diverse spread of office, retail and mixed-use schemes with a particular commitment to regeneration.
In December 2005, we acquired a 10m portfolio including nine sites from Warner Estates.
One of the sites, in Lincoln, has planning consent for residential use on which Allison Homes has commenced the infrastructure works for a major residential development.
Remaining sites include a mixture of short-term and long-term developments across all sectors and we will work through the portfolio to maximise value.
During the year, Kier Property continued to augment its industrial 2 portfolio, with the successful Trade City brand as a platform.
A 2.9-acre site on Londons North Circular Road was acquired for a 115,000sq ft scheme, of which almost an acre is expected to be sold to a self-storage company.
An 11-acre former British Gas site in Uxbridge was also purchased and is being remediated by Kier Construction ahead of a 215,000sq ft employment-led mixed-use scheme.
At our Crown Road scheme in Enfield, the first phase was pre-let and completed during the year, comprising a 20,000sq ft Renault car showroom and a 50,000sq ft Selco builders merchant.
The scheme was then sold to a financial institution at a very satisfactory yield.
We have now secured planning permission for a second, 80,000sq ft phase at the site and work will begin during the coming year.
At our Loughton development the prime site was sold to Sytner for a BMW car showroom and the remainder of the site was developed 1.
The award-winning new 224-bedroom Marriott hotel in Leicester, a design & build into a new office for Kier Regionals operating business, Kier London.
The six-storey building features a central atrium with restaurant and lounge area, a leisure club with swimming pool, sauna and steam rooms, conference facilities and meeting rooms.
Marriott Construction won a 2006 In the offices portfolio, Kier Property continued to establish itself East Midlands LABC Built in Quality Award in the best commercial project category.
as one of the foremost players in the pre-let development arena.
During the year, Kier Property was selected as preferred developer 2.
Land acquired from Kier Property on a prime location in Loughton has been to deliver a new head office for Ordnance Survey in Southampton.
developed and now accommodates a BMW car showroom and new offices for Kier Regional will build the new 145,000sq ft head office on Kier London.
a new site with Kier Building Services Engineers carrying out the mechanical and electrical installation.
Kier Managed Services will then provide the facilities management services when it is complete.
This will enable Kier Property to work up Ordnance Surveys existing 25-acre site into a major regeneration project comprising 10 acres of employment use and over 400 homes, to be developed with Kier Residential.
A further pre-let office scheme was signed during the year to develop a new 140,000sq ft head office campus for global IT company Electronic Data Systems.
Work has begun on phase one of the 35m scheme with Kier Regional as the contractor.
On other regeneration projects, Kier Regional has begun work on a mixed-use redevelopment of the former Shippams food factory in Chichester.
The scheme will include 45,000sq ft of retail space, most of which has been let to high street retailers, and a residential development of 165 flats the land for which has been sold to a house builder during the year.
In March 2006 we secured planning for a new 175,000sq ft produce and flower hall at the Western International Market near Heathrow.
On completion of the new facility, we will develop a 300,000sq ft distribution scheme on the old market site.
21 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Oratory School Kier Southern completed the second phase of new boarding facilities at the all-boys Oratory School in Reading.
The project to house 80 new boarders occupied a tightly confined site and a Kier Plant tower crane was used to minimise movements within the school grounds.
22 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Property markets and outlook Operating Looking ahead, major schemes such as the three-phase, 600,000sq ft and financial Reading Central office development and a 800 home regeneration site close to Ashford town centre will gather pace and we anticipate review further growth in the business through both acquisitions and Chief enhancement of existing properties.
executives We are particularly pleased to have been selected as preferred review bidder for the new UK Supreme Court in Londons Parliament Square.
Planning consent has recently been granted and work is continued expected to commence in spring 2007.
Infrastructure Investment Kier Project Investment KPI manages the Groups interests procured under the PFI.
The core strength of KPI is the ability to bring together the diverse range of skills and resources within the Group and combine these with a financial package that will deliver high quality buildings and services to meet the public sectors needs.
Infrastructure Investment business review This has been another successful year for KPI, bringing our committed equity investment in the governments PFI to 22.8m and securing a further 230m of future revenue for the Group through associated construction and facilities management contracts.
Three projects reached financial close during the year: one 1 health scheme, the Garrett Anderson Centre, a significant addition to the existing Ipswich Hospital: and two schools schemes providing six schools in Norwich for Norfolk County Council and two schools, for Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
Construction work with a combined value of 120m is now under way by Kier Regional.
Facilities management services will be provided by Kier Managed Services on completion of the buildings.
A contract to provide a new headquarters building in Gravesend for Kent Police reached financial close in July 2006.
This new 32m facility will be constructed by Kier Regional.
Construction was successfully completed on a number of projects during the year.
Eleven schools including two in Tendring, seven in Waltham Forest and two in Sheffield: Hinchingbrooke Hospital and Oldham Library were all handed over on time and Kier 2 Managed Services commenced facilities management operations on each of these new facilities.
Construction continues on two further schools in Sheffield.
We were disappointed not to have been selected for either of the Building Schools for the Future BSF projects for which we were bidding.
BSF has been a costly exercise for us and we have written off costs of 2.2m in the two years to 30 June 2006.
However, we are not ruling out BSF projects and our Construction companies remain keen to pursue the construction opportunities.
Infrastructure Investment markets and outlook The PFI market continues to provide sensible opportunities for our businesses in the key sectors in which we operate.
Our strategy continues to be to invest in PFI opportunities that provide 1.
Procured by Kier Project Investment under the governments PFI, the Oldham Library and Lifelong Learning Centre is part of Oldhams regeneration programme.
the Group either with the construction work or the facilities It incorporates a sedum-covered green roof and a unique copper-clad performance management contracts, and preferably both.
As a Group we can hall in a prominent location in Oldham town centre.
It was built by Kier North West tackle a wide range of sectors from hospitals and schools to and Kier Managed Services undertakes the facilities management.
street services, which provides us with a broad market and plenty of scope for new projects.
The pathfinder Greenwich Neighbourhood Resource Centres PFI project by Kier Project Investment provides residential, intermediate care and nursing care together with hotel services for 167 local elderly residents.
Built by Kier London, the project was completed and operational some five weeks ahead of programme and within budget.
Kier Managed Services manage the facilities.
The project was recognised in 2006, receiving the Best Operational Local Government Project award in the Public Private Finance Awards.
23 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 stands at 522 per 100,000 staff and subcontractors, comparing Operating favourably with the Health & Safety Executive benchmark of 902. and financial In recognition, the Group received nine gold, two silver, and one review bronze award from RoSPA and seven British Safety Council Awards.
Chief Through their positive, proactive attitude, our staff and supply executives chain work tirelessly to reduce the potential for accidents to review happen, and to protect the long-term health of those working on Kier sites.
The roll-out of the ISO 18001 14001 registration continued programme has ensured that already high standards and levels of awareness continue to be raised and the third party audit carried out by BSI ensures that the Group continues to deliver best practice.
This continuing improvement approach culminated in Kier Group being awarded the highly coveted Quality in Construction Health & Safety Management Award 2006.
People The success and reputation of a business is a reflection of the quality of the people who work together to form it.
We have many excellent, committed and enthusiastic people in this Group.
Whether we are building a tunnel, servicing an office, changing a boiler or grappling with a complex planning issue, the wealth of talent in this Group to bring any project to fruition is immense.
I am very proud of what this Group can achieve and I also sense a great pride in our employees: pride, not just for the work they are doing, but as employees of Kier.
I should like to thank all of our employees for their continuing KPI is currently short-listed, supported by other Group companies, contribution to making Kier Group the success it is today.
on bids for the Three Counties Police Investigation Centres project in East Anglia and the Leicester Hospitals scheme.
Objectives and prospects The year to 30 June 2006 has seen the Group firing on all Pensions cylinders and our objective for the new financial year is to At 30 June 2006 the net pension deficit shown on the balance maintain this momentum and to continue to provide clients with sheet, calculated as required by IAS 19 Employee Benefits, a high quality service.
The movement in the year includes special contributions, amounting to 31.5m, paid into Our Construction order books at 30 June 2006 were at the highest the pension scheme in the last quarter of the financial year.
level ever and, with a strong pipeline of virtually secure work, our These contributions form part of a schedule of payments Construction division is in an excellent position to grow further.
In designed to eliminate the pension scheme deficit over 10 years.
Support Services the market for local authority outsourcing contracts A further 5.0m was contributed in July 2006 and the Group is continues to expand.
Our housing land bank contains sites of good making further special contributions of 0.5m per month.
These quality in saleable locations and we anticipate an increase in unit contributions are in addition to a special contribution of 12.0m sales for Kier Residential this year enhanced by the acquisition of made in March 2005, bringing the total payments to the scheme, Hugh Bourn Homes which provides us with a new operating area.
over and above normal contributions, to 43.5m in the two years Our Property portfolio contains a range of development sites that to 30 June 2006. will continue to be enhanced in value, and in Infrastructure Investment we can see a number of good projects coming forward.
The special contributions have no effect on the income statement for the year, but are shown as a reduction in cash and a reduction Opportunities for our businesses to work together are becoming in the pension deficit.
more prolific as complex planning issues continue to require resolution and clients requirements become more intricate.
Health & Safety Kier has continued to build on the positive approach to health Against this backdrop, the prospects for the Group are excellent & safety valued in all of our employees and supply chain members.
and I am confident that we will continue to deliver further growth This approach, together with our Dont Walk By campaign and in 2007 and thereafter.
continuing focus on behavioural issues, has created a proactive approach identifying and correcting health & safety issues.
By addressing the risk and not the symptom, Kier has brought about John Dodds significant reductions in its accident incidence rate, which now Chief Executive Kier Sheffields technical training centre was refurbished during the year, doubling the size of the facility and allowing for a greater range of industrial and commercial-scale training equipment.
The centre offers a range of domestic and commercial gas, heating and plumbingrelated training and assessment courses available to aligned tradespeople.
It is currently the only Accredited Certification Scheme Centre allowed to carry out commercial assessments in Sheffield.
24 24 Kier Gr Kier Group plc oup plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Visitor centre, Welney A new energy-efficient visitor centre at Welney in Norfolk built by Kier Eastern for the Wildlife and Wetlands Trust.
25 25 Kier Gr Kier Group plc oup plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Annual report and accounts 2006
