20 Strategic report Business review and strategy The Groups strategy and business model worked well in a challenging economic environment during 2014.
Whilst recoveries in the US and UK economies were reflected in stronger hospitality markets, in most of continental Europe and many parts of Asia, conditions were less favourable.
By maintaining firm cost control at the hotel and corporate levels, and calibrating pricing to local and regional market conditions, the Group overcame these challenges to deliver positive trading results for the year.
Business model The Groups hospitality real estate for fiscal or other reasons, the investing in its people, its brands and ownership model enables investors to Group may operate hotels under its technology in order to provide high participate in long-term asset value growth management contract.
quality, cost-efficient service to its as well as hotel earnings.
The model is customers and good financial returns fide-centralised with relatively low central to its shareholders.
Strategy overheads, the core aim being to ensure that The core strategic objective of the Group a high proportion of hotel revenues flow We take a four-pronged approach to is to provide long-term improving returns directly through to the Groups bottom line.
executing our strategy, focused on on shareholders capital, whilst growing capital allocation, promoting growth, the business through asset acquisition In some markets, where real controlling costs and fostering efficient and prudent investment in the existing estate ownership is sub-optimal operating procedures.
The Group is also Operating performance hotels compared to 2013, as well as The Group invested in its RevPAR increased by 2.8% to through higher average room rates.
e-commerce capabilities, introducing 71.55, or by 6.9% in constant a new central reservation system currency.
The improvement in Closure of the Millennium Hotel St during 2014.
We also deployed a performance was driven mainly by Louis reduced revenue by 4m.
new customer relationship acquisitions and the impact of our Revenue was reduced by the management CRM system in refurbishment programme, especially strength of our reporting currency, Europe to manage our interactions at Millennium Hotel Minneapolis and the pound sterling.
In constant with current and future customers, Grand Hyatt Taipei.
Closure of the currency, hotel revenue increased by whilst automating certain critical poorly performing Millennium Hotel 6.7% 2013: 703m.
customer-facing areas such as St Louis in January 2014 also helped marketing, sales and customer to improve RevPAR.
Management continues to focus on service.
The CRM system will be cost control.
The Groups hotel gross introduced to other regions during The increase in hotel revenue was operating margin for the year rose to 2015. driven mainly by improved RevPAR 36.0% 2013: 35.0%.
The Groups Acquisitions refurbishment programme also As well as economic conditions, The Group remained on alert for benefited hotel revenue through a the hotel trading environment is acquisition opportunities throughout net increase in the number of room becoming increasingly influenced by 2014.
In general, prices demanded nights available for sale from existing changing distribution technology.
by owners of hotel assets remained Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information 21 The Group co-owns the freehold and higher than justified by hotel operating The three acquisitions added 32m leasehold interests in the property performance.
Despite this overall to revenue and 6m to operating through a joint-venture with CDL.
trend, the Group succeeded in profit in 2014.
Proportionately greater acquiring three value-adding contributions are anticipated in 2015, In December 2014, Urban properties during the year: which will be their first full year of Environmental Improvement UEI ownership by the Group.
approval was granted for the Groups On 25 March 2014, the Group In addition, CDLHT acquired two land in Seoul, South Korea to be completed its purchase of the long hotels in Tokyo during December used for lodging facilities.
There leasehold interest in a 5-star, 2014, which will be managed under was also UEI approval of the floor all-suite hotel located within the MyStays brand.
area ratio, footprint ratio and building Londons Chelsea Harbour district height for a proposed hotel and for 65m.
Situated in a prestigious The Group opened three hotels serviced apartment construction and improving riverside location, under management contract during project under consideration the property now renamed as The Chelsea Harbour Hotel - offers 2014.
In total the Group has 31 by the Group.
management contracts, most of The Group is considering its options with regard to its freehold interest Operational and organisational efficiency Cost control in Millennium Hotel St Louis, which Invest in people and technological Maintain a lean decentralised business closed in January 2014.
The property innovation, adopt best practice model and drive efficiencies through 2 where cost efficient systems and technology occupies a 17,033m site in the city.
The Group is also considering its options with respect to its freehold 2 interest in a 35,717m mixed use landsite at Sunnyvale, California.
Capital and resource allocation Growth Core focus on improving returns Sharpen focus on key gateway from hospitality real estate cities and brand strategy through investment a motivated sales team On 12 June 2014, the Group which are in the Middle East and completed its acquisition of the China.
The Group had 120 hotels in 480-room 4-star Novotel New 79 locations at 31December 2014.
York Times Square, for which it This was a net increase of six paid $274m 161m.
The property properties compared to is situated at a location that is 31December 2013. consistently voted amongst the worlds most important tourist Development destinations.
It will continue Construction and fitting out of the to be managed by Accor under Groups first hotel in Japan was the Novotel brand.
completed towards the end of the year, with the official opening on On 9 October 2014, the Group 17December 2014.
The new luxury completed the purchase of its first hotel has 329 rooms and is located hotel in Italy, for 66m 51m.
in Tokyos fashionable Ginza district.
This is a 5-star, 87-room property, Mitsui Fudosan Co. Ltd. operates located on Romes Via Veneto and the hotel as the Millennium Mitsui the hotel is now renamed as Garden Hotel Tokyo under a fixedGrand Hotel Palace Rome.
term lease and licensing arrangement.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014 22 Strategic report Business review and strategy continued Biltmore Hotel Los Angeles.
A an international mixed use real estate Refurbishment number of significant refurbishment developer.
At 31 December 2014, In addition to acquisitions and new projects affecting other Group the Group managed one property development, the Group regards properties are being planned.
owned by First Sponsor the prudent investment in the existing 196-room M Hotel Chengdu.
The hotel portfolio as a means to improve Asset disposals 610-room Millennium Waterfront return on capital.
Such investment The Group did not renew its lease Chengdu Hotel is scheduled to open decisions are made with the utmost on the loss making Copthorne Hotel in Chengdus Wenjiang district in care, avoiding excessive disruption to Hannover, which expired at 2017.
More properties are at current trading.
Investment is also the end of 2014. the planning stage.
dependent on local planning constraints and permissions, which In March 2014, the UK Secretary of In 2014 the Group consolidated can delay individual projects.
State confirmed the compulsory the performance of CDLHT in purchase order for Birminghams accordance with IFRS 10 In addition to standard maintenance Paradise Circus Redevelopment Consolidated Financial Statements.
expenditure across the estate, the scheme, which includes the Previously it was equity accounted Group invested 42m in existing Copthorne Hotel Birmingham.
As under Joint Ventures and Associates.
Most of this previously announced, the Group has CDLHT is listed on the Singapore expenditure was accounted for by entered into an agreement with the Exchange and reports its results the continuing refurbishment of developer of the scheme, granting and activities separately.
Grand Hyatt Taipei which, with 853 the Group a number of options rooms, is the Groups largest hotel in including construction of a new hotel Asia.
The remaining work on the and or the sale of the existing site.
common parts of the property will conclude during 2015.
The Group is also in discussion with appropriate authorities in Scotland A smaller refurbishment project was regarding the impact of the completed during the summer at redevelopment of the local area the Groups 125-room hotel in on the Millennium Hotel Glasgow.
On 1 October 2014, the former Millennium Resort and Villas Joint ventures and associates Scottsdale was re-opened as Joint ventures and associates The McCormick Scottsdale after a contributed 10m to profit in 2014 three-month closure over the 2013: 14m.
It is too early to assess the First Sponsor Group Limited First trading impact of the renovation.
Sponsor was listed on the Singapore Exchange on 22 July Refurbishment of all 100 rooms 2014.
The Group has an effective in the main tower of Millennium interest of 36% in First Sponsor, Harvest House Boulder which now reports its results was completed in May 2014. publicly.
First Sponsor will continue to be an important part of the Group Refurbishment projects are in strategy for growing its presence in process at Millennium Baileys Hotel China, through managing hotels that London Kensington, Millennium are developed and owned by First Hotel Buffalo, Millennium Alaskan Sponsor in the course of its work as Hotel Anchorage and Millennium Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2014
