Business review We continue to operate and measure our business performance across four priority areas: our people, our practices, our guests and our profits.
Our performance Our practices We continue to operate and measure our Our practices refer to the safe and efficient business performance across four priority way that we run our operations.
We continue 1,500 areas: our people, our practices, our guests to make safety a top priority, and challenge Currently we have more than and our profits.
all of our businesses to achieve the maximum national Food Hygiene Rating Scheme score 1,500 people on a vocational Our people of 5.
We have made further progress towards or apprenticeship programme Our key measure of success with regards achieving this goal in the last year.
to our people is retail staff turnover, which remained in line with the prior year at 78%.
The project to replace all of the EPOS systems Whilst we have succeeded in maintaining this in our pubs and restaurants has continued at its record low we will continue to focus on it.
They are now live in more than 1,300 sites with the project due Our approach to people is founded on our to be completed in FY 2015.
These systems Good to Great philosophy, which adapts enable greater efficiency within our operations our ways of working to engage with our teams, by speeding up order taking and bill payment, empower them to make their own decisions, improving business controls, and allowing our and ultimately to drive stronger performance.
retail teams to spend more time with our This is now live in the majority of the estate, guests.
Further detail is included within the and at its best is delivering exceptional results.
In the last year we have also reviewed the We have made a significant change to the way in way we recruit our team members.
We which our operations teams make decisions, with have introduced collective recruitment days the provision of dashboard analysis on tablets across multiple brands and concentrated for all General Managers and Area Managers.
This approach allows This analysis allows prioritisation of decisions us to demonstrate the scale of our business based on real-time data, and is an important step and the career opportunities available to forward in the day-to-day management of the potential future employees.
We are proud of our investment in young people, which currently sees more than 1,500 people on a vocational or apprenticeship programme.
We have pledged to take on a further 1,000 apprentices over the next two years.
We are delighted to have announced two high-quality and experienced external appointments to the Executive team.
Catriona Kempston has assumed responsibility for Marketing and Phil Urban joins us in January as Chief Operating Officer.
24 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 233 Governance 3466 Financialstatements 67111  112 Our guests Our profits Our key measure for understanding how In FY 2014 we increased our adjusted earnings we are seen by our guests is net promoter per share by 1.2% to 32.6 pence, based on 63% a score, which measures how likely our guests higher sales and the contribution from Orchid, Our net promoter score in the are to recommend us to friends and family.
as described further in the Financial review.
In FY 2014 our net promoter score increased Our operating margins fell by 50 basis points, year increased by 4 percentage by 4 ppts to 63%.
reflecting some short-term impact of the points to 63% integration of Orchid, the increased closure Our focus on guests is evident in the costs from the accelerated remodel programme, development of our food volume growth and the growth in sales derived primarily from throughout FY 2014.
Following several volume rather than price.
years of spend per head increases, we have 174 concentrated on driving our food sales through Outlook We remodelled 174 businesses volume rather than price growth.
We aim to Since I joined Mitchells & Butlers in deliver consistently great value to our guests October 2012 we have been committed in the year compared with 97 and to build trust in our brands.
We remain to the fundamentals of our business plan.
in the prior year committed to driving this volume growth by I remain confident that this is the right plan offering ongoing value through our menus and will deliver sustainable profit growth rather than by short-term promotional activity.
Our focus on brands and value to meet our The actions we have taken are gathering guests needs can be demonstrated with momentum: we have seen staff turnover a number of examples: improve, net promoter score increase, a turnaround in food volume performance, We offer consistently great value through increased levels of remodel and expansionary Toby Carvery: a carvery meal during the capex, and substantial investment in our week for 5.99, and unlimited breakfast systems.
We are excited about integrating for 3.99: the Orchid estate into our leading portfolio of We are innovating to drive the Harvester brands, and we have a fantastic team of more brand by making significant changes to than 43,000 people to support our progress.
food and drink menus, the breakfast offer, Whilst we continue to operate in a challenging branding and design: and and competitive market, we are making real We have evolved All Bar Ones food and drink progress and we have confidence in our offer with a clear focus on its target market future success.
of professionals and shown that it can be successful in a greater diversity of locations.
Alistair Darby Chief Executive Our remodel programme is aimed at enhancing our existing businesses, to ensure that they surpass our guests high standards.
Net promoter score is defined as the percentage of actively increased the pace and level of responses where we score 9 or 10 out of 10 brand promoters less the percentage of responses where expenditure on remodels.
174 businesses we scored 0 to 6 brand detractors to the statement were remodelled in FY 2014, compared I am likely to recommend this pub to a friend and or with 97 in the prior year, generating returns relative.
Responses scoring 7 or 8 passives are in excess of 30%.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25
