16 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Business Review Europe Review needs.
The Cussons Mum & Me range, Covent Garden spa and the three smaller In the UK Washing and Bathing division, launched two years ago, was refined in the boutique spas were closed during theyear.
all brands have performed well driven year to focus on the successful top selling by significant renovation and innovation products and has been complemented by In Poland, the sale of the Home Care brands programmes with over 70% of products products for toddlers and young children completed in February 2014 with 46.6 relaunched or refreshed in the year.
under the Little Explorers sub-brand.
Performance in the Thisenables category growth plans to be Product portfolios for all brands have period was strong pre-sale for the Home developed with the trade and new product been optimised both for the big four Care business and the focus is now on news to be delivered to the consumer.
supermarkets as well as further increasing investing in and growing the Personal Care Highlights during the year include the distribution in otherchannels.
brands of Luksja, Original Source and Carex.
relaunch of the premium Imperial Leather Foamburst shower range with new imagery In the Beauty division, whilst trading Performance in Greece showed and fragrances, the extension of the very conditions in UK channels have been improvement versus the prior year as successful Carex Kids handwash range challenging, overseas markets have the economy began to stabilise, and to four variants and new Original Source been further developed during the year new product launches took place across products including the launch of a Skin with new distribution secured in the US, the portfolio of edible oils, cheeses Quench moisturising range.
An exciting Canada and selected European countries.
development for the new financial year is Consumer demand for St. Tropez has been the major relaunch post year end of the boosted in all markets by Kate Moss as entire Imperial Leather portfolio with brand ambassador, and the portfolios of exciting new products and fragrances tiered all brandscontinue to be refreshed with as Classic, Signature and Indulgence ranges innovative new products.
As part of the to cater for all price points and consumer divisions focus on its product ranges, the Regional Update Beauty division Imperial Leather Foamburst and relaunch Our Beauty division has continued to innovate with the launch of a number of It has been an exciting time for Imperial Leather in the UK.
Imperial Leather bath, new products.
The professional haircare brand, Fudge, launched an exciting new shower and hand wash has been relaunched post year end across three new Care range including shampoos and conditioners, whilst Fudge Urban secured tiers: Classic, Signature and Indulgence.
Each tier has been crafted by our Master One Directions hairstylist Lou Teasdale as its brand ambassador and launched Perfumers and contains sumptuous new fragrances together with beautifully into Target in the US.
St. Tropez, our leading self-tan brand, unveiled its new Self eye-catching new designs and brand new formulations.
Tan Luxe Dry Oil and Self Tan Express range containing intelligent self-tanning In addition, earlier in the year Foamburst relaunched with an exciting multitechnology.
Sanctuary launched a new Wonder Oil Serum combining the media communication campaign.
Each of the fantastic new Foamburst benefits of an anti-ageing serum with hydrating oil.
Charles Worthington Salon fragrances has an associated Genie each with its own unique characteristics at Home range took its first steps into the hair colour concealing market with toreflect their Foamburst variant.
thelaunch of an Instant Root Concealer range.
17 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Regional highlights Strong performance in UK Washing and Bathing division with all four Revenue: Europe brands performing well Major relaunch of Imperial Leather range post year end 315.7m St. Tropez demand continues to be boosted by Kate Moss as brand ambassador Carex has another record breaking year!
Good performance in smaller Our Carex brand had another record breaking year, markets of Poland and Greece reaching a record leading market share in the UK hand wash category.
Behind this success has been anumber of initiatives including the relaunch of thebrand as Carex Complete, the extension of ourProtect Plus range and the addition of new andexciting variants to our Fun Editions range.
Thelatest Fun Edition variant is Bubble Gum, which has been chosen by children to encourage regular hand washing.
We also achieved an entry into theGuinness World Records for the Biggest Simultaneous Baking Lesson, involving 5,169 children coordinated through our schools programme Hands Up for Hygiene.
