12 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Business Review Africa Review of the portfolio driven by a significant beenachieved in the consumer brands of In Nigeria, unrest in the North of the renovation programme across brands Mamador and Devon Kings with the balance country has continued with high levels of such as Premier, Zip, Morning Fresh, Carex of output sold business to business.
disruption at various times during the year.
This innovation and This has made trade difficult in the affected renovation across the portfolio has helped Nutricima, the nutritional beverage joint areas as distributors and consumers trade to maintain or grow the brands number one venture with Glanbia, has seen double digit and shop more cautiously.
There is currently or number two positions by marketshare.
revenue growth with strong performance no indication that the levels of disruption from the key brands of Nunu, Coast, will ease in the short term and politically In the Electricals division, double digit Olympic and Yo.
The business posted a small the country is now focussed on the next revenue and profit growth has been profit for the year, ahead of the breakeven presidential elections that are scheduled to achieved with the Haier Thermocool position of the prior year, despite higher take place in February 2015.
Economically, brand performing extremely well in its year-on-year milkcosts.
high interest rates have helped to maintain 40th anniversary year.
The brand holds the stability of the Naira to Dollar exchange clear number one market share positions Whilst local currency revenue growth rate although this has resulted in liquidity in refrigerators, freezers and washing in Ghana is ahead of the prior year, levels in the market remaining tight.
A new machines, and continues to be premium profitability has been impacted by a central bank governor took office in June priced with consumers recognising the significant weakening of the Cedi which 2014 and policies have continued to support product quality and after sales service has devalued over 60% in 12 months.
Brand the currency as long as foreign exchange capability which remains ahead of that shares remain healthy at number one or reserves are maintained at a sufficientlevel.
The HT two position across all four categories of CoolWorld showrooms in Nigeria and Personal Care, Home Care, Electricals and In Personal Care and Home Care, whilst Ghanacontinue to play an important role, Food and Nutrition.
volumes were higher year-on-year, revenue both as sales outlets, and as a showcase and operating profit were slightly lower forthe premium positioning of thebrand.
Revenue and profitability in Kenya are at as a result of commodity products, such similar levels to the previous year.
as bulk detergents and laundry soaps, Revenue for the African Food and Nutrition having to trade in an extremely competitive joint ventures with Wilmar and Glanbia environment.
Competitors have been grew to 260 million.
The palm oil joint operating with high levels of promotions venture with Wilmar has performed very in order to maintain share whilst cheap well, recording a small operating profit imports from Asia have also affected contribution, with the refinery already close market dynamics.
Pleasingly, good growth to capacity following its commissioning has been achieved in the value add part in January 2013.
Good growth has Regional Update Zip detergent brand relaunch Electricals division Zip has grown over the last 10 years to become a popular and well known The Nigerian Electricals division has had another successful year continuing its detergent brand, especially in the north of Nigeria.
In the current year, Zip was market leading position in key white goods categories.
The 40th year celebrations relaunched with an improved formulation offering Our best whites ever and of the Thermocool electrical brand consisted of a number of events and prizes the introduction of a new lemon variant.
The Zip relaunch was a fantastic event, including a Valentines Day spectacular in Lagos for over 5,000 guests.
During the including significant and impactful trade and consumer engagement.
year a new state of the art manufacturing plant was opened to address the increased demand facing the division with the new facilitys capacity being overone million units per annum.
13 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Regional highlights Operating profit growth in Nigeria PZ Wilmar despite increased levels of disruption In 2011, the PZ Wilmar joint venture was formed inthe North of the country through a partnership with Wilmar International.
Revenue of African Food and Nutrition The successes of this venture so far have been: Building Nigerias largest state of the art palm joint ventures reaches 260 million oilrefinery PZ Wilmar joint venture performing Developing two new high quality market leading consumer edible palm oil brands Devon Kings well with refinery operating close andMamador tocapacity Investing in palm oil plantations with the aim of revitalising the Nigerian palm oil industry Good revenue and profitability Our future strategic ambitions include the further growthachieved in the Nutricima growth of our premium branded product sales of jointventure with Glanbia Mamador and Devon Kings.
