14 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Business Review Asia Review be launched outside of Australia before and liquid soap products whilst Carex In Australia, the underlying performance in the end of the 2014 calendar year.
All also delivered good growth.
The brand the Home Care and Personal Care portfolios businesses have been impacted by higher portfolio was also extended with the launch has been strong, driven by innovative input costs as a result of the significant of Original Source into modern trade new product launches brought quickly to weakening in the Australian Dollar which distribution channels.
Within Home Care, Morning Fresh has also reduced results on conversion also made during the year with distribution has extended its number one market share toSterling.
in other South East Asianterritories.
position in manual dishwash whilst Radiant laundry powder and liquids have also grown In Indonesia, double digit local currency Performance of the smaller businesses versus the previous year.
In Personal Care, revenue growth has been achieved, albeit inThailand and the Middle East were the Imperial Leather and Original Source at a lower rate than previous years as a atasimilar level to the priorperiod.
ranges have been extended with new result of the slowing macro environment.
variants and during the year Cussons Mum & Results have also been affected on Me was launched into selected distribution conversion by the significant weakening in channels.
Beauty brands Fudge, St. Tropez the Rupiah.
Cussons Baby, which accounts and Sanctuary have performed particularly for approximately 80% of Indonesian strongly in the Australian market during revenue, continues to perform extremely the year.
Raffertys Garden, the Australian well, reinforcing its market leading position.
baby food business purchased in July 2013, The Imperial Leather range was completely has performed well and is expected to relaunched during the year with new bar Regional Update Cussons Baby digital marketing Radiants new innovative advertising campaign During this financial year we have made great strides with our online digital Radiant, our Australian laundry detergent brand, has been using a new and marketing campaigns.
In Indonesia, the Cussons Baby Facebook page hit one innovative marketing campaign to differentiate itself from traditional laundry million subscribers, the first brand within the Group to achieve this milestone.
detergent manufacturers, following its reformulation.
Radiants new range of The dedicated Facebook page features live expert chat which offers advice to products contain a number of breakthrough technologies that keep colours mums on baby care matters.
The digital strategy is based on the insight that newer, for longer.
The advertising campaign called Buy it.
mums in Indonesia have limited access to authoritative advice from experts Return it took a unique approach to change the way that traditional brands andhealthcare professionals.
communicate with the consumer whilst putting the detergent to the test.
Shotfor a web film, clothes were purchased, and then whilst being worn weresubjected to activities such as Paintballing and Australian Rules Football.
Theywere then cleaned with Radiant and ultimately successfully returned as good as new, to the stores they were purchased from.
15 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Review Report of the Directors Accounts Regional highlights Revenue and profit growth achieved despite the significant Revenue: Asia impact of weakening currencies Underlying performance in keymarkets of Australia and 184.4m Indonesia strong Raffertys Garden acquisition marked the Groups entry into Raffertys Garden In July 2013 PZ Cussons acquired the Australian Food and Nutrition in Asia baby food brand Raffertys Garden, a leading premium nutritious baby food brand with approximately 40% share of the Australian wet baby food market, as well as growing shares in the infant dry baby food and snacks market.
The acquisition marks our entrance into the Food and Nutrition category within Asia whilst adding another leading brand with exciting growth potential.
It is expected to be launched outside of Australia before the end of the 2014 calendar year.
