30 Strategic Report Business review continued Experts in Pest Control Percentage of group revenue % Percentage of group operating profit % Revenue m Why choose Rentokil?
741m Operating profit m 41 44 140m We are the worlds leading commercial pest company.
Our USPs include our global Search performance Operating margin reach, service quality, brand strength, expertise of people, During 2014 our digital team deployed new websites 18.9% innovation, management and enhanced for search engine performance information systems and which have helped drive up our organic search digitalcapability.
performance on Google and other search engines.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 31 Market Rentokil is the worlds We have an 8% share of the estimated 9.5bn leading commercial pest market for pest control services and we are continuing to increase this share through a control business providing combination of organic growth and targeted the highest levels of risk acquisitions.
Rising standards of hygiene are driving greater demand for pest control across our markets management, reassurance but particularly in emerging economies.
In mature markets the sector is consolidating, presenting and responsiveness to good opportunities for growth and enhanced customers.
Our key points ofdifferentiation include our brand strength, Strategic focus international reach, innovative products and an Over recent years we have broadened our operating model that allows us to deliver our geographic presence through acquisitions in North, collective expertise through our front-line service Central and South America and the Middle East.
This is being helped further with our investment in information technology enabling us to We compete on the basis of: serve customers better, faster and more efficiently.
Building our brand strength in each of our markets Customers Being the most international of pest control In over 60 countries businesses and homeowners companies to deliver consistently to multinational trust Rentokil to solve their pest problems and customers prevent them from re-occurring.
Sharing best practice in sales and service across We are the worlds leading provider of pest control our international network services to commercial customers and this Delivering technical expertise through our accounts for 78% of the categorys revenue.
technicians and supporting organisation We deliver services to all commercial sectors Investing in innovation to develop proprietary and, while customers in the food processing, products, service models and digital reporting food service andfood retail sectors are the most prominent given their legislative requirements Winning customers online through search for pest control services, the majority of our performance and conversion rate optimisation revenue comes fromnon-food sectors where Pest control is our principal category for we continue to seeincreasing market penetration growth with a focus on: and growth opportunities.
Establishing national and local leadership in Residential pest control represents 22% of category eachof our markets revenue with over 75% of this coming from the US Broader and deeper coverage in the North and Australia.
On a per capita basis these two American market countries have much larger residential markets for Using pest control as a vehicle for entering new pest control than in Europe, catalysed primarily markets e. g. emerging economies of Latin because of the importance of termites in these America markets.
In Europe, residential pest control tends Developing the opportunity for international tobe typically 4 to 8% of category revenue.
accounts Outlook Ongoing service productivity improvements In the coming year we will be looking to broaden further our global footprint in the Growth and Performance Emerging quadrants in particular.
Our pest control In 2014 the pest control business achieved operations work together across regions to share ongoingrevenue of 740m 8.5% at CER and best practice and build capabilities in strategic ongoing operating profit of 140m 8.4% at marketing and innovation.
The business is highly profitable and pipeline of innovations which we expect to launch generates an 18.9% operating margin.
North over the coming 12 to 24 months.
America and the UK are among our largest geographies in this category.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
