Corporate Governance Strategic Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 29 Business review continued Experts in Hygiene Revenue m Heritage of over 100 years Initial began trading 475m in 1903 when American businessman Operating profit m MrA.
P. Bigelow started a towel rental service for London businesses.
94m Each customer had their initials embroidered on their towels andso the Operating margin Initial Towel Supply Company was born.
Our award-winning Signature range Percentage of group revenue % Percentage of group operating profit % 19.8% In March 2014 we announced that our Signature range of hygiene products received its 26 30 second international award forproduct design excellence.
Previous winners of the internationally recognised product accolade Red Dot Design Award include Mercedes Benz, Bosch and Apple.
Market For more than 100 years Initial Hygiene Initial Hygiene operates in a competitive market with good growth has helped organisations provide opportunities.
We are well placed to increase market share through market segmentation and the introduction of value propositions to pleasant and hygienic environments customers.
Significant investment has been made in updating and for staff, clients and visitors.
Customers Strategic focus We achieve high customer satisfaction levels and believe this is a key Leveraging award-winning Signature range of hygiene products competitive advantage.
The businesses have account management tosell more services per customer: targeting higher-margin processes in place with tiered strategies for contacting customers at customers and increasing retention rates least annually to confirm that their service requirements are being met.
Improving pricing and margin management particularly for In addition, we continue to use the insight gained from our Customer single-service customers Voice Counts CVC feedback to improve service levels and every Seeking to build market share through acquisitions at local detractor score on CVC is followed up by a call from an account andnational level in Europe manager or a branch manager within two working days of the survey.
Launch of HygieneConnect hand washing compliance system More recently the launch of the new myInitial extranet tool gives complete transparency about individual customer service including Establishing good hygiene practices throughout organisations reduces proof of service and proof of delivery with e-invoicing being rolled out the risk of infection being passed from person to person.
As a result, from thestart of 2015. fewer days are lost to sickness which translates directly into real cost savings and improved productivity.
Outlook Our hygiene business is complementary to our world-leading pest Performance control business a linked offer in environmental health, requiring In 2014 the category generated ongoing revenue of 474m, up similar skills sets from our employees and with both categories 1.0% at CER.
It has a 19.8% operating margin and delivered 94m having compatible operational models.
The category is well placed to ofongoing operating profit a decline of 5.4% at CER.
State of service demonstrate its expertise as demand for improved hand and feminine has risen consistently over the past five years and as a result customer hygiene solutions are sought around the world.
While organic growth satisfaction rates continue to improve, rising by 1.7% across the group has been squeezed through difficult trading conditions in Europe, the in 2014. strong contribution to profits from our hygiene category underscores its importance to the group.
Building market share in the Growth and Emerging quadrants remains a priority for our hygiene category.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
