32 Strategic Report Business review continued Experts in Workwear Revenue m International scale 428m Operating profit m 66m Our workwear business is the only organisation with international scale in the four main continental European Operating margin markets of Belgium, France, Germany and the Netherlands.
Percentage of group revenue % Percentage of group operating profit % 15.4% 23 21 Market Initial Workwear specialises primarily Initial Workwear operates across three main European areas France, in the rental and maintenance of Germany and Benelux.
The west European workwear market which includes general workwear, cleanroom, linen and personal protective garments, such as workwear and equipment is valued at 9bn.
With a compound annual growth rate of personal protective equipment PPE, 3.3%, it is expected to reach 10bn in 2017. throughout Europe.
It also offers Customers specialist cleanroom services.
Based on our research-led understanding of people at work, we can help our customers perform better by providing them with the highest quality workwear solutions.
Strategic focus Repositioning business to focus on workwear garments and on There is an increasing trend by customers to outsource their increasing sharing of best practice and product ranges across workwear requirements which is fuelling further sales opportunities.
countries of operation Customers are seeking both functional and fashionable workwear, maintained to the highest standard and with greater transparency on Seeking acquisitions in cleanroom market costs and performance.
Workplace safety regulation also supports Ongoing investment in product and service innovation to deliver themarket for protective as well as functional workwear.
thebest products and more efficient services Focus on service quality Outlook The business remains highly profitable and cash generative despite Performance the challenging market conditions, which we expect to continue in Performance in 2014 was held back by the turnaround of Benelux 2015, and enjoys a strong position in the European workwear market.
and the impact of challenging economic conditions in Europe.
It is a good complementary fit with our hygiene business both Ongoing revenue decreased by 0.3% at CER to 428m and businesses are route-based and have a shared brand with linked ongoing operating profit declined by 3.2% at CER at 66m.
The category has an operating margin of 15.4%.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2014
