STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT The continued expansion of our product portfolio, Order intake for the year was 595.6m, up 2.9% on international sales channels and our broad end-market the prior year.
Currency was a headwind during the exposure enabled us to achieve record results in 2014. year and on an organic constant currency OCC basis order intake was 4.0% ahead of 2013.
As in prior years, the fourth quarter was a record in terms of shipments.
Revenue for the full year was 594.7m, up 2.8% on the prior year and up 3.8% on an OCC basis.
The adjusted operating profit margin was 26.4%, a 20 basis point improvement on 2013.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions and currency, the adjusted operating margin was 26.7%.
During the year, through both organic development and acquisitions, we have expanded our international presence and now have 27 manufacturing sites, 65 national offices and 85 regional locations in 37 countries.
In total we have over 800 sales channels in 99 countries.
Building a strong international sales network to support our customers remains a key element of our strategy.
In 2014, we invested 81.3m in acquisitions to drive Peter France further growth and strengthen our market Chief Executive position.
Through the acquisitions of YTC, Midland, Masso and the operations of our sales agent in Turkey, acquired in February 2015, we extended our product range in attractive segments and increased and strengthened our geographic reach.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions and We will continue to pursue acquisition opportunities in 2015 to enhance and expand our currency, the adjusted operating margin offering to customers.
We also opened seven new sales and service offices during the year, was 26.7%.
completed the expansion of our facilities in Singapore and relocated to larger premises in Spain.
In addition, we opened a new world-class factory in Leeds UK and purchased a larger factory in Lucca Italy which we will move into during 2015.
These key investments will ensure that Rotork continues to be best placed to benefit from the anticipated growth of the global flow control market.
Our Markets The world economy is being shaped by long-term global trends that include population growth, urbanisation and automation.
These trends are driving heightened demand for flow control products and services to deliver cleaner energy, greater fuel efficiency and improved resource utilisation.
The Group benefits from marketleading flow control expertise and remains well positioned to support these growth opportunities.
Another positive trend is the increased focus by our customers on cost reduction and stricter environmental regulations.
As a result, we are seeing good demand for energy efficient products across all our end-markets.
As manufacturers focus on improved operational performance and cost efficiencies, they are investing in automation Oil refinery in and more complex processes.
Flow control, The Netherlands 20 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information and valves in particular, are key elements of this customers are in the world, Rotork is able to The Rotork family continues to grow and during investment process.
Given our broad geographic support them.
We have workshops strategically 2014 our staff numbers increased by 412 to 3,469. exposure, participation in diverse industries and located around the world, with trained staff and full 191 joined us as part of the YTC, Midland and broad product and service offering, Rotork is best test and maintenance facilities.
Masso acquisitions and the rest were recruited as placed to meet our customers needs as they make part of our organic growth in various locations these investments.
Whilst our actuators and flow As part of the CSP, customers have 24 7 access to around the world.
control instruments are used most intensively in the the Rotork Support Centres, with priority technical oil & gas, power and water markets, the expansion of assistance, backed by comprehensive website During the year there have been a number of our product portfolio means that we are increasingly resources and priority software support.
With over changes to our management team.
Unfortunately able to address a widening range of end-markets.
370 directly employed engineers and more service Alex Busby, Divisional Managing Director DMD technicians employed by our agents worldwide, for Rotork Fluid Systems RFS, who has been The long-term global trends described above and we have the infrastructure required to effectively instrumental in the growth of the division over the opposite are all positive for Rotork, however during support all of our customers needs.
last few years, had to step down from his role on the latter part of 2014, global energy markets health grounds.
Everyone at Rotork wishes him experienced a sharp decline in the oil price.
Whilst Corporate Social Responsibility well as he focuses on returning to full health.
David we have yet to see any noticeable impact in Creating a growing and successful company Littlejohns has been appointed as DMD for RFS.
customer order activity, we believe that the takes more than just delivering financial results, David joined Rotork in 1986 and has most recently increased uncertainty created by this decline will which is why we pay particular attention not just been in charge of the Gears division.
Pamela present Rotork with a more challenging market to what we do, but how we do it.
Rotorks Bingham will take over from David as DMD Gears.
backdrop in the oil & gas sector.
Oil & gas success depends upon being a company with Pamela joined the company in 2012 as Group represents 57% of Group revenue with whom our customers want to do business and Business Development Director and has been downstream the largest element at 27% and for whom our employees want to work.
As such, heavily involved in a number of acquisitions since upstream and midstream both at 15%.
Rotork places key importance on our reputation, joining.
David and Pamela will continue to be ethical conduct and our approach to health, members of the Rotork Management Board.
We remain focused on responding quickly to any safety and environmental matters.
changes in activity in our oil & gas related business Last year we also announced that Graham Ogden but we are confident that our resilient competitive We want to continue to be a business that our staff would be retiring in March after 30 years of service.
position, broad end-market exposure, and global are proud to work for and that serves our customers Graham was the first electronics manager sales and servicing coverage will continue to well over the short, medium and long-term.
We do employed by Rotork and was instrumental in the provide us with opportunities to grow.
this in part through the social and economic development of the electric actuator and contribution our business makes, and through our especially in the introduction of the IQ range of Research and Development R&D commitment to act responsibly day to day.
electric actuators that revolutionised the market.
Our investment in R&D increased further in the In the last few years Graham was a member of the year, up 18.3% to 9.9m.
All divisions introduced During the year we supported two global charities Rotork Management Board and a PLC director.
His new products or extended product ranges to and donated 60,000 to both Wateraid and contribution to the success of the Company expand our product portfolio.
I am also very pleased by the fact that cannot be underestimated and he has left a strong have been working with the business development many of our employees are involved in charitable legacy and a highly capable team to carry on his teams on future products and developing product endeavours in their local communities.
On behalf of all the staff I would like to thank road maps, and these activities support continued has contributed a further 175,000 to support Graham for his contribution to the Company and investment in our infrastructure and engineers.
these causes bringing the total Group wish him all the best in retirement.
Projects to which we dedicated significant contributions to 295,000 2013: 254,000. development time during the year included the The success of Rotork continues to be driven by nuclear product range and the introduction of the For more information of the work carried out by the the dedication and hard work of our staff.
CSR committee please refer to pages 40 to 51. like to take this opportunity to personally thank each of them for their contribution and for making Rotork Site Services RSS Our People Rotork the world-class company it is.
We launched our Client Support Programme Rotork is recognised by the majority of staff as a CSP in 2014 which offers a tailor-made service great place to work.
We foster an open and honest Peter France of planned preventative maintenance aimed at culture based on employee involvement.
Our Chief Executive the prevention of breakdowns and failures.
The annual employee satisfaction survey was 2 March 2015 primary goal of our CSP is to prevent the failure of completed by the highest number of employees in equipment before it occurs.
This includes its history although the response rate slightly equipment checks, replacement of worn declined from the high of last year 79% to 75% components and partial or complete overhauls at this year.
The overall satisfaction score remained References to adjusted profit throughout this document specified periods.
The global results are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating profit or showed that people continue to value the quality profit before tax, with 14.9m 2013: 12.1m of Planned preventative maintenance is a much of our products and services: our approach and amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
better alternative to risking a potentially damaging concern for their wellbeing in terms of health and OCC Organic constant currency results are the 2014 figures breakdown of equipment, and enables our safety, our open culture and ability to discuss restated at 2013 exchange rates and with the customers to realise the full potential of their issues with management and job security.
incremental contribution from acquisitions removed.
business by ensuring the maximum reliability and availability of our products.
Wherever our ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW: Controls delivered another year of growth in 2014.
On an organic constant currency OCC CONTROLS basis, order intake grew 7.1%, revenue by 6.4% and adjusted operating profit by 5.6%.
Acquisitions made only a small contribution to the division during the year.
The much greater effect on the reported results came from currency, which was felt throughout the year, and which resulted in a headwind equating to around 6% of order intake, revenue and profit.
This meant reported order intake increased by 1.3% to 320.4m, revenue by 0.8% to 324.5m and adjusted operating profit declined by 0.7% to 104.7m.
Adjusted operating margin reduced by 30 basis points to 32.5% on an OCC basis and a further 20 basis points as a result of currency.
Over the course of 2014 some of the divisions end-markets were challenging but we responded by enhancing our global capability and further strengthening our customer relationships.
Looking at the end destination of Grant Wood our products, North America and Latin America Managing Director both showed strong growth.
Whilst the Far East Rotork Controls declined in total, within this region China performed very well but Australia was lower following a strong comparable period of activity last year when we delivered a number of coal bed methane projects.
In North America and Over the course of 2014 some of the Latin America oil & gas remains our largest end-market, with downstream the largest divisions end-markets were challenging but sub-sector.
This contrasts with the Far East where our exposure is much more balanced and we responded by enhancing our global power, led by China, is larger than oil & gas.
capability and further strengthening our customer relationships.
REVENUE m 324.5 2014 321.9 2013 293.2 2012 278.0 2011 243.4 2010 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m 2014 104.7 105.5 2013 94.8 2012 92.1 2011 78.8 2010 22 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information The division continues to pursue geographic expansion, capitalising on our core competences and the strength of our brand to move into new markets.
We are focused on delivering long-term profitable growth which we will achieve by expanding and deploying our market leading flow control expertise in end-markets where we can achieve leading positions and where there is long-term demand for our products and services.
Even in our more mature markets the increased drive towards automation, with a requirement for increased asset management information, provides opportunities to grow.
During the year we invested in a number of facilities, the largest of which was the new factory in Leeds UK.
This multi-division site houses the headquarters of our UK sales subsidiary, where our northern UK service team is based.
We also relocated our sales subsidiary in Bilbao Spain to a new larger facility having outgrown the previous CASE STUDY one due to the growth of our retrofit and factory Rotork IQ3 valve actuators were selected to replace actuators fit activities.
In Poland we opened a new office and workshop to serve and grow our customer from another manufacturer after a chamber flooded with hot base in Eastern Europe and towards the end of water at the Metropolitan Copenhagen Heating Transmission the year we set up a small subsidiary in Chile.
Both these new offices are in locations where we have previously operated through an agent but Although the problem was quickly rectified, all integrity of their standard IP68 temporarily where we have now decided that the time is right the electric valve actuators installed in the submersible enclosure specification.
By to have a direct presence.
chamber had been completely submerged in comparison, the actuators from the other the water.
Subsequent inspection revealed manufacturer had been badly damaged by the Meanwhile, we continued to focus on that the robust double-sealed design of the effects of the hot water reaching internal technological advancements and innovation.
installed Rotork IQ actuators had protected electric and electronic components.
During the year we launched our new Centork them from any damage and maintained the product range, Rotorks specialist offering for the water, industrial and power markets.
The product range features modularity, easy selection, setting and mounting.
We continue to anticipate strong growth in the water and waste water industries, driven by increased urbanisation in developing countries and increased environmental and scarcity concerns globally.
We expect the recent fall in the oil price to mainly affect the upstream sector of the oil & gas industry.
Whilst 51% of the divisions sales are into the oil & gas industry, our market exposure is diversified across various subsectors: large numbers of our actuators are supplied into both midstream and downstream applications, which have been more shielded from the recent soft pricing environment.
A significant proportion of our supply is also OPPORTUNITIES retrofit, upgrade or replacement work, where spend is less sensitive to oil spot prices.
Water, power & industrial markets Eastern Europe & Latin America Midstream and downstream oil & gas market Rotork Site Services ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW: FLUID SYSTEMS Following three years of double digit growth, 2014 was a year of consolidation at Rotork Fluid Systems RFS.
There were no major acquisitions during the year but the integration of recent acquisitions, product development and a drive on key component sourcing initiatives all made good progress.
The work we have undertaken on sourcing was one of the key factors behind the 70 basis point improvement in adjusted operating margin we achieved in 2014.
Revenue was 180.3m, 3.6% lower than 2013 on a reported basis.
However, reversing the 5.4% currency headwind and adjusting for the part year contribution from acquisitions in 2013, this decline is reduced to 0.7% on an organic constant currency OCC basis.
Order intake was similarly impacted, with the 184.6m being 4.7% below David Littlejohns 2013 or 1.8% below the prior year excluding Managing Director currency and acquisitions.
Although the currency Rotork Fluid Systems headwind was even greater on profit, the benefits of sourcing initiatives and an improved product mix resulted in reported adjusted operating profit of 31.2m compared with Whilst oil & gas is the largest end-market, it 31.0m in 2013.
This gave a margin of 17.3%, which was 70 basis points higher than last year.
has diminished 5% compared with 2013 as On an OCC basis, this difference increased to 130 basis points and a 17.9% margin.
our exposure to water, general industrial and particularly the power end-markets has increased.
REVENUE m 180.3 2014 187.0 2013 160.9 2012 132.6 2011 106.8 2010 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m 31.2 2014 31.0 2013 24.6 2012 17.1 2011 2010 14.9 24 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information OPPORTUNITIES Marine market New product introduction Geographic expansion New facility in Italy Oil & gas remains the largest end-market for RFS, We achieved an improved margin this year We continued to invest in R&D and this is representing 72% of the divisions revenue in the mainly as a result of a number of sourcing reflected in the launch of our third generation of year with the overall split between upstream, initiatives across the world.
Volumes within the the SI actuator planned for 2015, aimed at midstream and downstream relatively even.
This division have risen rapidly in recent years which safety related Emergency Shutdown ESD and is spread across many different applications has now made sourcing from low cost regions Remotely Operated Shutoff Valve ROSoV within oil & gas and across many geographic viable for some of our components.
We also worked on extending the K-Tork regions, ranging from shale in North America to example, we reviewed the supply chain of our range ready for launch in 2015 and together with gas condensate projects in Central Asia.
We small scotch yoke actuators manufactured in the GT and RC ranges this has widened our continued to see good business in the year on Sweden and the rack and pinion range we portfolio aimed at the industrial, power and safety systems for tank storage applications in acquired with GTA as they are able to share petrochemical industries.
We look forward to the downstream market.
Whilst oil & gas is the certain components.
Similar initiatives in the further penetration of these markets in 2015. largest end-market, it has diminished 5% USA and Italy have already delivered benefits compared with 2013 as our exposure to water, and they will continue to do so in 2015. general industrial and particularly the power end-markets has increased.
The acquisition of Masso, based in Valduggia Italy, in December 2014 introduces a further element of diversification to RFS.
Masso designs and manufactures hydraulic actuators and control systems for use in shipboard applications and brings with it a range of products and customers new to the division.
Mexico continued to be an important market where we won several significant orders.
We received a large order in June for the next phase of the SCADA pipeline project, the first phase of which was won in 2013.
In addition, K-Tork, based in Dallas USA, won a large power project for their Type K damper drive application.
Both these orders have multi-year delivery periods.
Overall, Latin America was the end destination which reported the strongest growth within RFS, partly due to the completion of deliveries on the first phase of the SCADA project.
In contrast, Eastern Europe was the region which reported the sharpest decline and this was driven by a combination of project timing and, in the latter part of the year, the impact of sanctions and the weaker rouble on Russian business.
The 6m CASE STUDY impact we reported in the third quarter is higher than the expected ongoing impact but this will Mining presents some of the most arduous valve actuation remain a headwind into 2015. applications.
Slurry pipelines transporting tailings waste We also continued to invest in our regional product from ore processing are particularly challenging.
These infrastructure to ensure that we provide environments suit the balanced design of Rotork RHQ heavy duty support locally to our customers, with upgraded rack and pinion actuators.
facilities in Leeds UK, and Bilbao Spain, and the new offices in Poland and Chile all having an An RHQ actuator on a 36 inch severe service to operate the actuator when electrical power RFS capability.
We also invested in a new factory ball valve helps to provide critical flow control is not available.
Precise flow control is in Lucca Italy, near our existing leased facility.
on the tailings pipeline pump station at a essential, if the abrasive slurry moves too Not only will this recently purchased facility copper mine in the Andes.
The actuator is quickly it can destroy the pipeline from the provide us with security of tenure for the future operated by an HPU Hydraulic Power Unit inside.
If it moves too slowly it can separate but it will also allow us to modify our production manufactured by Flow-Quip.
The HPU out and cause a blockage.
processes and bring greater efficiency to our incorporates local controls and stored energy largest factory.
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW: GEARS Gears made good progress in order intake, revenue and profit throughout the year.
Our performance continues to demonstrate the benefit of our industry-leading expertise, gained over several decades working at the forefront of manual and motorised gear technology for the valve industries in the many market sectors that we serve.
Revenue of 57.8m was 3.2% higher than 2013 despite a 4.3% currency headwind.
On an organic constant currency OCC basis revenue grew by 5.0% with the acquisition of Renfro in 2013 accounting for 2.5% of the growth.
Order intake was similarly affected by currency with reported growth of 0.2%, which at constant currency and with the benefit of the acquisition increased to 1.9%.
Adjusted operating profit Pamela Bingham was 13.0m, 0.3% ahead of 2013 which resulted Managing Director in a 60 basis point reduction in operating margin Rotork Gears to 22.5%.
On an OCC basis the growth in adjusted operating profit was 4.1% and the margin 22.9%.
Each of the Gears factories improved margins in the year, with the exception of the Leeds UK operation, which Central to our successful long-term track was affected by the costs of moving into the record are our world-class sales and new facility and an increase in more competitive larger project sales had a negative effect on engineering teams, who provide our margins in the period.
customers with the latest innovative gearing technology using leading-edge design methods.
REVENUE m 57.8 2014 56.0 2013 52.9 2012 46.6 2011 39.2 2010 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m 13.0 2014 13.0 2013 12.1 2012 10.3 2011 2010 9.2 26 ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Strategic Report Directors Governance Financial Statements Company Information Central to our successful long-term track record are our world-class sales and engineering teams, who provide our customers with the latest innovative gearing technology using leadingedge design methods.
The sales process in Gears differs from Controls and Fluid Systems and whilst there are project sales, often in conjunction with other Rotork divisions, more typically we sell directly to the valvemaker on an ongoing basis.
Accordingly, our objective is to build a relationship with the valvemaker so that they use our gearboxes in conjunction with their valves when the package is not being automated.
CASE STUDY This year, following strong growth in the Far Rotorks IB bevel gearboxes have been installed at Malaysias East, there was a reasonably even spread of Pengerang Terminal to help operate gate valves on flow control revenue across the key regions of the Americas, Far East and Western Europe, although Western applications at the import jetty and storage tank facilities.
Europe remained the largest, accounting for The five million cubic metre capacity terminal The actuators are monitored and controlled by 37% of sales.
Our factories are located in these is a part of the countrys Economic eight Pakscan P3 120-channel hot standby areas so that we are close to our customers.
With the master stations, situated on-site in three Middle East and Africa was the only region to completion of Phase 1A of the project, 274 cabinets and linked to a centralised Yokogawa report a marked reduction in sales but this was explosionproof IQ3 actuators fitted with the IB SCADA system.
after an unusually strong performance in 2013. bevel gearboxes have been installed.
The end-market exposure of Gears is, like the Group as a whole, weighted to oil & gas, which accounts for 57% of sales, but these are spread across all segments of this market.
Water and Gears provides innovative solutions that meet waste water is the second largest end-market, the individual requirements of our valve gearbox where small manual valves account for the and valve accessory customers by drawing upon majority of sales.
our unrivalled range of market-leading products.
During the year we strengthened our wide In line with our aim to become our customers portfolio of gearboxes with the launch of our preferred partner, we have a strong commitment new manual HOB multi-turn product range.
This to improving the efficiency of our operations and range offers our customers a more those of our customers and suppliers.
That aim comprehensive solution for multi-turn manual was a key factor in our move to a new state-ofapplications.
Our new Leeds facility also has the-art manufacturing facility in Leeds during the extensive test facilities, including a year.
The larger facility has given us the comprehensive set of test rigs for testing opportunity to increase the dedicated research multi-turn and quarter-turn gearboxes across a and development team who are engaged in every wide range of torques.
Our R&D remains aspect of new product design and development, focused on developing cost effective and from concept to customer.
innovative solutions that will continue to provide Gears with access to new customers and new market sectors.
OPPORTUNITIES Increased R&D investment Product range expansion Geographic expansion ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27
