Strategic Report Business Review Research and Development Through focused investment in key programmes, targeted business development and leveraging our distinctive capabilities, we are pushing the boundaries of science to create innovative medicines that save lives and transform the treatment of disease.
Achieve scientific leadership spend and generate revenue, we have Overview As outlined in Strategic priorities from page engaged in select out-licensing and 18, achieving scientific leadership is critical divestment opportunities.
Our alliance with R&D comprises two biotech units for to our success.
Lilly to co-develop AZD3293, a potential discovery research and early-stage treatment for Alzheimers disease, and our development, and a late-stage During 2014, we divestment of Myalept and our US rights to development unit Zestril and Tenormin are key examples.
redeployed R&D spend towards Focused on science-led innovation late-stage development For more information about these across biologics, small molecules, secured 12 regulatory approvals for transactions, please see Therapy Area Review immunotherapies, protein engineering NMEsand LCM projects across our from page 32 and devices therapy areas Strengthened our pipeline, portfolio and accelerated and simplified what we Research and early-stage development capabilities in 2014 through focused consider our best programmes, including Our two biotech units conduct innovative investment and business development expanding our immune-mediated cancer discovery research and early-stage therapy IMT-C research activities development from initial target selection Simplified programmes, processes and entered into multiple collaborations to to Phase II trial completion.
MedImmune systems while prioritising resources access novel science and technology.
focuses on biologics research while IMED towards late-stage development focuses on scientific advances in small Entered into multiple collaborations with Achieving scientific leadership requires molecules.
Both units comprise specialist biomarker and diagnostic companies to access to the best science, whether internal disease area-led Innovative Medicines support PHC and our drug or external.
Through our biotech-style sections and are responsible for delivering development programmes operating model, with two biotech units projects to our Global Medicines for discovery research and early-stage Development GMD unit for late-stage Promoted open innovation and development, and a late-stage development development.
During 2014, IMED and collaboration by co-locating to strategic unit, we are able to access the best MedImmune delivered five biologic R&D centres and collaborating with scientific research.
Our productivity and programmes and two small molecule leading research organisations pipeline are benefiting from investments in programmes from early-stage development Strengthened our reputation by actively key capabilities, such as payer partnering, to GMD.
The work of our biotech units is participating in medical and scientific PHC, predictive science and clinical trial guided by the 5R framework, which is conferences and journals design, and we have made good progress comprised of five factors the right target, in co-locating our teams to our strategic patient, tissue, safety and commercial Committed to working responsibly and R&D centres.
The moves to Gaithersburg, potential and aims to progress the right in accordance with our global bioethics Maryland US are nearly complete and the projects, focus resources and ultimately, standards moves to Cambridge, UK have begun.
To focus resources on our key R&D For an analysis of our R&D spend, please programmes, leverage the expertise and see Infrastructure on page 69 capabilities of other organisations, reduce 52 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Ventana Medical Systems, Inc. to develop Accelerating the pipeline and a PD-L1 immunohistochemistry assay to increasing efficiency identify appropriate patients for enrolment In 2014, we secured approvals in the US, With the consolidation in clinical trials for MEDI4736, a Phase III EU, Japan and China for four NMEs, PD-L1 therapy for NSCLC including in the US and EU for Lynparza, a of R&D activities to Illumina, Inc. to develop its next novel treatment for ovarian cancer.
We also strategic centres, we generation sequencing platform for secured approvals for two LCM projects diagnostic tests that screen genes and the Bydureon Pen and Xigduo Xigduo XR.
hired new employees to help predict patient responsiveness to As at 31 December 2014, there were 13 strengthen our disease our drugs.
NMEs in late-stage development either in Phase III pivotal Phase II studies or under area expertise and We also strengthened our immunoregulatory review.
oncology capabilities through the acquisition of Definiens, a pioneer in imaging and data Also in 2014, we launched various analysis technology that identifies tumour programmes and delivered timely results tissue biomarkers.
By using biomarkers for programmes already underway.
For to select patients for clinical trials, we hope example, we launched Phase III pivotal to shorten clinical timelines and increase Phase II studies for key NMEs, such as response rates.
MEDI4736 and AZD9291 for NSCLC, which Our personalised healthcare PHC may go from Phase I trials to regulatory strategy Oncology from page 40 submission in just over two years.
Also, we PHC is at the heart of our R&D strategy.
completed the 21,000 patient PEGASUS Through its application, we seek to We are also applying our PHC strategy to study for Brilinta Brilique, which successfully better understand disease mechanisms, our asthma portfolio.
For example, in our met its primary efficacy endpoint.
For more increase the success rate of development Phase III programmes for benralizumab and information, please see Cardiovascular projects, reduce clinical trial time and cost, tralokinumab, we are targeting patients with and Metabolic diseases from page 35 and deliver novel, life-changing medicines and distinct asthma phenotypes to identify those the PARTHENON case study on page 51. develop sophisticated diagnostic protocols most likely to respond to therapy and Also, we initiated LCM programmes for to identify those patients most likely to improve health outcomes.
Benralizumab benralizumab for COPD and Lynparza in benefit from our medicines.
In 2014, we and tralokinumab are the first in a series adjuvant and metastatic BRCA-mutated applied our PHC strategy to approximately of novel PHC-driven biologic therapies breast cancer.
These programmes reflect 70% of our pipeline.
that may represent a critical advance in our efforts to prioritise investment, the development of personalised asthma accelerate R&D for key programmes and In 2014, we collaborated with various management.
focus resources to initiate clinical studies, biomarker and diagnostic companies recruit patients and deliver data efficiently.
to support our drug development Respiratory, Inflammation and Autoimmunity programmes.
For example, in the field from page 44 Also, we are increasing efficiency and of oncology, we entered into multiple productivity by implementing various collaborations, including those with Late-stage development simplification projects.
These projects GMD is the science unit that drives our include a new information management Qiagen to develop a non-invasive late-stage portfolio across our therapy system for all regulatory submissions, circulating tumour DNA diagnostic test areas.
This work involves large Phase III registrations and product changes, toidentify NSCLC patients appropriate clinical trial programmes that support the and simplified clinical programme designs fortreatment with Iressa approval, launch and reimbursement of and study protocols.
In addition, we Roche Molecular Systems, Inc. to develop new medicines and studies to expand signed an outsourcing agreement for a plasma-based companion diagnostic indications for approved products.
GMD operational safety, regulatory maintenance test to support AZD9291 also delivers studies that demonstrate how and publishing tasks to release internal our medicines work in the real world to resources and focus on achieving our help healthcare professionals and payers strategic priorities.
understand the therapeutic as well as economic value of our medicines.
Therapy Area Review from page 32 70% In 2014, we applied our PHC strategy to approximately 70% of our pipeline.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 53 Strategic Report Business Review Research and Development continued Working collaboratively and fostering science-led organisation, and retain and open innovation recruit the best scientists.
In 2014, our An open research environment, in which medical staff and scientists authored more 750 scientists freely exchange knowledge than 750 publications in various journals, and ideas and collaborate, is key to driving including the New England Journal of sustainable scientific innovation.
In 2014, Medicine, Science and Nature.
We also In 2014, our medical staff and scientists we enhanced our innovation capability, played a significant role at key scientific authored more than 750 publications in fostered collaboration and gained access conferences, such as those hosted by various journals, including the New to what we believe are the best science the American Society of Clinical Oncology, England Journal of Medicine, Science and scientists by strengthening existing, the European Society of Medical Oncology, and Nature.
and establishing new, collaborations with the American Diabetes Association, the leading organisations.
Such collaborations European Society of Cardiology and the include those with American Thoracic Society, where we Investment in disease area and scientific presented positive results from various capabilities the UK Medical Research Council MRC clinical trials and generated significant With the consolidation of R&D activities to to improve our understanding of human interest within the scientific community.
strategic centres, we hired new employees disease and create a joint research facility to strengthen our disease area expertise in Cambridge, UK Bioethics and technical capabilities.
We also engaged the MRC, the US National Institute of We are committed to achieving scientific medical experts to provide important insight Health and the National Research leadership and delivering life-changing into our drug programmes, which will help Program for Biopharmaceuticals in medicines in a trustworthy and ethical ensure our medicines address the needs of Taiwan to help researchers unlock the manner.
Our global standards of bioethics patients as well as healthcare professionals.
potential of our compounds and develop apply to all our research activity, whether life-changing medicines conducted by us or third parties on We established therapy area specific GMD the Academic Drug Discovery our behalf.
units GMeds for example, in immunoConsortium to facilitate research oncology and respiratory to focus collaboration and provide researchers Patient safety resources and therapy area expertise on access to our compound library Patient safety is very important to us key programmes and complement units Cancer Research UK to discover and and we strive to minimise the risks and driving our therapy areas.
We also develop novel cancer treatments, and the maximise the benefits of our medicines.
enhanced our technology and capabilities, commercial arm of Cancer Research UK, Through a robust and comprehensive and integrated people and projects within Cancer Research Technology, to create pharmacovigilance programme, we GMD following the acquisition of BMSs a joint laboratory in Cambridge, UK for continually monitor our medicines to learn interest in the joint diabetes alliance and the such work of any side effects not identified during the strategic transaction with Almirall.
the Gustave Roussy Comprehensive development process and provide accurate Cancer Center in France to develop our and up-to-date information concerning the In addition, we strengthened our support oncology molecules in pre-clinical, safety profile of our medicines to regulators, resources for patients and healthcare translational and clinical phases.
healthcare professionals and, where professionals.
We also work closely Pharmaceuticals programme, which allows Also in 2014, we launched an online with regulatory authorities worldwide to raise patients and healthcare professionals to platform to support our open innovation pharmacovigilance awareness.
track and manage chronic conditions using programmes and facilitate research interactive mobile and internet-based health collaborations with academia, industry, Our experienced patient safety team is tools, gained momentum, as various pilot NGOs and governments.
This new dedicated to helping fulfil our commitment projects were launched or completed.
web-based portal allows scientists to to patient safety.
Each developing and access our Open Innovation programmes, marketed medicine is allocated a Global We also strengthened our payer and which include a clinical compound bank Safety Physician and at least one patient real-world evidence capabilities to better of patient-ready live and discontinued safety scientist.
In addition, each market provide the data and analysis that helps compounds and biologics, as well as a is supported by a dedicated patient demonstrate the therapeutic and economic toolbox of compounds with optimised safety manager.
studies use observational data, such as Our Chief Medical Officer has overall electronic medical records and patient Our scientific reputation accountability for the benefit risk profiles surveys, to show, for example, how a Publishing our work in scientific and medical of our products in development and on medicine may improve outcomes compared journals and participating in key scientific the market.
He provides medical oversight with other treatments or reduce demand for conferences are also key to achieving and enforces appropriate risk assessment hospital or specialist care.
Communicating openly processes to facilitate efficient and informed may improve patient outcomes, reduce with the scientific community helps validate safety decision making.
healthcare cost and help focus our efforts the quality of our research, strengthen our to deliver innovative medicines.
reputation as an innovation-driven, 54 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 Strategic Report Clinical trials and transparency organisations to comply with our global We have developed internal standards In 2014, we conducted clinical trials at standards and we periodically conduct that define our commitment to animal multiple sites in various countries and risk-based audits to monitor compliance.
welfare and the responsible use of animals regions as shown in the chart below.
These standards specify the We believe that transparency enhances global principles that apply for compliance The broad geographic span of our studies the understanding of how our medicines with our Global Bioethics Policy, such as helps ensure that study participants reflect work and benefit patients.
To facilitate authorisation of animal work, standards the diversity of patients for whom our transparency, we publish information about for animal care and welfare and the medicines are intended and identify the our clinical research.
We also publish compliance evaluation process.
Additionally, patients for whom the medicine may be information about the registration and we have improved our process for tracking most beneficial.
Our global governance results of our clinical trials regardless external animal use and evaluating research process for determining where we locate of whether they are favourable for all facilities to help ensure that facilities are clinical trials, which considers the existence products and all phases, including marketed evaluated uniformly.
of experienced and independent ethics medicines, drugs in development and drugs committees, the presence of a robust whose development has been discontinued.
Animal research use varies depending on regulatory regime and the availability To further promote transparency, we numerous factors, including our amount of of trained healthcare professionals and refreshed and enhanced our transparency pre-clinical research, the complexity of the willing participants, provides the framework strategy in 2014.
For more information diseases under investigation and regulatory for ensuring a consistent, high-quality regarding our clinical trial registration, requirements.
We believe that without our approach worldwide.
results, protocols and data, please see active commitment to reducing, refining, or our website or our dedicated clinical trials replacing animals in research, our animal Protecting participants throughout the website, www.
use would be much greater.
In 2014, we trial process is a priority and we have strict used 194,162 animals in-house 2013: procedures to help ensure participants Animal research 260,930.
In addition, 15,634 animals were are not exposed to unnecessary risks.
We are committed to helping the public used by CROs on our behalf 2013: 19,676.
Before a trial begins, we work to ensure understand our use of animals in research Further information on AstraZenecas approach to responsible that participants understand the nature and our methods for reducing, refining, business can be found in Responsible Business from page and purpose of the research and that the or replacing animals in research.
Our 227 and on our website, www.
proper procedure for gaining informed commitment is reflected in our Global consent is followed.
It is also reflected in the Concordat on Openness in Animal All our clinical studies are conceptually Research in the UK, which we signed in designed and finally interpreted in-house 2014 and describes how we will increase but some are conducted by CROs on transparency regarding our animal research.
In 2014, approximately 27% of patients in our small molecule studies and 67% of patients in our biologics studies were monitored by CROs.
We require these Patients in global studies 2014 % 33 27 27 21 18 17 16 13 9 7 4 4 2 2 Europe US Canada Asia Central Japan Latin Middle East Pacific Eastern America and Africa Europe Small molecule studies Biologics studies AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2014 55
