We have strengthened our competencies further this year and with targeted investments we are building a stronger business and improving ourprofitability.
Peter Havus Managing Director, Workwear The advantage for our customers is that Market overview they free up capital in non-core assets, The essence of our business is serving save costs, time and space and improve customers with a trouble-free supply image.
At the same time, professional of workwear for their employees.
fit-for-purpose workwear improve Our portfolio of services include rental, health, safety and hygiene and help the logistic supply, wash, repair, stockholding companies to achieve the best total cost and management of protective and position.
All resources previously used functional workwear.
Additionally, we for internal workwear management can offer unique logistic solutions for our be used by the customer to focus on customers to optimise the utilisation their core business activities.
and control of our services by providing In addition, outsourcing and What we do garment dispensing systems like our maintenance of protective and own developed Unimat and Smart The Workwear business line delivers functional workwear will ensure more Garment systems operating 24 7. and maintains workwear to many environmentally friendly solutions due We serve a very broad customer private and public organisations to large-scale advantages and specialist base, including automotive, retail, food across Europe.
Our service meets the knowhow e. g. lower use of energy, industry, utility, and petro chemical and needs of customers in many sectors water and chemicals.
allowing them to focus on their core business.
Fragmented market Long-term market The European textile maintenance growthtrends Performance market is fragmented with many The core determinants of demand for relatively small local independent Revenue workwear from our actual and potential textile rental companies and only a customer base are economic activity 295.3m small number of large national or panas well as increasing European legal European players.
28% 2% demands for protective and functional of group Underlying workwear.
However, the trend towards Focused geographic presence outsourcing drives the maintenance Our plants operate in focused segment solely washing and repair geographical areas in order to guarantee service of customers own workwear a local approach towards our local and out ofthe market at a faster pace.
We also serve The factors behind this conversion to pan-European customers through 62.3m rental solutions are: mirroring their supply chain organisation 36% 8% Underlying kk Stricter regulatory health and safety of group with one point of contact at corporate 60.5 62.3 requirements for garments for use in 51.0 level and a network of local sales diverse industries EN ISO standards : and service people responsible for 2012 2013 2014 implementation and customer relations.
kk Increased focus on environmentally friendly solutions e. g. use of energy, Operating margin Outsourcing rationale water and chemicals for cleaning of workwear : For our customers, outsourcing of this service means that we take complete 21.1% kk Increased focus on outsourcing of responsibility for all activities regarding non-core activities: and protective and functional workwear kk Increased demand for workwear 130bps solutions from the start to the end of solutions to support customer the cycle.
52 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Business model enablers 1 kk Delivering high-quality products on time, having the optimum amount of workwear: kk Access to essential information about ongoing service from us, either via our personal customerservice force or directly through our customer web portals: Advice, 2 purchasing and kk Innovation, product and service development: administration 4 kk Low workwear lead times when starting up a new customer or in connection to normal replacements of garments: kk Transparency regarding total cost of ownership: and 3 kk Building close customer relationships and loyalty by determined colleagues with strong customer focus.
1 R eady for use 2 Collection 3 Specialised washing and handling 4 Delivery Typical contracts Strategy We typically supply workwear services We will increase our focus on utilising based upon threeto five-year the market opportunities by further rental agreements.
strengthening our competencies in the sales, product development and Relationship building digital marketing to improve our growth Strong customer relations are key for momentum.
At the same time, we will long-term cooperation and therefore continue leveraging and harvesting contract management is a strategic area through our operational excellence by for us to manage in a professional way enhancing best practice sharing across to our customers satisfaction.
In order the business line.
Reducing costs through intelligent tobuild strong relationships and loyalty workwear management itis important that we continuously Strategic focus Alliander, a large energy company in the strive to deliver good service and quality, kk Improve Go to Market strategies Netherlands, were facing challenges with incombination with proactive customer low stock utilisation due to many locations.
and concepts based on increased service.
By again using best practice A full-service rental contract with us including customer orientation: and supply, wash, and repair and logistics as the driver to share experience across management has resulted in higher stock kk Reach for pan-European customers the business line, we expect to improve utilisation and markedly reduced purchase creating stronger and focused growth our customer loyalty and by that longofnew workwear.
Strategic priorities kk Gain substantial available market confirmed within our geographical footprint: kk Improve capabilities to define go to market strategies for existing and new attractive markets and segments: and kk Increase focus on key account salesincluding Pan-European Ensuring compliance accounts.
to strict hygiene standards Our Unimat solution a fully automatised wardrobe providing clean clothes for each employee will help Munich Municipal Hospital to attain easy management of fit-for-purpose garments for staff and documentation of compliance to strict hygiene standards.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 53
