Business review Our enlarged and strengthened business enables us to meet the needs of a broader range of clients given our diverse product mix and geographic coverage.
Overview 2014 has been a more challenging year.
Our AuM and flows Look for opportunities to grow revenues from a broader range of were impacted by the sell-off in emerging markets and the capabilities, which have been enhanced by SWIP as well as consequential impact of risk aversion to this asset class.
This is recent Artio and SVG deals which were completed in 2013. reflected in the reversal of the strong fund inflows seen in previous Increase collaboration across investment teams to identify new years in our equities asset class.
investment solutions for our client needs.
However, we made good progress in harnessing flows from the Adapt distribution capabilities to ensure our strengths are Groups wider capabilities where we have strong track records and matched with market demand.
a competitive edge, particularly into emerging market debt and AuM our considerable property capability.
Closing AuM is 324.4 billion, 62% higher than September 2013.
We successfully completed the acquisition of SWIP, which added 134.9 billion to the Groups AuM.
This acquisition significantly Gross new business inflows for the period were 34.7 billion enhances our capabilities especially in the fixed income, 2013: 43.9 billion.
Gross outflows were 55.1 billion investment solutions, quantitative investments and UK property 2013: 46.4 billion, resulting in net outflows of 20.4 billion investment capabilities and strengthens the Groups position as 2013: net outflows of 2.5 billion.
We aim to build on and deepen Net outflows from the legacy Aberdeen business were 16.0 the strategic relationship with Lloyds as well as marketing our billion, of which 12.4 billion relates to equities.
This was additional capabilities to our worldwide client base.
principally due to risk aversion for emerging and Asian markets, especially in the first half of the year.
The reduced demand for We have kept close control of costs both in terms of cost these products also impacted our flows in each of the regions.
synergies from the SWIP acquisition and actively managing the The level of outflows moderated significantly in the second half of Groups wider cost base.
Notwithstanding the impact of the loss the year - albeit volatility remains in emerging markets.
of revenues from our equities products, we have maintained our operating margin at 43.9%.
The Group continued to attract healthy levels of new business from a broadening range of investment capabilities.
Net flows Our immediate priorities for 2015 are to: from property were 1.1 billion and from EMD were 1.6 billion.
Complete the integration of the SWIP business.
We have achieved a lot in 2014 with the integration of investment teams Net outflows from the SWIP business were 4.4 billion.
A part and the migration of front office systems on track.
The migration of the assets managed for Lloyds is a maturing back book of of the back office will not be finalised until the end of 2015. insurance assets which naturally leads to out-flows.
These assets are low margin.
Continue to manage costs tightly in what we expect will continue to be volatile markets.
Gross inflows by asset class, bn Gross inflows by region, bn Equities Fixed income Aberdeen Property Money Market EMEA Americas Asia Pacic solutions 30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report AuM movement Equities Fixed Income Aberdeen solutions Property Total bn bn bn bn bn 30 September 2013 113.8 42.8 28.8 15.0 200.4 Aberdeen net flows 12.5 2.3 2.0 0.8 16.0 SWIP acquisition 2.4 29.8 98.1 4.6 134.9 SWIP net flows 0.5 1.3 2.9 0.3 4.4 Markets, performance 6.4 3.3 3.7 0.6 14.0 Exchange 2.0 0.9 0.7 0.9 4.5 30 September 2014 107.6 71.4 125.0 20.4 324.4 AuM growth from markets, net of foreign exchange movements, was wanted to be stronger fixed income, UK property, investment 9.5 billion.
Market conditions were stronger for much of the second solutions and quantitative investments.
half of the year but at the start of the year, macro issues resulted The acquisition also improves the balance of AuM and revenues in stiff headwinds for emerging markets.
Within this, our AuM was across asset classes and will reinforce our strong cash generation.
reduced by 4.5 billion reflecting the relative strength of sterling.
At 30 September 2013, 57% of of the Group AuM was invested Going forward the quality of net new business flows is the key in equities.
After the transaction, this fell to 33% - but remains driver of the growth in revenues and profits.
We expect outflows over half of our business in revenue terms.
It will be hard to from Lloyds closed book.
Given the long term nature of an diversify away from equities in the short term - but we have more insurance book notwithstanding the run-off, fee margins are low.
capabilities for the longer term.
As in previous years, we expect that new business will be won at SWIP integration higher average fee margins and this improvement in product mix We recognised from the outset that the full integration of the will be a driver for future revenue growth.
SWIP business would take time, particularly in the back office SWIP acquisition administrative functions.
The acquisition of SWIP was completed, adding approximately The integration continues to progress according to our 134.9 billion of assets.
expectations, both in terms of timing and on the achievement of This acquisition was funded through the issue of 131.8 million cost synergies, with much of the front office migration complete shares to Lloyds, representing consideration of 517.6 million and a number of SWIP teams having successfully transferred to plus an additional deferred top-up payment of 38.3 million Aberdeens offices.
payable to Lloyds in March 2015.
A further earn-out payment of The remaining front office migration will be implemented over up to 100 million will be paid dependent on the revenue growth the next few months, while the back office integration will be delivered by the strategic relationship with Lloyds over the five completed by the end of 2015.
All investment teams are now year period from completion.
working together - and perhaps more than ever - there is a greater The transaction meets a number of strategic objectives: increased level of collaboration across asset classes.
scale: a major new distribution relationship with Lloyds: added An update on progress on cost synergies is given in the financial asset classes and investment teams in some areas where we review section below.
Aberdeen at 31 March 2014 SWIP at 31 March 2014 Enlarged Group at 31 March 2014 bn bn bn Equities.
Source: Aberdeen Asset Management PLC aberdeen-asset.
com 31 Business review continued Performance Investment team review With this background we were not surprised that our funds lagged the returns of the broader market over the past year.
Equities As stock pickers, focused on companies fundamentals, we struggled in an environment where investors worried about AuM macro issues.
Equities The bulk of this underperformance occurred in the momentum bn driven markets at the tail end of 2013, and as market gains have moderated through 2014 our funds have recovered some AuM at 30 September 2013 113.8 relative performance.
Gross inflows 14.2 Our global equities funds were also impacted by being overGross outflows 27.2 weight in emerging market companies.
This does not reflect any macro-overlay rather is a consequence of the balance of Net flows 13.0 companies that we like.
Market and exchange movements 4.4 Flows SWIP acquisition 2.4 In the case of GEM and Asia equities, outflows have been principally due to macro concerns over emerging markets.
These AuM at 30 September 2014 107.6 led private banks and wealth managers to allocate away from emerging markets.
Key events In the case of global equities, the flows also reflected the weak Adverse sentiment to emerging markets led to significant relative performance recorded in 2013. outflows, especially in the first half of the year.
In 2013, we implemented an initial charge, for the benefit of 2013 performance adversely impacted by market conditions: existing investors, on any new investment into our UK and improved investment performance in 2014.
Notwithstanding the level of outflows in 2014, we are keeping this measure in place to protect the Limited impact from SWIP acquisition - 2.4 billion added to the investment process of our GEM team.
The purpose is to equities book and integration fully completed.
moderate the rate of inflows to our GEM funds so that the Markets quality of the product is not compromised.
A number of key themes in markets and performance impacted Outlook both our global and regional teams.
Equities remains our largest asset class in terms of revenues Global equity markets recorded a third year of strong positive even though it is a lower proportion of Group AuM after returns, with many regional indices pushing through historic integration of SWIP.
While appreciation was in general more moderate than in We expect that markets will be volatile as stocks adjust 2013, valuations across many of the developed markets to normalising rates and tighter liquidity as quantitative continued to grind higher.
In many instances, this divergence between rising share prices Investing in equities requires a separation of the economic and low earnings growth would appear to be driven more by the outlook from the corporate earnings outlook for companies: announcements and actions of central banks than the we believe that stock selection is critical to achieving good long underlying fundamental and economic reality.
Investors turned negative on emerging markets last year, Our strategy in the face of uncertainty remains to focus on worried about the consequences of a change in the Federal quality companies that will weather the slowdown and fallout Reserves monetary policy on emerging markets countries: a from market catalysts.
If and when such catalysts for volatility slow-down in Chinas economy: and disappointing earnings from do materialise we endeavour to be prepared to take advantage local companies.
This resulted in substantial outflows from of the opportunities that arise.
emerging markets in late 2013, peaking in the first quarter of calendar 2014.
During this period emerging markets underperformed developed markets yet, as value emerged and investors worst fears failed to pass, the asset class rallied and over the year performed broadly in line.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Fixed income AuM We continue to see demand for emerging market debt and high Total yield strategies.
The former generated more than 1.6 billion in Fixed Money fixed net sales.
The latter was impacted by some pull back income market income experienced in demand for high yield for the quarter to the end bn bn bn of September.
AuM at 30 September 2013 36.8 6.0 42.8 The integration of the Artio high yield and total return bond Gross inflows 8.0 4.2 12.2 teams into Aberdeen has proven to be very successful.
Gross outflows 10.2 5.6 15.8 We are working closely with our distribution colleagues to Net flows 2.2 1.4 3.6 identify opportunities in the market with a view to expanding our product range.
Market and exchange movements 2.5 0.1 2.4 Net outflows were 3.6 billion.
1.4 billion related to Aberdeen's fixed income book and this is a reduction on last year SWIP acquisition 22.8 7.0 29.8 3.6 billion outflows.
0.8 billion related to SWIP's insurance AuM at 30 September 2014 59.9 11.5 71.4 book.
1.4 billion related to the enlarged money markets business where money is held for shorter periods of time.
Notwithstanding outflows, our underlying revenues continue to Key events grow due to inflows into our higher margin products.
SWIP acquisition added 29.8 billion of AuM and is a major Outlook increase in our fixed income capabilities.
"The fall in yields in many developed markets in the world has New teams add several strengths - including areas such as confirmed that the rotation out of fixed income products has European 'core', absolute return and LDI ""liability driven been overstated."
"The majority of our key strategies have investments""."
There is also a significant increase in the assets remained stable or has improved.
We are confident that this managed by money market funds.
The team has revised the articulation of its investment We expect to see strong performance and growth from process - emphasising the common approach across all desks our emerging market debt and high yield suites of product.
The fee margins on these products are significantly higher than on the insurance book, where we expect to see run-off.
Overview The integration of our SWIP colleagues and the migration of Loan strategies will be a focus for us in the next 12 months, as the SWIP fixed income products to the Aberdeen platform has will be delivering Asian products.
We have experienced fixed income outflows since a period of The legacy SWIP and Aberdeen investment processes were poor performance during the credit crunch in 2008.
Accordingly there has been no significant we believe that with the combination with the SWIP team, the change to investment process across the asset class: we hope clearer articulation of a common approach across of all fixed that this will help to support continued strong performance income desks and after a period of consistent and strong for the next 12 months.
This has been reassuring for clients investment performance, there is a stable base for this asset and consultants.
class to make a steady and improving contribution to the Group.
Performance on the whole has been positive across both the legacy SWIP and Aberdeen product ranges.
Both ranges have exhibited strong numbers over short and long term views.
We are confident that following a smooth integration of our SWIP colleagues we are a stronger team and will continue to build on these performance numbers.
com 33 Business review continued Property AuM Over 600 million of new segregated mandates were won in a Direct property number of European countries.
bn In aggregate, we have added over 1 billion of committed funds.
AuM at 30 September 2013 15.0 It can take time for these commitments to be invested and this Gross inflows 2.9 will strengthen the quality of revenues in future years.
Gross outflows 1.8 The progressive wind-up of legacy German open-ended Net flows 1.1 property funds and other closed end structures are proceeding on schedule.
We have succeeded in winning Market and exchange movements 0.3 new business in Germany, with particular success in SWIP acquisition 4.6 residential property fundraising.
AuM at 30 September 2014 20.4 Outlook The business has received good feedback from external clients and consultants and has a strong pipeline of new business.
Key events New products will be launched selectively according to our SWIP property team successfully migrated into Aberdeen product strategy and client demand.
We expect inflows for our property division.
Performance of our mainstream products remains robust.
In the medium term, we have set plans to expand our business Over the last two years, the property team has refreshed its outside of Europe, where we have an extensive platform with process, strengthened its leadership and expanded with good local presence and expertise, mainly into US and Asia.
We continue to see that the major North American and Overview European markets are improving: investor sentiment has Our property team has taken significant strides in 2014 in become more risk tolerant and investors are more readily building a common investing culture that is better aligned to our prepared to broaden their geographic and sector focus.
equities and fixed income businesses.
Whilst the recovery of capital values in some markets has been We have had good inflows into our flagship pan-European considerable, we continue to caution regarding economic and product, the European Balanced Property Fund, which invests in occupier fundamentals which remain fragile.
This suggests that a balanced real estate portfolio office, retail and industrial for the majority of our clients, adopting higher risk property across Europe.
The AuM of the fund is now 385 million.
strategies is likely to be a step too far.
The SWIP Property Trust was renamed Aberdeen Property Trust.
It celebrated its 10th anniversary in November and is one of the UK's largest and best regarded property vehicles.
We are pleased by the level of interest from investors and steady growth achieved.
34 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Aberdeen solutions AuM By combining the two Aberdeen and SWIP teams we created Aberdeen one of the most highly resourced and experienced capabilities in solutions the industry with over 60 investment professionals delivering bn and developing innovative solutions for our clients.
AuM at 30 September 2013 28.8 The team offers a range of capabilities that can be used to Gross inflows 5.4 design products to meet clients' needs.
We can use this to work with distributors such as private banks and wealth managers Gross outflows 10.3 who can outsource investment to Aberdeen.
The Lloyds track Net flows 4.9 record is an important credential that demonstrates our ability Market and exchange movements 3.0 to partner with distributors.
SWIP acquisition 98.1 The quantitative investments desk manages passive equity index tracking portfolios, as well as enhanced passive, fixed income AuM at 30 September 2014 125.0 tracking and 'smart beta' portfolios.
We remain confident in the outlook for quantitative investing Key events and see significant growth potential for the strategies we SWIP acquisition significantly increased our scale and manage.
As our book expands, we continue to focus on efficient adds a track record in solutions when combined with the cost management, turnover and enhancement trades required Aberdeen business.
to mitigate the costs of index replication.
There is an important Following the SWIP acquisition, we restructured Aberdeen link with our multi asset investors in being able to offer low cost solutions to create three separate teams operating across: passive exposure.
alternatives, quantitative investments and investment solutions.
The quantitative team successfully launched a 2 billion corporate bond tracker working together with the fixed Overview income team.
The alternatives desk is structured around four investment desks, three following a multi-manager approach focused These capabilities are supported by a product specialist team on each of: hedge funds liquid alternative strategies: private aligned to the three Aberdeen solutions businesses, which is equity: and property.
The fourth team invests directly into providing impetus to fundraising efforts.
Outlook Integration of these teams has been very smooth and we The global opportunity for Aberdeen across these business are well advanced in achieving our goal of aligning lines is substantial.
The alternatives market today is estimated at investment processes, culture and philosophy across our US$4.6 trillion and expected to grow to US$6.0 trillion by 2016. alternatives capabilities.
The investment solutions market is estimated at US$5.9 trillion We have seen strong and growing demand for a range of and expected to grow to US$8.2 trillion.
alternative solutions to meet a wide variety of client needs This new divisional structure better enables us to exploit these including new mandates and pipeline opportunities in each of opportunities by delivering our capabilities to clients in the way the four investment lines.
In addition, we continue to see that works best for them, whether as pooled funds, single progress in interest and flows for our pan-alternative offerings, investor vehicles, bespoke solutions or advisory arrangements.
utilising the best available managers across a range of The skill and scale of alternatives business demonstrates our alternative strategies.
credibility and we believe that we can capture a share of the There have been successful fund launches in infrastructure growth in this product in the medium term.
team acquired through SWIP and property multi-manger.
In solutions, we hope that our track record of a number of long The investment solutions desk is an independent openterm strategic distributor relationships - including Lloyds - will architecture business with responsibility for a wide range provide a good foundation for medium term growth.
of investment strategies spanning multiple asset classes and risk profiles.
It will invest in 'best of breed' funds, regardless of the manager.
com 35 Business review continued Regional review Regional growth strategies An increasing proportion of AuM managed by global firms is sourced from outside domestic markets: Aberdeen continues to be successful at distributing our strongest capabilities across our global office network.
We recognise the importance of performing detailed analysis across geographies, channels, asset classes and products to identify growth opportunities where Aberdeen can capture a disproportionate share, and invest appropriately behind them.
We have identified and prioritised a number of capabilities to be actively promoted in our various geographies.
This is supported by better and more efficient coordination between marketing, product development, client management and business development to optimise our client servicing and sales efforts.
Americas There is a rotational shift in the US from domestic to Americas international equities - and we believe over the long term that bn this will be beneficial to Aberdeen.
We expect that global AuM at 30 September 2013 46.7 product will continue to be the driver of growth in the US.
Gross inflows 5.9 Our performance track record for our fixed income capabilities managed in the US is now much stronger, recovering from the Gross outflows 8.7 credit crunch.
Net flows 2.8 We believe that we now have a strong fixed income offering for Market and exchange movements 1.7 core plus, high yield, total return and emerging market debt and SWIP acquisition this is reflected in feedback from clients and consultants.
AuM at 30 September 2014 45.6 We launched two domestic funds in Brazil in April for equities and multi-asset investments.
Whilst AuM is small, this is a longer term strategy for the sixth largest asset management Net flows market in the world.
Key events Canada continues to be a growth area for the Group with AuM The Americas region is an important business area for Aberdeen from Canadian clients of around 8.5 billion across a broad in both onshore and international wealth markets, contributing range of products.
approximately 25% to the Groups gross revenues.
We continue Over the past few years, we have been successful in building a to devote considerable resource to positioning our domestic and strong institutional asset management business in Colombia, internationally managed investments.
We are the largest active equity provider to the There is ongoing investment in our brand.
With focus on Chilean and Peruvian pension markets, and are second largest improving name awareness, we were very excited that in the US in Colombia.
over 7 million viewers watched the Aberdeen Scottish Open, The SWIP purchase and integration had only a modest impact while our website visitors doubled during the tournament.
on our US business on the personnel side but increased the fixed However, whilst there has been strong growth in brand income assets managed in the US for UK clients by 2.6 billion.
awareness, we will need to continue to build name recognition and industry awareness to support growth plans.
36 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Europe, Middle East and Africa The flagship Luxembourg fund range was impacted by the Middle outflows from equities and has reduced in value from 31 billion Europe East and Total to 27 billion.
UK Africa EMEA bn bn bn bn Notwithstanding significant outflows in the equities business, there has been good progress across a wide range AuM at of investments.
30 September 2013 59.1 53.5 14.6 127.2 We had considerable success in winning new business in the Gross inflows 11.8 12.2 0.5 24.5 region with our emerging market debt, global high yield and Gross outflows 19.5 16.1 4.2 39.8 Japanese equities products.
Net flows 7.7 3.9 3.7 15.3 On the fund side, we launched our European Secondaries Market and property multi-manager fund, raising just under 100 million, exchange with overall commitments of 234 million: Aberdeen SVG movements 9.1 3.0 1.3 7.4 raised around 160 million across two new funds - the first a private equity fund of fund and the second a feeder into a SWIP acquisition 125.6 9.0 134.6 number of private equity funds managed by the Carlyle Group: AuM at the former Artio team took over management of the Aberdeen 30 September 2014 186.1 55.6 12.2 253.9 Global global high yield fund.
We believe that the absolute return bond fund will be a key product across the region and we intend to add a fund to our Key events Luxembourg range.
The SWIP acquisition and the Lloyds relationship is a major boost for our UK offices and our retail presence in the UK.
There has been increased collaboration across different parts of Aberdeen as new investment specialists team for Aberdeen We also opened our Madrid office in October 2013 we solutions bed into distribution to increase the profiles of our now have 14 offices in 13 countries in Continental Europe capabilities both internally and externally.
Much of our initial and the Nordics.
focus with clients on the investment solutions and alternatives We continue to build a profile in the region.
We held our capabilities will be with clients in this region.
inaugural European fund selector event in Davos at the end of On a regulatory front, we received a number of approvals to act January this targeted 100 fund selectors.
as Alternative Investment Fund Managers for our investment Our value of AuM managed for our clients in the region trust, property, private equity and infrastructure products.
fell mainly due to the sell-off of emerging market and Looking forward, UCITSV and MiFID II are on the horizon and, in Asian equities.
many areas, regulation has an impact on how our business Most of this was a consequence of asset allocation decisions of strategically operates across the EU.
private banks and wealth managers.
The institutional money proved more resilient: however, there was a withdrawal by a single client of approximately 4 billion of low margin AuM from our Asia Pacific and global equities strategies.
14 We have 14 offices across 13 countries in Continental Europe and the Nordics to support our client base locally.
com 37 Business review continued Asia Pacific The spread of these wins across the region suggests the sales Asia Pacific infrastructure we have built is gradually paying off.
bn Through the period we strengthened our presence in South AuM at 30 September 2013 26.5 Korea and are looking at distributing funds there.
In Malaysia we Gross inflows 4.3 have begun pre-marketing wholesale funds alongside our two small, but growing, Sharia retail products.
Institutional interest Gross outflows 6.6 in Sharia mandates has been very steady, meanwhile.
Net flows 2.3 In November 2014, we purchased 80% of NISP Asset Market and exchange movements 0.4 Management, in Indonesia.
This gives us a base in one of Asia's SWIP acquisition 0.3 largest economies.
We acquired a small unit trust range that we expect to consolidate before expanding distribution in what is AuM at 30 September 2014 24.9 an early stage, but potentially high growth market.
From an investment perspective we know the country well, having first invested there in 1987.
Key events The region remains an important base for our investment team.
Outlook Our equities teams manage over 50 billion.
Our Asian and Overall, we see market sentiment in the region remaining Australian fixed income teams manage over 8 billion.
While economies are in reasonable shape, household Other strategies that started to gather interest included Japan balance sheets have been deteriorating and money has become equities.
Long out of favour with dedicated investors, we have tighter.
Foreign direct investment remains very strong, however.
seen a rise in institutional allocations there on the back of a Where that leads, portfolio money tends to follow.
government stimulus programme that has led to a fall in the yen The ASEAN collective investment scheme, the cross-border and, last year, a sharp rise in local shares.
Our performance in fund passporting framework that includes Singapore, Malaysia Japan has been very good over the longer term.
and Thailand become operational towards the end of the year.
This allows fund managers to distribute funds across borders in Whilst this has always been a key investment hub it is also an these countries.
We are keeping a close eye on the opportunities important region for our clients.
We have had a number of encouraging new business wins for products managed outside of domestic markets which is in line with our strategy.
By way of illustration, these include our first property win in Australia: a mandate for Australian small cap equities for a Japanese client: money raised for global credit fund via our MUTB partnership in Japan: and our Korean office raised money for the European secondaries fund, a fund of funds investing in the property secondaries market.
38 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
