STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW SPORTS Betfair is developing the most exciting, innovative sports betting products in TOTAL SPORTS REVENUES m the marketplace by bringing its two FY12 268.2m core platforms closer together.
This is FY13 271.6m offering all our customers better value, FY14 280.5m more choice and increasingly exciting interaction with sport.
GOLD CUP LORD WINDERMERE At Cheltenham, many customers who took 29 1 on Gold Cup winner Lord Windermere got a Price Rush to 34 1, so for each 20 staked, they received an extra 100 in winnings.
14 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 BETFAIR IS EVOLVING: STEP 1 COMPLETING OUR PRODUCT SET Betfairs Exchange revolutionised the sports betting industry when itwas launched in 2000: providing better value by eliminating the bookmaker, and empowering customers by offering trading opportunities, both before an event and in-play.
However successful the Exchange has been, it does not suit all customers all of the time.
It can often be perceived to be complicated, and liquidity is not always available in all markets.
To close market gaps and increase the recreational appeal of our brand, Betfair launched a Sportsbook in early 2013.
The theory was that a fixed odds product would allow us to access a greater share of the recreational market, by providing an attractive, simple product with broader market coverage.
Since launch, we have seen evidence that this theory is correct.
The Sportsbook has enabled more effective marketing and has increased customer acquisition in sustainable regions.
STEP 2 INTEGRATION Whilst our two products work well as standalone platforms, the real potential lies in bringing them together into an integrated sports offering that provides the best of both to all customers.
Betfair is now focused on presenting the customer with products that offer the twin advantages of both platforms: harnessing the simplicity and market range of the Sportsbook to the superior value and trading functionality available on an Exchange.
By doing this, we believe we can truly stand out in a crowded market.
This concept has so far been illustrated by our pioneering Cash Out feature, which we have brought from the Exchange to the Sportsbook and placed at the centre of our marketing.
STEP 3 RE-SETTING THE AGENDA The most recent stage of our integration process is Price Rush a feature that uses sophisticated technology to do something relatively simple, boosting the odds offered to certain Sportsbook customers by matching them seamlessly into the Exchange.
The product allows customers who do not know how to use the Exchange to receive the inherent pricing benefits, and feed liquidity back into those who do.
The initial results have been encouraging with 36% of eligible singles bets being Rushed and customers on average receiving 24% better odds on those bets.
The product has already proved a hit with customers who have shared a whole range of early anecdotal examples of the tool in action on Twitter.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201415 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED SPORTS For further information about exchange visit: www.
com exchange EXCHANGE Betfair was built around its Exchange and thesuperior value provided by this product remains central to maintaining our competitive advantage in the marketplace.
The Exchange provides inherently strong value within a wide The Exchange remains a natural home of in-play sports betting range of sports markets and subsequently enjoys excellent and this year has seen strong revenue performance in sports that brand affinity with its users.
It forms the foundation of have trading dimensions such as tennis and cricket.
The 2014 theintegrated products we are now taking to both the World T20 cricket tournament saw close to 1bn matched between sophisticated and recreational sports betting markets.
The 2013 home Ashes series was also popular with the dramatic First Test at Trent Bridge becoming the second Overview of results highest single event traded ever on the Exchange at 61m.
The Exchange revenue was down 1% to 244.3m FY13: 247.5m.
historic 2013 Wimbledon final between Andy Murray and Novak The first half of the year saw a decline of 7%, largely due to the Djokovic saw 48m traded across all markets.
absence of a major international football tournament Euro 2012 and the adverse impact of market exits.
In sustainable markets Mobile is an extremely important channel, with around 52% of Exchange revenue was up 2%.
active Exchange customers placing a bet via mobile in the year.
We have also continued to improve our products for our high Operational developments endExchange customers, with a number of improvements to our We continue to focus on increasing liquidity on the Exchange, Application Programming Interface API, which allows customers recognising that this is the key factor behind attracting and to bet directly into our Exchange without using our own website retaining customers and the ultimate driver of better value.
ormobile channels, launched over the year.
Price Rush is one high profile way we are boosting liquidity andwecontinue to work on initiatives to increase activity The hugely popular Cash Out product started on the Exchange.
We have recently taken the concept further through Cash Out, which allows customers to partially cash out their bets, further differentiating the product from competitors offerings.
The Exchange continues to provide inherent value onpopular sports such as Football and Horse Racing 16 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 For further information about our Sportsbook visit: www.
com sport SPORTSBOOK This has been a transformational year for Betfairs Sportsbook.
The team began this financial year with a focus on closing competitive market coverage gaps, before making significant improvements to the user experience.
The focus in FY14 was on creating a competitive Sportsbook The Sportsbook has been placed at the centre of Betfairs and we are now entering an exciting development phase where marketing and customer acquisition, with several of Betfairs innovative products are making our product stand out from a television advertising campaigns this year focusing on market crowded marketplace.
leading functions it possesses, such as the aforementioned Cash Out, and more recently its ability to Price Rush bets to better Overview of results odds through the Exchange.
This has come alongside more Sportsbook revenue grew by 50% to 36.2m FY13: 24.1m traditional promotional activity, with some of these offers now following a 50% rise in the number ofactive customers.
benefiting from Betfairs technology capability, such as Cash Operational developments BackExtra, which allows customers to select their own trigger For a new product in a competitive marketplace, the underlying forreturning stakes on losing bets.
The interactive nature of performance of the Sportsbook has been highly encouraging.
theseproducts has meant they have become an organic source Volume more than doubled over the year, with particularly high ofsocial media and PR activity between Betfair and customers.
levels of activity on football.
We now offer fixed odds betting on 30 Mobile delivered 56% of all Sportsbook revenues in the year, sports and have continued to broaden our market coverage in order rising to 64% in the fourth quarter.
to build a fully competitive product.
In April 2014 our Sportsbook ran 4,100 football matches, 1,200 tennis matches and 300 other sports events, which is three times the number of events offered at the start of the year.
The number of in-play markets within these events also more than doubled over the year.
THE SPORTSBOOK We have increased our television advertising, including this ad during ITVs World Cup coverage Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201417 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
