STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED GAMING Betfairs Gaming division has been busy in FY14, with a new team working hard to put Betfair in a position to deliver improved performance in FY15 and beyond.
This year has seen significant improvements to both our product range andcustomer experience.
Overview of results Gaming revenue decreased by 13% to 66.2m FY13: 75.9m.
The reduction was primarily due to the continued decline in Poker and the adverse impact on other markets following the decision to focus on sustainable revenues, partly offset by UK Casino growth.
In sustainable markets, Gaming revenue was up 2% in the year.
Operational developments We have taken significant steps to address two issues that have affected Betfairs ability to compete in Gaming: by closing product gaps and improving cross-sell from recreational sports customers.
The work undertaken falls broadly into two areas.
Firstly, we have made product upgrades to our Casino so that it now hosts the top level of content offered by Playtech, introducing popular features such as Live Dealer and more recently a tailored site for VIPs, a key way of serving and driving revenues from this important customer group.
CROSS-SELL FROM SPORTS INTO GAMING Accompanying this has been structural work designed to make our site easier for customers to use.
Customers now getamore Prior year intuitive welcome experience, meaning a higherpercentage of new 46% Current year sign ups now fund their accounts.
Wehave launched a seamless Seamless Wallet wallet between sports and gaming products, meaning it is now 20% easier for customers to use funds between Sports and Gaming.
-6% This, alongside more effective promotional activity, is increasing 9% our cross-sell from Sports intoGaming.
We have recognised the need to make a greater impact across all channels, and have subsequently made significant investment in mobile gaming, recently launching new Bingo and Casino mobile apps.
The number of active customers using mobile rose 155% year on year.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 18 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
