BETFAIR US For further information about Betfair US visit: Betfair US has expanded this year with our existing www.
com TVG horseracing business being joined by a NewJersey online casino site which launched inNovember.
Betfair US now consists of two operations: i TVG an advanced deposit horserace wagering business, whichoperates primarily in both California andNewJersey: and ii Betfair New Jersey, a new online Casino site which was launched in November 2013 following the regulation of online gaming in the state.
TVG performed well in FY14, against a weak economic backdrop in the US Racing industry.
Revenues increased 19% constant currency to 44.5m as handle, which is the volume of wagers placed, increased by 33% constant currency, against a wider industry handle that was flat in the period.
This was helped by the launch of advanced deposit wagering in New Jersey following our exclusive agreement to operate the 4NJbets platform on behalf ofthe State of New Jersey and the racing industry.
Since taking over the responsibility for the platform, TVG has modernised the product offering, helping to drive a 57% increase in wagering volumes.
The revenue growth and management of costs have resulted in substantial margin expansion.
The business has continued to make significant strides, recently investing to upgrade the TVG cable channel to High Definition, which we believe will consolidate our viewing share in the future.
The attractiveness of the TVG brand worldwide was recently illustrated by the signing of a strategic partnership with the world famous Hong Kong Jockey Club, which will link pari-mutuel wagering from both the US and Hong Kong for the first time.
Betfair New Jersey was launched in November 2013.
Whilst the overall market size is smaller than originally expected, Betfair NewJerseys total gross gaming revenue GGR was 1.8m, representing a 6% share of the nascent market.
Our share ofthecasino market to date is 8%.
Further detail on the financial performance of Betfair US is provided in the Financial Review on pages 21 to 24.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201419 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
