Business Review The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with capitalisation and smaller capitalisation companies.
The the ability to assess how the Directors have performed their number of investments in the larger capitalisation portfolio will duty to promote the success of the Company during the year normally range between 60-100 stocks representing between under review.
To assist shareholders with this assessment, the 80-100% of the Companys equity portfolio.
The number of Strategic Report sets out the structure and objective of the investments in the smaller capitalisation portfolio will normally Company, its investment policies and risk management, range between 100-120 stocks representing between 0-20% investment limits and restrictions, performance and key of the Companys equity portfolio.
The Company may invest performance indicators, share capital, principal risks and how in pooled funds to achieve these aims.
the Company seeks to manage those risks, the Companys As at the year end, the Company was invested in 90 larger environmental, social and ethical policy and finally its future capitalisation stocks and 118 smaller capitalisation stocks, developments.
representing 95.4% and 3.5% of the Companys total assets Structure and Objective of the Company respectively.
The balance is represented by cash and one unquoted stock, Kane Holdings.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc is an investment trust and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Its Investment Limits and Restrictions objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth from all at time of investment North American investments.
In seeking to achieve this The Company will not normally invest more than 8% of its objective, the Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited gross assets in any one individual stock 31st December JPMF or the Manager which, in turn, delegates portfolio 2014: 5.7% largest individual stock.
management to JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM, to manage the Companys assets actively.
The Board has The Company will normally limit its five largest investments determined an investment policy and related guidelines and to 40% of its gross assets.
It aims to outperform the S&P 500 The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross Index, with net dividends reinvested, expressed in sterling terms.
assets in liquidity funds in normal market conditions The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and 31st December 2014: 1.3%.
regulations including UK company law, UK Financial Reporting The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets Standards, the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and in companies that themselves may invest more than 15% of Transparency Rules, taxation law and the Companys own gross assets in UK listed investment companies Articles of Association.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of The Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been assets in other UK listed investment companies approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust 31st December 2014: nil%.
for the purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As a result the Company is not liable for taxation The Company will use gearing when appropriate to on capital gains.
The Directors have no reason to believe that increase potential returns to shareholders.
The Companys approval will not continue to be retained.
The Company is not a gearing policy is to operate within a range of 5% net cash to close company for taxation purposes.
20% geared in normal market conditions.
The Manager is accountable for tactically managing the gearing, within a Investment Policies and Risk Management 2.0% range around a normal gearing level.
The normal In order to achieve its investment objectives and to seek to gearing level, which is set by the Board and kept under manage risk, the Company mainly invests in a diversified review, is currently 10%.
portfolio of quoted companies including, when appropriate, The Company only hedges its currency risk in respect of the exposure to smaller capitalisation stocks.
The Company full value of the debenture.
currently has separate portfolios dedicated to larger JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and Performance against the benchmark index guidelines is monitored by JPMF and is reported to the Board This is an important KPI by which performance is judged.
Please refer to the graphs on page 17 for details of the Companys performance relative to its benchmark index Performance over 10 years.
In the year ended 31st December 2014, the Company produced a total return to shareholders of 22.6% and a total Performance against the Companys peers return on net assets of 20.8%.
This compares with the return The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative on the Companys benchmark in sterling terms, of 20.4%.
However, the Board also monitors 31st December 2014, the value of the Companys investment performance relative to a broad range of appropriate portfolio was 887 million.
The Investment Managers Report competitor funds both in the UK and the US.
on pages 11 to 15 includes a review of developments during Performance attribution the year as well as information on investment activity within The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to the Companys portfolio.
assess how the Company achieved its performance relative to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on Total Return, Revenue and Dividends the Companys relative performance of the various As detailed on page 48, gross total return for the year amounted components such as asset allocation, gearing and stock to 149.6 million 2013: 155.4 million and net total return after selection.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year deducting finance costs, administrative expenses and taxation, ended 31st December 2014 are given in the Investment amounted to 138.4 million 2013: 146.2 million.
Distributable Managers Report on page 12. income for the year totalled 10.4 million 2013: 7.8 million.
Share price relative to net asset value NAV per share with As referred to in the Chairmans Statement on page 7, debt at fair value following approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting The Board has adopted a share issuance and repurchase held on 7th May 2014, the Companys shares were sub-divided policy that seeks to address imbalances in supply of and into five Ordinary shares for every one share held.
This demand for the Companys shares in the market and sub-division took effect on 8th May 2014 and of course has thereby seeks to manage the volatility and absolute level of an impact on the level of dividend per share payable to the premium and discount to NAV per share at which the shareholders.
In the year to 31st December 2014, The Company paid an interim dividend of 1.0p per share on the shares traded between a premium of 1.9% and a 8th October 2014.
Given the sub-division of shares detailed discount of 1.5% calculated with debt at fair value and above, this interim dividend was the equivalent distribution including income.
Please refer to the Chairmans to the 5.0p per share paid for the 2013 interim dividend.
Statement on pages 6 and 7 for further information.
Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.25p per share, Ongoing charges payable on 15th May 2015 to shareholders on the register at the The ongoing charges represent the Companys close of business on 17th April 2015.
Given the sub-division, the management fee and all other operating expenses, total dividend distribution for 2014 represents an increase of excluding finance costs and any performance fee payable, 20.4% on last years 2.7p distribution.
These distributions total expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets 9.1 million 2013: 7.2 million.
After payment of the final during the year.
The ongoing charges excluding any dividend the revenue reserve will amount to 11.8 million performance fee for the year ended 31st December 2014 2013: 10.6 million.
The ongoing charges including any performance fee payable is the ratio, expressed in Key Performance Indicators KPIs percentage terms, of the management fee plus all other The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and operating expenses plus any performance fee payable, but assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: excluding finance costs, to the average of the daily net 26 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 assets during the year.
The ongoing charges including implementation and results of the investment process with performance fee payable for the year ended 31st December the investment manager, who attends the majority of Board 2014 is 0.64% 2013: 0.66%.
meetings, and reviews data which shows statistical measures of the Companys risk profile.
The investment Share Capital manager employs the Companys gearing within a strategic The Company has authority to both purchase shares for range set by the Board.
cancellation or holding in Treasury, and issue new shares in the Market: Market risk arises from uncertainty about the market for cash at a premium to net asset value.
future prices of the Companys investments.
This market The Company did not repurchase any shares during the year risk comprises three elements equity market risk, 2013: nil.
Since the year end, the Company has repurchased currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Board considers 871,032 shares, into Treasury, representing 0.31% of the shares asset allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on outstanding at the beginning of 2015. a regular basis and has set investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported on by During the year, 1,370,000 new ordinary shares of 25p were JPMF.
The Board monitors the implementation and results issued to the market at an average price of 1,168.2p per share, of the investment process with the Manager.
However, the for a total net consideration of 16,004,000.
After the fortunes of the portfolio are significantly determined by sub-division of shares, a further 5,965,000 new ordinary shares market movements in US equities, the rate of exchange of 5p were issued to the market at an average price of 252.2p between US dollars and sterling and interest rate per share, for a total consideration of 15,044,000. changes.
Since the year end, the Company has issued a further 600,000 Operational and Cybercrime: Disruption to, or failure of, shares to the market at an average price of 285.0p per share, the Managers accounting, dealing or payments systems for a total gross consideration of 1,711,000. or the custodians or depositarys records could prevent Special Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue and accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys repurchase shares will be put to shareholders for approval at financial position.
On 1st July 2014, the Company the Annual General Meeting.
appointed BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited to act as its depositary, responsible for overseeing the Principal Risks operations of the custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A.
With the assistance of JPMF, the Risk Committee has drawn up and the Companys cash flows.
Details of how the Board a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
monitors the services provided by the Manager and its These are reviewed and noted by the Board.
These key risks fall associates and the key elements designed to provide broadly under the following categories: effective internal control are included in the Internal Control section of the Corporate Governance report on Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate investment pages38 and39.
The threat of cyber attack, in all its guises, strategy, for example asset allocation or the level of is regarded as at least as important as more traditional gearing, may lead to underperformance against the physical threats to business continuity and security.
The Companys benchmark index and peer companies, Company benefits directly or indirectly from all elements resulting in the Companys shares trading on a wider of JPMorgans Cyber Security programme.
The Board manages this risk by insisting on technology controls around the physical security of diversification of investments through its investment JPMorgans data centres, security of its networks and restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and security of its trading applications are tested by Deloitte reported on regularly by the Managers.
JPMF provides and reported every six months against the AAF Standard.
the Directors with timely and accurate management information, including performance data and attribution Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: The analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and sudden departure of the investment manager or several shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the members of the wider investment management team could JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued result in a short term deterioration in investment Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include performance.
The Manager takes steps to reduce the market price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, likelihood of such an event by ensuring appropriate liquidity risk, credit risk, counterparty risk and fraud.
succession planning and the adoption of a team based Further details are disclosed in note 23 on pages 65 to 71. approach.
The Board has stressed to JPMF the importance Political and Economic: Changes in financial or tax of retaining the current investment manager.
legislation, including in the US and the European Union, Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board may adversely effect the Company: current examples are holds regular meetings with senior representatives of the AIFM Directive, FATCA and MIFID II.
JPMF makes JPMorgan in order to obtain assurance that the Manager recommendations to the Board on accounting, dividend continues to demonstrate a high degree of commitment and tax policies and the Board seeks external advice to its investment trusts business through the provision of where appropriate.
In addition, the Company is subject to significant resources.
political risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement of capital.
Share Price Relative to Net Asset Value NAV per Share: If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the Please refer to pages 38 and 39 for details of the Companys NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a risk management and internal controls.
Throughout the majority of 2014, the Companys Board Diversity shares traded at a premium.
However, the Board monitors the Companys premium discount level and will seek, When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint where deemed prudent, to address imbalances in the individuals on merit.
Diversity is important in bringing an supply and demand of the Companys shares through a appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board.
When programme of share issuance and buybacks.
completing a review of the skills and experience of Directors, the Board feels that they are equipped with the necessary Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as attributes required for the sound stewardship of the Company an investment trust, the Company must comply with and that their knowledge sets allow for lively and engaging Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 debates.
Full details of the skills and experience of the Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are given Directors can be found on pages 30 and 31.
At 31st December under Business of the Company above.
Were the Company 2014, there were three male Directors and two female Directors to breach Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status on the Board.
Please refer to page 36 for more information on and, as a consequence, gains within the Companys the workings of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
portfolio would be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually monitored Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues by JPMF and the results reported to the Board each month.
The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has The Company must also comply with the provisions of the no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the Companies Act 2006 and, as its shares are listed on the day to day activities being carried out by third parties.
There London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules and are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Board notes JPMAMs policy statements in Companies Act 2006 could result in the Company and or respect of Social, Community, Environmental and Human the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal Rights issues, as outlined below, in italics.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares being suspended from Social, Community, Environmental and Human Rights listing, which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible Directors seek to comply with all relevant regulation and manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic legislation in the UK, Europe and the US and rely on the interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial services of its Company Secretary, JPMF, and its issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to professional advisers to monitor compliance with all impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
28 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance Furthermore, JPMorgan Chase is a signatory to the Equator ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and Principles on managing social and environmental risk in report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their project finance.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Future Developments Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when The future development of the Company is much dependent making stock selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on light of economic and equity market developments.
Chairman and the Investment Manager discuss the market outlook in their reports on pages10 and 15.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company is managed by JPMF.
It has no employees and all of its Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities By order of the Board being carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no Alison Vincent for and on behalf of disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Company JPMorgan Funds Limited itself has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel Secretary fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon 31st March 2015 footprint.
JPMF delegates the management of the portfolio to JPMAM, a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
