EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 17 Business Review The aim of the Strategic Report is to provide shareholders with The Company is managed to produce capital growth and not to the ability to assess how the Directors have performed their produce any particular level of dividend and therefore the level duty to promote the success of the Company during the year of dividend will vary.
To assist shareholders with this assessment, the The Boards policy is to employ gearing when the Manager Strategic Report sets out the structure and objective of the believes it is appropriate to do so.
The Board regularly reviews Company, its investment policies and risk management, this policy.
Should the Manager decide to employ gearing, the investment limits and restrictions, performance and key Company will remain invested in the range of 90-120% under performance indicators, share capital, principal risks and how normal market conditions.
the Company seeks to manage those risks, the Companys environmental, social and ethical policy and finally its future The Board has set no minimum or maximum limits on the developments.
number of investments in the portfolio but it is a relatively concentrated portfolio consisting typically of between 60 and Structure and Objective of the Company 90 investments.
The assets are managed by an investment JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc is an manager based in London who is supported by a 50 strong investment trust company that has a premium listing on the emerging markets equity team.
Its objective is to achieve capital growth from emerging markets worldwide.
In seeking to It should be noted that historically, emerging market achieve this objective the Company employs JPMF to actively companies and investments in their shares have shown manage the Companys assets.
The Board has determined an greater volatility and may be subject to certain political and investment policy and related guidelines and limits, as corporate governance risks which are not typically associated described below.
It aims to outperform the MSCI Emerging with more developed markets and economies.
Investment Restrictions and Guidelines The Company is subject to UK and European legislation and The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing regulations including UK company law, Financial Reporting various investment limits and restrictions: Standards, the UKLA Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure and The Company will not invest more than 10% of its total Transparency Rules, taxation law and the Companys own assets in any one individual stock excluding investment Articles of Association.
The Company is an investment trusts at the time of acquisition.
company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies No more than 50% of the Companys assets may be Act 2006 and has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs invested in any one region.
as an investment trust for the purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended No more than an aggregate of 25% of the Companys 30th June 2013 and future years.
The Directors have no reason assets before deducting borrowings may be invested to believe that approval will not continue to be obtained.
The in: i securities not listed on any recognised investment Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
exchange: and ii holdings in which the Companys interest amounts to 20% or more of the aggregate of the equity Investment Policies and Risk Management capital including any capital having an element of equity In order to achieve the investment objective and to seek to of any one listed company other than an investment trust manage risk, the Company invests in a well diversified spread which has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs or of countries, industries and companies.
The Company invests which would qualify for such approval but for the fact that primarily in quoted securities in emerging stock markets but, it is not listed.
where necessary or appropriate in the absence of suitable quoted securities, it may invest in unquoted securities.
It may In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing invest in other collective investment schemes, but usually only Authority, the Company will not invest more than 15% of where legal restrictions prevent direct investment by its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies foreigners or prudent diversification can best be achieved in and will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in this way.
The Company conducts its affairs so as to achieve and companies that themselves may invest more than 15% maintain approved investment trust status in the UK.
of gross assets in UK listed investment companies.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 18 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued The Company does not normally enter into derivative Performance Relative to Benchmark Index transactions, other than short term forward currency Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2004 contracts to manage working capital requirements and to 140 do so requires prior Board approval.
130 These limits and restrictions may be varied by the Board at any time at its discretion.
120 Compliance with the Boards investment restrictions and 110 guidelines is monitored continuously by the Manager and is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
100 Performance 90 In the year to 30th June 2014, the Company produced a total 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 return to Ordinary shareholders of1.0% and an undiluted total Source: Morningstar.
This compares with the return on JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
the Companys benchmark index of 1.4%.
At 30th June 2014, JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
the value of the Companys investment portfolio including Benchmark.
liquidity fund holdings was 745.9 million.
The Investment Managers Report on pages5to8 includes a review of Ten Year Performance developments during the year as well as information on Figures have been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2004 investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
500 Total Return, Revenue and Dividends 400 Gross total loss for the year amounted to 17.2 million 2013: 95.0 million return and net total loss after deducting 300 management fee, performance fee, other administrative expenses, finance costs and taxation amounted to 27.2 million 200 2013: 81.4 million return.
Distributable income for the year 100 amounted to 6.1 million 2013: 8.1 million.
0 The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.5p per share 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 payable on 26th November 2014 to holders on the register at Source: Morningstar.
the close of business on 24th October 2014.
This distribution JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price total return.
The revenue reserve after JPMorgan Emerging Markets diluted net asset value total return.
payment of the final dividend will amount to 8.9 million JPMorgan Emerging Markets undiluted net asset value total return.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs Performance against the Companys peers The Board uses a number of financial KPIs to monitor and The principal objective is to achieve capital growth relative assess the performance of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: to the benchmark.
However, the Board also monitors the performance relative to a broad range of competitor funds.
Performance against the benchmark index This is the most important KPI by which performance is Performance attribution judged.
Information on the Companys performance is The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to given in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment assess how the Company achieved its performance relative Managers Report.
to its benchmark index, i. e. to understand the impact on 18 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 10:23 Page 19 the Companys relative performance of the various A total of 276,705 shares were repurchased into Treasury during components such as asset allocation and stock selection.
the year under review, for a total consideration of 1,502,850.
Details of the attribution analysis for the year ended The Company did not allot any new shares for cash other than 30th June 2014 are given in the Investment Managers on the conversion of Subscription shares.
Since the year end a Report on page6.
further 510,887 shares have been repurchased into Treasury.
Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share Resolutions to renew the authorities to issue new shares and to The Board has a share repurchase policy which seeks to repurchase shares for cancellation will be put to shareholders address imbalances in supply of and demand for the for approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Companys shares within the market.
This helps to reduce The full text of these Resolutions is set out in the Notice of the volatility and absolute level of the discount to NAV per Meeting on pages 65 and 66. share at which the Companys shares trade in relation to its peers in the sector.
In the year to 30th June 2014, the During the year the Company issued 14,860 Ordinary shares Companys shares traded at a discount to the fully diluted for a total consideration of 81,000 on the conversion of net asset value per share of between 8.1% and 11.9%.
Since the year end, a further 10,093,486 Ordinary shares have been issued for a total consideration of 54,808,000.
Discount Performance 0 Subscription Shares -2 On 11th June 2009 the Company issued 22,059,783 Subscription -4 shares as a bonus issue to Ordinary shareholders on the basis of -6 one Subscription share for every five Ordinary shares held.
Each -8 Subscription share conferred the right but not the obligation to -10 subscribe for one Ordinary share on any business day during -12 the period from 1st August 2009 to 31st July 2014 both dates -14 inclusive when the rights under the Subscription shares lapsed.
-16 All of the remaining Subscription shares in issue were converted -18 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 to Ordinary shares, either by Subscription shareholders or by Source: Datastream month end data.
the trustee appointed to act on behalf of the remaining JPMorgan Emerging Markets share price discount to diluted net asset value per Subscription shareholders, as at the date of expiry.
Principal Risks With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has drawn up Ongoing charges a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks to the Company.
The ongoing charges represent the Companys management These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs and performance fee payable, expressed as a Investment Underperformance: An inappropriate investment percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the strategy, for example asset allocation, the level of gearing or year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended 30th June the degree of portfolio risk, could lead to underperformance 2014 were 1.17% 2013: 1.14%.
The Board reviews each year against the Companys benchmark index and peer an analysis which shows a comparison of the Companys companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on ongoing charges and its main expenses with those of its a wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by peers.
diversification of investments and through a set of investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored Share Capital and reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides The Directors have, on behalf of the Company, the authority the Directors with timely and accurate management both to repurchase shares in the market for cancellation and to information, including performance data and attribution issue new shares for cash on behalf of the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 20 Strategic Report continued Business Review continued analyses, revenue estimates, liquidity reports and subject of criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys shares being implementation and results of the investment process with suspended from listing which in turn would breach Section the Investment Manager, who attends all Board meetings, 1158.
The Board relies on the services of its Company and reviews data which show statistical measures of the Secretary and its professional advisers to ensure Companys risk profile.
compliance with the Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and DTRs.
Political, Economic and Governance: Administrative risks, such as the imposition of restrictions on the free movement Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: Details of capital.
These risks are discussed by the Board on a of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance regular basis.
best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Loss of Investment Team or Investment Manager: A sudden report on pages 27 to 31. departure of the investment manager or several members of the investment management team could result in a Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers short-term deterioration in investment performance.
The accounting, dealing or payments systems or the custodians Manager takes steps to reduce the likelihood of such an records could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of event by ensuring appropriate succession planning and the Companys financial position.
Details of how the Board the adoption of a team based approach, as well as special monitors the services provided by the Manager and its efforts to retain key personnel.
associates and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are included within the Risk Discount: A disproportionate widening of the discount Management and Internal Control section of the Corporate relative to the Companys peers could result in loss of value Governance report on pages 30 and 31. for shareholders.
The Board regularly discusses discount policy and has set parameters for the Manager and the Financial: The financial risks faced by the Company include Companys broker to follow.
market price risk, interest rate risk and credit risk.
Further details are disclosed in note 22 on pages 57 to 63.
Change of Corporate Control of the Manager: The Board holds regular meetings with senior representatives of JPMF Board Diversity in order to obtain assurance that the Manager continues to When recruiting a new Director, the Boards policy is to appoint demonstrate a high degree of commitment to its individuals on merit.
Diversity is important in bringing an investment trusts business through the provision appropriate range of skills and experience to the Board.
30th June 2014, there were five male Directors and one female Director on the Board.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must comply Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues with Section 1158.
Details of the Companys approval are The Company has a management contract with JPMF.
It has no given under Structure and Objective of the Company on employees and all of its Directors are non-executive.
Should the Company breach Section 1158, it might day activities are carried out by third parties.
There are lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
within the Companys portfolio would be subject to Capital The Board notes the JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are policy statements in respect of Social, Community and continually monitored by the Manager and the results Environmental and Human Rights issues, as highlighted in reported to the Board each month.
The Company must also italics: comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and, Social, Environmental and Human Rights since its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible the UKLA Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests Rules DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Act could result of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such in the Company and or the Directors being fined or the 20 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 21 as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAM is also a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked is a signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risk in project finance.
environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
Future Developments JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible The future development of the Company is much dependent Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock light of economic and equity market developments in the selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach countries in which it invests.
The Investment Manager to how we implement the principles is available on request.
discusses the outlook in his report on pages 7 and8.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company is managed by JPMF, has no employees and all of By order of the Board its Directors are non-executive, the day to day activities being Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures JPMorgan Funds Limited, to be made in respect of employees.
The Company has no Company Secretary premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and 1st October 2014 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
