Business review In this section we review theperformance of our business and the work wedotosupport local communities.
24-30 Performance reviews 31-33 Corporate responsibility and sustainability Annual report 2013 14 23 Group fi financial performance review Highlights Mobile data revenue up 23%, Group revenue down 1% on Group EBITDA up 5%: margin increased by 2 percentage like-for-like basis points to 32% Group operating costs fell by 5% US$43 million with exit Net debt down by circa US$1.4 billion to US$205 million run rate cost savings of US$77 million per annum proforma, following the disposal of Monaco Telecom postyear end Recommended full dividend per share of US2.67 cents: full year dividend per share of US4 cents 2012 13 US4 cents Revenue from continuing operations was down on the prior year, Reported pre-exceptional net pro t aft er tax for the year principally due to xed line decline and a change in directories increased by 45% to US$148 million 2012 13 US$102 million.
accounting in LIME, the latter reducing reported revenue by Net pro t for the year was US$951 million.
Adjusted earnings per US$38 million.
share for the year were US2.6 cents US1.5 cents in 2012 13.
Mobile revenue for the Group continued to grow, and this is an Additional information on the financial performance and financial area we will continue to focus on in the coming years.
The main position of the Group is included in the Financial review on pages driver was mobile data growth, increasing by 23%, following 84 to 87 together with commentary on the statutory income increased penetration and usage.
We still only have smartphone statement on page 89 and statutory statement of financial penetration of circa 30% across our markets, so we believe there position on page 93. is still plenty of scope for future growth here.
Broadband and TV also performed well in the period.
We have Outlook invested heavily in infrastructure in our more developed regions Economic growth in our markets will remain variable, ranging from to enable us to deliver a world class triple quad play off ering.
circa 8% GDP growth per annum in Panama to 0% in Barbados: Customers increased on the prior year as our markets however the increasing penetration of products such as developed and appetite for our products grew.
smartphones, broadband and TV, off ers good growth opportunities.
Our xed voice and enterprise, data and other revenues were Notwithstanding this, the markets we operate in are competitive, adversely impacted by declining voice traffi c, lower activity levels and we face the additional challenge of a second mobile operator and a diffi cult macroeconomic environment.
in 2014 in The Bahamas, our second largest market.
Overall, Group EBITDA was 5% ahead of the prior year at Looking ahead, we expect to make good progress in reducing our US$608 million, following improved performance across the board, cost base, particularly in the Caribbean.
Through Project Marlin, most notably in the Caribbean.
To date, our cost out programme with its associated uplift in capex, we expect to capture the has reduced costs by US$43 million.
In the Caribbean directly growth opportunity off ered by mobile data, broadband and TV, employed headcount fell.
We said back in May 2013 we were reversing the historical decline in revenue.
Key to achieving this aiming for a run rate reduction of US$100 million by the end of goal will be the competitiveness of our off er combined with the 2014 15, and we are on track to achieving that target.
quality of our service, both of which we expect to improve following our investments to increase network reliability and speeds.
