Strategic Report Business Review Business and Status Performance The Company is an investment company within the meaning of At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
The Company has been approved as an investment trust by Key Performance Indicators HM Revenue and Customs subject to the Company continuing The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the to meet the eligibility conditions.
The Company intends to progress and performance of the Company over time are conduct its affairs so as to enable it to comply with the ongoing established industry measures and are as follows: requirements.
the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a Objective and Policy total return basis: The Companys objective is to invest internationally to achieve the movement in the share price on a total return basis: capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
the discount: and Monks seeks to meet its objective of achieving capital growth ongoing charges.
through investment principally in a portfolio of international quoted equities.
Equities are selected for their inclusion within the The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on portfolio solely on the basis of the strength of the investment pages 4, 5 and 18.
In addition to the above, the Board also case.
considers peer group comparative performance.
When investing, the Company is prepared to move freely between Principal Risks different markets as opportunities arise.
There are no limits to As explained on page 21 there is an ongoing process for geographical or sector exposures, but these are reported to, identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate Company.
The principal risks associated with the Company diversification is achieved.
The equity portfolio may be relatively are as follows: concentrated for a global fund and, as at the financial year end, Market Risk The Companys assets consist mainly of listed it contained 88 equity holdings including 9 investments in funds.
securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and The number of holdings in equities and funds will typically be include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and between 70 and 200.
A portfolio review by the Managers is given other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of on pages 8 to 10 and the investments held at the year end are those risks and how they are managed are contained in note 21 listed on pages 14 to 17. to the financial statements on pages 45 to 50.
Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than equities lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains, will be purchased from time to time including fixed interest holdings, suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial unquoted securities and derivatives.
The Company may use penalties or a qualified audit report.
Baillie Giffords Internal Audit derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio management and Compliance Departments provide regular reports to the Audit including reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
its investments and protection against currency risk and to achieve capital growth.
Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring representation is made to ensure that the special circumstances performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index of investment trusts are recognised.
when constructing the portfolio and the composition of the portfolio is likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
A long Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting term view is taken and there may be periods when the net asset systems or those of other third party service providers could lead value per share declines both in absolute terms and relative to to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a the comparative index.
Payment of dividends is secondary to misappropriation of assets.
The Managers have a comprehensive achieving capital growth.
The shares are not considered to be a business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of suitable investment for those seeking a regular or rising income.
the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and Borrowings are invested in equity and other markets when this is the reports by other third party providers are reviewed by the considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
Gearing levels, Managers on behalf of the Board.
and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not be taken out if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to over 30% of shareholders funds.
Equity exposure will, on occasions, be below 100% of shareholders funds.
06 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and the Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities that are readily realisable.
Political Risk although Monks is an English Company, the Board is aware that the Scottish Referendum Vote introduces elements of political uncertainty which may have practical consequences: developments will be monitored closely and considered by the Board and Managers.
However, the Referendum is only one of a variety of political risks facing the Company which are considered by the Board on a regular basis.
Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues The Board recognises the requirement to provide information about employees, human rights and community issues.
As the Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive and all its functions are outsourced, these requirements do not apply to the Company.
Gender Representation The Board comprises five Directors, four male and one female.
The Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is set out on page 20.
Environmental, Social and Governance Policy Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on page 23.
The Strategic Report which includes pages 2 to 18 was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 17 June 2014.
JGD Ferguson Chairman The Monks Investment Trust PLC 07
