OLD MUTUAL EMERGING MARKETS BUSINESS REVIEW Rest of Africa Outside South Africa, we operate in Namibia, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Kenya, Swaziland, Botswana, Nigeria and Ghana, where we offer various corporate and retail solutions in life and savings, property and casualty, asset management and banking.
Our products are supported by sound financial advice, efficient service and value for money for our customers.
In East Africa, we have agreed to acquire a 60.7% stake in UAP Holdings UAP, subject to various regulatory approvals.
UAP has a strong position in East and Central Africa and a product offering that is highly complementary to our existing businesses.
Asia and Latin America In Colombia we operate in the affluent market, providing mandatory and voluntary pensions, investment and saving solutions, offshore investment products and institutional asset management.
Solid operational delivery Business review In Mexico we offer the corporate market Old Mutual Emerging Markets operates in voluntary private pension plans and we and strategic progress 14 countries across Africa, Latin America and provide the retail market long-term savings and in Africa.
We provide individuals, corporates and risk products, customer solutions and advice.
institutions with long-term savings, protection, Ralph Mupita AIVA is our Uruguay-based distribution lending, investment solutions and general platform spanning the Latin American region.
Chief Executive Officer insurance in these geographies and through It provides services to a network of independent Old Mutual Emerging Markets these business segments: financial advisers, wealth managers and South Africa other institutions.
Retail Affluent offers a wide range of wealth Old Mutual-Guodian is a 50 50 joint venture creation and protection products as well as in China with Guodian, one of the countrys asset management products to middle-income largest power producers.
It provides long-term and high-net worth customers.
savings solutions through a tied adviser Mass Foundation offers a selection of savings force and a telesales company.
Customers and protection products in the lower income include Guodian employees and affluent and foundation market, as well as lending bank customers.
products through Old Mutual Finance OMF.
Old Mutual Kotak Mahindra is our 26% owned Corporate segment caters for the needs joint venture in India with Kotak Mahindra Bank, of institutional and corporate investors providing life insurance, retirement pensions, and employers through retirement and savings and investments.
Competitive environment Old Mutual Investment Group OMIG is In South Africa, we rank first among our peers a multi-boutique asset management and measured as total life sales, with over 25% investment business that offers clients access market share as at June 2014 and has been to a full array of investment offerings, styles growing steadily over the past five years.
Its priority is to deliver performance through focus.
In the rest of Africa, competition continues to grow as companies seek to establish dominant Mutual & Federal M&F, our property & 23% positions across the continent.
Our primary casualty business, offers an extensive range AOP pre-tax competitors in sub-Saharan Africa are a of insurance products and solutions to meet combination of our large South African personal, commercial and corporate needs.
insurance peers and large local firms, with It also provides cover for the agricultural, limited competition from the large 59% engineering and marine sectors.
We continue to defend Customers in Rest of Africa our dominant market positions in the Southern 36 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report African Development Community SADC lower income strata and this is where we see Improving data region, while our businesses in the key growth the importance of technology in improving connectivity and hubs of East and West Africa are developing accessibility.
Similar to South Africa, there has rapidly from a relatively small base.
been a steady development of regulations affordability is a major across emerging markets in the rest of Africa.
In Mexico we have a strong corporate priority for the financial business, with 4% of the corporate pension Colombia and Mexico markets are services players to market.
In Colombia we have circa.
29% of the undergoing a number of reforms.
For voluntary unit trust market.
In India, Kotak Life Colombia, the tax reform is aimed at interact with and serve Insurance ranks 9th out of 23 life companies increasing its tax base to cover fiscal deficit by their customers better.
and in China our joint venture with Guodian preventing tax evasion and increasing ranks 9th out of 24. corporate tax rate.
For Mexico, tax reform is primarily focused on providing tax benefits for Market trends private pension plans and personal deductions for individual pension plans.
The South African regulatory environment is undergoing significant transformation in the Through its pension fund reforms, Colombia medium term as changes such as the proposed plans to set up a new compulsory state-run Retail Distribution Review RDR, Solvency pension fund to operate alongside those of Assessment and Management SAM, private insurers.
In Mexico, ongoing financial Retirement Fund Reform, Treating Customers reforms are aimed at strengthening existing Fairly and the Twin Peaks regulatory reform financials laws and the regulators ability to are implemented.
We continue to engage enforce these laws.
This includes structural constructively with the various regulatory changes to the banking and securities authorities in this regard.
Implementation of Solvency II by recent shift in the rise of non-traditional Mexican insurers is ongoing and is expected to competitors as a result of the regulatory boost confidence in the insurance sector.
changes that allow for such non-traditional In India, despite the parliamentary committees players to participate in the insurance industry recommendation to raise the foreign resulting in our competitors expanding into the investment limit to 49%, the government failed rest of Africa.
to pass the Insurance Bill via the normal route.
In the affluent market, there has been a rapid Consequently the government opted to pass rise in the black middle income class in South the FDI limit via an ordinance which was Africa, driven by economic growth, government approved by cabinet in December 2014.
This is income redistribution programmes and positive for our business as it will allow us to empowerment initiatives.
Gauteng has the move from the current 26% ownership levels to highest number of high income and high net 49% in the near term.
worth customers in the country, as well as the The China Insurance Regulatory Commission largest share of the growing black middle class.
released an updated draft on 2nd generation As a result of health care intervention in South solvency reforms.
The draft shows that China Africa, there has been a significant Risk Oriented Solvency System C-ROSS will improvement in the life expectancy of people be implemented timeously in 2015.
While this is an issue that the results from the C-ROSS impact study are affects the whole of society, Old Mutual has wide ranging but it is clear that it will increase taken the decision to release some of the regulatory compliance and risk assessment reserves previously set aside due to mortality requirements on insurers.
Insurers will need to rates, and will be using a proportion of these adjust their business structures in line with provisions to increase the level of cover for capital requirements.
As technology evolves, smartphones and Additionally, given the improved mortality mobile devices are becoming increasingly experience in South Africa, we will now be affordable.
Improving data connectivity and able to offer customers products which are affordability is a major priority for the more affordable and provide better value.
financial services players who are introducing In the rest of Africa, markets are characterised technology-enabled applications and tools to by a youthful demographic.
The number of interact with and serve their customers better.
middle class households is on the rise and this Key to technology transformation and is expected to drive consumer spending and improving the customer experience is the fuel demand for financial services products.
transition from old business line-specific Despite the growing prosperity, a large platforms and IT to an integrated capability in proportion of the market still falls into the line with growing customer-centric demands.
Old Mutual plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OLD MUTUAL EMERGING MARKETS BUSINESS REVIEW continued Nedbank and Mutual & Federal M&F as we Performance drive group collaboration.
Across all our Supporting Pre-tax AOP increased by 28% 23% including businesses, we are simplifying our IT platforms economic long-term investment return to R11.0 billion to support our strategy of serving customers via benefiting from impact of higher asset based omni-channel, including digital.
transformation fees, life underwriting profits including In South Africa, our key strategic themes in South Africa favourable mortality experience, the include: deploying an integrated proposition for consolidation of OMF and the turnaround We believe we have a responsibility to our mass market customers, capturing niche from an underwriting loss to profit at support the communities in which we middle-income and affluent growth segments, Mutual & Federal M&F.
operate and we continue to invest improving profitability and growing our significantly in infrastructure and local NCCF declined by R3.4 billion to R21.3 billion umbrella offering in the Corporate business, projects that will achieve sustainable mainly due to relatively low-margin institutional delivering consistent long-term investment change in the lives of our stakeholders in client outflows in a number of OMIG listed performance in OMIG, and growing M&Fs these communities.
Corporate was competitiveness through multi-channel successful in securing large single premium Volunteerism is core to our culture with distribution and Group collaboration.
flows and delivered a net positive NCCF of well over 1,000 employees volunteering In Rest of Africa, the macro-economic R8.6 billion.
for various community projects environment remains attractive with positive Old Mutual Education Flagship Project FUM increased by 8% to R905 billion driven by demographic trends and sub-Saharan Africas made an impact on teaching and positive cash flows, strong market performance aggregate annual GDP growth expected to learning in 134 schools to the benefit of and investment returns of the international exceed 5%.
We have now committed R3.6 4,100 educators and 105,000 learners assets enhanced by a stronger US dollar.
billion of our R5 billion allocation and will Since inception, Masisizane Fund has continue pursuing our strategy to become Gross sales increased by 12% to R185 billion.
disbursed R152 million to small and the African financial services champion.
In South Africa, Retail Affluent, Mass medium enterprises SME with an Foundation and Corporate business grew sales additional R36 million disbursed for Regionally, our focus areas include: 10%, 12% and 46% respectively reflecting, good wholesale funding through micro finance SADC defend our leading market shares sales performance.
OMIG sales declined by 4% institutions through new products and channels and by mainly due to several large mandates secured Our Housing Fund, Schools Fund, IDEAS expanding our offering to reach key in 2013.
New Markets Asia and Latin America Renewables Energy Fund and Agri Fund market segments grew sales by 6% underpinned by improved have collectively invested over productivity and the weaker rand.
East Africa complete and integrate R1.1 billion integrate our recent acquisition of UAP, Old Mutual and Nedbank jointly Strategic direction subject to regulatory approvals, and fully pledged $1 million towards the African leverage and commercialise Faulu to Our strategic intent remains focused on building Union-Private Sector Ebola fund accelerate organic growth an African financial services champion.
At the Our current BEE deal with our Black West Africa continue to build value from heart of this strategy is the strengthening of our Business Partners expires in May 2015. our Ecobank partnership and investigating Southern African franchise, strategic Old Mutual Emerging Markets and additional inorganic opportunities.
acquisitions in East Africa and organic Nedbank together OMEM and growth in West Africa through alliances and Nedbank consortium, Brimstone In Asia, we continue to grow our joint ventures partnerships.
In South Africa we continue to Investment Corporation Limited, with Kotak Mahindra and Guodian.
In Latin develop our growth markets and we are Womens Investment Portfolio Holdings America, we continue to build on our strong making good progress in aligning Old Mutual, Limited and Izingwe Financial Investments Proprietary Limited have Rm initiated discussions on the nature of their Highlights including P&C 2014 2013 Change future relationships, including on-going AOP pre-tax 11 033 8 969 23% commercial relationships and potential Covered sales APE 9 706 8 442 15% co-investment in BEE operating businesses NCCF Rbn 21.3 24.7 14% Old Mutual South Africa has achieved 2 Level 2 BBBEE status for the fourth FUM Rbn 904.9 840.8 8% consecutive year.
Gross sales Rbn 185.0 165.0 12% 3 Many of these initiatives are aligned to Pre-tax FUM operating margin 126bps 114bps 12bps South Africas National Development Plan and are aimed at positive sustainable IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent m 395 339 17% outcomes to be shared by a broad base of communities.
1 Fr om January 2014, all P&C business has been reported as part of Old Mutual Emerging Markets.
Comparatives have been restated www.
com rb-inpractice 2 Comparative information for FUM has been restated to include Property & Casualty FUM of R2.9 billion 3 Pre-tax operating margin is calculated as pre-tax AOP divided by average FUM and has been restated to include Property & Casualty 38 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report businesses in Colombia and Mexico, in We closely monitor the extent to which energy particular growing the retail mass and supply constraints could impact business I mproved life corporate businesses in Mexico by expanding operations in South Africa and are putting expectancy our onshore distribution through AIVA.
appropriate plans in place to mitigate this risk.
HIV AIDS is considered one of the most Given our significant asset-based fee income, Risk prevalent causes of deaths in South Africa.
we are exposed to market risk and a market However, due to the increased use of Our risk strategy is integrally linked with our correction may cause earnings volatility.
anti-retroviral treatment, people who are business strategy, with risk mitigating actions Where we have liabilities with guarantees, HIV positive are now living longer and the designed to improve the prospects of our Balance Sheet Management team insurance industry including Old Mutual achieving our goals.
actively manages the associated market risks.
is paying fewer death claims, particularly In pursuing growth across Africa, we take on in the low income market.
Outlook both execution risk in concluding acquisitions The improvement in mortality experience and then integration risk.
Our M&A processes Emerging markets continue to operate in a of Old Mutual South Africa OMSA, has are designed to ensure that we understand challenging economic and socio-political led to the following: the risks in the businesses we target.
The energy constraints in South from the due diligence inform the business Africa remain a concern and are likely to 1.
Launching an innovative new funeral integration programmes post-acquisition.
However, product range that requires no medical Specialists in the various aspects of integration lower oil prices are expected to result in a underwriting and provides customers provide expertise to ensure a sound and sharp decline in inflation and therefore with excellent value for money.
higher disposable income for consumers, features of the new products are: particularly those in the retail mass segment.
The regulatory landscape is changing across Lower premiums for customers: eg a GDP in South Africa is expected to rise 2.1% many of the jurisdictions in which we operate typical 33 year old will pay 20% less in in 2015.
Some changes have far-reaching implications premiums under the new funeral range for us, but also provide new opportunities.
In sub-Saharan Africa, growth is expected to Higher cover levels Responding positively is vital to achieving remain at similar levels as 2014.
However, the More regular cash-backs whilst competitive advantage and reducing risk.
growth outlook has deteriorated in Nigeria as maintaining profitability to lower oil revenue could slow down the economy A central part of our strategy is to build the shareholder.
and force the government to cut expenditure.
In integrated financial services businesses in 2.
Enabling existing customers to benefit Ghana, real GDP growth will be strong over the our key markets.
To support this we plan from the improvement in long term coming years, fluctuating between 6% and 8%.
to grow our lending businesses in Kenya mortality experience: eg for the 2014 Forthcoming IMF support will underpin investor Faulu, Zimbabwe CABS and South Africa cover reviews, 322 916 low income confidence and rising oil and gas output will Old Mutual Finance and Old Mutual market customers received increases provide a significant boost to the economy.
The growth in credit of up to 17% of their sums assured.
risk exposure will be mitigated by strong risk Growth prospects for Colombia and Mexico OMSA has recognised the significant management as the first line of defence and remain fairly positive, but downside risks to improvement in the life expectancy of tight oversight and governance as the second the 2015 outlook persist if low oil prices are their customers as a result of health care line.
Our strategy includes specified credit risk prolonged the slump could reduce the intervention in South Africa, and has exposure limits.
attractiveness of opportunities for energy responded by developing products that are investment and oil revenues.
The Chinese A subdued South African economy and more affordable, more competitive and government is expected to continue its high customer indebtedness levels present attractive, without compromising economic reform this year, which implies challenges to growing our business in the interests of the shareholder.
weaker but more balanced economic growth.
However these effects will not be felt uniformly across the market, and we We are on track to meet our objective of will be smart in identifying sectors where 10 million customers in the Rest of Africa by we can grow our customer base.
In line with 2020 and we continue to aim for an overall responsible business practice, we will also RoE target of between 20% to 25%.
work with customers who overstretch themselves, to help with their debt rehabilitation where possible.
Old Mutual plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
