Strategic Report Business Review holding is limited to 8% of total assets.
A maximum of 40% of Business and Status total assets may be invested in holdings individually exceeding The Company is an investment company within the meaning of 3% of total assets.
These two restrictions do not apply to section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company carries on investment in unit trusts or OEICs, investments by way of rights business as an investment trust.
The Company has obtained issues or certain government bonds.
The maximum permitted approval as an investment trust from HM Revenue & Customs for investment in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012 and has is 15% of gross assets.
continued to conduct its affairs in compliance with the ongoing requirements of section 1158.
Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that investment considerations merit the Company taking a geared Investment Objective and Policy position to equities.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity Shareholders authority is being sought at the forthcoming Annual gearing, both in absolute terms and relative to the peer group, are General Meeting to amend the Companys investment policy to discussed by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
provide greater flexibility in the management of the portfolio.
This The portion of borrowings which is not invested in equities may proposal is explained in the Circular which is being sent to be invested in fixed interest securities.
Apart from in exceptional shareholders with this Annual Report.
The current investment circumstances the Company will not take out additional objective and policy is set out below.
borrowings if, at the time of borrowing, this takes the level of effective gearing beyond 130% with net asset value calculated Investment Objective with borrowings at par value.
Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an investment trust.
The investment objective is to maximise total return, whilst also The benchmark is a reference point for judging performance and generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio does managed global portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when concentrated and investments are chosen on their long term performance diverges significantly from the benchmark.
merits rather than with reference to geographical asset allocation Performance against the benchmark is assessed primarily over a or the composition of an index.
The Company aims to achieve a five year rolling term.
greater return than the FTSE All-World Index in sterling terms Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found over a five year rolling period.
in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 and the Managers Review on pages 9 to 14.
A detailed analysis of the Companys Investment Policy investment portfolio is set out on pages 18 to 20.
Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and does not attempt to track its benchmark index.
Its objective is to maximise total return, Discount Premium whilst also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and The Company has powers to buy back its own shares at a actively managed global portfolio.
Investments are chosen for discount to net asset value and to hold such shares in treasury as inclusion within the equity portfolio by looking closely at the merits well as to sell treasury shares at a premium to net asset value.
of individual companies in a structured and rational fashion.
The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of A global perspective is taken.
Asset allocation is the outcome of shareholders to manage discount volatility and believes that the stock selection and not arrived at by making specific allocations prime driver of discounts over the longer term is performance.
to regions, industries or sectors.
Achieving diversification is a The Board does not have a formal discount target at which requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained shares will be bought back as it believes that the announcement approach is adopted and there are no fixed limits set as to of specific targets is likely to hinder rather than help the successful geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Levels of diversity execution of a buyback policy.
achieved are monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
During the year the Company bought back a total of 5,805,000 The number of equity holdings will typically range between 50 and shares, all of which are held in treasury, increasing net asset value 100 and are chosen from around the world.
Between 1 April 2014 and the date of this A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is report no further shares have been bought back.
paid to short term market trends when deciding policy.
This Performance patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of shareholders long term advantage.
An average holding period for performance measures to assess the Companys success in investments of five years or more is targeted.
Investment may be made in fixed interest securities, convertible securities, funds, unquoted entities and other assets based on Key Performance Indicators the individual investment cases.
With prior approval of the Board, The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the the Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient progress and performance of the Company over time are portfolio management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, established industry measures and are as follows: transferring or eliminating investment risk in its investment, the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after including protection against currency risk and for investment deducting borrowings at fair value : purposes.
The primary investment focus is on equity investments the movement in the share price: predominantly with good liquidity.
the movement of net asset value and share price performance Exposures to any one entity are monitored regularly by the Board.
compared to the Benchmark: At the time of investment the maximum exposure to any one Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 07 Strategic Report the premium discount after deducting borrowings at fair Premium Discount Volatility the premium discount at which value : the Companys shares trade can change.
The Board monitors the level of premium discount and the Company has authority to sell ongoing charges ratio: shares in treasury and buy back its own shares.
revenue return: and Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment dividend per share.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay pages 5, 6 and 21. borrowings.
In addition to the above, the Board considers performance All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing against other companies within the AIC Global Sector.
levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every Borrowings meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and quoted securities that are readily realisable.
quoted on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are Political Risk the Board is aware that the Scottish Referendum given on pages 45 and 51 to 53.
In addition, multi-currency loan Vote introduces elements of political uncertainty which may have facilities are in place which are also shown on page 45. practical consequences: developments will be closely monitored During the year The Bank of New York Mellon loan, which had and considered by the Board and Managers.
However, the drawings of US$99 million was repaid and a new one year 100 Referendum is only one of a variety of political risks facing the million loan was drawn down in US$ with State Street Bank and Company which are considered by the Board on a regular basis.
Employees, Human Rights and Community Issues Since the year end the 100 million loan with State Street Bank The Board recognises the requirement to provide information and Trust Company has been renewed with a US$165 million about employees, human rights and community issues.
Company has no employees, all its Directors are non-executive and all its functions are outsourced, these requirements do not Principal Risks apply to the Company.
As explained on page 25 there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Gender Representation Company.
The principal risks associated with the Company are as Following the appointment of Dr Paola Subacchi on 1 April 2014 follows: the Board comprises six Directors, four male and two female.
The Market Risk the Companys assets consist mainly of listed Company has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is securities and its principal risks are therefore market related and set out on page 25. include market risk comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and Environmental Social and Governance Policy other price risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment those risks and how they are managed is contained in note 22 to can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on the financial statements on pages 48 to 53. page 27.
Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and The Strategic Report which includes pages 2 to 21 was approved regulatory requirements such as the tax rules for investment companies, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act could by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf on 14 May 2014. lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties, a qualified audit report or the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Baillie Giffords Internal Audit and John Scott Compliance Departments provide regular reports to the Audit Chairman Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances representation is made to ensure that the special circumstances of investment trusts are recognised.
Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a misappropriation of assets.
The Managers have a comprehensive business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
The Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the Managers on behalf of the Board.
