25 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information BRITISH GAS British Gas has a clear strategy focused on three priorities: deliver great service, transform to grow and engage our stakeholders.
What we do Risks Restoring public trust.
British Gas Residential We supply gas and electricity to residential customers in the UK.
We lead the industry in technology, Further political and regulatory innovation and smart connected homes.
Driving service excellence is a core priority and our intervention and reform.
innovative products and digital platforms enable us to offer customers convenience as well as Compliance with existing laws and helping them to reduce their consumption and save money.
Challenging competitive environments British Gas Services and market conditions.
We provide a comprehensive range of services from boiler installation and repair to plumbing and drain cover, all underpinned by a nationwide network of engineers, six engineering academies and The need to manage exposure to volatile a state-of-the-art nationwide parts distribution centre.
commodity prices and adverse weather.
Health and safety risks arising from British Gas Business our operations.
We supply gas and electricity as well as energy-related services to businesses throughout the UK.
The need to maintain service levels.
Maintaining our data security and integrity.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 40 The year in figures Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 Residential energy supply operating profit BGR 439m 571m Residential services operating profit BGS 270m 318m Business energy supply and services operating profit BGB 114m 141m Total British Gas operating profit 823m 1,030m BGR post-tax margin 4.1% 4.5% i BGR customer accounts year end, 000 14,778 15,146 BGS product holdings year end, 000 7,970 8,227 ii BGB supply points year end, 000 854 916 BGR average gas consumption per customer therms 408 492 BGR average electricity consumption per customer kWh 3,498 3,688 British Gas total gas consumption mmth 4,085 5,126 British Gas total electricity consumption TWh 39.1 42.4 i 2013 residential energy customer accounts have been restated to exclude 110,000 accounts subsequently reclassified as dormant.
ii 2 013 business energy supply points have been restated to include 4,000 supply points to align to industry reporting changes.
See our full performance measures at centrica.
com performance Corporate responsibility Improved customer service systems The net promoter contributed to higher customer satisfaction measured by our net promoter score score for our which increased to 23 from 15 in 2013.
Installed around 1.3million residential engineers smart meters in the UK.
Helped nearly 1.8million vulnerable increased to a households with bill assistance, debt advice and energy efficiency record high.
How We Do Business 21 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 26 | STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BRITISH GAS CONTINUED British Gas faced a challenging environment Innovation and smart in 2014, with the warmest year on record in A simplified connected homes the UK, difficult trading conditions, major product range In the UK, we continue to lead the industry in systems migrations and continued political, We have simplified our product range to four technology, innovation and smart connected residential tariffs and have made further regulatory and media focus.
Around two-thirds of our customer improvements in our transparency of bill backdrop, British Gas has a clear strategy interactions are made through digital costs.
We were the first energy supplier to focused on three priorities: deliver great channels, with around half of those now reduce retail tariffs in 2014, following service, transform to grow and engage initiated from a mobile or tablet device.
Customer downloads of our top-rated app have now surpassed 1.5million and we British Gas Residential were recently awarded Most Popular British Gas Residential operating profit fell, Website in the utility category in the reflecting lower average gas and electricity Website of the Year 2014 awards.
consumption predominantly due to the mild weather in the UK in 2014 compared to colder We have installed around 1.3million than normal temperatures in 2013.
The residential smart meters in the UK.
Over average actual customer bill of 1,152 in 2014 500,000 British Gas customers with smart was around 100 lower than in 2013 and the meters now regularly receive our unique average profit per customer of 42 was nearly smart energy report, my energy, which 10 lower than last year.
provides a comprehensive analysis of their energy consumption including a breakdown The number of residential accounts on supply by type of use, benchmarking against similar reduced by 368,000 in 2014 and ended the homes, personalised energy saving tips and year at 14.8million.
At the end of the year, access to an online tool.
The report is we reviewed our definition of energy accounts helping to improve levels of customer Listening to what on supply, which resulted in a downwards satisfaction and the overall perception customers want restatement of the number of opening of British Gas.
The British Gas Customer Board, made up of accounts by 110,000.
We experienced independent representatives and chaired by significant losses in the first quarter of the We have taken the lead in the roll-out of Ann Robinson, Head of Consumer Policy at year, following an increase in residential smart meters to prepayment customers uSwitch.
com, was set up three years ago as prices in November 2013.
However, the rate and the ongoing trial of our SMETS1 part of our commitment to listen to of losses was reduced over the balance capable prepayment meter will enable us customers.
The Board continues to challenge of the year, with British Gas being the first to commence the full roll-out by the end of and advise us on issues such as customer energy company to reduce prices following service, simplifying the bill and smart meter 2015.
Additionally, leveraging our experience proposed changes to the Energy Company roll-out.
from Direct Energy, we have also successfully Obligation ECO programme announced in trialled our smart meter enabled Free December 2013, improved service levels and Saturdays or Sundays energy tariffs, with a the launch of competitively priced offerings.
full launch planned in the second half of 2015.
The market remains highly competitive, with recent reductions in standard tariffs and most suppliers also offering a range of fixed price products.
Service levels in British Gas Residential improved with average call answering times The end of estimated bills Smart meters work by sending meter readings lower than 2013, helping drive a significant direct to the energy supplier and, for residential improvement in our contact net promoter customers, they come with an in-home monitor score NPS.
The British Gas brand NPS also to show how much energy is being used and recovered during the year, ending in positive how much it is costing in real time.
They put an territory for the first time since March 2012.
In end to estimated billing and are transforming the fourth quarter, we completed the migration the way customers think about and use energy.
of all our residential customers onto a new customer relationship management CRM platform and the new system is helping deliver a more integrated customer experience.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information We have now sold over 170,000 smart The number of business supply points British Gas Services thermostats with sales of our Hive Active fell by 62,000 in 2014 reflecting the highly British Gas Services operating profit reduced TM Heating product currently running at around competitive conditions in the business energy reflecting the decline in the number of 3,000 a week and have established retail market and our decision to lead the industry contract holdings, lower on-demand volumes partnerships with Apple, John Lewis and in ending the auto-rollover of contracts at due to warmer weather, higher pension Amazon.
Hive has been received extremely renewal.
Towards the end of the year, costs and the change in product mix positively with over 90% of customers cleansing of data following the implementation towards flexible, cheaper product offerings.
recommending the product and 96% saying of the new billing system resulted in the While retention levels for contract customers they feel more in control of their heating than removal of 49,000 supply points.
remained high, the sales environment has before.
In February 2015, we announced the As a result of some transitional issues been challenging.
As a result, the number acquisition of AlertMe, the provider of the following the implementation of a new billing of product holdings fell by 257,000 in the technical platform that underpins our existing system, which we are now resolving, we now year, to slightly under eightmillion.
However, connected homes activity, including Hive, expect to deliver 100million of targeted we returned to growth in the final quarter and will enable ownership and control over reductions in operating costs and bad debt of the year.
This follows the migration a scalable technology platform, software by the end of 2016, a year later than originally of all accounts onto the new billing and development capability, data analytics planned.
These savings will help to offset the CRM platform and the completion of and a patent portfolio.
We have a strong margin pressures from a competitive market.
comprehensive sales and conduct training development pipeline of further innovative for our front-line staff, as well as the products with a connected boiler and To drive growth in BGB, we are focusing development of an enhanced digital offering virtual in home display both currently on our proposition development on dual fuel, and innovative customer propositions.
commercial trial and with planned launch energy efficiency and joint energy and The market for central heating installations dates in the second half of 2015. services offers.
We continue to develop our showed signs of recovery in the year and business services capabilities and revenues Helping people today the number of boilers installed increased from these activities grew by 10% in the year.
Helping customers to reduce and control by 3% in the year compared to 2013.
In July 2014, we announced our participation their energy consumption is the most in the Generation Community scheme to British Gas Services delivered very high sustainable way to keep bills down.
We deliver up to 60million in solar photovoltaic levels of customer service in 2014, both have made good progress in delivering our solutions for Local Authority and Housing in our contact centres and in customers commitments under the ECO programme Association properties.
The ability to offer homes.
Customer complaints fell by 14% and we completed our March 2015 targets energy management services, products and compared to last year, while the NPS for in December 2014, subject to Ofgem technologies is a key differentiator and will our engineers increased to a record high confirmation.
To date, we have delivered help us retain existing customers and of 68 in December 2014.
New terms energy efficiency measures to over 350,000 acquire new ones.
and conditions, aimed at delivering greater households under the programme.
operational flexibility to meet customer We continue to lead the industry in helping needs, were agreed with our engineers and customers most in need and in 2014 we their union in 2014 and are now in place.
There British Gas Business are also fewer residential energy customers British Gas Business operating profit fell, in debt than a year ago and on average primarily due to lower average consumption these customers have lower levels of debt.
as a result of the mild weather, competitive We have one of the widest eligibility criteria pressures leading to lower margins and among all energy suppliers for the Warm accounts and a higher bad debt charge Home Discount, which benefited over due to the impact of the transition to a 500,000 customers during the year by up new billing system.
The bills of our customers most in need were on average 13% lower in 2014 than in 2013.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
