30 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2014 BUSINESS REVIEWS: NORTH AMERICA Net sales by markets Net sales by categories Net sales by price points NORTH % % % AMERICA US Spirits & Wines Canada Sp irits Wine Other Value Super premium D GUSA Other Beer RTDs Standard Ul tra premium Premium Key financials 2013 Acquisitions North America accounts for Reported and Organic 2014 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement about a third of our net sales million million million million million % Net sales 3,723 156 231 108 3,444 7 and around 45% of operating Marketing spend 581 27 24 10 540 7 profit and is the largest market Operating profit before exceptional items 1,478 54 71 107 1,460 1 for premium drinks in the Exceptional items 35 world.
Due to our continued Operating profit 1,478 1,425 4 leadership in innovation, Restated following the adoption of IFRS 11 and the amendment to IAS 19. strong route to consumer, into a single state-wide distributor or broker National brand strategy and strategic accounts marketing, as well as corporate positive consumer trends, in 41 states and the District of Columbia, representing more than 80% of the companys functions are managed at North American and increased marketing US Spirits and Wines volume.
In North America, we market a total investment in key brands, we to focus on building capabilities within our beverage alcohol portfolio.
Diageo North Americas strong innovation pipeline and distributor dedicated sales forces and creating continue to be well positioned.
a more efficient and effective value chain.
reserve business help fuel growth.
Diageo North Americas US Spirits and Our markets Supply operations Wines business operates through five divisions Our North America business comprises We have 11 bottling, distilling, blending in Open States where we sell to distributors US Spirits and Wines, Diageo-Guinness and maturation sites including operations who then sell to retailers, and through two USA DGUSA and Canada.
in Plainfield, Illinois: Amherstburg, Ontario: divisions in Control States where in most Valleyfield, Quebec: Relay, Maryland: Gimli, Route to market cases, we sell to the state, which in turn sells Manitoba: Tullahoma, Tennessee: and seven Route to market in the United States US to state or agency stores and on premise wineries, and wine bottling operations, retailers.
US Spirits and Wines sells the vast is through the three-tier system and we in California.
distribute our products through more than majority of the Californian and imported 100 spirits and wines distributors and brokers, wines we own and represent, with the Sustainability & Responsibility remaining small portion of sales coming and more than 400 beer distributors nationally.
As part of our commitment to tackling alcohol from winery visitor centres and online sales.
We have a unique route to market for our misuse, Diageo North America dedicates spirits and wine business in the US, with more DGUSA sells and markets brands including 20% of broadcast advertisement towards than 3,000 dedicated distributor sales personnel Guinness, Smirnoff Ice and Red Stripe.
Operations distribution generally follows the three-tier open focused only on Diageo and Mot Hennessy continue to progress against all environmental state regulations across the United States.
To date, Diageo has targets: Diageos Gimli, Manitoba plant, where consolidated its US Spirits and Wines business Canada distributes our collection of spirits, the Company distills Crown Royal, is 99% beer and wine brands across all Canadian carbon neutral.
Our employee-focused culture provinces, which generally operate through won the company the best place to work a provincial control system.
In 2014, we accolade from the Human Rights Campaign announced that we are moving to a broker again this year, and Diageo was listed as model effective 1 July 2014, appointing a one of Working Mother magazines top single broker for Canada with a dedicated 100 companies this year.
sales force handling our brands in the country.
