Business review First Student Market overview First Student is the largest provider of student transportation in North America over twice the size of the next largest competitor.
Seattle Detroit Chicago New York Washington Cincinnati San Francisco Los Angeles Miami Alaska First Student Market review and trends School buses provide home to school transportation for millions of students in the USA and Canada.
There are more than 15,000 school districts in North America, which deploy more than 500,000 school buses.
The total North American market is estimated to be worth around $24bn per annum, of which school districts directly operate approximately 64%, with 36% outsourced to private operators.
Charter As the market leader, we services are also operated on an ad hoc basis, separate from must drive high standards scheduled school runs, and are typically of limited duration and scope.
and innovation, while The economic downturn put significant pressure on customer budgets, leading to some organic retraction and price pressure, and atypical achieving pricing that levels of contract churn.
In the longer term, these pressures will drive balances value and cost demand for higher quality, higher efficiency providers.
In the last two years, the market has shown signs of stabilisation and some positive for customers.
Dennis Maple Customers President, First Student School districts provide transportation for students depending on varying criteria determined at state level.
Contracts typically specify either fixed or annually indexed pricing, meaning that private operators bear cost risk.
These contracts are typically three to five years in duration, after which they are competitively retendered.
School districts receive their funding from state and local sources, including tax receipts, and their budgets for all expenditure, including transportation, tend to be linked to economic factors.
In addition to school districts outsourcing student transportation known as conversion, growth is driven by increased student numbers leading to additional routes being driven for a given school and inflation related escalators built into some contracts.
FirstGroup 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review First Student Over 500 operating 1,350 contracts, locations across US typically 3-5 year and Canada duration Competitors Strategy and performance The private outsourced market is highly fragmented with only 11 operators running more than 1,000 buses.
The largest four 2014 2013 companies, including our business, account for almost half of the outsourced market.
The next 45 largest contractors operate a further 24,000 buses and the remaining outsourced contracts are operated by Revenue $2,339.3m $2,378.6m several thousand companies, often termed mom and pop operators.
Share shift, or winning contracts previously managed by other Operating profit $152.8m $175.2m outsourced providers, together with acquisitions, provide additional avenues of growth.
Operating margin 6.5% 7.4% Market attractions Number of employees 57,500 59,500 Contracted revenue with public sector customers, typically low credit risk Typically high levels of contract retention Financial performance Security and safety track record at least as important as price Revenue in our First Student division was $2,339.3m or 1,467.4m Established relationships with local communities a barrier to entry 2013: $2,378.6m or 1,503.1m, 1.7% lower on a US Dollar basis, principally due to an unprecedented number of school closures due to Fragmented competitive environment long term consolidation the abnormal weather conditions across North America in the second opportunity.
half of our financial year.
Operating profit was $152.8m or 93.5m 2013: $175.2m or 110.1m, resulting in a margin of 6.5% 2013: 7.4%, which also reflects school closures and the higher associated operating costs during the unusually severe weather.
75% of our territory suffered Approximate share of outsourced market around 36% of total market some impact from the extraordinary snow falls and extremely cold conditions, with more than 4,000 school days lost, approximately twice the impact we would expect to see in a typical year.
A number of the lost operating days may potentially be recovered in the summer term, which occurs in our 2014 15 financial year.
On an underlying basis, excluding the approximately $25m of net weather impact for the year, First Students margin would have been flat compared with the prior year, reflecting the achievement of the $100m run rate in annual cost savings asplanned, offset by cost inflation running slightly ahead of price indexation in our multi-year contracts.
First Student 27% National Express 11% Student Transportation of America 6% Illinois Central 2% Our strengths Other 54% Clear market leader bigger than next four competitors combined scale economies in buying, insurance, fleet management, technology development, etc.
Differentiated offering technology, safety programme, strong customer relationships and satisfaction scores Recovery plan is progressing cost efficiency, uniform practices and disciplined contract portfolio management will drive margins and value creation Business being repositioned to sustainably deliver profitable growth and returns from market leading position in the long term FirstGroup 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review First Student continued Focused and disciplined bidding approximately $50m, have been identified, and focus on optimising State and local finances have continued to improve modestly in the the overhead structures of the business, together with ensuring full year: over the 2013 bid season we achieved organic growth from within compliance of ever more consistent operating procedures throughout existing contracts of more than 470 buses, almost double the rate of our more than 500 locations.
Two-thirds of our engineering workshops organic growth in the prior year and equating to approximately 1% have now achieved silver or gold lean certification, up from a quarter in growth.
We continue to be competitive in the conversion market from the prior year.
Although non-school charter results were impacted by in-house to the private sector, winning 55% of the contracts bid-forthe weather, growing 9.5% in the period, we are pleased with the and-awarded.
We remain cautious about conversion growth however, progress of our more structured approach to this business, which as only a small proportion of contracts put out to tender convert to the delivers a very strong incremental return on capital employed.
outsourced sector, a trend we do not envisage changing in the medium Prudent investment in our key assets term.
A number of our share shift contract wins were cost-effective We continue to invest in technology to differentiate our offering, raise expansions of existing operations, such as for the Los Angeles Unified customer service levels and promote environmental benefits.
The roll School District and for Kansas City, Missouri.
Our continuing focus on out of our FOCUS GPS system which links onboard data to back office returns resulted in some contract losses including several where, systems has been completed and is delivering savings to plan, and the although the numbers of buses operated were significant, their DriveSMART system which provides real-time fuel use feedback to contribution to profits was limited.
Overall contract retention for the drivers is being fitted throughout the fleet.
In the second half we 2013 bidding season was around 90%, and the number of buses launched the MyFirstPass system also known as ZPass in selected operated fell by around 550. locations, which gives parents and customers real-time information Continuous improvement in operating and about student ridership as they swipe on and off the bus.
We invested financialperformance approximately $300m in new buses, refurbishments, onboard We have continued to focus on delivering cost efficiencies during the technology and facilities improvements in the year: our average fleet year, an area which remains an important component of First Students age remains around 7.5 years.
Having delivered a $100m run rate in cost savings in the Responsible partnerships with our customers year through implementing uniform best practice in driver operating and communities procedures, maintenance, fuel use and procurement the business First Student achieved a fifth consecutive year of improved customer is enhancing its ability to generate returns, despite continued cost service scores, with particularly pleasing results in the important inflation in the industry.
The next phase of cost savings, amounting to start-up phase of the school year.
We are achieving fuel efficiency improvements of around 5% across the division through the DriveSMART system and related driver behaviour initiative, and added approximately 500 alternative fuel buses Working together to keep children safe mainly propane to the fleet in the year.
First Students safety First Student performance is both a source of competitive advantage and, more fundamentally, is deeply embedded in our culture and values.
For the last two years, First Student has won the Occupational Excellence Achievement Award from the National Safety Council.
Future priorities First Student is a leader in its market in terms of both its size and the quality and safety of the services it provides.
Although the recovery plan continues to make progress, more work remains to be done to ensure the division delivers its medium term double digit margin target.
At present, the division deploys significant capital across parts of its contract portfolio that do not attract a fair margin for the quality of service provided or an appropriate rate of return on that capital.
For the start of the new school year, from school safely.
The online First Student partnered with the programme covered a wide range National Safety Council NSC to of topics including playground share important safety information, safety, safety in and around buses, allowing parents, students and pedestrian safety and tips for motorists to understand the role motorists.
they play in getting students to and FirstGroup 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review First Student continued Fleet of approximately Six million students 49,000 yellow school transported per day buses Therefore the division is working through a programme to address contract portfolio pricing, focus capital on higher returning opportunities Helping parents stay connected and continues to drive further cost efficiencies through the business.
First Student We remain confident in the ability of our detailed recovery plan to improve margins to double digits over the medium term.
In the longer term, First Student will be increasingly well placed for growth through further share shift, in-fill acquisitions and organic opportunities.
Outlook During the 2014 bid season, First Student is intensifying its focus on retaining or winning contracts that deliver an appropriate level of return on capital employed, which may result in some further losses of lower margin contracts.
To the extent this is the case, the division will cascade the freed up vehicles to other opportunities, with a commensurate saving in capital expenditure.
Although this approach may result in a modestly smaller revenue base and some short term costs, over the medium term this approach coupled with the further cost savings will result in a more sustainably attractive contract portfolio, which will deliver double digit margins and better returns on capital.
First Student rolled out the ZPass have arrived safely at school, alert programme to all 43 elementary school officials and parents in case First Student fleet footprint schools in Cincinnatis public school of emergency and also track disctrict.
The RFID-based system ridership data.
can notify parents that their children DriveSMART saves 3.2m gallons of fuel First Student New York New Jersey Pennsylvania 21% New England 13% Ontario 11% Illinois 8% California 7% Other 40% The DriveSMART initiative programme saved 3.2m gallons of encourages our drivers to adopt fuel, with several states reducing safer and more fuel efficient driving fuel consumption by more techniques.
FirstGroup 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review First Transit Market overview First Transit is one of the largest private sector providers of public transit management and contracting in North America.
Seattle Detroit Chicago New York Washington Cincinnati San Francisco Los Angeles Miami Puerto Rico and First Transit US Virgin Islands Market review and trends The transit market is worth around $24bn per annum in North America, of which approximately 30% is outsourced.
The market includes the provision of fixed route bus services an approximately $15bn segment per annum, of which around 10% is outsourced, paratransit bus services approximately $4bn segment, of which three-quarters is outsourced, private shuttle services approximately $2bn segment, Our broad book of business of which around 90% is outsourced and transit system management is served by an unmatched contracting an approximate $3bn per annum segment, of which around one-third is outsourced.
Private transportation companies management team that manage, operate, maintain and organise transportation services under possesses extensive contracts which typically last for three to five years or longer.
Although the North American economic environment has been challenging overall, state and local governments have chosen not We are very proud of our to reduce transportation spending and have increased interest in outsourcing certain services, where private contractors can reduce superior reputation in overall cost.
Ageing populations, increasing congestion and private the industry.
companies seeking to offer additional services to their own customers continue to support growth in each segment.
The market continues Brad Thomas to attract new entrants, though reputation and track record remain President, First Transit and First Vehicle Services important differentiators in the bidding process.
Customers A wide range of customers contract out transportation services, including transit authorities, federal, state and local agencies, as well as private institutions including universities, hospitals and airports.
The vehicle fleet maintenance services market includes contracting for private and public sector clients, including municipalities, and fire and police departments.
FirstGroup 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review First Transit $5m 340 operating 370 contracts, with locations across average value of US and Canada less than $5m Competitors Strategy and performance First Transit has over 15% of the outsourced market in the United States, which accounts for approximately 30% of the total market.
2014 2013 The outsourced transit market is fragmented although First Transit has two large competitors, MV Transportation, Inc. and Veolia Transportation.
The outsourced fleet maintenance market is highly Revenue $1,290.5m $1,286.8m competitive and our First Vehicle Services segment is estimated to be one of the largest providers in the market, with Penske and Ryder Operating profit $95.7m $77.7m being the principal competitors.
A number of small and medium sized companies represent a significant proportion of the outsourced market.
Operating margin 7.4% 6.0% Market attractions Number of employees 19,000 17,500 Contracted revenue mainly with public sector customers, low creditrisk Typically high levels of contract retention Financial performance Low levels of capital investment required apart from the shuttle Revenue in our First Transit division was $1,290.5m or 811.9m 2013: segment $1,286.8m or 814.6m.
Adjusting for the disposal of First Support Ageing population and congestion continue to provide supportive Services FSS, US Dollar revenue increased by 8.0%, reflecting drivers for continued growth through further outsourcing.
continued new business wins and organic growth within existing contracts.
All key segments saw growth in the year, led by fixed route, paratransit and shuttle.
Operating profit was $95.7m or 60.3m 2013: $77.7m or 49.1m, resulting in a margin of 7.4% 2013: 6.0%, which Approximate share of circa $24bn reflects a strong operating performance and the absence of the US transit market significant historic legal claim settlement in the prior year.
Focused and disciplined bidding During the year, First Transit continued to leverage its longstanding management reputation and expertise to win new work.
At the same time, through its collaborative approach with its public transit authority and private customers, the division also generated growth from increased utilisation of its services under existing contracts.
Contract retention remained above 90%, reflecting high customer regard for our capabilities and the competitive pricing of our services.
In-house 70% First Transit 5% Other outsourced providers 25% Our strengths Established credentials and track record First Transit has been a market leader for over 50 years Diverse segments and large volume of relatively small contracts exceptional bidding and management expertise well embedded Industry leading programmes including safety and engineering training Technology investment is delivering efficiency gains and service enhancements for our customers Our scale and breadth of management expertise will support future growth FirstGroup 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review First Transit continued The largest award in the year was a paratransit contract for PACE, Prudent investment in our key assets part of the regional transport authority of Chicago, Illinois.
We were First Transit focuses investment spending on three principal areas: also successful in expanding our call centre work with an important win people, technology solutions and on vehicles for the shuttle segment, for the Chicago Regional Transit Authoritys Travel Information Center.
where typically we own the fleet as well as delivering a service.
Our shuttle business continues to be successful, with further contract To ensure we maintain the depth and breadth of expertise required wins at Auburn University and the University of Alabama at Birmingham to consistently deliver high-quality bid submissions and a subsequent joining other recent contracts including for the University of Tennessee service that meets customer expectations, we maintained our Knoxville and Brown University in our market leading university significant investment in recruitment, retention and continuous training portfolio.
First Transit transitioned several large contracts from other of our people.
operators including the newly unified fixed route contract for Valley The division successfully initiated the roll out throughout the US of its Metro RPTA in Mesa Tempe, Arizona, the MetroACCESS paratransit management IT system providing automated operational, maintenance contract in Washington, DC, and the Maryland Transit Administration and financial information in the year, which will deliver significant cost paratransit contract in Baltimore, MD.
Important contract retentions this savings.
This system will also allow us to offer real-time vehicle location year included fixed route services for the Potomac and Rappahannock information to our customers.
In shuttle, we continue to invest in Transportation Commission in Woodbridge, VA, fixed route and state-of-the-art buses through a combination of direct investment paratransit services for Johnson County, Kansas, and shuttle services and operating leases, where commercially appropriate.
at the Baltimore Washington International Airport.
Collaborating with our Fort McMurray oil industry partners resulted in further revenue Responsible partnerships with our customers growth under existing contracts.
and communities Our customer service trends continue to be positive, with our Continuous improvement in operating and commitment to safety, technical and operational knowledge and financialperformance professionalism particularly recognised by our customers.
A significant proportion of First Transits opportunities will continue to arise from business outsourced to the private sector for the first time, We have enhanced our industry leading safety programme through the where our national service platform, technology infrastructure and continued roll out of DriveCam technology, an event capture and driver management expertise can deliver substantial cost savings compared behaviour monitoring system, which has the added benefit of improving to public provision.
Through a culture of continuous improvement and fuel efficiency.
technology insertion, First Transit has continued to maintain our ability to provide both exceptional service and low cost for new and existing customers.
For example, First Transit has continued to improve operational efficiencies, including through the refinement of our fixed route mileage optimisation programme which results in reduced non-revenue time and mileage, paratransit productivity which improves vehicle routing and scheduling efficiency, and direct and indirect cost reductions through the negotiation of more competitive purchasing agreements.
Leader in shuttle bus services First Transit The US shuttle bus market and employees.
We are a leader in estimated $2bn in annual revenue, this market with more than 50 serves the increasing need for multi-year contracts, under which organisations principally we typically provide both the bus universities, airports including car fleets and operate the service for our rental consortia serving airports clients.
Our portfolio of shuttle bus and private companies in other contracts includes universities, industries to offer attractive airports and supporting clients services to their students, travellers active in the Alberta oil sands.
FirstGroup 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review First Transit continued 330 million passengers Operate and manage more a year than 12,500 vehicles, and maintain a further 35,500 Future priorities The continued success of First Transit depends on maintaining our Engineering excellence competitive advantage, which resides in the expertise of our people First Transit and the quality of our technology.
Both are vital components in delivering services that continue to innovate and to deliver cost efficiencies, which in turn ensures we will be the low cost supplier of choice for our customers.
We see continued growth potential in all of our existing segments, together with emerging outsourcing opportunities in light rail, commuter rail, high speed rail and Bus Rapid Transit BRT in the US and internationally.
In the future, we anticipate there could also be opportunities for targeted acquisitions of complementary businesses, which would immediately increase market share, leverage our scale and enhance profits and returns.
We look forward to leveraging our market position and reputation to deliver continued growth at attractive margins.
Outlook The pipeline of potential new business remains attractive, with a wide range of bid opportunities to add to our portfolio of over 370 contracts.
As we look ahead to next year, current identified opportunities are weighted to fixed route, paratransit and shuttle segments.
First Transit revenues by segment First Transit places a high priority on or ASE, to certify engineering training our people.
As an example, technician qualification.
We the US transit industry uses an estimate we have more ASEindependent certification group certified technicians than all Fixed route 38% called the National Institute for of our competitors combined.
Paratransit 29% Automotive Service Excellence, Shuttle 23% Vehicle Services 10% FirstGroup 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review Greyhound Market overview Greyhound is the only national operator of scheduled intercity coach services in the US and Canada, serving 48 US States and 10 Canadian Provinces and Territories.
Greyhound network in the US Greyhound Express Greyhound network in Canada Afliated carriers in Mexico Market review and trends The US intercity coach transportation industry has been growing every year since 2006 a reversal of the position in the preceding 25 years, when the industry declined by an average of 2.9% a year.
The size of the potential market presents a significant opportunity for growth, with 42m people considering coach travel every year, of whom around a quarter currently use Greyhound.
Even regular coach users choose We are uniquely positioned other modes 75% of the time, but new offerings and better products, to take advantage of the services and price have the potential to grow this market and frequency of use.
resurgence in the intercity As well as passenger revenues, income is generated from package coach market through express services, charter and tour organisation and also catering the rebuilding of an iconic outlets in terminals.
Partnerships between Greyhound and independent bus lines, known as interlining, extends the reach of the national American brand.
Greyhound also partners with Amtrak to offer passengers a through ticket to their final destination if not served by rail.
Dave Leach President and CEO, Greyhound Value-focused customers, who form a substantial portion of Greyhounds traditional customer base, remain cautious as they continue to feel the effects of the prolonged economic downturn, although conditions improved modestly in the second half of the year.
Customers North American intercity coach firms serve a wide customer base, who prioritise value and whose primary purpose is to visit friends and family.
Direct, point-to-point services, such as Greyhound Express which now serves 120 markets across North America, are spurring a coach renaissance and encouraging a new, younger, passenger demographic.
Traditionally customers bought walk-up tickets but recent developments in technology are encouraging new habits.
FirstGroup 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review Greyhound 3,800 destinations Around 18m across the USA passengers travel andCanada 5.5bn miles a year Competitors Strategy and performance Intercity coach transportation competes with many other modes of mid to long distance travel across North America, including budget airlines 2014 2013 and the private car.
There is a highly competitive intercity coach market in dense travel corridors, for example, the north east and north west of the USA, where coach transportation also competes with air and Revenue $990.6m $1,022.0m rail services.
Operating profit $73.2m $85.2m Market attractions Private car ownership is declining, driven by continued urbanisation, Operating margin 7.4% 8.3% congestion and costs of motoring Ample opportunities to expand penetration and footprint with Number of employees 7,500 7,500 multiple brands and services Under-utilised services may be part funded by transport authorities Target demographic segments respond to value for money offering Financial performance and new innovation through technology Greyhounds overall US Dollar revenue was $990.6m or 624.6m 2013: $1,022.0m or 647.1m with the reduction of 3.1% including Passenger, package, charter and food service revenues offer the impact of severe weather which caused significant disruption diversification.
to the network in the fourth quarter.
Excluding weather, like-for-like revenue over the financial year was approximately 0.7% lower, although the revenue growth trajectory improved over the course of the year.
Distribution of Approximate Greyhound Adjusted operating profit was $73.2m or 46.4m 2013: $85.2m Greyhound passengers passenger revenue split or 54.3m, resulting in a margin of 7.4% 2013: 8.3%.
This margin by mileage band between USA and Canada performance in part reflects the modestly improving economic conditions over the course of the year and the continued profitable growth of our point-to-point services, offset by the impact of weatherrelated disruption and higher associated operating costs in the final quarter.
Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions Greyhounds iconic brand is synonymous with long distance coach travel in North America and our unique national network provides a significant competitive advantage and an established base for future growth, by providing passenger feed from the 42,000 city pairs that 1-200 miles 48% USA 79% we offer as operating leverage to our point-to-point services.
201-450 miles 34% Canada 21% 451-1,000 miles 13% 1,000 miles 5% Our strengths Iconic brand synonymous with long distance coach travel Only national network of scheduled intercity coach services passenger feed from 42,000 city pairs provides operating leverage to newer point-to-point services A business that is re-engaging with customers operating a refreshed fleet with improved onboard amenities and additional sales and distribution channels Range of brands and price points to target new markets FirstGroup 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review Greyhound continued Whilst traditional Greyhound remains a largely cyclical business, Prudent investment in our key assets our programme of expansion in Greyhound Express and our other Our disciplined fleet investment has led to improved onboard amenities point-to-point brands continued even during recent periods of for our customers and prolonged the life of our coaches, enabling us to economic fragility in North America.
Greyhound Express continues to reduce maintenance costs and become more coordinated in the perform well, with like-for-like revenue increasing by more than 10% for scheduling of preventive maintenance programmes.
Our move towards the year.
The multiple price points we now offer give us broader market a revitalised fleet continues with three-quarters of our vehicles now potential and help us to attract users back to coach travel as well as either new or refurbished and an average fleet age of ten years.
We encouraging new customer demographics.
Greyhound Express now continue to introduce new vehicles from our April 2013 order of 220 covers more than 30% of our US network including most of the major coaches, and during 2014 15 we will complete our refurbishment city pairs.
During the year we launched Greyhound Express in programme.
additional markets including routes around Vancouver, Edmonton to Our investment in information technology will allow us to offer many Grand Prairie, Dallas to Memphis, and from Jacksonville to Miami and new ways to better leverage and monetise the existing network New Orleans.
Our BoltBus services also expanded in California, adding capacity through yield and capacity optimisation, including the Los Angeles to San Francisco, San Joseto Oakland and Los Angeles development of new dynamic pricing and yield management systems to Las Vegas, and our YO!
Bus brand, which links Chinatowns in the across our core network.
We are developing the architecture needed north east, saw positive year on year performance.
to introduce a loyalty programme and increasing our marketing, helping We are taking the experience from our point-to-point services and us to engage further with our customers.
introducing best practice across our traditional network.
Greyhound is Responsible partnerships with our customers re-engaging with our customers through increased marketing and has and communities improved the onboard amenities of our fleet with multiple new and With an increased emphasis on customer service training across the refurbished vehicles that provide leather seats, Wi-Fi and power division, our customer satisfaction scores have maintained their long sockets.
We are further developing our dynamic pricing proposition term improving trend.
and opening up innovative ways to interact with both new and existing customers through additional sales channels, such as our mobileOur new fleet now operates using some of the most fuel efficient enabled website which came online in 2013 14 with print at home engines in the industry, and we continue to promote initiatives including ticketing functionality, and the ability to book online and pay cash for a focus on reduced idling and, through DriveCam, a more effective fuel tickets in more than 10,000 7-Eleven and ACE Cash Express kiosks.
DriveCams event capturing and driver behaviour In the last two years, the proportion of tickets purchased online has monitoring also provides us with safety data.
New terminals that we increased from one-third to half.
have opened recently or will open in the short term have the most up to date environmental credentials and are LEED certified by the US Continuous improvement in operating and Green Buildings Council.
financialperformance Over the last five years we have significantly improved our operating Future priorities flexibility, in part through depot and location rationalisation.
Our ongoing Since FirstGroup acquired Greyhound in 2007 we have transformed efforts to right size our terminal footprint continues, and over the next the operating model, making the business more flexible and introducing few months we expect to open new terminals in Miami, Seattle a reduced cost base and improved capital profile, which means that and Baltimore.
we are now poised for growth both within our existing network and with new demographics through Greyhound Express and our other We are restructuring our Canadian business, have launched our point-to-point brands.
We are on track with our investment programme, Greyhound Express product in four Provinces, and are improving which will transform our offering principally through applying the yield our package delivery offering, which over time will deliver a more management, real-time pricing and more consumer friendly ticketing commercially viable service.
Greyhound celebrates its 100th and a centennial tour featuring our Celebrating anniversary in 2014.
The globally restored classic fleet.
Scheduled 100 years recognised iconic brand was founded promotional activities include a limited in Hibbing, Minnesota and has number of 15 cent fares mirroring the of service proudly served America for a century, ticket price in 1914, a special livery on Greyhound withstanding the test of time through our coaches all supported by a tailored a deserved reputation for great marketing campaign.
As we showcase service and value for money.
We are Greyhound as the flexible and agile celebrating Greyhounds centenary business it is today, we are celebrating with a series of events throughout the our past whilst looking forward to an year including exhibitions, in-terminal exciting future.
commemorations, employee awards FirstGroup 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review Greyhound continued Fleet of approximately Greyhound Express 1,700 coaches serves 930 city pairs in 120 markets features of Greyhound Express and BoltBus to the traditional network.
This focused investment, together with the continued growth of our Investment in new fleet successful point-to-point products, gives us confidence in achieving Greyhound our medium term margin target of 12%.
Outlook Our main priority for the year ahead includes the further roll out of Greyhound Express routes and progress on our IT transformation.
During the first half of the 2014 15 year we expect to begin piloting yield managed pricing on our traditional network.
We will also complete our programme of fleet revitalisation: by the end of the financial year, all of our vehicles will be new or refurbished, further increasing the attractiveness of our customer offer.
In 2014, Greyhound celebrates its centenary, and we plan to increase marketing to ensure that as the economy improves, more and more of our addressable market uses the services provided by our transformed iconic Americanbrand.
This year we signed Greyhounds Greyhound is working hard to make largest coach order in more than the customer experience consistent Greyhound 2013 14 revenue by type 20 years with the introduction of across the business.
The new fleet 220 new coaches to our fleet.
is one of the most environmentally Along with the refurbishment friendly in the industry.
of nearly 600 existing coaches, Passenger revenue 80% Package Express 8% Food service 2% Charter 1% Other 9% To enhance the travel currently being tested BLUE Wi-Fi experience for customers, on the Dallas-Houston entertainment Greyhound is piloting Greyhound Express BLUE, an onboard route and on BoltBus system entertainment system in the Pacific Northwest, Greyhound which works with ahead of a wider roll out passengers own personal later this year.
Greyhound has become the first intercity coach carrier to offer this experience, which is FirstGroup 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review UK Bus Market overview UK Bus is one of the largest bus operators in the UK, with around a fifth of the Aberdeen deregulated market.
Stirling Glasgow Falkirk Edinburgh Galashiels Belfast York Bradford Leeds Dublin Manchester Shefeld Stoke-on-Trent Birmingham Norwich Leicester Worcester Hereford Cork Ipswich Colchester Luton Chelmsford Bracknell Cardiff Bristol Basildon Weston-super-Mare Bath Slough Taunton Southampton Portsmouth Weymouth Plymouth Penzance Market review and trends Local bus services in the UK outside London have been deregulated since the 1980s, with most services being provided by private operators, although a small number of local authority owned operators still exist.
Bus markets are local and services operate on a flexible model with operators setting fares, frequencies and routes on a commercial basis and operating socially necessary services under We are creating a robust contract to local authorities.
Around 2.8bn passenger journeys are business model that will deliver made on local bus services outside of London, generating revenues of approximately 4.4bn a year.
revenue growth, underpinned Economic weakness continues in some of the UKs larger urban areas, by sustained volume growth to which the provision of bus services remain crucial for recovery.
and a rigorous focus on The impact of reductions in Government funding for local authorities continues to cause pressure on local transport budgets.
with local authorities remains a core principle for both the busindustry and central Government in order to deliver service improvements Giles Fearnley without increasing council tax payer spending.
The DfT promotes this Managing Director, UK Bus agenda through initiativesincluding Better Bus Area grants and the Green Bus Fund.
Tailored local brands and services, including premium high-quality routes serving distinct markets, remain important, as does the focus on development of new technology including smart ticketing and improved passenger information.
Customers Revenues in the bus market principally comprise passenger ticket sales and concessionary fare schemes payments by local government authorities for services for which passengers pay reduced or no fees.
Significant proportions of passengers use bus services for commuting to work, school, college or university for shopping and for leisure purposes.
Income may also be generated through tendered services.
FirstGroup 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review UK Bus 1.6m We serve 40 of the largest passengers towns and cities including per day seven of the 12 most densely populated cities in the UK Competitors Strategy and performance The UK bus market outside London is deregulated and highly competitive with more than 1,200 bus operators: we face competition 2014 2013 in all markets in which we operate.
A number of multi-regional operators have increased market share through acquisitions during the year and a number of operators have both entered and left the market.
The main Revenue 930.2m 1,128.2m competitor to bus services in the UK, however, remains the private car.
Operating profit 44.4m 50.8m Market attractions 4.4bn total market offers significant potential for growth strategies Operating margin 4.8% 4.5% tailored to specific segments Bus travel diversified by journey type Number of employees 18,500 22,000 Youth market provides a great growth opportunity, with car ownership falling in this demographic Significant spare capacity to accommodate growth Financial performance Revenue in our UK Bus division was 930.2m 2013: 1,128.2m and Using new technology to attract custom.
like-for-like passenger revenue growth adjusting for the sale of our London business was 1.8%.
Adjusted operating profit was 44.4m 2013: 50.8m, resulting in a margin of 4.8% 2013: 4.5%.
This encouraging performance is despite the continued challenges posed Approximate share of the UK Our UK Bus operations by economic conditions in some of our local markets as well as further bus market outside London by geography reductions in public funding.
During the year we completed the first stages of our transformation plan, including the previously announced disposals of certain bus businesses in order to rebalance the portfolio.
As a result of this we exited the London market in order to focus on our commercial deregulated businesses elsewhere.
Our transformation plans to return the division to double-digit margin performance in the medium term arefocused on: stimulating passenger volume through improving our customer proposition fares, networks, local partnerships : delivering improved service quality and cost savings through rigorous focus on FirstGroup 20% England 70% disciplined operations and investment in our employees capabilities: Others 80% Scotland 23% and investing in our fleet, ticketing and other customer-facing Wales 5% Ireland 2% technologies to stimulate growth and loyalty.
Our strengths Strong position in the deregulated market outside London 20% overall market share Compelling positions in key markets operations in seven of the 12 most densely populated cities Senior management structure reorganised and new talent recruited to focus greater commercial and operational expertise at the local level Customer response including passenger volume growth and satisfaction scores demonstrates positive reaction to commercial proposition changes FirstGroup 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review UK Bus continued Driving growth through attractive commercial propositions through this deliver greater passenger growth to the networks.
Of the A typical approach in a market is to rebase certain fares products five areas across the country that have now secured this funding, we to ensure competitiveness and value for money, which encourages have been at the forefront of three, reflecting how important we volume growth and maintains revenue levels in the early stages.
consider fostering powerful partnerships is to the future success of This acts as a platform from which to build further volume and pricing local bus services.
Following our success in the first half of the We are working hard with local authorities to ensure they make best year principally in markets in the north region, the full year passenger use of their limited funds, particularly for tendered services.
In Cornwall, volume growth across the division of 2.6% is the first full year of we have worked with the council to ensure that the network maximises commercial passenger volume growth for a decade.
Tailored fares the coordination between commercial and tendered services.
In West reductions in Manchester have persuaded an extra 150,000 people per Yorkshire we, along with other local operators, have developed a week to travel on our services and contributed to an improvement of compelling proposition to enable buses to support the growth of the more than 30% in customer perceptions of our value for money.
In the local economy, which will now be considered by the newly formed second half of the year we expanded our fares reviews to other markets combined authority.
In Portsmouth we have worked closely with the including Leeds, Portsmouth, Southampton and Bristol, where we city council to introduce bus priority measures including bus lanes and worked with the elected Mayor of Bristol to undertake a wide ranging a park and ride system.
consultation that we used to inform our new fares structure introduced in November.
Continuous improvement in operating and financialperformance In many areas we coupled changes to the fares structure with We have continued to focus on cost optimisation and disciplined improved network designs, allowing us to maximise growth operations during the year.
Adoption of best practice operating opportunities and increase market share.
We have completed ten procedures and standards have led to cost efficiencies including a major redesigns so far, including our SimpliCITY network in Glasgow 27% reduction in breakdowns and lost mileage reducing by 21%.
which has restored frequencies of ten minutes or better to core This focus on disciplined operations has also delivered an increase services and coordinated these routes to create simpler links to the city in punctuality and reliability standards.
Against the backdrop of an economy that struggled in 2013 14, SimpliCITY outperformed the rest of the network, delivering a growth With the optimisation of our depot operations making good progress, we rate 1.0% higher.
have intensified our focus on leadership development.
Our programmes aim to give our management teams the support to develop local Effective partnerships, which foster better and stronger coordination initiatives, seek development opportunities and stimulate commercial with local authorities and other stakeholders, are hugely important for initiatives.
During the year, the division restructured its senior leadership us in terms of our customer proposition.
We are a key partner in two team to refresh talent and ensure that the necessary commercial and new Better Bus Areas announced in 2013, York and the West of operational expertise is in place to support our local operations.
England Partnership, receiving enhanced funding from the DfT.
Working closely with our partners, we seek to align agendas and Better Bus Area partnerships UK Bus In October 2013 the Government passengers are using the bus.
We revealed further investment in local are seeing very encouraging levels of bus services through the designation passenger growth, whilst reliability of four new Better Bus Areas BBAs, and customer satisfaction scores including two where we are a key have increased in the area.
We are partner: York and the West of developing our plans for the delivery England Partnership region of improved services for bus users in comprising Bath, Bristol and York and the West of England.
This follows the are determined to foster powerful announcement in February 2013 relationships with our partners of the first BBA in Sheffield, where everywhere we operate which can First is also a lead operator.
help us unlock the full potential of the bus.
Bus passengers in Sheffield are benefiting from improved and better value services.
Working closely with our partners in the region, we are helping to make bus travel more attractive and, as a result, more FirstGroup 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review UK Bus continued Fleet of approximately 600m passengers 6,400 buses a year Prudent investment in our key assets Future priorities In January we announced our biggest ever investment in vehicles In the 2013 14 year we saw each component of our transformation outside London.
We plan to introduce 425 vehicles during the 2014 15 plans coming together to enable the full potential in each market to financial year at a cost of 70m, taking our total investment in new begin to be realised.
Each of our core initiatives is being rolled out vehicles to 310m invested in 2,000 new vehicles over four years.
across our bus businesses in a tailored local way.
Our customers are Almost all of these buses will be manufactured in the UK, with 274 beginning to recognise and welcome the improvements we are making Wrightbus StreetLite Micro Hybrid buses forming the bulk of the latest to services across our operations, and we are seeing positive signs of order.
These diesel-based vehicles incorporate an innovative onboard passenger satisfaction scores improving and passenger volumes hybrid system which improves fuel efficiency by around 10%, and we increasing.
In combination, our strategies are building a more resilient will be the first company to operate these new buses.
Capital business and we continue to move towards achieving double digit investment into our fleet will continue in the coming years, further margins over the life of the plan.
reducing our average fleet age currently nine years and improving Outlook customer experience.
In 2014 15 we will continue to work through our network and fares In both Aberdeen and Worcester we launched mobile ticketing during optimisation programmes, and will be embedding the benefits of the year and through 2014 all of our networks will be equipped with this changes already made as some of the early schemes reach their first technology.
We are also introducing smartcard schemes, with anniversary during the first half of the financial year.
During 2014 15 the multi-operator capability where appropriate, allowing us to offer a more introduction of smart and mobile ticketing, together with enhancements sophisticated pricing model and giving us more information about who to customer information channels, are designed to spur further volume our customers are and how they use our services.
This will give us a growth.
Although the local economies in some of our markets continue strong platform from which to launch customised loyalty initiatives to be challenging, and local authority concessionary fare budgets based on a detailed understanding our customers needs.
remain under pressure, we have confidence that we will harness our compelling market positions to deliver sustained volume and revenue Responsible partnerships with our customers growth underpinned by tight cost disciplines over the coming years.
and communities Our efforts to improve the quality of our fleet and the reliability of our services were recognised in the recent independent Passenger Focus Autumn 2013 survey of customer satisfaction.
The results showed a UK Bus 2013 14 revenue by type 5% rise in overall passenger satisfaction across our services to 86%, including an increase in score in 34 of the 35 variables measured.
We were particularly pleased that our Glasgow network achieved an overall satisfaction score of 91% following the launch of the SimpliCITY network this year.
Our close partnership working also extends to ensuring our services are accessible for all.
For example, in Glasgow we are offering job seekers significant discounts on single fares, our child fare of 60p in the same city is one of the cheapest in the UK, while in Bristol we offer a Passenger revenue 64% 30% discount to all young people under 21.
We became the first Concessions 25% national bus operator to pledge our support for a charter, developed by Tenders 5% the Royal National Institute of Blind People, to ensure services are Other 6% accessible for customers with sight loss.
Our ongoing partnership with Disability Rights UK, and other disability organisations, is helping our drivers meet the needs of those living with disability and health conditions.
We also support Greener Journeys annual Catch the Bus Week initiative, which promotes the benefits of bus travel including environmental considerations and the importance of bus services to local economies.
We were pleased to be awarded the contract to provide bus services for the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow.
Our SimpliCITY network across the city will be supplemented by new services and shuttles linking principal Games venues with the city centre.
We will also be providing bus and coach services for all client groups during the Games including the athletes, technical officials, media and sponsors.
FirstGroup 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review UK Rail Market overview First Capital Connect First Great Western UK Rail is the UKs largest rail operator with First Hull Trains First ScotRail almost a quarter of the passenger rail network, First TransPennine Express carrying more than 330m passengers per year.
Market review and trends Passenger rail services are primarily provided by private train operating companies through franchises awarded by the relevant authority, but may also be provided on an open access basis.
Operators are responsible for the day-to-day management and operation of train services.
Many elements of the service provided to passengers are We have experience running mandated as part of the franchise contract and others are left to commercial judgment.
Total franchised passenger revenues in the UK all types of rail operations in are around 8bn per annum.
Rail tracks and infrastructure signalling the UK and, by participating and some major stations are owned and managed by Network Rail.
Operators typically lease rolling stock from leasing companies.
in a range of franchise Passenger growth across the industry remains at historically high levels, competitions, we look forward despite recent macro-economic pressures, as a result of improved rolling stock, marketing initiatives and additional services.
During the using our expertise to provide year the Government made progress against its revised refranchising more and better rail services timetable with a third generation of competitions now fully under way, whilst, following devolution, the Scottish Government is also making across the UK.
progress with its two franchise competitions.
The Government Vernon Barker continues to invest in infrastructure and new rolling stock across the Managing Director, UK Rail country to deliver visible improvements for passengers, funded in part by regulated fare increases.
To facilitate infrastructure and rolling stock work, closer partnerships between Network Rail and operators are positively encouraged by Government.
Innovations such as smart ticketing, social media and mobile phone technology are being introduced across the sector.
FirstGroup 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review UK Rail 330m passengers 2,800 diesel and per year electric rolling stock vehicles Customers Strategy and performance Rail markets differ but are generally categorised into three sectors: London and south east commuter services: regional: and long distance.
For our franchises in London and the south east of England, 2014 2013 the majority of our passengers are commuters to and from the capital.
First Great Western and First Hull Trains also have a large proportion Revenue 2,870.1m 2,795.1m of long distance and leisure travellers.
First ScotRail and First TransPennine Express carry a large number of commuters into the Operating profit 55.2m 19.3m major towns and cities on their networks, and also serve a significant leisure market.
Operating margin 1.9% 0.7% Competitors Number of employees 14,000 13,500 The main competitor to rail services in the UK is the private car.
We also face competition on some of our passenger flows from other rail services and, to a lesser extent, from long distance coach services and airlines.
Our UK Rail division bids for franchises against Financial performance other operators of current UK rail franchises and rail operators from Our UK Rail division saw like-for-like passenger growth of 5.9% during other countries.
the year 2013: 7.4% as the strong demand that has been seen across the industry since privatisation continued into 2013 14.
Revenue during Market attractions the year was 2,870.1m 2013: 2,795.1m, with the increase principally 8bn of long term contract-backed passenger revenue available due to the strong passenger volume growth across all of our train through 19 major franchise opportunities operating companies.
Adjusted operating profit was 55.2m 2013: New franchises expected to have clearer upfront contingent capital 19.3m, representing a margin of 1.9% 2013: 0.7%, in part reflecting requirements with greater revenue risk but earlier revenue protection First Great Western moving from a loss-making position to normal commercial terms under the direct award agreed in October 2013 and Regulated environment, including Government capped regulated the successful delivery of a number of important fleet and infrastructure fare increases projects in conjunction with industry partners.
Historically high levels of passenger numbers across the country.
Focused and disciplined bidding This year the DfT and Transport Scotland have made significant progress in the third generation of their rail refranchising programmes, which will see 8bn per annum of long term contract-backed passenger revenue available through 19 major franchise opportunities in the coming years.
We are shortlisted for a number of competitions in the current round of franchising.
Approximate share Passenger revenue base of of total market FirstGroup UK Rail franchises Our strengths Significant participant in the UK rail market since privatisation Experienced in running all types of passenger rail operation intercity, regional, commuter, sleeper and open access Strong commercial, rolling stock and major infrastructure FirstGroup 23% Leisure 47% upgrade project capabilities Stagecoach 20% Business 31% Govia 20% Commuter 22% Highly experienced management team with a strong record Abellio 9% of operational delivery and bidding Deutsche Bahn Arriva 9% Directly Operated Railways 8% Virgin 6% National Express, Serco, MTR 5% FirstGroup 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business review UK Rail continued We submitted compelling bids for the first four of these which Continuous improvement in operating and demonstrate value for money for passengers, the taxpayer and our financialperformance Our UK Rail teams have a depth of expertise and a record of delivery.
shareholders, and expect to submit a competitive bid for the InterCity Our operating companies have outperformed the industry in delivering East Coast competition in the summer.
We are also investigating punctuality and customer satisfaction improvements since 2006, contract opportunities from other franchising authorities, and during despite infrastructure challenges.
We continue to work closely with the year we were pleased to be shortlisted for the tender to operate Network Rail where we can in order to both help them reduce the Luas light rail system in Dublin by the Railway Procurement Agency infrastructure issues, which in some of our operating areas accounts of the Republic of Ireland.
The contract award decision is expected in for two-thirds of delays, and also to ensure upgrades are delivered in the autumn of 2014. an efficient manner which causes the least possible disruption to our Following the review of the refranchising programme completed in passengers.
By far the most visible impact of infrastructure failures 2012 13, the DfT announced a new timetable in March 2013 which was were the various incidents associated with the severe winter weather subsequently updated in April 2014.
As part of this new timetable, we in December 2013 and February 2014, which led to significant and high agreed shorter direct awards with the DfT to run our First Capital profile damage to the Great Western Mainline at Dawlish, Bridgwater Connect franchise for an additional six months until September 2014 and Maidenhead.
We worked closely with Network Rail as they and our First Great Western franchise for an additional two years until undertook repairs to the line at Dawlish, during which time trains were September 2015, securing continuity of rail services for passengers unable to travel between Exeter and Plymouth.
We introduced a revised and retaining our experience in managing the impact of the multi-billion timetable and our rail replacement bus teams were able to provide pound investment programmes already underway on these networks.
comprehensive support including a direct coach link between Exeter We are progressing negotiations with the DfT to continue operating our and key Cornish towns and cities.
The line reopened on 4 April 2014.
First TransPennine Express franchise until February 2016, and working Amongst the infrastructure upgrades we are currently involved in with the Department to explore whether a longer direct award with First is the 7.5bn Great Western Mainline upgrade in preparation for the Great Western may offer better value for money and better services for introduction of the InterCity Express Programme, Crossrail and a new passengers during the significant programme of works to improve fleet of local electric trains.
This upgrade includes the 850m Reading services on the Greater Western network.
station remodelling project, which is due to finish a year ahead of schedule thanks in part to excellent working relationships with our industry partners.
Following our success at securing additional services Overcoming the impact in Wiltshire in partnership with the DfT and local authorities, we began a consultation on improving the timetable between London and the of severe weather South West for introduction later in the year.
UK Rail First Capital Connect was involved in the unveiling of brand new Class 700 trains which will be introduced from 2016 and the beginning of significant work to improve the busy London Bridge station, as part of the 6bn Thameslink Programme which will double capacity on the key cross-London route.
We are also a key partner within the industry to deliver rolling stock and capacity upgrades with four successful fleet introductions in recent years.
We are currently involved in programmes to deliver a further 1,500 new vehicles.
The previously announced investment in 40 new carriages for First TransPennine Express saw the first new longer electric trains run on the Manchester-Scotland route in December, as part of the Governments Northern Hub electrification project.
By May 2014 all of the new vehicles will be in service, permitting an improved Severe weather in both December replacement buses as well as direct and February caused significant coaches between Exeter and key timetable and in turn freeing up carriages to increase capacity on the problems for national rail locations in Cornwall.
We eased popular Manchester-Leeds route.
infrastructure, with all of our ticket restrictions at times of the operating companies affected to worst disruption and enhanced our Prudent investment in our key assets some extent.
Flooding disrupted provision of customer assistance First Capital Connects fleet of Class 365 trains is being transformed First Great Westerns network at personnel.
We also created an both Maidenhead and in Somerset, online microsite to provide with fresh interiors and enhanced accessibility features as part of a whilst the sea wall at Dawlish customers with updates on 31m investment by Eversholt Rail, whilst we are deep cleaning 221 collapsed in February, severing the disruption works.
Employees from carriages to a high standard.
More than 20 First ScotRail trains have line between Exeter and Plymouth.
all of FirstGroups train operating been upgraded with new fittings and lighting by Eversholt, with another We worked closely with Network companies and other parts of the Rail as they rebuilt the section of Group volunteered to help station 21 vehicles set to be refurbished and repainted by 2016. track to re-open in April.
In the and onboard colleagues.
meantime, we operated a fleet of The customer app for our operating companies has been downloaded more than one million times, providing journey planning and mobile FirstGroup 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Business review UK Rail continued retailing capabilities.
Our First ScotRail smart ticketing trial is proving Future priorities successful, and we are using the outputs to determine how best to We have been running rail services in the UK since 1997 and currently introduce smart ticketing across our other franchises.
operate around a quarter of the rail market, with the delivery of rail services aligned with our customers needs at the heart of our offer.
Between First ScotRail and First Great Western we are leading We are the only UK rail owning group whose services include long the largest roll out of free Wi-Fi on the UK rail network.
Our Class distance, regional, commuter and sleeper operations.
Our 180 trains at both First Great Western and First Hull Trains are management team has strong commercial, rolling stock and major already Wi-Fi equipped.
First ScotRail launched a new responsive infrastructure project upgrade expertise and we have a highly website in mid-March and more people are visiting the website experienced bidding team.
Our objective is to replenish our franchise using smartphones than computers for the first time ever.
portfolio to deliver profit on a par with the last round of franchising, with an acceptable level of risk.
Responsible partnerships with our customers and communities Outlook The latest twice-yearly Passenger Focus survey was completed during Rail passenger volumes across the industry continue to see strong the autumn.
Amongst the results were some notable improvements for growth, with passenger numbers more than doubling since 1996.
We our train operating companies as scores for our stations have have seen consistent strong performance and have a highly successful increased across the board, our employees at First ScotRail and First record of delivery, outperforming the industry in achieving punctuality TransPennine Express saw increased satisfaction scores, and specific and customer satisfaction improvements.
We remain committed to our initiatives such as our refreshed train interiors at First Capital Connect goal of providing more and better rail services across the UK and have saw improved results.
We have studied all of these findings and are a clear focus on meeting the needs of passengers, taxpayers and acting on what our customers tell us is important.
delivering an economic return for shareholders.
First ScotRail is the Official Supporter Passenger Rail Services for the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games and has been preparing the timetable with Glasgow 2014 and industry partners for more than two UK Rail 2013 14 revenue by type years, with more than a million extra journeys expected on our trains during the Games.
First ScotRail secured the UKs most recognised people award during the year for its sustained investment in staff training, being accredited with Investors in People IiP Gold status.
First ScotRail is now the largest IiP Gold-accredited company in the UK, measured by the number of people employed.
We became the first UK rail operator to partner with a national loyalty points scheme during the year as we joined Nectar, the countrys Passenger revenue 66% largest such programme.
This allows us to reward our customers by Government funding 28% giving them additional incentives when booking online.
Other revenue 6% Government funding includes subsidies and revenue support.
During the year we were recognised for our successes, with First It does not take into account total premium payments to the ScotRail winning the national Rail Business of the Year Award and First Government during the year of 550.3m.
TransPennine Express awarded European InterCity Operator of the Year at the European Rail Congress.
First Bus and First ScotRail are proud customers.
Our UK Bus division was Supporting to be official supporters of the Glasgow awarded the contract to offer shuttle Glasgow 2014 2014 Commonwealth Games, providing services for athletes, technical officials, passenger rail and bus services.
We are media and sponsors during the Games, Commonwealth proud of our Scottish heritage and the and will operate additional buses around Games important role we play connecting people the city in order to transport the large and communities up and down Scotland.
First ScotRail is planning the most TheGames provides an important extensive train timetable that Scotland opportunity for Scotland to promote itself has ever seen in support of the Games around the world, and we are pleased with additional carriages and more that our employees will be playing an frequent services running until late at integral role, in partnership with local night for spectators as well as regular authorities and Games organisers.
FirstGroup 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
