STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE BUSINESS REVIEW he Group reported a robust operating These results, achieved against performance in 2014, successfully significant currency headwinds, delivering growth in earnings and cash T flowwhilst implementing the first phase deliver on our promise of improved ofthe Growth Acceleration Plan.
Strict earnings, increased dividends and operating discipline, combined with a stronger cash flow in 2014. balanced, international portfolio, were key tothis result, with organic growth within the Global Exhibitions and Academic Publishing Divisions more than offsetting To have achieved this outcome whilst someweakness within Knowledge & Networking and implementing the first phase of our Business Intelligence Divisions.
Growth Acceleration Plan which The fluctuation in exchange rates had a marked impact on included a new operating structure, reported financials, mainly due to the strength of sterling GBP versus the US dollar USD during most of the year.
balance sheet refinancing and several Ifexchange rates had remained constant at 2013 average targeted acquisitions - is a testament rates, Group revenue in 2014 would have been 39.6m higher, adjusted operating profit 12.7m higher and adjusted diluted to the quality of our people, improved earnings per share EPS 1.8p higher.
operating discipline and a growing This implies constant currency adjusting EPS of 42.1p in international presence.
The underlying 2014, equating to earnings growth of 4.5%.
business performance, combined with The commentary below includes statutory and adjusted initial momentum from our growth measures.
We believe adjusted operating profit is a usefuladditional measure in monitoring divisional strategy, underpins the proposed tradingperformance.
increase to the final dividend.
The reconciliation from statutory to adjusted operating profit foreach Division can be found on page 56.
In 2014, we conducted a detailed portfolio review, leading to increased ACADEMIC PUBLISHING focus and simplification of our 2014 2013 Actual Organic business operations.
A review m m % % of our balance sheet has also Revenue 408.9 407.8 0.3 3.0 led to the write down of certain Statutory operating profit 106.3 101.9 4.3 underperforming Datamonitor assets.
Adjusted operating profit 150.0 150.9 0.6 3.3 Following a year of Measured Change, Adjusted operating margin % 36.7 37.0 we are now focused on accelerating growth in all four Operating Divisions.
The Academic Publishing Division publishes specialist books and journals.
Operating as the Taylor & Francis Group, it Assuming current exchange rates isrecognised internationally as one of the worlds leading persist, in 2015 we intend to deliver education publishers through its five leading imprints: Taylor & another year of adjusted EPS growth Francis, Routledge, CRC Press, Garland Science and Cogent OA.
It has a portfolio of more than 100,000 book titles and alongside our commitment to further 2,100 journals available in both print and digital formats, across dividend growth and over 30m of subject areas within Humanities and Social Sciences, and Science, Technology and Medicine.
investment into the Growth Acceleration Plan.
In 2014, Academic Publishing represented 36% of Group revenue and 45% of adjusted operating profit.
com 52 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS It was another consistent performance by the Academic The Business Intelligence Division provides specialist data, Publishing Division in 2014, recording organic revenue growth intelligence and insight to businesses, helping them make of 3.0% against what was a challenging comparable in 2013. better decisions, gain competitive advantage and enhance return on investment.
It has a portfolio of more than 400 digital Inaddition, we continued with our bolt-on acquisition strategy, subscription products, providing critical intelligence to niche completing a number of small deals during the year, including communities within five core industry verticals: Pharma & Sharpe and Landes BioScience.
However, overall reported Healthcare, Finance, Maritime & Law, Technology Media revenue was flat, reflecting the US bias of the business and, Telecoms and Agriculture Food.
hence, the negative impact of sterlings strength against the USdollar USD.
In 2014, Business Intelligence represented 25% of Group revenue and 23% of adjusted operating profit.
Journal subscriptions remained robust with high renewal rates and continued strong growth in both article submissions and The Division reported an organic revenue decline of 8.5%, content usage.
Cogent OA, our open access imprint, continues reflecting challenging trading conditions, which resulted in to track ahead of its initial plan.
Fifteen journal titles are now lowerone-off product sales and a decline in advertising accepting articles and submission rates have remained revenue.
Subscription trends continue to vary by vertical and consistently ahead of schedule.
product but average renewal rates remain low by historical levels.
Addressing this is a priority for the new management Our Books business had another good year, particularly in team, which brings with it substantial experience in the areas Humanities and Social Science, which performed strongly ofsales, subscription management and content delivery.
In November, we published the 6th Edition of The Molecular Biology of the Cell, one of our most popular and The year saw a significant amount of change within the Division, well-known textbooks, selling nearly 25,000 copies by yearend.
in terms of both structure and management and, inevitably, this created some uncertainty and disruption.
This contributed to Ebook sales varied month-to-month through 2014 and while the weak performance in 2014 but it leaves the business better overall growth remained strong, the trend suggests print will resourced and with a structure more aligned to customers in remain important for some time.
We continue to take a neutral itscore markets, providing a solid framework through which approach to product format.
All our production and design toimplement the Growth Acceleration Plan.
processes are digital but we have the flexibility to supply customers in the format they want with relatively low Following the portfolio review we undertook in 2014, we differencesin marginal cost.
announced in November that we were considering alternatives for the Consumer information and forecasting businesses within We continue to target customers who previously submitted Business Intelligence.
These include orders through Swets, the now bankrupt subscription agent.
some strong Brands, such as Verdict, which are relatively small We estimate cash receipts were adversely impacted by players in a broad, competitive market.
about15m in 2014 due to the delay in re-routing customers.
Weexpect this cash shortfall largely to be recouped during In addition, after careful consideration we have decided to thefirst half of 2015. fullyprovide for the loans to the Chinese Pharmaceutical data business.
Similarly, after reviewing the balance sheet carrying value of all our assets, we have taken an impairment against BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE certain information assets, including the Consumer assets and some pharmaceutical products, which were acquired as part 2014 2013 Actual Organic m m % % ofthe Datamonitor acquisition in 2007.
Revenue 281.7 305.9 7.9 8.5 Statutory operating GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS loss profit 155.2 49.9 411.0 1 2014 2013 Actual Organic Adjusted operating profit 75.2 86.8 13.4 16.8 m m % % Adjusted operating Revenue 200.2 160.2 25.0 18.9 margin % 26.7 28.4 Statutory operating profit 24.5 23.6 3.8 Adjusted operating profit 67.4 50.0 34.8 18.2 Adjusted operating margin % 33.7 31.2 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 53 STRATEGIC REPORT: UNDERSTANDING 2014 PERFORMANCE BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED The Global Exhibitions Division organises transaction-oriented The Knowledge & Networking Division incorporates all Exhibitions and trade shows, which provide buyers and sellers theGroups training, learning, conference, advisory and across different industries and communities with a powerful congress businesses.
It organises content-driven events platform to meet face to face, build relationships and conduct andprogrammes that provide a platform for communities to business.
Informa has a portfolio of over 150 Exhibitions, meet, network and share knowledge.
It runs around 3,000 serving a number of core verticals, including Health & Nutrition, conferences and training events across the globe each year, Beauty, Property & Construction and Pop Culture.
covering a range of subject areas, but with a particular focus onLife Sciences, Technology Media Telecoms and Finance.
In 2014, Global Exhibitions represented 17% of Group revenues and 20% of adjusted operating profit.
In 2014, Knowledge & Networking represented 22% of Grouprevenues and 12% of adjusted operating profit.
It was a strong year for the Global Exhibitions Division, recording organic revenue growth of 18.9%.
This included The performance across the Knowledge & Networking thebenefit of both the Brazilian biennial, Formobile, and the Division was mixed.
Our major regional hubs in the UK, the quadrennial Exhibition, IPEX, but even excluding these events, Middle East andNorth America all reported year-on-year the Division delivered good double-digit growth.
The strong growth but this was offset by weakness elsewhere, notably in revenue performance translated into a higher operating margin, Australia and Continental Europe.
In addition, the geo-political at 33.7%, a level which reflects the underlying quality of our backdrop in Eastern Europe had a marked impact on activity portfolio of Exhibitions and trade shows.
Overall the Division reported an organic revenue decline of 3.2%, which translated into a lower operating The Middle East region was particularly strong, led by the margin, at16.9%.
largeExhibitions that take place early in the year, such as ArabHealth and Middle East Electricity.
But there were As part of our drive to improve efficiency and focus the alsostrong performances by European Exhibitions such business in areas where we have well-established Brands and asVitafoods, andin Asia, events such as China Beauty Expo, strong expertise, we took the decision to close our conference whichwas acquired in 2013. and training businesses in Johannesburg.
We continue to run some selective events in Africa by exporting from our major Our strategy in Global Exhibitions is to blend ongoing organic hubs, but without the fixed cost of local infrastructure.
expansion through a combination of higher space sales, optimising yield and geo-cloning with targeted acquisitions There were some strong individual performances through inpriority verticals and geographies.
theyear, notably from the EBD Groups portfolio of Partnering events for the Life Sciences industry.
Its innovative model, In 2014, a key objective was to establish a presence in the which usestechnology to enhance the networking potential of important US market and we achieved this through the its conferences, continues to gain strong traction in the market.
acquisitions of Virgo Group in August and Hanley Wood Delegate numbers are growing healthily and re-sign rates are Exhibitions in December.
Both are highly complementary to far higher than for more traditional conferences.
ourexisting vertical mix and provide good potential for revenue synergies over time through cross-marketing, transfer of best This is a consistent theme across the Division, with those practice and geo-cloning.
Further details on these acquisitions events where there is investment in the delegate experience, is provided in Note 19. deep community engagement and a focus on building long-term Brand equity generally performing better.
This is In 2015, we expect North America to represent more than 35% something the new management team will look to build on of divisional revenue.
asitimplements its new strategy through the Growth Acceleration Plan.
KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING 1 2014 2013 Actual Organic m m % % Revenue 246.2 256.1 3.9 3.2 Statutory operating profit loss 22.0 29.4 174.8 Adjusted operating profit 41.5 47.0 11.7 17.2 Adjusted operating margin % 16.9 18.4 1 Restated for the change in accounting for joint ventures.
com 54 Informa PLC Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS TRADING OUTLOOK The new Divisional Management Team is moving quickly to We have not assumed any marked improvement in recent focus on customer relationships and subscription management, macro trends within our budgets for 2015.
Regional variances ahead of investing more broadly in product innovation via are set to continue, with a relatively robust outlook in North theGrowth Acceleration Plan.
We are anticipating steady America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia, whilst Continental operational progress in 2015.
The subscription nature of the Europe and Latin America remain more challenging.
business means this will take time to translate into revenue growth but we take some encouragement from recent trends Internally, much focus will be on the Growth Acceleration Plan indeferred income.
The business is now organised around as we start to invest in a variety of growth initiatives across the fivepriority verticals and 40 major Brands, closely tracked by Group.
This will adetailed matrix of operating metrics.
We remain confident impact earnings, through increased operating expenditure and thatwith focused management we can return Business the depreciation from higher capital spending.
We expect Intelligence to a positive run rate of organic growth by the operational benefits quickly but the full financial return will take endof 2016. time to materialise.
Our goal remains to have all four Divisions delivering a positive run rate in organic growth by end 2016.
GLOBAL EXHIBITIONS The global market for Exhibitions remains structurally and Our strong operating and financial discipline, combined with cyclically robust.
Informa is now an established international good early momentum in key markets, gives us confidence player, with strong positions in North America, the Middle that, at current exchange rates, Informa should be able to East, Brazil, China and France, with particular strengths in deliver further growth in adjusted earnings per share in 2015, Construction & Real Estate, Health & Nutrition, Beauty and even allowing for the impact of the investment in the Growth PopCulture.
The breadth and quality of this portfolio give us Acceleration Plan.
confidence that we can deliver further strong organic growth This outlook also enables us to commit to increase the annual in2015, albeit year-on-year comparisons will be impacted by dividend per share by a minimum of 2% per annum through the absence of biennial and quadrennial events.
Our large theperiod of the 20142017 Growth Acceleration Plan.
Exhibitions in the first quarter, including Arab Health in Dubai and World of Concrete in the US, have performed strongly.
ACADEMIC PUBLISHING The pipeline for potential acquisitions remains healthy.
We will The Academic Publishing market remains stable, although budget trends vary by geography and sector.
We anticipate remain proactive and disciplined in those assets we add to ourportfolio and those that do not meet our strategic and another solid year for journal subscriptions in 2015 alongside financial criteria.
further progress in the roll-out of our open access offering at Cogent OA.
Additionally, the merger of our Medical Journals KNOWLEDGE & NETWORKING business into the Division will generate cost savings in 2015 The outlook for our conference and learning businesses andgrowth beyond.
In Books, we will continue to expand the continues to vary by region.
Prospects in the UK, North front list in niche subject areas, which should support further America and the Middle East are good, particularly for our revenue growth, and the business will remain flexible in its larger, Branded events and those with value added services approach to ebooks, reflecting customer demand.
The outlook points to another consistent performance.
Our The strengthened Divisional Management Team is pursuing a differentiated operating model and long-term approach to new strategy based on deeper community engagement across industry relationships position us well to deliver growth at, core verticals where we have established Brands and strong orahead of, the market.
It is targeting a positive organic growth run rate bythe end of 2015. BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE We are not assuming any significant change in the market backdrop through 2015.
While there have been signs of stabilisation in parts of the Finance market sector, the Pharmaceutical sector remains challenging, with tight controlson procurement amongst many customers.
com Annual Report 2014 Informa PLC 55
