STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 OUR RISKS NEXT GENERATION SERVICES AND SATELLITES AND OUR NETWORK SPECTRUM SATELLITES RISK RISK RISK We face risks when we launch our satellites and while We rely on radio spectrum, which has historically We have two significant programmes currently they are operated in their orbital location.
There are been allocated without charge, to provide our underway: Global Xpress and the aviation passenger only a few companies who provide launch services services.
We must agree how it is used in coordination connectivity S-band satellite programme.
Both and if they encounter problems, our launches may with other satellite operators.
We may not be able programmes could be subject to delays or cost fail or be delayed.
Our network may not be able to to coordinate usage in the future and or may be overruns and when they are launched there is a cope with the demand from users.
charged for the spectrum which could affect our risk that the level of demand will not justify the ability to provide services.
MITIGATION In orbit failure of a satellite is mitigated by using MITIGATION MITIGATION our resident quality assurance teams during the We utilise innovation to ensure we regularly We have professional, experienced teams who focus manufacture and assembly of the satellites and improve the efficiency of our spectrum usage.
on large-scale programmes and develop close launch vehicles.
The staff in our control centre We also educate and inform regulators and relationships with the third parties we use to deliver are highly trained professionals with significant government as to the unique sociologythem.
Any such programmes are subject to a experience in operating satellites once in orbit.
detailed business case being prepared before we We have launch and in-orbit insurance in place.
proceed and regular checks on progress against Our network is designed to accommodate surges the original business case.
in trafc demand by exibly deploying capacity to those places in need.
CYBER SECURITY REGULATION COMPETITION RISK RISK RISK Our networks may be vulnerable to security risks We face increasing regulation in several areas.
We face competition today from a number from unauthorised access, computer viruses or Providing our satellite services in some countries of communications technologies and expect other security risks.
may incur additional costs or we may require competition to increase which may reduce demand licenses to operate which are difficult to obtain.
for our services because newer technologies are MITIGATION used in preference to ours.
We have implemented industry-standard security MITIGATION measures, and have increased our investment in We work closely with the regulators, governments MITIGATION counter cyber threat tools and staff.
and our local partners to ensure that our services We believe our current L-band products remain operate within the local requirements.
Our focus is to competitive.
We are introducing new products and ensure we have the appropriate licenses to operate services to stimulate demand by extending use to allow our partners to distribute our services.
by existing users and being of appeal to new users.
CRITICAL PARTNERS Our investments in Global Xpress and the S-band programme will position us favourably against some competition and we have put additional focus and RISK attention on how we innovate more quickly and We rely in part for our revenues on third-party focus on services our customers want to use.
distribution partners and service providers and they might not sell our services effectively or competitively.
MITIGATION We encourage strong relationships with all our partners and provide them with excellent products and services to sell in their markets.
Our relationship is important to this success and we encourage sharing of information, developing ideas through 1:1 meetings and through our regional and global conferences.
28 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED OUR RISKS CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT OF REDUCTIONS IN SPENDING FINANCING AND FOREIGN HYBRID NETWORKS BY GOVERNMENT CUSTOMERS EXCHANGE RISK RISK RISK RISK If hybrid networks start to be developed, we may face We have experienced significant reduction in US Our ability to make payments on and renance our increased competition for the right to use L-band Government spending over the last couple of years debt depends on our future operating performance spectrum in certain countries which would make it and some reduction in other global government and ability to generate sufficient cash.
If our business difficult for us to obtain or retain the spectrum we spending.
We have faced increased competition does not perform well we may not be able to fund need to operate our business.
There is also a risk as companies pursue what opportunities there are our debt payments.
that hybrid networks may interfere with the often at low margins.
If further government spending transmission of our services.
controls are implemented, contracts may be MITIGATION cancelled, fide-scoped or delayed which could We have long-range business plans, annual MITIGATION affect our revenues.
budgets and regular forecasts of the Companys We have an experienced team who monitor network business which review cash ow generation and interference.
They will work with potential hybrid MITIGATION debt repayment.
Monitoring these measures on a network operators to understand their requirements We have already cut costs within the US regular ongoing basis will enable us to plan for and how their service can operate alongside our Government business to reect the downturn a debt repayment appropriately and responsibly.
own without causing issues for our customers.
There is much public discussion about the reliance of governments on commercial satellite operators.
We believe the reliability of our existing satellites and the new services we have TAXATION LIGHTSQUARED launched focused on government usage, plus the COOPERATION AGREEMENT introduction of our Global Xpress satellites will offer attractive services for government users.
RISK RISK As we operate in multiple jurisdictions, we may If the LightSquared agreement continues after they have disputes concerning the amount of tax due.
emerge from bankruptcy, we will ultimately give them some of the L-band spectrum over North America SANCTIONS MITIGATION and our services will co-exist with their services in We maintain constructive engagement with the adjacent frequencies.
This could mean our services local tax authorities and where appropriate we are congested or interrupted which could affect our RISK engage advisors and legal counsel to obtain service performance in North America.
The current unstable geo-political situation in opinions on tax legislation and principles.
We also Ukraine has created new risks for us and could affect provide for any potential tax exposures in line with MITIGATION the launch of the third Inmarsat-5 satellite which accounting standards.
We have an experienced team who monitor uses a Russian-built rocket as its launch vehicle the activities of the LightSquared cooperation and is launched from a Russian operated site.
They understand how both sets of services would need to sit alongside each other MITIGATION MANAGEMENT AND EMPLOYEES to ensure any interference is minimised or does We monitor closely the ongoing political situation not exist.
and believe that the restrictions currently in place do not affect the launch of the third satellite.
We RISK have applied for all licenses and engage with the We may nd our staff leave because our business appropriate government departments to ensure does not maintain an up-to-date focus on we are able to proceed to launch the satellite.
technological advancement or that they feel they are not fairly compensated.
We may also have difficulties in recruiting talented new staff.
MITIGATION Our business has a new energy to focus on technological innovation which creates an exciting environment in which to work.
We have also put in place manager and leadership development programmes and continue to benchmark compensation to ensure our staff are remunerated fairly reecting the roles they perform.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 BUSINESS IN ACTION Inmarsat operates across four primary business segments Maritime, Enterprise, Aviation and Government providing highly reliable, efficient and cost-effective satellite connectivity services to public and private sector organisations across all seven continents.
The following pages provide greater information about each of these sectors.
A glossary can be found on pages 134 and 135 of this report.
30 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED MARITIME Our Maritime business remains Inmarsats largest The expansion of our higher capacity services Inmarsat Maritime also started to penetrate a new single market segment, representing approximately is supporting a growing trend in the maritime market for its satcom services in 2014 with the 50% of the Companys annual MSS revenues.
industry in which there is increasing reliance on introduction of Fleet One.
2014 continued to see significant uptake of our ship-to-shore data communications.
This reects FleetBroadband service, as maritime users continued both the industrys need to enhance crew welfare With this tailored solution, Inmarsat started the trend of migrating from Inmarsats legacy services services and the introduction of a host of new addressing the growing demand for connectivity to its more advanced broadband connectivity.
operational technologies helping to drive cost amongst leisure yacht, shing and other small boat efficiency across the industry.
Fleet One enables us, for the first time, to The Maritime business also continued to enjoy the innovations for Inmarsats Maritime business.
support smaller vessels with services previously the fruits of a strong product and service pipeline, and preserve of much larger vessels, at price levels 2014 saw a number of new, innovative services, which The first of these was the development and launch t for this vertical.
helped both to expand the Companys leadership of Fleet Media, an innovative new service, which position in maritime communications and to open strengthened further our welfare and training offering.
The solid performance of the Maritime business up new revenue opportunities.
demonstrates the dual benets our broadband connectivity service offers in terms of operational 2014 commenced for Maritime with the completion efficiency and crew welfare both of which are key of our asset acquisition of Globe Wireless, the drivers in a world maritime market.
The maritime Florida-based provider of value-added maritime industry continues to be characterised by low The expansion of communications services to the shipping market.
growth, with relatively high fuel prices, low cargo The business had an installed customer base of rates and weak demand, combining to create Inmarsats higher over 6,000 ships.
a challenging trading environment for many capacity services is maritime organisations.
This acquisition kicked off a strong year for supporting a growing Maritime, laying the groundwork for both enhancing Our Maritime business engaged the market on these customer revenues from Inmarsats market-leading important trends with its inaugural Smart Operations trend in the maritime FleetBroadband service and preparing the market conference, the first in a series of events to for the introduction of FleetXpress, which will stimulate debate in the maritime industry about industry in which there combine the resilience of L-band satcoms with the the operational benets of integrated thinking on signicantly enhanced capacity afforded through shore and ship communications.
is increasing reliance the Companys new Global Xpress constellation.
on ship-to-shore data During 2014, we initiated a step-change in thinking The strategy of migrating Inmarsat Maritime on safety services.
The recognised global leader in communications.
customers away from our legacy services continued maritime safety services, Inmarsat is building on its to yield strong results.
While revenues from our 35 years of heritage in maritime safety services with legacy Fleet service declined by almost 20% a transformative approach that will bring the worlds over the year, this was off-set by the growth in Fleet Media, developed in conjunction with a leading most reliable safety systems into the heart of the FleetBroadband revenues, which increased by almost programme content provider, NT Digital Partners, smart ship.
The Companys vision is to integrate one quarter over the course of the year.
brings a first for satellite content offering to the safety, environmental monitoring and regulatory commercial maritime market.
It uses the Inmarsat-4 compliance into a single, easy to use, robust and By the close of the year, we had seen a climb of and Inmarsat-5 satellite constellations and leverages reliable solution.
almost 13% in the number of active FleetBroadband our global distribution channel to deliver the latest ships, which grew to over 40,000.
In parallel with the Hollywood movies, as well as television programming, growth in FleetBroadband, the Maritime business also sports and news content, to the worlds commercial enjoyed a strong rise in its VSAT installed base.
This shipping eet, while at sea, to the crews own trend was driven, primarily, by end-users taking personal devices tablets, smartphones, laptops.
up our XpressLink service: itself a migration path to In addition, it is expected that Fleet Media will serve FleetXpress, which will deliver a new generation of as a platform for the delivery of cutting edge crew high-speed broadband services via the new Global education, training and development.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 ENSURING DISTRESS CALLS AT SEA ARE HEARD Mariners in grave or imminent danger need to Inmarsat is the satellite cornerstone of the Global know their call for help will be heard, no matter Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS.
where their ship is or how bad the conditions.
The It is the only satcoms provider to offer 99.9% Volvo Ocean Race provided dramatic evidence availability of its satellite and ground network.
of the power and reach of Inmarsats global connectivity on 29 November 2014 when Team Vestas Winds VO65 ran aground the Cargados Carajos reef, some 220 miles NNE of Mauritius, causing appalling damage.
Having contacted Volvo Ocean Race Control in Alicante to report the grounding and launch the rescue operation, the boat began taking on water and after eight hours the crew had to abandon ship as ooding cut all electrical supplies and meant that the on-board phones no longer functioned.
Scan the blue box using the Inmarsat Luckily for Team Vestas, their life raft was equipped App to view video content about with Inmarsats IsatPhone 2 satellite phone, which Team Vestas Wind rescue.
ensured that they could remain in contact with Race Control while waiting for help to arrive.
Its been a lifesaver, said Skipper Chris Nico Nicholson.
Team Vestas dramatic rescue story was then shared with the worlds media via Inmarsats land-based BGAN service, once they reached the tiny Ile du Sud.
32 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 EXTENDING COVERAGE IN REMOTE LOCATIONS IsatHub is the first step in the reinvention of the IsatHub has attracted significant media BGAN product platform.
attention since its ofcial launch in 2014 and is opening up Inmarsats BGAN connectivity Approximately the size of a paperback book, services to a new generation of users.
it offers extraordinary coverage extension for smartphones and tablets at low cost.
IsatHub delivers the highest data rate of any equivalent mobile satellite service.
Through the IsatHub service, users can surf the internet, access their apps, text or talk using their smart devices, even when theyre thousands of kilometres from a terrestrial xed or mobile network.
Whether exploring for oil in the middle of a desert: a journalist tweeting breaking news from a remote island: or simply on holiday hundreds Scan the green box using the Inmarsat of kilometres from the nearest cellular coverage, App to view the IsatHub video.
IsatHub offers an assured 3G service for smartphones or tablets in areas that terrestrial networks cannot reach.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED ENTERPRISE Inmarsats Enterprise business top-and-tailed its M2M connectivity, or the internet of things, year with major transactions, beginning with the allows devices to communicate with each other completion of the sale of Inmarsats retail energy and share information via the internet.
Satellite business to RigNet, Inc. and concluding in December communications play an increasingly important role with the agreement to sell our stake in SkyWave, our in M2M development, enabling a host of applications leading downstream M2M partner, to ORBCOMM.
ranging from asset tracking and remote surveillance to Smart Grids and environmental monitoring.
The sale of our retail energy assets to RigNet was part of a wide-ranging strategic transaction between Among a range of major service innovations, the two companies, which also saw the appointment Inmarsat strengthened its position in the satellite of RigNet as a Value Added Reseller VAR for phone market with the introduction of IsatPhone 2, Global Xpress and as a Distribution Partner the Companys most advanced handheld satellite for Inmarsats L-band services focusing on the phone.
IsatPhone 2 offers dependable, high-quality energy sector.
voice calls, text and email messaging outside cellular and xed network coverage.
IsatPhone 2 joined This strategic approach was also reected in Inmarsats top-selling IsatPhone Pro as the latest the transaction to sell our shareholding in SkyWave addition to the Companys handheld satellite phone to ORBCOMM.
As part of the agreement, Inmarsat portfolio, offering customers a choice of phone further cemented its important strategic relationship depending on their requirements and budget.
with ORBCOMM in the global M2M marketplace and acquired the intellectual property for the IsatData A further important innovation in 2014 was the global Pro IDP technology, as well as the SkyWave M2M launch of IsatHub, which like Maritimes Fleet One service platform.
This will enable Inmarsat to support service takes Inmarsat into a new market segment.
a step-change in the pace of product and service innovation in this important market segment.
Throughout the year, the performance of the Enterprise business was characterised by significant Throughout the year, innovations and the introduction of new services to both strengthen the Companys overall proposition the performance of and to open up new opportunities to provide Inmarsat services to a new generation of users.
the Enterprise business Across the year as a whole, underlying revenue was characterised by growth for our Enterprise business was just over significant innovations 6%, excluding the impact of the sale to RigNet.
The increase was driven particularly by strong and the introduction growth in machine to machine M2M, IsatPhone our handheld satphone - and Enterprise of new services.
FleetBroadband FB revenues, although this was partially offset by lower BGAN revenues.
Designed to deliver global connectivity for M2M saw the highest growth rate, at 30% for the smartphones and tablets, IsatHub features the year, followed by IsatPhone with a 23% increase in highest data rate of any equivalent mobile satellite its installed based taking the number of IsatPhone service with standard IP data of up to 240 384kbps terminals to 115,500.
Enterprise FB, which had growth send receive.
Through the new service, both of 22% in comparison to the previous year.
BGAN commercial and private users can surf the internet, revenue declined by 9% year-on-year.
access their apps, text or talk using their own smart devices, even when theyre thousands of kilometres The growth in the M2M segment, which saw tens from a terrestrial xed or mobile network.
IsatHub of thousands of devices brought onto the Inmarsat was well received in the media and was heralded as network, was further supported by the expansion a significant innovation by consumer technology of Inmarsats M2M distribution channel with the commentators across the world.
appointment of RacoWireless, a global Distribution Partner for the award-winning IsatData Pro service.
34 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CHIEF EXECUTIVES 2014 REVIEW CONTINUED AVIA TION Inmarsats aviation business enjoyed another year of strong growth in 2014, recording a revenue increase of over one-third for the full year.
This Inmarsats biggest continued expansion was seen across both the business aviation and commercial air transport aviation news for 2014 segments, for safety and cockpit communications, as well as aircraft operational systems and was the announcement passenger connectivity.
in June that it was The engines of growth for Inmarsats aviation business were SwiftBroadband SB and Classic committed to the Aero services, with SB growth in particular benefitting development and from the impact of the take-or-pay minimum commitment contracts signed with several key building of a highly distribution partners mid-2014.
innovative, hybrid Active SB terminals grew by some 33%, reaching approximately 5,400 by the end of the full year.
 Classic Aero active terminals grew by just over 9%.
network across the Inmarsats biggest aviation news for 2014 was the European Union.
announcement in June that it was committed to the development and building of a highly innovative, hybrid  network across the European Union.
In September, we announced that Hawaiian Airlines, the largest and longest serving airline for Hawaii, The purpose of the new network is to provide will become the first commercial airline to install high-capacity, high-throughput passenger SwiftBroadband for ight deck applications, including connectivity services to the short-haul European safety services on its Boeing 767-300s.
The initiative has generated Airlines will use Inmarsats SB Safety for ACARS significant interest among commercial airlines and data messages, live Electronic Flight Bag updates Inmarsats aim is for the European Aviation Network and Airline Operational Communication AOC to enter commercial service at the end of 2016. voice and data.
Inmarsat and the Federal Aviation Authority will collect data on the performance of 2014 proved to be a dramatic year for the the FANS1 A service on Hawaiian Airlines, which will commercial aviation industry with the tragic loss contribute to the achievement of approvals for of a number of passenger jets, including the FANS1 A services over the SB Safety service disappearance of Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370.
which are expected by early 2016.
These events highlighted the need for more 2014 was also a key year for our aviation business robust ight tracking and surveillance systems, in relation to the new Global Xpress constellation.
and we are is strongly supporting industry and government initiatives to introduce more reliable Inmarsat Aviation has already established GX and effective satellite-based solutions.
To this end, Aviation as a leading global passenger connectivity we have further strengthened our capabilities in this service, even before the full global network becomes area with a number of significant appointments operational.
During the course of 2014, several drawn from across the aviation industry.
airlines have committed to this new technology and its revolutionary passenger service offering.
It was The aviation business also presented its plans announced in May 2014, that an Inmarsat partner, for a free increased position reporting and tracking Honeywell, was working with Air China to trial GX service and its concept for a black box in the cloud avionics on an Airbus A330.
service to ICAO in May, both of which can be achieved through Inmarsats existing satellite constellations.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 GIVING PASSENGERS CONNECTIVITY IN THE AIR Inmarsat is investing up to $450m in a revolutionary hybrid satellite terrestrial network to deliver the worlds fastest mobile broadband service to the skies above Europe, ensuring passengers can enjoy the same connectivity in the air as they do on the ground.
Deploying an air-to-ground network across Europe will be complementary to our global satellite services operating with high-throughput broadband over the busy regional air trafc routes.
Once the service is launched, passengers will Scan the pink box using the Inmarsat simply log on with their smartphone, tablet or App to view the European Aviation other Internet device and surf the web as if they Network video.
Whether its to stay in touch with friends and family, catch up on the latest news, complete a work assignment or make future travel arrangements, passengers will be able to access a true broadband experience in the air.
These high-speed broadband services could be available by the end of 2016.
