24 25 Business Review During the year, we acquired a package of stores in the Sport Netherlands from a local fashion retailer which was looking to Sport now consists of the Sports retail businesses of JD, Size?, close one of its fascias.
Acquiring the stores in this way gave us Chausport, Sprinter, Champion Sports and ActivInstinct together immediate critical mass in the country although the majority of with Topgrade, Kooga, Kukri, Focus and Source Lab.
The latter the stores are in smaller regional towns and cities.
We also were formerly included within our Distribution segment but in acquired the assets of the Isico partnership in Germany which, our streamlined segmental structure are now classified within on acquisition, had 10 small stores primarily in the Berlin area.
Sport as the product which they deal in is predominantly either These stores will be converted to the JD fascia later in 2014 and active sport or sports fashion related.
have already been integrated into the Groups core IT systems.
Sport has had an excellent year.
Operating profit before We continue to look for further opportunities in international exceptional items of the Sport businesses increased significantly markets around the world where we can grow with the support by 15.5 million to 93.4 million 2013: 77.9 million of our key brands.
including 1.9 million in relation to Canterbury.
This is an exceptional performance but one that reflects the continual Fashion investment we make in our retail and product propositions.
Fashion now consists of the established Fashion retail businesses The growth in profitability within Sport principally came from of Bank, Scotts and Tessuti, together with Cloggs and Ark, a strong performance in our core UK and Ireland retail fascias.
which were both acquired during the year, and Nicholas Deakins JD is developing into a world class retail fascia and our ultimate which was formerly included within our Distribution segment objective is to ensure that the high standards in our core UK but in our streamlined segmental structure is now classified and Ireland markets are transferred to our new territories as within Fashion.
Losses in Fashion before exceptional items increased We are satisfied with the performance of our businesses in France.
significantly in the year to 6.4 million 2013: 1.7 million, By year end we had 17 JD stores in the country excluding the principally as a result of increased losses at Bank.
store in Paris, after seven new store openings in the year.
scale are disappointing and we have made management Subject to property availability, we anticipate continuing our changes to address the issue.
Most importantly, in July a new store development in this territory.
Managing Director, Gwynn Milligan, who has considerable experience of the Youth Fashion sector, came into the Bank Our businesses in Spain have had an encouraging year again, business.
Her turnaround plan involves both re-establishing which is pleasing given the well publicised economic difficulties Banks reputation in branded fashion whilst relying on a flexible which the country has faced.
We have an excellent management supply chain to produce faster fashion and more striking value team in Spain who understand the geography and the local in the price architecture.
On the back of this we believe that consumers very well and they have very successfully adapted expanding Banks multichannel proposition represents a major the Sprinter product proposition to reflect customer demands opportunity.
We have taken some internal actions to reduce the at this time.
The economic situation has meant that, to date, central overhead base but we also need to address property we have been more cautious in our programme for JD in costs which are excessive in some legacy leases.
During the year, we opened three new stores and so with the right blend of desirable third party brands supported have eight stores in the country now.
We have worked hard by credible own brand ranges, Bank can re-engage with its with the Sprinter management team to make the JD product core customers and that ultimately we can deliver an improved proposition more relevant for the country.
We have recognised a charge of 11.8 million within exceptional items for the impairment of goodwill which arose on the original acquisition of the business.
Strategic Report 24 25 The Scotts business has performed well in the year by focussing These changes can essentially be categorised into two main areas: on its core customers and then delivering a multichannel branded Whilst there is some commonality of product ranges and fashion authority and experience to them.
brands we believe that Blacks and Millets attract different Whilst we continue to experience losses in our Premium Fashion consumers.
Accordingly, we have run Blacks and Millets offering Tessuti and Originals, they have been reduced compared as two separate fascias since the middle of the year with to the prior year.
As we have reported previously, we have a separate and significantly changed commercial teams.
number of legacy issues, particularly property, to deal with We believe that this decision has had positive effects in which are impacting on the financial performance at this time.
testing and developing the Outdoor proposition both However, we have made a number of operational improvements instore and online.
We are now working to ensure that to the business during the year with all stores now on the Groups all of our customers have easy access to our full core ERP systems and all stocks now replenished from the Outdoor offer.
Accordingly, we believe that we We also integrated Blacks into the Groups operational are putting the right framework in place to deliver an improved infrastructure by relocating the warehousing and central financial performance.
functions from the previous facility at Northampton and installing the Group ERP systems.
Whilst the warehousing During the year we acquired the Cloggs and Ark businesses move and the installation of the Group core systems were from administration.
Cloggs is an established online retailer of completed by the end of Q1, the final relocation and premium branded fashion footwear whilst Ark is a complementary establishment of the Bury based new commercial teams business to Bank in terms of its customer demographic and did not complete until July.
Clearly, this had a disrupting product proposition.
Both of these businesses have had a difficult effect in the early part of the year but completion of the year as they recovered from the administration processes and reorganisation together with the elimination of the rebuilt their supply chains and supplier relationships.
It is too unsustainable property costs associated with the early to comment on the longer term potential of these businesses.
Northampton facility have had positive effects on the business in the second half.
Outdoor Later in the year we acquired 60% of the loss-making Tiso Our pre-existing Blacks and Millets Outdoor fascias have had a business which, on acquisition, had 17 premium branded mixed year.
We started the year with an excess of heavy winter Outdoor stores.
These stores are primarily located in Scotland, jackets and a lack of Spring Summer product, particularly in although Tiso also owned the highly regarded and profitable camping and Peter Storm own brand.
We had to trade our way George Fisher store in Keswick.
Tiso is an iconic business in the out of this position with the significant margin sacrifice required Scottish Outdoor world and this acquisition has given us increased to clear the Winter and earlier season stocks leading to a poor buying power, additional management expertise and brand first half trading result.
However, the second half of the year, access, as we continue to establish JD Sports Fashions leading which we acknowledge is traditionally the stronger part of the year, position in the Outdoor market.
has been much more promising and, ultimately, a breakeven position was achieved in this six month period compared to a Overall losses before exceptional items in Outdoor have loss of 4.9 million in the same period of the previous year.
reduced significantly to 8.8 million 2013: 14.9 million.
We anticipate further significant progress in Blacks and Millets Operationally, we have made a number of significant operational in the new financial year tempered by some initial operating changes which mean that these businesses are now better losses from the newly acquired Tiso business.
controlled and so we have started the new financial year with a substantially improved framework on which to develop.
