Remuneration report This report has been prepared by the Remuneration and the Company, the Committee is satisfied as to the Committee the Committee and has been approved by independence of the advice it receives, but will continue the Board.
It has been drawn up in accordance with the to evaluate whether the arrangement remains appropriate.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the UKLA Listing Rules The Committee is responsible for determining policy on and will be put to shareholders for approval at the remuneration for the Executive Directors, other members of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Executive Committee and senior executives.
It determines the actual remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviews The Remuneration Committee proposals in respect of other members of the Executive The Committee consists of the following independent Committee taking account of percentage increases in reward Non-Executive Directors: across the Company.
For the year under review, the total remuneration earned by those members of the Executive Sara Weller Chairman Committee who were not main Board directors is shown George Fairweather in the bands below: Drummond Hall from 30 July 2004 No.
of executives 000 Sir Tim Lankester 2 250 300 2 300 350 During the year and reflecting the requirements of the 2 350 400 Revised Code, Roger Carr, the Chairman of the Board, ceased to be a member of the Committee, although he attended its meetings at the invitation of its Chairman.
The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Tim Clarke, the Chief Executive, also attended by invitation, Committee can be found in the Investor section of the but not on matters relating to his own remuneration.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial The Committee is expected to meet at least three times interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters to a year and in 2003 04, met four times.
Each meeting was be decided by the Committee.
The remuneration of the attended by all the then current members of the Committee, Non-Executive Directors is decided by the Board on advice except for Sir Tim Lankester, who was unable to attend one from the Executive Directors.
During the year, the Committee has received external The rest of this report deals with the remuneration of the advice from Towers Perrin, benefits consultants, and Executive and Non-Executive Directors only.
Allen & Overy, the Companys general legal advisers.
The Committee also took advice from Tim Clarke, the Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Chief Executive, Bronagh Kennedy, the Human Resources The following policy has applied throughout the year and will Director & General Counsel and Sheila Mellish, Head apply for the financial year 2005.
For subsequent years, the of Reward.
None of these participated in discussions Committee will review the policy and recommend changes concerning their own remuneration.
All of these advisers as appropriate.
were originally appointed by the Company.
Remuneration packages are designed to attract, retain In July 2004, the Committee independently appointed and motivate Executive Directors of the highest calibre.
and approved the terms of engagement of Towers Perrin to act as consultants to the Committee on the 2004 review The packages will be competitive within the leisure of executive basic pay.
Although Towers Perrin provides advice retailing industry and in those markets from which on senior executive reward matters to both the Committee the Company recruits.
Mitchells & Butlers 14 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 In xing remuneration, note will be taken of reward levels The proportion of the Groups basic salary bill attributable to in the wider community and of the remuneration structure the Directors and other members of the Executive Committee throughout the organisation.
There will be an appropriate balance between fixed The average basic salary and short-term bonus of and variable risk reward.
The latter will be linked to the the Executive Directors during the year was 660,055 performance of the individual and of the Group.
and the average per non-Board employee was 13,700.
The Board and the Basic salary will normally be set at median market level.
Remuneration Committee do not have a policy on this ratio, but aim to reward all employees fairly according to the nature Using target or projected value calculations, performance of their role, their performance and market forces.
related incentives for Executive Directors will equate to approximately 60% of total remuneration.
In the year under review, the average salary increase for members of the Executive Committee, which includes the Share and cash incentives will be designed so as to Executive Directors, was 2.7%, whereas the average increase align the interests of Executive Directors with those for other employees was 3.5%.
For this purpose, Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a significant level Annual performance bonus of ownership of the Companys shares, which is two times Challenging performance goals are set which must be achieved salary, but three times salary for the Chief Executive.
The maximum bonus Shares arising from share schemes normally should opportunity is normally 80% of salary of which, for 2004 05, not be sold until the minimum level of ownership has 60% 2003 04 50% is linked to earnings per share and 20% been satisfied.
2003 04 30% to personal and Group business objectives.
Policy on Non-Executive Directors The bonus is payable either in cash, or in shares under the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, have Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan as set out below.
Their appointment and subsequent reappointment is subject to election or re-election by Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee At the discretion of the Committee, the Executive Directors with additional fees for membership of the Remuneration may receive all or part of their annual performance bonus in and Audit Committees and for chairing those committees.
To date, the Committee has determined The fees are approved by the Board on the recommendation that all the Executive Directors bonuses be received in of the Executive Directors, based on a review of the fees shares.
A bonus award of shares earned in 2003 04 will paid in other companies of a similar size.
be deferred for 12 months and, if the Director is in the Companys employment at the end of that period, matching Components of remuneration packages shares may be awarded of up to 0.5 times the deferred The main components of Executive Directors remuneration are: shares.
Bonus and matching shares are normally released in three equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversaries of the bonus award date, provided the Director remains in the Companys employment.
Short mediumLong-term Basic salary term incentive incentive Consistent with the Committees desire to see equity awards linked to performance, it is proposed to amend the STDIP so Fixed Performance based that for awards made in relation to the financial year 2004 05, Performance shares any matching shares will be subject to the achievement of Annual bonus PRSP a performance condition, and a three year vesting period.
plus deferred plus share options shares STDIP EXSOP Subject to the approval of shareholders at the forthcoming Circa 40% Circa 60% AGM and in order to maintain the value and competitiveness of the plan to participants, it is proposed to increase the The Remuneration Committee monitors the size of potential ratio of matching shares to bonus shares from 0.5:1 to 1:1. remuneration awards to Directors and uses independent The Remuneration Committee has been independently consultants to assist with modelling potential outcomes.
advised that this will bring the plan into line with market practice.
The performance condition for awards in relation Of the components of remuneration packages, only basic to the financial year 2004 05 is expected to be based salary is pensionable.
on earnings per share eps growth, to emphasise the link between the interests of Directors and shareholders, Basic salary and aligned with the measure applied under the Executive The policy is to set salary broadly in line with median Share Option Plan.
The Companys Auditors will review market levels and it is based on individual performance and performance against the target.
There will be no retesting on information from independent professional sources on of the performance measure.
the salary levels for similar jobs in comparable companies.
By way of exception to the general policy, Karim Naffah, Executive Share Option Plan EXSOP the Finance Director, receives a salary set at around the At the discretion of the Committee, grants of EXSOP options upper quartile for his position, to reflect personal value, will normally be made annually: grants are scaled according background and experience.
In setting salary levels, levels to seniority and for Executive Directors, the maximum value of in the Group and in the wider employment market are also shares over which options may be granted in any year is two taken into account.
In determining the level of grant, the Company Mitchells & Butlers 15 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Remuneration report continued will take into account the level of awards made under the This group was selected because it consists of competitors Performance Restricted Share Plan, see below.
Since the Companys year end, Yates has fide-listed and is no longer included in the comparator group.
The grant of options is restricted so that in each year the aggregate of i 25% of the market value of the ordinary shares For the 2002 05 cycle, if the Company nishes in first to sixth over which an option is granted under EXSOP and ii 33% of the positions in the group an award will vest, graded between market value of the ordinary shares over which an award is made 100% of the TSR element of the award for first or second, under the Performance Restricted Share Plan, will not exceed to 20% for sixth position.
Below sixth position, the award 80% of an employees salary, taking the market value in each relating to TSR lapses.
case as at the date of grant.
These limits may only be exceeded in special circumstances which have not occurred to date.
For the 2003 06 cycle, if the Company nishes in first to fifth positions in the group an award will vest, graded A performance condition, set by the Committee, has to be met between 100% of the TSR element of the award for first, before options can be exercised.
As stated by the Chairman of to 20% for fifth position.
Below fifth position the award the Committee at the 2004 AGM, for options granted in 2004, relating to TSR lapses.
the performance measure is that the Companys eps over the three year performance period as adjusted for the 2003 share The vesting of the other 50% of the award will be based consolidation must increase by at least 6 percentage points on the average amount by which the Companys cash return on per annum on average over the growth in the UK Retail Prices capital employed CROCE exceeds its weighted average cost Index RPI before options can be exercised in full.
Reduced of capital WACC over the performance period.
The award for exercises will be permitted for lower levels of eps growth, this element of the performance measure will be graded so that as follows: if the amount by which the CROCE exceeds the WACC over the performance period is at least 4.5 percentage points, 100% of If eps growth exceeds the growth in RPI by 5 percentage the CROCE element of the award will vest, whereas if the excess points per annum on average over the performance period, is 3 percentage points, 20% of the award will vest.
In between two-thirds of the ordinary shares under option will become 3 and 4.5 percentage points, the award will be graded on a exercisable.
One-third of the ordinary shares under option straight line basis.
Below 3 percentage points there will be will become exercisable for eps growth exceeding the RPI no award in respect of this element.
by at least 4 percentage points per annum on average over the performance period.
TSR was chosen as a measure because it aligns the interest of management with that of shareholders.
The CROCE WACC Eps is a measurement which reects movement in shareholder measure was chosen to motivate the Executive Directors value and the target set would mean a significant and to increase the cash returns generated by the business challenging improvement in the Companys performance, and to reduce the overall cost of funding to the Company, if achieved.
The Companys Auditors will review performance thereby maximising the spread between the two and against the target.
If these performance targets are not met, the option lapses.
Performance measurement under PRSP will be reviewed Retesting is not permitted for options granted in 2004 by the Companys Auditors.
Rolled over options Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP On demerger from Six Continents, the Groups executives, The PRSP allows Executive Directors and eligible senior including the Executive Directors, with outstanding options employees to receive awards of shares or cash subject to the under the Six Continents Executive Share Option Schemes satisfaction of a performance condition, set by the Committee, were permitted to roll over those options into options of which is measured over a three year period.
equivalent value over the Companys shares.
The performance conditions ceased to apply to those options on demerger.
For the cycle to September 2004, the award was measured by reference to the Companys Total Shareholder Return Other share plans TSR performance relative to that of a comparator group Executive Directors may participate in the all-employee of 11 other companies over the same period.
The Company plans, the Sharesave Plan and the Share Incentive Plan: finished in 11th position and no award was made.
performance targets do not apply to such plans.
For the 2002 05 and 2003 06 cycles, 50% of the award will be measured by reference to TSR performance against the comparator group, which at the date of award consisted of: Mitchells & Butlers Punch Taverns Enterprise Inns Regent Inns Fuller, Smith & Turner The Restaurant Group Greene King Whitbread JD Wetherspoon Wolverhampton & Dudley Luminar Yates Mitchells & Butlers 16 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Companies used for comparison Director had made reasonable attempts to mitigate his loss.
In assessing overall levels of pay and benefits, Benets normally include membership of a pension scheme Mitchells & Butlers compares the packages offered by and a healthcare scheme and use of a company car.
These companies are chosen The Company is considering the introduction, for new by the Committee following advice from independent appointees to the Board, of phased compensation payments external consultants, having regard to: on loss of office.
Compensation industry sector, to include direct competitors and the Contract payable wider retail sector: start Unexpired Notice on early Director date term period termination size turnover, profits, margins and the number Mike Bramley 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a of people employed: Tim Clarke 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a Tony Hughes 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a Karim Naffah 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a structure and complexity of the business.
The companies currently used for comparison are: No payments should normally be payable on termination, other than the salary and benets due for the notice period and such entitlements under incentive Allied Domecq MyTravel plans that are consistent with the terms of such plans.
Avis Rank Group BAA RHM Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but Eurotunnel Signet operate under a letter of appointment that provides for their Gallagher Somereld tenure of ofce to be reviewed when they are about to stand HMV WH Smith for re-election, which is every three years.
In any event Imperial Tobacco Whitbread Non-Executive Directors cannot serve after the AGM following InterContinental Hotels Group William Hill their 67th birthday.
There is no notice period and no provision John Lewis Woolworths for termination payments.
The dates of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 10.
The Performance graph Total Shareholder Return Chairman Roger Carrs term of appointment is expressed From its listing on 15 April 2003 until 21 December 2003, to run for three years from the demerger of the Company the Company was a constituent of the FTSE 100 index.
Since from Six Continents, which occurred on 15 April 2003. then it has been included in the FTSE 250 index.
The graph below therefore measures the Companys TSR performance, Policy regarding pensions assuming dividends are reinvested, against both the FTSE UK-based Executive Directors and senior employees participate 100 and 250 indices.
on the same basis as other members in the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Pension Plan and, if appropriate, the Mitchells & TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Butlers Executive Top-Up Scheme.
Executives in Germany, requirements of the Companies Act 1985, except that who do not participate in these plans, are entitled to participate the period covered is only since the Companys listing in relevant local plans.
Policy on external appointments The Company recognises that its Directors may be invited Mitchells & Butlers TSR v FTSE 100 & 250 15 4 03 25 9 04 to become non-executive directors of other listed companies 160 and that such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, Mitchells & Butlers which will benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are 150 therefore allowed to accept one non-executive appointment, FTSE 250 with the Companys prior approval, and as long as this 140 is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Fees received FTSE 100 by the Director may be retained.
Tim Clarke ceased to be 130 a non-executive director of Debenhams plc on 4 December 2003 and received 6,700 for that appointment for the period 120 from 1 October to 4 December 2003.
Subsequent to the year end, he has been appointed a non-executive director of 110 Associated British Foods plc.
100 The rest of this Remuneration Report on pages 18 to 23 Source: DATASTREAM has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
90 A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S 2003 2004 Directors contracts It is the Companys normal policy to provide Executive Directors with rolling 12 months contracts, which provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the Director.
Service contracts provide for summary termination in the event of gross misconduct.
In other circumstances any severance payment would normally be based on a valuation of net pay and benefits for any unexpired notice period on the expectation that the Mitchells & Butlers 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Remuneration report continued Directors emoluments Total emoluments Basic Annual excluding pensions salaries performance and fees bonus Benets 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Mike Bramley 334 201 17 552 245 Tim Clarke 509 383 24 916 371 Tony Hughes 334 251 23 608 241 Karim Naffah 359 270 15 644 257 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 199 8 207 97 George Fairweather 49 49 23 Drummond Hall 7 7 Sir Tim Lankester 42 42 16 Sara Weller 49 49 23 Total 2004 1,882 1,105 87 3,074 Total 2003 848 379 46 1,273 Annual performance bonuses as described above for 2004 and for 2003 were wholly deferred into shares under the terms of the STDIP.
Appointed 30 July 2004, his fees are paid to Dairy Crest Group plc, his employer.
For 2003, the year of the Companys demerger from Six Continents PLC, emoluments cover the period from appointment to the Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Roger Carr and Tim Clarke, who were directors of Six Continents PLC for part of that year, received emoluments, not included above, of 56,000 and 363,000 respectively from that company.
The gures above represent emoluments earned during the periods shown.
There were no payments for loss of ofce.
Benets incorporate the value of any shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan and all tax assessable benets arising from employment with the Company which relate in the main to the provision of a company car and healthcare cover.
Salary As at 25 September and 30 November 2004 respectively, the basic annual salaries of Executive Directors were as shown below.
Their normal annual salary review date is 1 October.
04 30.11.04 Director 000 000 Mike Bramley 335 350 Tim Clarke 510 520 Tony Hughes 335 350 Karim Naffah 360 370 Mitchells & Butlers 18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Annual performance bonus The bonus for each Executive Director for 2003 04 was as follows: Constituent elements Maximum Group & personal bonus Bonus EPS target objectives achievable awarded Director 000 000 000 % 000 % Mike Bramley 268 201 167 100 34 33 Tim Clarke 408 383 255 100 128 83 Tony Hughes 268 251 167 100 84 83 Karim Naffah 288 270 180 100 90 83 The eps target was adjusted for the impact of the share consolidation on 2 December 2003 on the number of shares in issue.
The percentages show the proportion of that element of the bonus that was achieved.
To achieve maximum bonus, Directors had to meet targets related to: The Companys earnings per share performance: and Group and personal business objectives.
Group business objectives related to: improvement in like-for-like sales: achievement of renancing, return of funds to shareholders and new cash ow target: capital control on incremental investment and asset management: customer service standards: staff productivity: and purchasing gains.
Personal business objectives related to the financial performance in the business areas for which the Director was responsible.
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan The table below shows the maximum matching shares receivable if all of the Directors 2004 annual performance bonuses are deferred into share awards.
Ordinary Ordinary Total share Market share awards awards in value on awards in over Current respect of date of First respect of Value of First ordinary market year to award Year vesting year to awards Year vesting shares at value Director 27.9.
Calculated at a share price of 259.00p as at 25 September 2004.
As part of the terms of demerger, the Company provided 105,495 shares on 13 December 2003 and agreed to provide 17,371 shares in December 2004 to Tim Clarke to meet the entitlements he had accrued under the Six Continents Special Deferred Incentive Plan for 2001 02 and 2002 03 to date of demerger respectively.
Mitchells & Butlers 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Remuneration report continued Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP The PRSP was introduced on demerger initially to replace the Six Continents Long Term Incentive Plan for Mitchells & Butlers executives.
Awards which vested in 2003 were paid in cash during the year.
In 2004 there were three cycles of the plan in operation outlined below, the first of which was to replace participation in the final cycle of the Six Continents plan.
An eighteen months performance period to September 2004, where the performance measure related to the Companys total shareholder return against a group of eleven other comparator companies.
The Company nished in eleventh position and no award was made.
A thirty months performance period to September 2005, where the performance measures relate to the Companys total shareholder return performance and to its cash return on capital employed against its weighted average cost of capital.
The combined maximum award from the two measures is equivalent to 90% of basic salary at the date of the award.
A thirty-six months performance period to September 2006, where the performance measures relate to the Companys total shareholder return performance and to its cash return on capital employed against its weighted average cost of capital.
Further details of the performance measures are set out on page 16.
The maximum potential pre-tax value of Directors awards, at the date of grant, if performance targets are achieved, was: Maximum Maximum potential potential awards at Lapsed Granted awards at 28.9.
The gross amounts were: Mike Bramley 98,000: Tim Clarke 150,000: Tony Hughes 98,000 and Karim Naffah 105,000.
Participation in the PRSP is by means of an option, which is exercisable for nominal consideration once the performance conditions have been satisfied.
Mitchells & Butlers 20 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Directors pensions are subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Where such The following information relates to the pension limitation is due to the earnings cap, MABETUS is used arrangements provided for Mike Bramley, Tim Clarke, to increase pension and death benefits to the level that Tony Hughes and Karim Naffah under the Dened benefit would otherwise have applied.
The Plans main features Section of the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Pension Plan applicable to the Executive Directors are: the Plan, and in the cases of Tim Clarke, Tony Hughes and Karim Naffah under the unfunded Executive Top-Up a normal pension age of 60: Scheme MABETUS.
pension accrual of 1 30th of final pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service: The Plan is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, life assurance cover of four times pensionable salary: occupational pension scheme with a final salary section pensions payable in the event of ill health: and of which these Directors are members.
All Plan benefits spouses and dependants pensions on death.
Increase in transfer value over Increase Increase Accrued Transfer value of Directors year less in accrued in accrued pension at accrued pension Years of contributions Directors pension pension 25.9.
The absolute increase in accrued pension during the year, including any increase for ination.
The increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increase for ination.
Accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 25 September 2004.
Members of the Plan have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions, subject to Inland Revenue limits, but members of MABETUS are unlikely to benefit by doing so: neither any such contributions, nor the resulting benets, are included in the above table.
Transfer values have been calculated in a manner consistent with the Retirement Benets Schemes Transfer Values GNII published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
Additional pension information Pension increases The following is additional information relating to Directors All pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions pensions under the Plan and MABETUS.
are subject to contractual annual increases in line with the annual rise in the RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% per Dependants pensions annum.
In addition, it is the Companys present aim to pay On the death of a Director before his normal pension age, additional increases based on two-thirds of any rise in the a widows pension equal to one-third of his own pension RPI above 5% per annum.
is payable: a childs pension of one-sixth of his pension is payable for each of a maximum of two eligible children.
Other discretionary benets Other than the discretionary pension increases mentioned On the death of a Director after payment of his pension above, there are no discretionary practices which are taken commences, a widows pension of two-thirds of the into account in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
Directors full pension entitlement is payable: in addition, a childs pension of one-sixth of his full pension entitlement is payable for each of a maximum of two eligible children.
Early retirement rights After leaving the service of the Company, the member has the right to draw his accrued pension at any time after his 50th birthday, subject to a discount for early payment.
Mitchells & Butlers 21 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Remuneration report continued Directors options Weighted average Ordinary shares under option option Option Director 25.9.
No price was paid for the grant of any of the options.
A. where the options are exercisable and the market price per share was above the option price at Options granted during the year are exercisable under 25 September 2004: the Executive Share Option Plan the performance condition for which is set out on page 16 or the Sharesave Plan.
B. where the options are exercisable but the market price per share at 25 September 2004 was below the option Options granted under the Companys Executive Share price: and Option Plan are exercisable between 27 May 2006 and 23 May 2014 subject to the achievement of performance C. where the options are not yet exercisable and the conditions.
Rolled over options became exercisable on market price was above the option price on demerger from Six Continents in April 2003 and will lapse 25 September 2004. on various dates up to October 2012.
Rolled over options ceased to be subject to performance conditions on demerger.
The market price per share on 25 September 2004 was Sharesave options are exercisable between 1 October 2006 259p and the range during the year to 25 September 2004 and 31 March 2010. was 220.25p to 283.75p per share.
The above table excludes potential awards under the Performance Restricted Share Plan, which are shown on page 20.
Mitchells & Butlers 22 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 1 Ordinary shares of 7 12p Directors shareholdings 25.9.
03 Executive Director Mike Bramley 18,176 7,132 Tim Clarke 352,960 209,702 Tony Hughes 24,164 3,120 Karim Naffah 48,627 18,839 Non-Executive Director Roger Carr 1,067 1,067 George Fairweather Drummond Hall Sir Tim Lankester Sara Weller 2,200 Adjusted for the 12 for 17 share consolidation implemented on 2 December 2003.
As at date of appointment.
The above shareholdings are all beneficial interests and In the period from 26 September 2004 to 30 November 2004 include shares held on behalf of the Executive Directors there has been no change in the Directors interests other by the Trustee of the Companys Share Incentive Plan and than to the balance of shares held in the Trust, which is now by the Trustees of the Six Continents Employee profit Share 3,537,090 shares.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary or in debenture stocks of the The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open Company or any subsidiary.
to inspection at the registered ofce, contains full details of Directors shareholdings and share options.
At 25 September 2004 the Executive Directors, as potential beneciaries under the Companys Employee benefit Trust the Trust were technically deemed to be interested Approved by the Board, Sara Weller in 3,736,671 Mitchells & Butlers ordinary shares held Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, 30 November 2004 in the Trust.
Mitchells & Butlers 23 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004
