16 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction This report is made by the Board on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, to whom the Board has formally delegated its authority to establish policy in respect of all terms of employment for the Executive Directors and in accordance with Sch.
7 A of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The first part of the report provides details of Northgates remuneration policy.
The second part provides details of the remuneration and share interests of the Directors for the year ended 30 April 2004.
The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by J R Fryer, comprises J R Fryer, N J Irens, N Starritt and Sir Stephen Lander, who are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is responsible, on behalf of the Board as a whole, for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits, including performance-related bonus schemes and share option schemes, for the Executive Directors.
D Knight, Human Resources Director, provides advice and information to the Committee when required.
In addition, Messrs. Linklaters provided advice during the year in respect of performance criteria for share options, having been appointed by the Board.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is fixed by the Board.
Directors do not participate in decisions regarding their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is consulted in accordance with Section B2 of the Combined Code published by the Hampel Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
Remuneration policy Objectives The objectives of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors are: the total remuneration package should be competitive to attract, motivate and retain Directors of a high calibre: remuneration should use a combination of performance driven cash and equity-based rewards in addition to base salary and benefits: and the performance driven rewards should potentially form a significant portion of total rewards, to motivate the highest performance and align the interests of the Executives with those of the shareholders.
The remuneration of Executive Directors is set by reference to the market after giving full consideration to Section B of the Combined Code.
The overall remuneration package can consist of a base salary, annual bonus, pension rights, share options and car, medical and life assurance benefits.
It is the policy of the Committee to review the remuneration package offered to the Directors on an ongoing basis and make recommendations for changes where it is considered appropriate.
Performance-related pay represents a significant proportion of the total remuneration package.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set in line with market rates.
Base Salary In setting the base salary for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee reviews relevant market data and considers the Directors experience, performance and responsibilities, both internally and in comparison to similar companies in the IT sector.
Each of the Directors base salary is generally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in responsibilities.
Annual Bonus Bonuses are determined by reference to base salary, the achievement of the annual operating plan agreed by the full Board each year and the successful completion of specific corporate objectives.
It is the policy of the Committee to keep under review the objectives set and the proportions of base salary payable.
The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to a cash bonus.
Pension and other benefits The Executive Directors of Northgate Information Solutions plc are entitled to become members of the Groups pension scheme, details of which are set out in note 29, or to have comparable pension contributions made to a personal pension scheme on their behalf.
No pension contributions are made on behalf of the Non-Executive Directors.
Other benefits provided consist of a car or allowance towards vehicle running costs and medical life assurance benefits.
Pension and other benefits provided are subject to regular review by the Company to ensure that they remain attractive and competitive.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 17 Share Options Share options are granted on the recommendation of the Committee and are ratified by the Board on a discretionary basis.
Under the terms of the 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme, options are awarded to Executive Directors, based on the market price at the time of grant.
These options can normally be exercised between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant, subject to the achievement of certain performance conditions.
It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee to consider and approve performance conditions for each eligible employee on an individual basis, taking into account the employees specific job responsibilities and objectives, together with market and other conditions at the time the award is made.
Consistent with Shareholder Approval given on 23 November 1999, exercise of a proportion of the options awarded to eligible employees is not necessarily subject to share price performance conditions.
Exercise of the remaining proportion of the options is generally subject to stepped performance conditions, increasing potential reward in line with performance.
In line with best practice and guidelines, the Remuneration Committee agreed that, as from 15 December 2003, all options issued will have performance criteria set.
After detailed benchmarking and consultation with the Companys advisers, these are currently being set at total shareholder return of RPI plus 8% p. a. over a three-year vesting period.
If shareholders get a return less than this over the period then options will lapse.
The Group views this as challenging criteria to help align employee and shareholder interests.
ABI guidelines and best practice suggests that a company should be able to issue options up to 10% of its share capital.
The Northgate scheme was put in place in 1999 when the Group was in serious financial difficulties and needed to attract high quality management.
With the approval of shareholders at the time, the Group secured the services of C M R Stone, the current Chief Executive.
Mr Stone was awarded approximately 17 million options at a time when the option scheme did not require performance criteria to be set for all options.
This issue in turn led the Company to acquire shareholder approval to issue options up to 15% of its share capital, thereby permitting a number of other senior managers to be incentivised over the medium term.
This is seen as being integral to the substantial growth in profitability and share price since 1999.
The mechanics of the option scheme are such that, when options are exercised, the Company issues shares to the value of any gain made rather than issue the number of shares over which options are held.
This reduces any dilution of earnings to well below 15%.
For example, if 1,000 options are granted at 35p and subsequently exercised at a share price of 70p, 500 shares would be issued rather than 1,000, as below: 35p x 1,000 this equates to only 50% of the options issued.
70p The Directors have calculated that, if all of the 51,346,244 options in issue at 30 April 2004 were capable of exercise, and had been exercised at that date when the Companys share price was 68 pence, a total of 29,929,947 shares would have been issued as a result.
This would mean that the Companys issued share capital at that date would have been increased by 4.4 per cent.
All of the Executive Directors may participate in the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
This scheme is an all-employee scheme, for which performance conditions do not apply.
Service Contracts For Executive Directors, it is the policy of the Company that service contracts do not have notice periods by the Company in excess of one year, and by the Executive Director in excess of six months.
The contracts are ongoing with no fixed termination date.
On early termination, the Company is entitled to make payments to the Executive Director of sums equal to the value of his salary and other benefits in lieu of the required period of notice.
