DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee The remuneration policy is determined by the Board and is described below.
Within the framework of this policy, individual remuneration packages are determined by the Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee.
The Committee is composed of the non-executive directors, Mr W W Rhodes, Mr N G Hannah, Mr J H Holt, Mr M T Davies and Sir Nigel Rudd.
Its chairman throughout the year was Mr W W Rhodes, the senior independent director.
Matters relating to the executive directors remuneration for the financial year 2004 were considered by the Committee during the year.
Advisers The Committee did not receive advice, services or assistance from any person during the year, save from the secretary, Hilary Sykes, who is also a director of the company.
KPMG Audit Plc, solely in its capacity as auditor to the company has provided advice to the company on the requirements for the companys reporting on remuneration matters.
In each case the advice given was solely in connection with the companys compliance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
Neither of the advisers was appointed by the Committee.
Remuneration Policy The companys policy in respect of directors remuneration for the forthcoming year recognises the need to attract and retain executive directors with levels of remuneration that are arrived at responsibly and to reward them fairly, when compared with similar organisations.
Remuneration packages for executive directors are structured to include a performance related element, linked to corporate and individual goals.
The performance related element takes the form of an annual bonus, payable on fulfilment of the prescribed conditions, which are determined annually at the commencement of the companys financial year.
Bonus earnings may not exceed 100 per cent of an executives salary.
However, the maximum bonus of 100 per cent of salary may be achieved only for exceptional performance.
The making of any award is conditional on the companys achieving the profit target set for the financial year.
The companys policy on non-executive directors remuneration is reviewed annually by the Board.
Remuneration for non-executive directors is confined to basic salary without a performance related element.
Non-executive directors may elect to receive all or part of their remuneration in the form of benefits in kind, typically the provision of a motor vehicle for their use.
The Board does not foresee any variation to the policy for either executive or non-executive directors in the forthcoming year.
It is the policy of the company to align the interests of all employees with the interests of shareholders as closely possible.
Schemes encouraging employee share ownership are an important element of this policy.
Employees held options over 2,367,956 shares under the Pendragon PLC Sharesave Scheme described in more detail on page 48 as at 31 December 2004.
During the year, options over a total of 344,155 shares granted under this scheme were exercised by employees.
Share Option Schemes The company operates the Pendragon 1999 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the Pendragon 1999 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the Executive Schemes and the 1998 Pendragon Sharesave Scheme the Sharesave Scheme.
The features of the Executive Schemes are described on page 24.
The Sharesave Scheme is an All Employee Share Option Scheme, in which all full time employees with the requisite period of continuous service are eligible to participate.
The executive directors are eligible to participate in the schemes in the forthcoming financial year.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any share option schemes.
Service Contracts Each executive director has a service contract with the company.
The executive directors service agreements contain provisions regarding remuneration, holiday and sick pay entitlements, restrictions and disciplinary matters.
Executive directors have twelve month rolling notice periods.
In setting such notice periods, the company had regard to practice, both within the retail automotive sector and elsewhere, as regards positions of this seniority.
Factors influencing this choice are the time reasonably required to select and recruit to such positions and the desirability in certain circumstances of retaining a directors services during the notice period whilst a suitable replacement is found.
In line with the Combined Code and best practice, during the year Mr Finns service agreement has been amended so as to reduce the notice period to twelve months.
Each non-executive director has a service contract appointing him for a two year period, with no notice period for termination required from either party.
The appointment is renewable upon expiry, at the companys discretion.
Upon expiry of each such appointment the Board reviews the appropriateness of the non-executive directors reappointment, having regard to the attendance and performance of the non-executive director and the composition and skills of the Board as a whole.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Details of the directors service contracts and notice periods or, as the case may be, expiry dates are set out below.
Name Commencement Expiry Notice Period Sir A N R Rudd 01.01.04 31.12.05 none T G Finn 20.12.99 n a 1 year M S Casha 20.12.99 n a 1 year DRForsyth 20.12.99n a1 year H C Sykes 20.12.99 n a 1 year W W Rhodes 01.01.05 31.12.07 none N G Hannah 01.01.05 31.12.07 none J H Holt 01.01.04 31.12.05 none M T Davies 18.10.04 31.12.06 none Compensation for termination of each such contract is payable only in limited circumstances, as described below.
Each of the directors appointments contains terms entitling him to a compensation payment in the event of a change of control of the company.
For executive directors, the compensation is payable if his employment is terminated by him or by the company giving notice within the period of six months after the take-over event which constitutes the change of control.
The elements of the compensation payable in the limited circumstances described above are: i the directors basic salary for the unexpired portion of the contractual notice period applicable to him: ii one years entitlement to annual bonus, applying an assumption that all relevant performance conditions to achieve maximum bonus have been met: and iii an amount representing the value of one years benefits under his service contract.
The benefits provided to executive directors are made up of cars and fuel, a contribution to home telephone, private medical insurance, and, in the case of Mr Forsyth, professional subscriptions.
Non-executive directors have similar compensation entitlements, save that these are confined to one years remuneration and the value of one years benefits, since non-executives have no bonus scheme entitlement.
Individual directors eligibility for the various elements of compensation is set out below: Name Salary Bonus Benefits Sir A N R Rudd 1 year n a 1 year T G Finn 1 year 1 year 1 year M S Casha 1 year 1 year 1 year D R Forsyth 1 year 1 year 1 year H C Sykes 1 year 1 year 1 year W W Rhodes 1 year n a 1 year N G Hannah 1 year n a 1 year J H Holt 1 year n a 1 year M T Davies 1 year n a 1 year Where applicable, payment of this compensation would be in full and final settlement of all claims other than in respect of share options and pension arrangements.
Other than as described above, there are no express provisions within the directors service contracts for the payment of compensation or liquidated damages on termination of employment.
No significant awards of compensation for loss of office or for any other reason have been made to any person, whether a director or a former director, during the year.
Salaries and Bonus Within the framework of the remuneration policy set by the Board, salaries are reviewed annually by the Committee as from 1 January.
Executive directors also receive further benefits which include two cars, one of which is fully expensed, and private health care.
The Committee may recommend that the company make additional payments to executive directors each year in the form of a discretionary bonus.
When considering whether or not to recommend any such payment, the Committee takes into account the performance of the company against its principal objectives and the individual performance of the director over the immediately preceding financial year.
Awards of bonus are limited to 100 per cent of the directors salary.
This is increased from the 70 per cent maximum limit applicable for 2003.
The change was made to reflect more closely the practice emerging for FTSE 350 companies, obtained from independent research.
Bonus awards at the highest available percentage of salary are made only upon achievement of outstanding performance.
The bonus criteria for 2004 were set by the Committee early in the year.
Of the available bonus, up to 40 per cent is achievable by reference to financial targets and up to 60 per cent based on individual performance.
These levels are not such as to render the total remuneration unreasonable or excessive in the context of the companys sector.
The salary, together with any bonus, is the only pensionable element of the executive directors remuneration packages.
The Combined Code Schedule A requires that in general, annual bonuses should not be pensionable.
However, the Board regards the bonus element as an important motivational and retention feature of the executive directors remuneration packages.
If awarded, bonuses come to be regarded by directors as part of their on target earnings and for this reason are treated as pensionable.
Fees for non-executive directors are agreed by the Board.
Individual Aspects of Remuneration The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following sections of the report, except where stated otherwise.
Directors Remuneration Salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total Total emoluments emoluments exc.
Pension contributions paid in 2004 were 195,934 2003: nil.
Share Options The company operates the Pendragon 1999 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, which is an Inland Revenue approved scheme, and the Pendragon 1999 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the Executive Schemes, each of which was approved at the Companys 1999 Annual General Meeting.
Under the terms of the Executive Schemes, employees including executive directors may receive options at current market value.
Options may be exercised, subject to the achievement of certain criteria relating to the performance of earnings per share as detailed above, between three and ten years after grant.
No variation has been made during the financial year in the terms and conditions of the share options.
Performance Condition for the Executive Schemes Each of the Executive Schemes operates to the same performance conditions.
It is a pre-condition to the exercise of options granted under the Executive Schemes that the growth in the companys adjusted earnings per share over the prescribed three year period exceeds by at least 3 per cent per annum compound the rate of inflation for that period as shown by the Retail Prices Index.
The period in question is the period of three consecutive years beginning with the financial year in which the option is granted.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED For the purposes of the performance condition, the means of calculating the adjusted earnings per share is to take the companys consolidated profit on ordinary activities after tax but before charging or crediting as the case may be the after tax effect of exceptional items as defined in paragraph 20 of FRS3 and divide it by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend.
The adjusted earnings per share for the third of the three years in question is compared to that for the first of such periods to identify the growth in adjusted earnings per share.
The amount of such growth, expressed as a percentage, is compared to the increase in the Retail Prices Index for the period of three years commencing on the last day of the financial period ended before the date of grant.
The earnings per share of the company has been selected by the company as the performance measurement for the Executive Schemes because it is the principal measure used by analysts, investors and potential investors in assessing the companys performance.
This is borne out by the fact that the investor and advisory community publishes forecasts of the companys profit performance expressed as profit before tax and as earnings per share.
The definition of adjusted earnings per share applied for the purposes of the performance condition is more restrictive than that used by the investor community, and therefore renders the fulfilment of the performance condition more difficult to achieve.
This is in line with ABI guidelines regarding share option scheme performance conditions.
The factors considered in relation to the performance condition for the Executive Schemes are confined to the companys earnings per share performance as compared to the percentage increase in the Retail Prices Index.
This performance condition was selected in accordance with ABI guidelines and was approved by the shareholders in general meeting upon the companys adoption of the Executive Schemes in 1999.
Since then there has been no variation to the performance condition.
It is the companys policy that non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any share option scheme or long-term incentive scheme, nor are they entitled to any other element of remuneration linked to performance conditions.
The aggregate gain made by the directors on share options exercised during 2004 was 68,241 2003: 2,139,404.
The middle market price of Pendragon PLC ordinary shares at 31 December 2004 was 300.00 pence, and the range during the year was 187.75 pence to 348.00 pence.
There are no other share option or long term incentive schemes for which the directors are eligible.
It is not proposed to make any significant amendments to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of a director to share options nor are there any proposals to introduce a long term incentive scheme as defined in the Regulations for which directors are eligible.
Total Shareholder Return not subject to audit The graph below shows the growth in total shareholder return on the companys shares in comparison to the FTSE 350 Index.
For the purposes of the graph, total shareholder return has been calculated as the percentage change during the relevant period in the market price of the shares, assuming that any dividends paid are reinvested.
The relevant period is the five years ending 31 December 2004.
A more detailed description of the total shareholder return calculation is set out in the Notes.
This report is required, pursuant to the Regulations, to contain this graph as a visual interpretation of the share price performance against a comparator stock market index.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is calculated over the period of five years ended on 31 December 2004 and reflects the theoretical growth in the value of a shareholding over that period, assuming dividends are reinvested in shares in the company.
The price at which the dividends are reinvested is assumed to be the amount equal to the closing price of the shares on the ex-dividend date plus the gross amount of annual dividend.
The calculation ignores tax and reinvestment charges.
For each company in the index the TSR statistics are normalised to a common start point, which gives the equivalent of investing the same amount of money in each company at that time.
The percentage growth in TSR is measured over the chosen period.
To obtain the TSR growth of the relevant index over the chosen period, the weighted average TSR growth for all the companies in the index is calculated.
In this case, it is the FTSE350 Index excluding investment companies as explained in Note 3.
The weighting is by reference to the market capitalisation of each company in the index in proportion to the total market capitalisation of all the companies in the index at the end of the chosen measurement period.
The FTSE 350 Index has been selected because the company clearly falls within the criterion reported on by that index, namely, market capitalisation not less than circa 340 million.
Pensions The assets of the Pendragon Pension Plan, established for the benefit of the group's eligible employees, are held by trustees separately from those of the group.
The Plan operates through a trustee company of which Mr W W Rhodes is the chairman.
The management of the Plan's assets is delegated to specialist independent investment managers and there is no direct investment in Pendragon PLC.
The executive directors participate on a non-contributory basis in the Pendragon Pension Plan.
The non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Pendragon Pension Plan.
Pension benefits earned by the directors: 000 T G Finn M S Casha D R Forsyth H C Sykes Total annual accrued pension entitlement at 31.12.03 p. a 179 71 28 15 Total annual accrued pension entitlement at 31.12.04 p. a 230 86 31 17 Increase in accrued pension during the year excluding inflation p. a 45 12 2 2 Increase in accrued pension during the year including inflation p. a 51 15 3 2 Transfer value of increase excluding inflation 689 142 15 12 Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31.12.03 2,096 617 145 68 Transfer value of accrued benefits at 31.12.04 3,538 1,002 219 103 Increase in transfer value over the year 1,442 385 74 35
