P&O Annual Report 2004 37 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report This report complies with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations, has been approved by the directors and will be put to stockholders for approval at the annual general meeting on 13 May 2005.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee consists entirely of independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir John Collins.
The other members of the committee during 2004 were Rodney Galpin, Michael Everard and Sir David Brown.
The consultants Deloitte were appointed by the committee to assist it in conducting a comprehensive review of executive directors remuneration.
During 2004, other parts of the Deloitte group carried out certain work for subsidiaries and associates of the Company including a review of information systems and the provision of tax calculation software, but in view of the limited scope and scale of this other work this is not considered to affect their independence.
In addition, the committee consults with the Chairman and Chief Executive as appropriate with regard to its proposals relating to the remuneration of the executive directors.
Policy The policy of the committee is to review executive directors remuneration based on an independent assessment of market practice.
The total remuneration package of the executive directors is structured to attract, retain and motivate executive directors.
The committee has, in consultation with its advisers, conducted an annual review of executive directors remuneration, including bonuses and long term incentives, to ensure consistency with market practice, local conditions and business objectives.
The major proportion of the remuneration package for executive directors is performance-related assuming maximum performance in respect of the performance-related elements.
This includes participation in the Companys long term incentive plans, which currently consist of a Deferred Bonus and Co-investment Matching Plan the Matching Plan and an Executive Stock Option Plan the P&O Option Plan, which are described in more detail below, though no grants have been made to directors under the P&O Option Plan in 2004.
The performance conditions and policies relating to long term incentives and directors remuneration packages were approved by stockholders in October 2000 and have not been materially altered since that date.
The total remuneration package is designed to align the interests of executive directors with those of stockholders.
In 2004 the rules of the P&O Option Plan were amended, with stockholder approval, so as to allow the exercise of options to be satisfied by issuing or transferring a smaller amount of stock than that over which the option was originally granted.
During 2004, the committee undertook a comprehensive review of directors remuneration, in consequence of which new long-term incentive structures will be submitted to stockholders for approval at the annual general meeting.
Details of these structures are set out below.
The Company has also introduced a Directors Shareholding Guideline as described on page 44.
This report sets out the Companys policy on executive remuneration for 2005 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The inclusion in the report of remuneration policy in respect of years after 2005 is required by the Regulations.
The committee cannot be certain that its remuneration policy will continue without amendment in 2005 or subsequent years.
The committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufciently exible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
In addition, where necessary, in order to recruit a director of sufficient calibre, the remuneration committee may consider it appropriate to enter into special arrangements for the benefit of that director.
Any changes in policy will be described in future reports, which will continue to be subject to stockholder approval.
All statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for years after 2005 should be read in light of this paragraph.
Except as noted above, there are no current proposals to change this policy.
Components of remuneration The remuneration package of executive directors comprises base salary, an annual bonus scheme, long term incentive plans, pension arrangements and certain benets in kind for example health cover, car benets and accommodation where relevant to their role.
In some cases directors take their pension and other benets in the form of a cash equivalent payment.
In addition executive directors are entitled to participate in any all-employee share scheme of the Company.
Base salary Base salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually and are set at levels which reect the level of responsibility of the executive directors concerned and ensure that they are competitive with pay for executive directors holding equivalent positions in comparable companies.
The benchmark levels represent remuneration data across industries and reect factors including company size, reporting level and international accountability.
Annual performance bonus Executive directors participate in a non-pensionable bonus scheme which is linked to the achievement of demanding business and corporate objectives including profitability and other key performance indicators.
Bonus targets for 2004 were based on headline profit and other financial targets for the Group and the main operating divisions, and the requirement to achieve key strategic objectives.
The Group elements of the 2004 targets financial and strategic were achieved in a range of 73 to 88 per cent of maximum.
The business specic performance targets for Ferries were not met.
All incentive targets are set by the committee and are designed to be demanding.
Financial targets are normally set above those for the prior year, but having regard to the anticipated trading environment.
The maximum annual bonus that can be earned is generally 75 per cent of salary.
Two thirds of any bonus up to 75 per cent of salary is paid in cash with the balance awarded as a Stock Award under the Matching Plan, as described below.
The committee has over-riding discretion in determining the payment of bonuses.
38 P&O Annual Report 2004 Directors remuneration report Long term incentives As stated above, the Companys long term incentive plans currently comprise the Matching Plan and the P&O Option Plan.
The Matching Plan The Matching Plan provides participants with the opportunity to receive matching awards of deferred stock depending upon the performance of the Company over a two year retention period following the year in which an original bonus-related award is earned.
As noted above, one third of any annual bonus awarded to directors and other executives who are participants in the Matching Plan is in the form of a Stock Award which is automatically invested in the Matching Plan.
The Board believes that, in order to further align participants interests with those of stockholders, participants should be invited to commit their own resources to the Matching Plan.
Therefore participants also have a choice of investing their own funds in further deferred stock in the Company described as Invested Stock subject to an overall limit for directors on the amount invested in the Matching Plan in any one year of 75 per cent of base salary.
Subject to the discretion of the Matching Plan Trustee, Matching Plan participants receive Matching Awards.
Matching Awards entitle the participants to acquire a maximum amount of deferred stock which, at the date of grant, has a value equal to the aggregate value of the executives Stock Award and Invested Stock valuing Invested Stock on a gross of tax basis.
The amount of deferred stock over which a Matching Award may be exercised is dependent on the Companys total shareholder return TSR over the retention period compared to that of the other companies in the FTSE 350 index.
TSR is used as a performance measure because it is considered to be effective in aligning the interests of executives and stockholders.
If the Company achieves median performance a participant is entitled to exercise 25 per cent of his Matching Award and if the Company achieves upper quartile performance, a participant will be entitled to exercise 100 per cent of his Matching Award.
For performance between median and upper quartile, entitlement is calculated on a straight line basis.
These targets are subject to review by the committee.
Matching Awards are only exercisable if a secondary validating performance condition is also met.
This requires earnings per share growth after appropriate adjustments to ensure consistency throughout the period over the retention period to exceed the growth in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least 3 per cent per annum.
The rules of the Matching Plan permit the adoption of a different performance condition if at the time of a grant of awards under the Matching Plan it is thought appropriate to do so, provided that the replacement conditions are no less demanding.
For 2002 and 2004, the Company reported a negative EPS and accordingly application of the formula for EPS growth would result in a less stretching hurdle.
Therefore, the remuneration committee resolved that the secondary validating performance condition for the 2002 awards and 2004 awards under the Matching Plan would be that the growth in P&Os pre-tax and exceptional items profit per 1 nominal of deferred stock over the retention period must exceed the growth in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least 3 per cent per annum.
The TSR and EPS performance conditions were chosen since they were considered the most appropriate for determining the Companys performance.
They were established after consultation with the Association of British Insurers and the Companys largest stockholders.
Other share related benets In 2004 no general grant of stock options was made to the executive directors or senior executives under the P&O Option Plan and it is intended that, except in exceptional circumstances e. g. recruitment, no grants will be made in future years.
Options under this plan are generally exercisable three years after the date of grant subject to the achievement of performance conditions and remain exercisable until the tenth anniversary of grant.
Performance conditions are generally based on the achievement of EPS growth after appropriate adjustments to ensure consistency throughout the period of an average of at least 3 per cent per annum in excess of the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index over a period of at least three years from grant.
This was considered to be an appropriate hurdle and consistent with market practice at the time the P&O Option Plan was adopted.
The Company reported negative EPS for 2002 and accordingly application of the formula for EPS growth would result in a less stretching hurdle.
Therefore, the remuneration committee resolved that options granted during 2003 will not normally be exercisable unless the growth in P&Os pre-tax and exceptional items profit per 1 nominal of deferred stock over a period of at least three years from grant exceeds the percentage increase in the UK Index of Retail Prices by an average of at least 3 per cent per annum.
There is a facility for the Company to require optionholders to assume the Companys liability for employers national insurance contributions due on the exercise of unapproved stock options.
The Company may grant additional options in recognition of the liability that optionholders assume.
At the 2004 annual general meeting the stockholders approved an amendment to the rules of the P&O Option Plan to enable the Company to satisfy the exercise of both existing and future options by the issue of only that amount of stock which has a value, at the time of exercise, equal to the net gain resulting from the exercise, that is, the difference between the market price on the day of exercise of the amount of stock under the option and the total exercise price payable.
Executive directors may participate, subject to the usual limits, in the P&O 2004 UK Sharesave Plan the 2004 Plan, and previously the P&O Save As You Earn Stock Option Scheme the P&O SAYE Scheme, on the same terms as other employees.
The 2004 Plan operates within specic tax legislation including a requirement to finance the exercise of the option using the proceeds of a monthly savings contract and exercise of the option is not subject to satisfaction of a performance target since this is an all-employee share scheme.
P&O Annual Report 2004 39 Directors remuneration report Proposed new incentive structures As foreshadowed in the 2003 Annual Report, the remuneration committee has conducted a comprehensive review of Board and senior management remuneration structures.
The aim of the review was to:.
increase the alignment between directors incentive arrangements and stockholders interests:.
ensure that the Companys remuneration structures support its continuing business objectives and strategy: and.
ensure that the arrangements are cost effective given the new accounting rules on the treatment of share-based payments.
Subject to stockholder approval of the proposed new Performance Share Plan and new Matching Share Plan at the 2005 annual general meeting, it is proposed that the remuneration structure for executive directors will consist of the following elements:.
Further details on the incentive arrangements are set out below.
The Companys largest stockholders have been consulted on these proposed new arrangements.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses for executive directors will be payable in cash and will continue to be subject to a maximum award of 75 per cent of salary.
The principal performance measures will continue to be based on achievement of a combination of demanding Group, individual and, where applicable, divisional targets.
New Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, executive directors and a limited number of other senior employees who have significant inuence over the Groups ability to meet its strategic objectives will be eligible to receive annual awards, in the form of deferred stock, worth up to 120 per cent of salary for directors and a lesser amount for executives below Board level.
In order to provide exibility, the scheme rules will however allow annual awards of up to a maximum of 200 per cent of salary.
Awards will vest after three years subject to the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts at the date of award.
25 per cent of the award will vest if the Company is ranked at the median.
The full award will vest if the Company is ranked at, or above, the upper quartile.
Between these two points, the award will vest on a straight line basis.
No portion of the award will vest if the Company is ranked below the median, and any unvested award at the end of the three year period will automatically lapse.
Awards will only vest subject to the remuneration committee determining that the TSR performance is a genuine reection of the Companys underlying financial performance over the three year period.
Awards made to executives with responsibility solely for a specic business unit may vest based on the performance of their business unit, as opposed to relative TSR.
However, executive directors with such business unit responsibility will have at least one third of the award subject to the TSR performance condition.
Awards made to executive directors with Group-wide responsibility will be subject solely to the TSR performance condition.
Awards may be satisfied by the use of stock purchased in the market or newly issued stock and to the extent that new issue stock is used this will be subject to the normal dilution limits i. e. options awards over stock in the Company will not exceed 5 per cent of the Companys issued deferred stock in any rolling 10 year period in respect of executive schemes, or 10 per cent in any 10 year period in respect of all schemes.
In the event of a change of control, awards will vest based on the Companys performance to date and the time elapsed in the three year performance period.
However, the remuneration committee will retain an overriding discretion to adjust any award above or below these amounts, based on the Companys financial performance to the date of change of control.
New Matching Share Plan MSP Executive directors will also be able to invest their own cash resources up to a limit of 50 per cent of their maximum bonus opportunity into stock in the Company Invested Stock.
Participants who make such investment will receive a performance based matching award equal in value to the Invested Stock valuing the Invested Stock on a pre-tax basis.
It is intended that the first awards under the revised MSP arrangements will be made in 2005 and will vest after three years, subject in normal circumstances to the participant continuing to hold the Invested Stock for the three year period and will vest based on the same TSR performance conditions as under the PSP.
40 P&O Annual Report 2004 Directors remuneration report Service contracts and Board changes No executive director has a service contract of more than twelve months with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
All executive directors service contracts are reissued with effect from 1 January in each year and are terminable upon twelve months notice by either party, except that in the exceptional circumstance where an executive director will be or has been materially adversely affected by the pension taxation changes in the Finance Act 2004 or any subsequent legislation he will be entitled to give six months notice.
Lord Sterling will retire as Chairman, and Rodney Galpin will leave the Board, at the 2005 annual general meeting.
The Chairman and the executive directors have service contracts which provide for payments in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months base salary and benets, including bonus.
Compensation payable upon early termination other than under the payment in lieu of notice provisions would be based on the contractual entitlement to salary and benets subject to mitigation.
Sir John Parker joined the Board as Deputy Chairman on 1 February 2005 on a salary of 200,000 p. a. and will become Chairman on 13 May 2005 on a salary of 400,000 p. a.
He will not be entitled to participate in any of the Companys incentive or pension schemes.
His contract is terminable on six months notice but subject thereto is for a xed term until 31 January 2008.
Robert Woods and Nick Luff are non-executive directors of Royal P&O Nedlloyd N. V. as representatives of the Company, which retains their fees for this service.
Robert Woods is a non-executive director of John Swire & Sons, for which he receives an annual fee of 32,500.
Nick Luff is a non-executive director of QinetiQ Group plc for which he receives an annual fee of 35,000.
Non-executive directors The non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
The remuneration of non-executive directors is decided by the Board.
Non-executive directors receive a base fee and they also receive fees for additional services such as being a member of, or chairing a Board committee.
Non-executive directors are not eligible for incentive schemes or other benets.
At the 2004 annual general meeting the stockholders approved a proposal to increase to 0.5 million the aggregate annual limit on fees payable to non-executive directors other than the Chairman, and the Board adopted with effect from 1 July 2004 the following revised remuneration structure for non-executive directors, which will be subject to annual review by the Board: Base fee 30,000 per annum Committee membership fee 5,000 per annum per committee Committee chairmanship fee 5,000 per annum Senior non-executive director 5,000 per annum Remuneration and audit committees only The unexpired term of service of the non-executive directors subject to re-election by stockholders is: Sir David Brown: 15 January 2007 Sir John Collins: 31 December 2005 Michael Everard: 31 December 2005 Sir John Parker: 31 January 2008 David Williams: 31 December 2007 With the exception of Sir John Parker and David Williams, whose appointments are subject to six months notice by either party, all letters of appointment in respect of the above are subject to twelve months notice by either party.
Performance graph Cumulative TSR Performance 120 In line with the Regulations, the following graph compares the performance of the Companys deferred stock on a TSR basis for the past five years against the FTSE 350 Index.
This 100 index has been selected as P&O is a constituent of the FTSE 350 and uses this index for its comparator group for the Matching Plan.
However, the line representing the FTSE 350 80 on the graph is based on the market index weighted by market capitalisation whereas the Matching Plan is based on 60 the performance of the companies comprising the FTSE 350 at the commencement of the relevant performance period.
TSR is shown as the value of 100 invested in P&O and in the 40 FTSE 350 index over the five year period.
P&Os TSR data has been adjusted to exclude the value 20 attributable to P&O Princess Cruises by reference to the proportionate value of the two businesses at the demerger 0 date.
Jan-00 Dec-00 Dec-01 Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 TSR is calculated for each year relative to the base date of 1 January 2000 and taking the percentage change of the P&O using historically adjusted P&O data market price over the relevant period, reinvesting any FTSE 350 dividends at the ex-dividend date.
Value of 100 invested in January 2000 P&O Annual Report 2004 41 Directors remuneration report Details of directors remuneration With the exception of the deferred stock and the total interests columns in the table of executive directors interests in shares and the non-executive directors interests in shares, the following sections of the remuneration report have been audited.
Directors emoluments Salary Stock awards Benefits Cash in lieu and fees and bonus in kind of benefits Total Total 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Lord Sterling 359 216 85 660 551 Robert Woods 450 271 46 767 552 Michael Gradon 284 176 20 480 358 Nick Luff 359 222 7 105 693 356{ Russ Peters 256 47 17 320 162{ Peter Smith 236 146 40 422 316 # Sir Bruce MacPhail 808 # Joanne Curin 320 # Charles Rice 364 Non-executive directors Sir David Brown 33 33 25 Sir John Collins 39 39 33 Michael Everard 33 33 25 Rodney Galpin 44 44 33 2,093 1,078 215 105 3,491 3,903 { from date of appointment # up to date of cessation of directorship The stock awards will be the subject of 2005 awards under the Matching Plan Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services amounted to 3,491,000 2003 3,436,000.
Nick Luff received a cash equivalent payment in place of certain benets in kind and pension benets.
Sir Bruce MacPhail who retired as a director of the Company on 31 December 2003 worked on a part-time basis for the Company throughout 2004 managing the disposal of the development property portfolio for which he received a salary of 250,000, benets in kind of 59,026 and a bonus of 375,000.
Graeme Dunlop who ceased to be a director of the Company on 31 December 2002 worked as a special advisor to the Board and Company throughout 2004, receiving fees of 20,000 and benets in kind of 18,400.
Richard Hein who retired as a director of the Company on 17 May 2002 was Chairman of P&O Australia Limited throughout 2004 for which he received a salary of 117,541, received benets in kind of 12,857 and a bonus of 47,016.
42 P&O Annual Report 2004 Directors remuneration report Directors interests in shares The following is a table of the executive directors deferred stock, long term incentive awards and option grants in units of 1 nominal of deferred stock under the Matching Plan, P&O SAYE Scheme and the P&O Option Plan.
The terms of the P&O SAYE Scheme, P&O Option Plan and the Matching Plan are set out under the heading Long term incentives on page 38.
Further details of the stock option grants are set out on pages 43 and 44.
Dividend stock includes stock purchased in lieu of dividends for the stock held in the Employee benefit Trust and stock purchased with dividends for stock in PEPs and ISAs.
1 The Matching Plan Stock Awards, which had been granted on 8 May 2002, vested on 4 March 2004.
The market value of the deferred stock constituting these awards on the day of grant was 286p and on the day of vesting was 237p.
2 The date of exercise of the Matching Plan Stock Award was 29 March 2004.
The market value of the deferred stock constituting these awards on the day of exercise was 218p.
3 The date of exercise of the Matching Plan Stock Award was 30 March 2004.
The market value of the deferred stock constituting this award on the day of exercise was 220p.
4 The date of exercise of the Stock Options was 12 October 2004.
The market value of the deferred stock on the day of exercise was 270p and the exercise price 243p.
5 The date of exercise of the Stock Options was 17 November 2004.
The market value of the deferred stock on the day of exercise was 286p and the exercise price 243p.
6 The date of exercise of the Stock Options was 11 November 2004.
The market value of the deferred stock on the day of exercise was 283p and the exercise price 243p.
7 The date of exercise of the Stock Options was 5 October 2004.
The market value of the deferred stock on the day of exercise was 268p and the exercise price 243p.
8 The 2004 Matching Plan Awards were granted on 29 March 2004 and the market value of the deferred stock constituting these awards on the day of the grant was 218p.
The performance conditions and performance period for these awards are described on page 38.
P&O Annual Report 2004 43 Directors remuneration report The aggregate net value of assets received or receivable by directors during the year under long term incentive plans was 1,544,555 2003 1,438,000.
Lord Sterling had a non-beneficial interest in 174,595 nominal of deferred stock 2003 174,595.
The remuneration committee agreed that within three months after the date of his appointment as Chief Financial officer on 14 May 2003, Nick Luff could contribute two tranches of invested stock to the Matching Plan, being the 2004 Award and the 2005 Award.
Accordingly on 18 June 2003, Nick Luff purchased a total of 135,000 nominal of deferred stock which was split equally between a 2004 Award and a 2005 Award.
It was also agreed that a Matching Award of 112,500 nominal of deferred stock would be granted in relation to each of the 2004 Award and the 2005 Award.
It was agreed that the performance period applicable to the 2004 Matching Award shall be the period starting on 1 January 2003 and ending on 31 December 2004 and the performance period applicable to the 2005 Matching Award shall be the period starting on 1 January 2003 and ending on 31 December 2005.
The performance targets for these awards are the same as for other awards granted under the Matching Plan during 2003 and described above.
The Companys register of directors interests which is open to inspection at the Companys head ofce contains full details of directors holdings of stock and options.
No director had interests, whether beneficial or non-beneficial, in the Companys preferred stock or debenture stocks or in the share capital, loan stocks or debenture stocks of the Companys subsidiaries at the beginning or end of the year or at the date of this report.
No director had a material interest in any contract of signicance with the Company or any subsidiary, joint venture or associate during the year.
As potential beneciaries of the P&O Employee benefit Trust the Trust, the executive directors are technically deemed to be interested in deferred stock of the Company held by the Trust.
At 31 December 2004, the Trust held 11,730,000 nominal of deferred stock.
The interests in the deferred stock of four executive directors have increased by a total of 990 nominal of deferred stock as a result of the reinvestment of dividends in their personal equity plans and individual savings accounts between 31 December 2004 and the date of this report.
Stock Awards The Trustee waives its right to receive dividends on stock held in the Trust and the amount of stock to which Stock Awards relate increased during the year, due to additional P&O deferred stock purchased by the Trustee which had a value equivalent to the value of the dividend foregone.
Stock Awards are eligible for Matching Awards in accordance with the rules of the Matching Plan as described above.
The terms of the Matching Plan including the performance conditions are summarised on page 38.
Stock Awards are subject to a retention period of two years from the date of grant.
Stock Awards granted in 2002 became exercisable from 4 March 2004 however no Matching Awards vested at that time as the performance conditions had not been met.
Stock Awards granted in 2003 become exercisable from 8 March 2005 and Stock Awards granted in 2004 will become exercisable from the announcement of the 2005 preliminary results.
The period in which a replacement option is exercisable is identical to that of the option it replaced.
The exercise of replacement options is not subject to performance conditions.
The other options shown above were granted as part of general grants of options to a large number of executives, further details of which are provided above.
The performance conditions for each of the above stock options are described on page 38.
The performance conditions for all options other than replacement options are based on EPS growth, except for the options exercisable from 29 September 2006.
The Company has introduced a Directors Shareholding Guideline whereby executive directors are expected to build up over a three year period, and maintain thereafter, a holding of deferred stock in the Company including Stock Awards and Invested Stock with a value broadly equivalent to at least 100 per cent of salary.
This guideline will be applied exibly, where appropriate, for example to recognise the possibility of directors wishing to reduce their holding as they near retirement or to take account of other special circumstances.
The aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of deferred stock under option were 137,743 2003 nil.
The mid-market price of the deferred stock at 31 December 2004 was 297.5p 2003 230p.
The highest mid-market price during the year was 309.75p and the lowest mid-market price was 205.25p.
Transfer value of Pensions the increase in accrued pension net of inflation Increase Increase in revaluation less decrease in accrued pension directors Transfer value of Transfer value of transfer value over net of inflation contribution Accrued pension Increase in accrued pension accrued pension the year, less revaluation during 31 December at 31 December accrued pension at 31 December at 31 December directors the year 2004 2004 during the year 2004 2003 contribution A B C D E F G Current age 000 p. a.
b The accrued pensions indicated in column C are the pensions payable on reaching age 60, except for Lord Sterling and Robert Woods whose pensions could be payable immediately.
c Where applicable the rate of ination used in columns A and B is 3.1 per cent.
d The pensions and transfer values indicated in columns A to G above, exclude the effect of any Additional Voluntary Contributions paid by the directors.
P&O Annual Report 2004 45 Directors remuneration report Lord Sterling has ceased to accrue further pension rights.
The pension in columns C and D above, reect the UK Schemes late retirement provisions.
The transfer values indicated in columns E, F and G demonstrate the change in cost to the UK Scheme of providing the late retirement benets, given prevailing market conditions.
In accordance with Inland Revenue Regulations he is not entitled to transfer his benets out of the UK Scheme.
Robert Woods accrued pension in column C is the total pension earned, which could be paid immediately in the event of retirement.
For the purpose of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules the gure in column A is consistent with him being entitled to an immediate pension last year.
Michael Gradons pension rights in the event of early retirement would be affected by various historical provisions, which have not been available to new directors for some years.
The actual pension payable would depend on his age and service and whether his retirement was voluntary or compulsory.
The various provisions would start to apply from age 47 and begin to fall away gradually after age 55.
The maximum effect of these provisions would be on retirement from service at age 55, where the value of the standard provisions reected above could be enhanced by up to 40 per cent.
Peter Smiths pension rights are restricted by the current earnings cap, which was introduced by the government in 1989.
The Company has therefore established a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benets Scheme FURBS which operates on a dened contribution basis.
The Companys contribution to the FURBS is paid quarterly in arrears and it amounted to 43,741 in 2004 2003 42,002.
Nick Luff receives no pension benefit from the Company.
The Company provides life insurance for which an insurance policy is in place, the cost of which is included within the directors emoluments table on page 41.
General provisions of the UK Scheme The Normal Retirement Age for Senior Executives is 60.
The maximum pension is normally two thirds of pensionable salary.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Early retirement pensions are normally reduced to take account of the longer period over which they will be paid.
However in certain circumstances the Scheme rules will allow unreduced pensions to be paid, providing they are funded by the employer at the time of retirement.
The UK Schemes rules guarantee pension increases during retirement fully in line with RPI increases up to 3 per cent, subject to the minimum introduced in the Pensions Act 1995.
Increases above 3 per cent are not guaranteed but the trustee has the power to grant them, if circumstances permit, without referring to the Company.
Increases greater than 80 per cent of the increase in RPI may only be given with the agreement of the Company.
The current policy of the Company and the trustee is to fund the UK Scheme for increases up to 80 per cent of the increase in RPI, subject to the above guarantees, allowance for which is made in transfer value calculations.
In the event of death before retirement, the UK Scheme provides a capital sum equal to four times basic salary or four times the earnings cap for those joining after 1989 plus spouse pensions or, at the trustees discretion, a dependents pension of up to 66 per cent of the members pension.
Childrens allowances are also payable at the rate of 25 per cent of the spouse dependents pension.
By order of the Board R M Gradon Director and Secretary 8 March 2005
