Report of the Nomination Committee MEMBERSHIP ACTIVITIES As at 1st April 2003 the members of this committee were During the year under review the committee had three meetings Sir Nigel Rudd, Stuart Chambers, Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, and all persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended William Harrison, James Leng and Oliver Stocken.
all meetings with the exception of William Harrison, who was not present at one meeting.
Its major activity was the search for Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel retired as a member of the committee on a successor to fill the vacancy arising on the retirement of his retirement as a non-executive director following the conclusion Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel as a non-executive director.
The committee of the annual general meeting on 28th July 2003. used the services of an external search consultant and following Christine Morin-Postel was appointed a member of the committee the committees nomination the board appointed Christine Morinon her appointment as a non-executive director with effect from Postel as a non-executive director with effect from 1st August 1st August 2003.
The committee subsequently approved the induction programme for Christine Morin-Postel.
There have been no changes in the membership of the committee during the period from 1st April 2004 to 26th May 2004.
After the end of the year under review the committee considered proposals for the refreshing of the membership of the board and During the year under review Sir Nigel Rudd acted as chairman made recommendations to the board as to the re-election by the of the committee and John McKenna acted as secretary.
shareholders of Stuart Chambers and James Leng, who are the RESPONSIBILITIES directors retiring by rotation.
The committees responsibilities include: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board together with proposals for refreshing its membership: Sir Nigel Rudd nominating candidates for the board as executive and nonChairman, Nomination Committee executive directors: 26th May 2004 ensuring an appropriate induction programme is in place for any appointee: undertaking an annual performance evaluation to ensure all members of the board have devoted sufficient time to their duties: and making recommendations to the board concerning the reelection by shareholders of any director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the companys Articles of Association.
The full terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
6 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004
