FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW CONTINUED amortisation and reflects continued tight control of working capital Debt profile m across the Group.
Inventories increased by 9.9 million in the year to 331 support expansion of the product ranges throughout the Marketing and 300 Distribution Division and the stocking of the Lige warehouse.
a Receivable days have been maintained or improved across all major 229 200 businesses, with the group average reducing from 52 to 50 days during b the year.
100 c Capital expenditure of 20.4 million included 13.5 million on computer d systems.
5.9 million was spent on completing the deployment of the 0 new front-office systems based around Siebel customer relationship 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 management software and a further spend of 7.6 million was incurred in enhancing existing systems.
The integrated front-office systems, a Bilateral bank facilities to 2006 which were successfully deployed at Farnell InOnes UK business in b $155m 7.2% Senior Notes repayable 2006 November 2002, were rolled out across Newark InOnes branch and call c $66m 5.3% Senior Notes repayable 2010 centre infrastructure in March 2003.
The primary contract for the delivery d $159m 5.9% Senior Notes repayable 2013 of the front office suite of systems has now been completed at a total ------Gross debt at 1st February 2004 cost of some 40 million incurred over the last four years.
Capital investment in the Lige warehouse amounted to 2.8 million in the year.
Treasury operations The Group is exposed to a number of different market risks, including Total capital expenditure in the coming year is estimated to be between movement in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
Group has established policies and procedures within the treasury function to monitor and manage the exposures arising from volatility in The change in net debt is summarised below: these markets, with derivative instruments being entered into when m considered appropriate by management.
Opening net debt 209.2 Free cash flow 17.1 The Group Treasury function is responsible for sourcing and structuring Ordinary dividends 32.6 borrowing requirements, managing interest rate and foreign exchange Disposal of businesses 0.5 exposure and managing any surplus funds, which are invested mainly in Purchase of own preference shares 2.3 short-term deposits with financial institutions that meet the credit criteria Issue of ordinary shares 0.9 approved by the Board.
In addition, monthly reports are produced by the Net cash outflow 16.4 Group Treasury function which are used to monitor treasury activities.
Important treasury management decisions are approved by the Board Exchange movement 23.7 and an annual report detailing the Groups debt, cash and hedging Closing net debt 201.9 activity is reviewed by the Board.
The Groups net debt comprises the following: Group policy prohibits speculative arrangements in that transactions in m financial instruments are matched to an underlying business Cash at bank and in hand 31.7 requirement, such as forecast debt and interest repayments and Bank loans and overdrafts 22.8 expected foreign currency revenues.
The Group uses derivatives only to US $380 million Senior Notes due 2006, 2010 and 2013 208.9 manage its foreign currency and interest rate risks arising from Other loans 1.9 underlying business activities.
The Group Treasury function is subject to periodic independent reviews by the internal audit department.
Controls Net debt 201.9 over interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and transaction authenticity are in place and dealings are restricted to those banks with In June 2003, the Group raised $225 million of new financing in the the relevant combination of geographic presence and suitable private placement market, comprising $66 million Senior Notes payable credit rating.
2010 at an effective interest rate of 5.3 per cent and $159 million Senior Notes payable 2013 at an effective interest rate of 5.9 per cent.
The The Group continually monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties funds were used to repay other borrowings, principally the $155 million and credit exposure for each counterparty.
The Group hedges transactions primarily related to the purchase and The resulting profile of the Groups loan finance and committed bank sale of inventories denominated in foreign currencies through foreign facilities is illustrated in the chart below.
This shows sound medium-term exchange forward contracts.
These contracts reduce currency risk from funding and headroom of over 100 million.
exchange rate movements with respect to these transactions and cash flows.
Gains and losses are deferred and accounted for as part of the underlying transactions.
The Group does not hedge profit translation exposure, unless there is a corresponding cash flow, since such hedges provide only a temporary deferral of the effect of movements in exchange rates.
Similarly, whilst a significant proportion of the Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars, the Group does not specifically hedge all of its long-term investments in overseas assets.
30 PREMIER FARNELL PLC FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED Pension accounting The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24.
The Groups net assets include a pension asset of 79.6 million 2003: 82.2 million which is included in debtors due after more than one year.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes a net pension credit of 2.9 million 2003: 4.4 million in relation to all of the Groups pension schemes.
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in the UK, which was closed to new entrants in 1998, and North America.
As a result of the April 2002 triennial valuation of the UK scheme, contributions have recommenced at a rate of 0.7 million per annum.
A contribution holiday will continue for the foreseeable future in relation to the over-funded US scheme.
The results do not reflect the full adoption of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, because this is not required until the Groups financial year ending 31st January 2006.
If the standard had been fully adopted in 2004, profit before tax would have been reduced by 2.2 million 2003: 3.2 million representing the net of 7.8 million which would be charged to operating profit and 5.6 million which would be credited to interest.
The credit to interest reflects the income attributable to the substantial surplus which exists in the US scheme.
Consolidated net assets would have been reduced by 23.6 million and the value of the net surplus of the UK and US defined benefit schemes would have been 44.1 million 2003: 34.7 million, based on the market value of scheme assets at 1st February 2004, comprising a surplus in the US scheme of 57.8 million and a deficit in the UK scheme of 13.7 million.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS In June 2002, the European Union approved the application of IFRS for all listed groups for periods commencing on or after 1st January 2005.
As a result, the Group will apply IFRS in its financial statements for the year ending 31st January 2006.
The primary effects of IFRS on the Group are expected to be the following: the re-classification of the Companys preference shares from shareholders funds to debt: the introduction of pension accounting rules which broadly follow FRS 17: the requirement to reflect a charge in the profit and loss account relating to share-based incentives: and the cessation of amortisation of goodwill which will become subject to an annual test for impairment.
The Group has established a project timetable to ensure the requirements under IFRS will be met.
Andrew Fisher Group Finance Director FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 31 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT Principal Activities and Business Review Supplier Payment Policy A detailed review of the Groups activities, the development of its The Groups operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms business and an indication of likely future developments are dealt with on and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers pages 12 to 19. are conducted.
Payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms The principal activity of the Group remains unchanged and is the and conditions.
At 1st February 2004, the amount the Group owed its distribution of electronic, electrical and industrial products to the design, suppliers represented 36 working days purchases 2003: 33 working maintenance and repair sectors.
The Company is a holding company and does not have any trade creditors.
Profit and Dividends The profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders was Research and Development 32.4 million 2003: 30.8 million.
The Directors recommend that a final The Groups research and development activities are restricted to the dividend of 5.0 pence 2003: 5.0 pence per ordinary share be paid on development of new or enhanced products for Akron Brass and are not 23rd June 2004 to those shareholders on the register of members at the significant in the context of the Group as a whole.
close of business on 28th May 2004.
An interim dividend of 4.0 pence per ordinary share was paid on 24th October 2003, making a total for Charitable and Political Donations the year of 9.0 pence 2003: 9.0 pence per ordinary share.
In the US, the Group has an ongoing policy of donating certain items of stock to charitable organisations.
In addition, during the year the Group Acquisitions and Disposals made charitable donations in cash of 24,000.
Further details of the On 31st July 2003, the Group sold Maintenance Inc. a distributor of Groups charitable activities appear in the Social Responsibility Report.
asphalt resurfacing products and part of the Industrial Products Division for a consideration of 0.9 million.
After the year end, the Group The Group continues its policy of not making contributions to political purchased the business and certain assets of GFE Manufacturing Inc. a parties.
supplier of lighting systems and water flow test equipment for the fire-fighting industry for a consideration of $4.5 million.
Employment The Group places great emphasis on optimising the contribution made Further details of acquisitions and disposals are given in the Finance by employees at all levels around the world.
A Group-wide Performance Directors review on page 29 and in notes 3, 24 and 30 to the Financial Review and annual Management Audit process are in their fifth year of Statements.
Two Leadership Development Programmes are in place for the top 150 managers and a series of programmes for new or Share Capital inexperienced managers and supervisors has been introduced.
Product Details of changes in the issued share capital of the Company during the training using on line learning technology has been implemented.
The year are set out in note 20 on page 58. same technology has been employed to develop a Group-wide Induction programme and a module covering the Groups Code of At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company will be Ethics.
In addition, there has been continued investment in general skill seeking authority to purchase its ordinary and preference shares.
development, with particular reference to computer skills, marketing and Authorities were previously granted at the Annual General Meeting in customer service.
2003, but expire at the close of the forthcoming meeting.
A formal job grading system exists across the Group to assist Directors remuneration practices as well as career development and organisational The names and biographical details of the Directors who held office planning processes.
throughout the year appear on page 27.
Employees are informed of the performance of the Group and a In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Sir Robert structured communication programme allows factors affecting their Horton and Mr Andrew Fisher will retire at the forthcoming Annual employment to be discussed.
General Meeting of the Company and Mr Fisher will offer himself for re-election.
Sir Robert Horton will retire from the Board at the close of Working in close co-operation with elected representatives from its the meeting.
Mr Laurence Bain, who was appointed during the year, will European operating companies, the Groups European Works Council retire and offer himself for election.
Mr Fisher and Mr Bain are executive The Premier Farnell European Forum is in its fourth year of operation.
directors and have service contracts with the Company, further details of The Forum provides an arena for the exchange of relevant and which are provided in the Remuneration Report on page 36. appropriate information and constructive dialogue between management and employees on European issues.
Additional information relating to Directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the Companys shares is given in the The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 39.
The details of Directors employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular interests in the Companys shares form part of this report.
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become disabled during their employment.
Training, career development and promotion are, as far as practicable, identical for all employees according to their skills and abilities.
The Group consistently seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation suitably qualified, capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, religion or sexual orientation.
Employees participation in the Groups performance is encouraged through the re-introduction of a UK savings-related share option scheme.
32 PREMIER FARNELL PLC DIRECTORS REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Environment The Group recognises the importance of responsible environmental management and its obligation to protect the environment.
The Group therefore gives high priority to all environmental matters.
Further information appears in the Social Responsibility Report.
Substantial Shareholdings At 14th April 2004 the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: % Prudential plc 10.05 AXA SA 6.66 Scottish Widows 4.76 Zurich Financial Services 3.93 Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 3.69 HBOS plc 3.12 Legal and General plc 3.04 Independent Auditor Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Companys 2004 Annual General Meeting at the Mayfair Conference Centre, Marble Arch, London on 15th June 2004 at 10.30 am is set out in a separate document issued to shareholders.
By order of the Board Steven Webb Secretary Farnell House Forge Lane Leeds LS12 2NE 18th March 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 33 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Report As part of the process of keeping the Companys remuneration policy This report provides information on Directors remuneration.
A resolution under review, shareholders will be asked to approve a new savingswill be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting related SAYE share option scheme at the Companys Annual General inviting them to approve this report.
The current SAYE scheme expires in June 2004 and the new scheme is proposed as a replacement.
All UK employees will be entitled Remuneration policy to participate in the scheme, subject to a minimum qualifying period of The Companys overall policy aims are to: employment.
Options granted under the scheme over the Companys ordinary shares may be at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels prevailing market price.
throughout the Group: Employees participating in the scheme will be required to commit to pay competitive salaries and benefits to all of its people: regular monthly savings for three or five years and will be entitled to exercise options over the number of shares which can be purchased encourage the holding of shares in the Company as an effective way using these savings and any bonus paid at the end of the savings of aligning the interests of employees with those of shareholders: and period.
Further information on the rules of the scheme is provided with the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the Group meet its specific targets.
In future, participation in the scheme may be extended to Group employees in other countries and the resolution to be put to The Boards policy for executive remuneration is to: shareholders seeks authority for the Directors to make necessary adjustments to the UK rules to allow for this.
pay a basic salary which is competitive with other companies of similar size and complexity: The Remuneration Committee and its Role The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr Michael Lester Chairman, give executives the opportunity to increase their basic earnings by Mr William Korb, Mr Cary Nolan and Mr John Roques.
All members of meeting and outperforming key short-term and long-term measures, the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
thereby linking executive rewards to the Groups performance and shareholder interests: The Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee to discuss the performance of other executives and to make proposals where encourage executives to hold shares in the Company: and necessary, but is not present when his own position is discussed.
reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to the The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups Groups performance, without paying more than is necessary to framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee achieve this objective.
determines the specific remuneration packages for Executive Directors and the other senior executives who form the Group Leadership Team.
In framing this policy, the Board has given full consideration to the provisions of the Combined Code, as updated in July 2003.
During the year the Committee received advice from the Chief Executive in respect of the remuneration arrangements for other senior executives It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors be permitted to hold and from Mr Brian Lewis, Group HR Director, in respect of remuneration one non-executive directorship with another company.
The fees payable arrangements generally.
Since the end of the year, the Committee has in respect of this directorship are retained by the Executive Director.
appointed KPMG People Services, a division of KPMG LLP, to advise the Committee.
This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration for 2004 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The inclusion in the report of remuneration policy in respect of years after 2004 is required by the legislation under which this report is prepared.
The Remuneration Committee is able to state its remuneration policy for 2004 with reasonable certainty, but is less certain that this policy will continue without amendment in subsequent years.
This is because the Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and remuneration practice.
Any changes in policy for years after 2004 will be described in future Remuneration Reports.
All statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for years after 2004 should be read in the light of this paragraph.
34 PREMIER FARNELL PLC REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 The Current Remuneration Package In addition, shares can only be acquired under any award if the The current elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior Committee is satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company executives are as follows: during the performance period justifies the exercise of an award.
Salary and Benefits The TSR performance condition was chosen as the Committee believes The Committee reviews salaries each year taking account of Group that TSR is an appropriate method of comparing the performance of the and personal performance.
The Committee also takes account of the Company to that of its peers.
The FTSE mid-250 Index excluding levels of pay awarded elsewhere in the Group.
investment trusts was chosen as the comparator group as there are a limited number of companies which are directly comparable to the The value of non-cash benefits for Executive Directors is included in Company and the index was therefore felt to be a suitable yardstick of the table of remuneration on page 37 and, for Mr Hirst and Mr Fisher, relative performance.
consists of a fully expensed car and life and health insurance.
Mr Bain does not have a Company car, but instead receives a cash allowance In assessing whether such performance condition has been met, the which is included in the salary figure disclosed in the table.
Mr Bain Committee will rely on calculations of the Companys TSR and that of does receive life and health insurance, the values of which are included the FTSE mid-250 Index carried out on their behalf by New Bridge in benefits in kind.
The value of these benefits is not pensionable for Street Consultants.
The requirement that the Committee must be any Executive Director, but is assessable to income tax.
satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company during the performance period justifies the exercise of an award, is intended to give Short-Term Incentives the Committee a discretion as to whether or not to allow a particular The Company operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme exercise, notwithstanding the achievement of at least a median TSR for Executive Directors and senior executives.
The Committees view is that such circumstances are likely to payment under the scheme is 100 per cent of base salary for Mr John be exceptional and therefore they are difficult to determine before they Hirst and 70 per cent of base salary for Mr Andrew Fisher and have arisen.
In addition, the Committee does not wish to limit its Mr Laurence Bain.
To reach this maximum requires that the Company discretion in any way by attempting to pre-determine the circumstances exceeds its budgeted profit as well as achievement of clearly defined in which it might be exercised.
If the Committee exercised this discretion individual objectives.
it would be in respect of all awards made on a particular date and not in respect of a particular individual or individuals.
Long-Term Incentives The Company operates a long-term incentive plan and the share Benefits under the plan are not pensionable.
The Company currently operates an executive share option scheme, Long-Term Incentives under which both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved options Under the long-term incentive plan, Executive Directors and senior may be granted, and an SAYE option scheme.
Benefits under these executives are awarded rights to acquire ordinary shares.
Each award plans are not pensionable.
The rules of the executive scheme were made under the plan is subject to performance conditions which will approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in determine how many if any of the shares under the award the 2003.
As noted above, it is proposed to replace the existing SAYE participant is entitled to acquire after the three year performance period.
option scheme with a new SAYE scheme for which shareholder approval The maximum award which can be made in any year to a participant is is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of equal to 100 per cent of base salary.
The main performance condition compares the growth of the Annual grants are made under the executive share option scheme with a Companys total shareholder return or TSR share price growth and maximum grant equal to 100 per cent of the individuals annual salary.
reinvested dividends over a three year period to that of the companies Exercise of options granted under the scheme is subject to a in the FTSE mid-250 Index excluding investment trusts.
This condition is that the growth in the ranking amongst the comparator companies determines the percentage Companys adjusted earnings per share EPS over the three of shares which a participant can acquire.
No shares may be acquired consecutive financial years starting with the year of grant exceeds the where the Companys ranking is below median and, to acquire the full growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI over the same period by at number of shares awarded, the Company must rank in the top quartile least 9 per cent.
At this level of performance half of the options granted of the comparator group.
Between these two points, vesting is on a are exercisable.
Exercise of all options granted requires that the straight-line basis, with 20 per cent of any award vesting where the Companys EPS growth exceeds RPI over the period by at least Companys performance is at the median.
Where performance over the 15 per cent, with a sliding scale for performance between 9 per cent three year period does not reach the median ranking, the relevant award and 15 per cent.
If the performance condition is not met over this three lapses and there is no re-testing of performance.
year period, options may also be exercised if the Companys EPS growth exceeds RPI by a minimum of 12 per cent over the four financial years starting with the year of grant.
The same sliding scale for exercise applies for performance between 12 per cent and 20 per cent.
If the performance target is not met by the fourth year, the relevant options lapse.
REMUNERATION REPORT PREMIER FARNELL PLC 35 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
