23 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2004 This report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee, on behalf of the Board, has been prepared pursuant to Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Remuneration Committee Role The Remuneration Committee is responsible, pursuant to a policy framework on executive remuneration agreed by the Board, for determining the pay and benets and contractual arrangements for the Chairman, executive directors and the Company Secretary, and for overseeing the Groups share schemes.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the structure and levels of remuneration for senior managers throughout the Group.
It operates under the delegated authority of the Board and its terms of reference are available to view on the Groups website, www.
It is committed to principles of accountability and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements demonstrate a clear link between reward and performance.
In its work, the Committee considers fully the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Membership The Committee comprised the following independent non-executive directors during the period from Admission to 31 December 2004: Mr D L Felwick CBE Committee Chairman and non-executive director Mr I M Ramsay appointed 3 August 2004 Miss S Hintze Mr G Sewell resigned 3 August 2004 Meetings The directors attendance at Committee meetings held during their period of membership and the number of meetings held during 2004 is set out on page 20.
The Chairman, Mr D J Kappler, and the Group Chief Executive, Mr R J Schoeld, are invited to attend the Committee meetings, except when the Committee discusses matters relating to their remuneration.
Advisors Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte were appointed by the Committee as their retained advisors in 2004 and continue to provide advice to the Committee on matters relating to remuneration including market comparison data and best practice.
Deloitte also advised the Company on tax implications of share plans on Admission.
The Committee consults with the Chairman and the Chief Executive as appropriate, and is also supported by the Group Head of HR.
Remuneration policy The broad policy of the Board and the Committee going forward is to continue to set remuneration so as to attract and retain high calibre executives and to encourage and reward superior business performance.
Remuneration for executive directors is intended to reward against performance criteria that are relevant and realistic but also challenging, so that superior performance is encouraged.
Therefore, remuneration arrangements will continue to focus on performance related incentives, rather than just annual salary, to encourage the alignment of operating objectives, as well as delivering shareholder value.
The remuneration policy is reviewed annually.
For 2005, annual salary will continue to be set at levels not normally exceeding median.
In relation to bonuses and long-term incentive plans, the policy will continue to be to provide an opportunity for executives to earn total remuneration packages in the upper quartile range, provided that stretching and demanding performance conditions are met.
24 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report With advice from Deloitte, the Committee have carried out a review of all aspects of the remuneration policy including pay benchmarking for the most senior roles and a consideration of the relevant comparator companies for performance measurement.
Going forward, the Committee intends to rebalance the remuneration packages of senior executives to increase the emphasis on key performance objectives and to strengthen executive shareholding.
This rebalancing will involve adjusting the annual bonus structure by introducing an element of compulsory deferral into shares and by utilising the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
No further share options will be granted other than in exceptional circumstances, such as in connection with recruitment.
While committed to the use of equity based performance related remuneration as a means of aligning directors interests with those of shareholders, the Committee is aware of shareholders concerns on dilution through the issue of new shares to satisfy such awards.
Therefore, when reviewing remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into account the effects such arrangements may have on dilution.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for executive directors, the Committee is sensitive to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, especially when determining base salary increases.
Remuneration for executive directors The Committee considers that the remuneration package of an executive director should be aligned closely with the interests of shareholders and, therefore, that a significant proportion of the remuneration package should be performance related.
It is the Committees policy that, for 2005, the balance between xed and variable remuneration for the executive directors shall be as follows: Fixed vs. variable for Chief Executive Officer Fixed vs. variable for Finance Director Target Max Target Max Fixed Fixed 36% 39% 44% 43% Variable Variable 56% 57% 61% 64% Basic salary Basic salary for executive directors takes into account the role, responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
This is normally reviewed annually unless responsibilities change.
Salary levels are targeted at the median of companies of a comparable size, complexity and market sector.
Annual bonus At the discretion of the Committee, executive directors are eligible to receive an annual bonus subject to the achievement of performance targets which are set each year by the Committee.
Bonus potentials are set on an individual basis.
The executive directors received discretionary bonus payments in May 2004 in respect of the first quarter of 2004.
These bonus payments, which were not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, were paid to Mr Schoeld and Mr Thomas in respect of their executive directorships of Premier Foods Holdings Limited.
Details of these payments are set out on page 30.
No bonus arrangements were put in place in respect of the remainder of 2004.
Following the review of remuneration policy, for 2005, it is the intention of the Committee that bonus potentials will be set at 75% of salary for executive directors, with a target level of 50%.
The performance targets will be based on profit before tax and growth in branded sales.
25 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report In addition, to encourage executive directors to build up a significant personal stake in the Company it is intended that, in the future, they will be required to defer 50% of any bonus into shares in the Company.
The deferred bonus shares will normally vest three years after their award.
Generally, the deferred bonus shares will not be forfeitable.
However, in the event that the executives employment is terminated by reason of his gross misconduct or by reason of a material breach of his employment contract, his deferred bonus shares may, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, be forfeited.
Bonuses will not be pensionable.
Share options The Premier Foods Holdings Limited Employee Share Option Scheme the Old ESOS Premier Foods Holdings Limited PFH adopted the Old ESOS in 2000.
Options were granted over shares in PFH.
On Admission, the executive directors and senior managers rolled over 70% of their outstanding options under the Old ESOS into new options over shares in the Company with the remaining 30% being cancelled for cash.
The new options may be exercised at any time from the first anniversary of Admission or earlier in the event of a takeover of the Company and will lapse on the tenth anniversary of grant.
The old options had vested in full on Admission, and the new options are not subject to any requirement for continued employment or any performance conditions.
No further options will be granted under the Old ESOS.
The Premier Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme the New ESOS The New ESOS was adopted by the Company at the time of Admission.
Options granted under the New ESOS may be exercised between three and ten years after grant provided that the applicable performance criteria have been met.
Options were granted to executive directors under the New ESOS at the time of Admission in 2004.
The grants were split into three portions, each subject to a stretching performance condition.
Two of the portions are subject to a performance condition based on total shareholder return TSR and the third portion is subject to a performance condition based on adjusted earnings per share EPS.
The performance conditions which are summarised in the table below were chosen because they align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders.
TSR: against FTSE 250 TSR: against select comparator group: EPS Associated British Foods PLC Dairy Crest Group plc Greencore plc Geest PLC Northern Foods plc Uniq plc 25% of option 25% of option 50% of option 50% of the above portion vests for Full vesting of the above portion if the Increase in adjusted earnings median performance, rising on a Company is in first or second position per share must equal or exceed straight-line basis to full vesting for of the comparator group: the cumulative increase in the upper quartile performance.
retail price index plus 3% per 75% of the above portion vests if the annum over the three-year Company is in third position: performance period.
50% of the above portion vests if the Company is in fourth position.
None of the above portion will vest if the Company is below fourth position.
No retesting No retesting One retest at end of fourth year from same base year The current intention is that no further options will be granted under the New ESOS, other than in exceptional circumstances e. g. in relation to recruitment.
26 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report Long-Term Incentive Plan The intention is for the first awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to be made in 2005, following the AGM.
Thereafter, the intention is for awards under the LTIP to be granted annually.
The value of shares awarded to executive directors, under the LTIP, in any financial year will be subject to individual limits which will be determined by the Committee from time to time.
The current policy is that the maximum value of shares which may be awarded to executive directors, in any financial year, will be limited to 100% of salary.
However, for 2005, it is intended that the awards will have a value of 100% of salary for Mr Schoeld and 80% of salary for Mr Thomas.
Vesting of awards will be subject to the fullment of stretching performance conditions based on total shareholder return TSR, as measured over a three year period against appropriate comparators.
TSR measures the growth in share price, as adjusted for reinvested dividends over the performance period.
The Committee considers TSR to be the most appropriate measure to align executives interests with those of shareholders.
Relative TSR performance will be measured against two appropriate comparator groups: 50% based on performance measured against the FTSE 250 excluding investment companies and 50% based on performance measured against a group of relevant companies from the food sector.
The Committee considers that splitting the vesting of the award in this way ensures that performance is correctly targeted against the Groups key comparators.
For both parts of the awards, 30% will vest for median performance, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The TSR calculations will be conducted on an independent basis by Deloitte.
The proposed constituents of the food sector comparator group for the 2005 awards are: Food sector comparator group Arla Foods plc Devro PLC Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC Associated British Foods PLC Geest PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Cadbury Schweppes plc Greencore plc Uniq plc Cranswick plc Northern Foods plc Dairy Crest Group plc Richmond Foods plc In addition, the vesting of awards will be subject to a secondary financial measure, to ensure that underlying financial performance is also achieved.
The Committee will have the power to scale back awards if it is felt that underlying financial performance has not been adequate.
The current intention is for the vesting of awards granted in 2005 to be subject to the minimum requirement that earnings per share EPS must have exceeded the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index by an average of at least 2% per annum, over the three year performance period.
The Committee may determine that an alternative secondary financial measure will apply for future grants of awards under the LTIP.
27 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report Performance graph The following graph shows the TSR performance of the Company since listing in July 2004, against the FTSE 250 which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent and the FTSE Food Producers and Processors Index which was chosen because it contains the Companys key comparators.
TSR was calculated by reference to the growth in share price, as adjusted for reinvested dividends.
Premier Foods total shareholder return since listing relative to appropriate comparators 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Source: Datastream 0 Listing: Year end: 31 December 2004 15 March 2005 19 July 2004 Premier Foods FTSE 250 FTSE Food Producers and Processors Index Remuneration of non-executive directors The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and executive members of the Board and the remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and the other non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys bonus arrangements, share option schemes, long-term incentive plans or pension arrangements.
The non-executive directors were offered the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company on otation at a 50% discount to the otation price.
Details of the benets received are set out in the table of directors detailed emoluments on page 30.
All employee share schemes Executive directors may also participate in the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, on the same basis as all other employees.
There are no performance conditions attached to this scheme.
Employee trust The Premier Foods plc Employee Share Ownership Trust was established on 19 July 2004.
The trust was not active during 2004 and held no shares for that period.
TSR rebased to 100 at 19 July 2004 28 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report Pensions The Premier Foods Pension Scheme PF Scheme is a funded, contributory, exempt-approved scheme which provides benets on a dened benefit final salary basis and is contracted out of the State Second Pension.
Mr Schoeld is a member of the PF Scheme.
Mr Schoeld is subject to the earnings cap imposed by the Finance Act 1989.
Under the PF Scheme Mr Schoeld will be provided with a pension of 1 30th of salary up to the Finance Act 1989 earnings cap for each year of pensionable service.
Mr Schoelds normal pension date under the PF Scheme is age 60 and he is not required to make contributions to the PF Scheme.
Mr Thomas is also a member of the PF Scheme and is subject to the earnings cap imposed by the Finance Act 1989.
Under the PF Scheme Mr Thomas will be provided with a pension of 1 45th of salary up to the Finance Act 1989 earnings cap for each year of pensionable service.
Mr Thomass normal pension date is age 60 and he is not required to make contributions to the PF Scheme.
Each executive director is contractually entitled to a lump sum life assurance benefit of four times uncapped salary.
The contractual life cover that exceeds the approved benefit which can be provided under the PF Scheme is provided on an unapproved basis.
The Committee will review the pensions arrangements for executive directors, particularly in light of the new UK pensions regime which will apply from April 2006.
Details of any changes to the pensions arrangements for executive directors will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2005.
Other benets Each executive director is provided with a car, telecommunication services and an allowance for personal tax and financial planning.
Each executive director is also provided with private health cover and permanent health insurance.
Mr Thomas is entitled to a housing allowance of 18,000 per annum.
Other directorships The Group is supportive of executive directors who wish to take on non-executive directorships with another company in order to broaden their experience.
They are entitled to retain any fees they may receive.
Neither Mr Schoeld nor Mr Thomas currently serves as a director of another public company.
Mr Schoeld is the non-executive Chairman of Burtons Foods Group Limited and also a director of Burtons Foods Holdings Limited and Burtons Foods Limited.
He does not receive any fees in respect of these directorships.
Pursuant to the terms of his service agreement with the Company, Mr Schoeld has agreed not to take part in any discussion by the Board or a committee of the Board nor vote on any transaction, arrangement or agreement by a member of the Group with Burtons or its afliates.
Mr Schoeld has further agreed to keep condential and not disseminate or otherwise use any condential information which may give rise to a conict of interest.
Service contracts The Committee periodically reviews the Companys policy on the duration of directors service contracts, and the notice periods and termination provisions contained in those contracts.
The current policy of the Committee is that notice periods contained in executive directors service contracts should be limited to 12 months other than in exceptional circumstances, such as for the purposes of recruitment and that provisions for early termination should reect prevailing market practice.
Executive directors have service agreements that continue until terminated by 12 months notice on either side but which in any event terminate on their 60th birthday.
Both Mr Schoelds and Mr Thomass service agreements are dated 20 July 2004.
In the event of early termination other than for a reason justifying summary termination in accordance with the terms of the service agreement the Company may but is not obliged to pay to the executive director, in lieu of notice, a sum equal to the annual value of the executive directors then salary, benets, pension contributions and on-target bonus calculated on a pro rata daily basis which he would have received during the contractual notice period which sum shall be payable in 12 monthly instalments.
To the extent the executive director receives any sums as a result of alternative employment or provision of services while he is receiving such payments from the Company, the payments shall be reduced by the amount of such sums.
29 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report The service contracts of executive directors do not provide for any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the Company.
None of the non-executive directors have employment contracts with the Company.
However, each has entered into a letter of appointment dated 19 July 2004 with the Company conrming their appointment for initial periods ranging from two to three years, unless terminated by either party giving the other one months written notice.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms although the Board may invite individual non-executive directors to serve an additional period.
The appointments are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and the Companys Articles of Association, in particular the need for periodic re-election.
Continuation of an individual non-executive directors appointment is also contingent on that non-executive directors satisfactory performance, which will be evaluated annually.
There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon early termination of an appointment of a non-executive director.
Details of appointment periods appear below: Date of current appointment or reappointment Expiry date Notice period David Kappler 19 July 2004 18 July 2006 One month David Felwick CBE 19 July 2004 18 July 2007 One month Sharon Hintze 19 July 2004 18 July 2006 One month Lyndon Lea 22 June 2004 18 July 2007 One month Ian McHoul 19 July 2004 18 July 2007 One month Ian Ramsay 19 July 2004 18 July 2006 One month George Sewell 19 July 2004 18 July 2007 One month Directors interests in ordinary shares The beneficial interests of directors at the date of appointment and end of the year in shares in Premier Foods plc were: Fully paid ordinary share of 1p each As at As at Date of appointment 31 December 2004 Robert Schoeld Nil Nil 1 Paul Thomas Nil 144,843 2 David Kappler Nil 116,279 2 David Felwick CBE Nil 37,209 Sharon Hintze Nil Nil 2 Lyndon Lea Nil 37,209 2 Ian McHoul Nil 37,209 Ian Ramsay Nil Nil 2 George Sewell Nil 37,209 1 Paul Thomas utilised the cash cancellation payment net of income tax and national insurance contributions arising from the cancellation of 270,000 share options under the Premier Foods Holdings Limited Employee Share Option Scheme see table of Interests in share options on page 30 to purchase 144,843 shares on Admission at a price of 215p per ordinary share.
2 Ordinary shares acquired on Admission at a price of 107.5p each, representing a 50% discount to the offer price.
Directors share interests include the interests of their spouses and infant children as required by Section 328 of the Companies Act 1985.
Robert Schoeld and Paul Thomas are additionally interested in options to subscribe for shares as detailed on the following page.
There were no changes in the beneficial interests of the directors in the Companys shares between 31 December 2004 and 18 March 2005.
2 Includes amounts received in respect of executive directorships of Premier Foods Holdings Limited, prior to Admission.
3 Amounts received in respect of executive directorships of Premier Foods Holdings Limited.
4 benefit represents a 50% discount to the offer price of ordinary shares acquired on Admission at a price of 107.5p each.
Interest in share options At the beginning and end of the year and at the date of appointment, the following directors had options to subscribe for shares of 1p each granted under the terms of the Premier Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme: 1 Options as at Options 2 31 December 2003 Options granted Cash cancelled as at and on appointment during the year during the year 31 December 2004 Exercise price Exercise period Robert Schoeld 2,215,000 664,500 1.46 3 1,416,374 1,416,374 0.01 23.07.05 22.07.14 4 1,000,000 1,000,000 2.15 23.07.07 22.07.14 Paul Thomas 900,000 270,000 1.46 3 575,502 575,502 0.01 23.07.05 22.07.14 4 595,349 595,349 2.15 23.07.07 22.07.14 1 Options granted under the Premier Foods Holdings Limited Employee Share Option Scheme the Holdings Scheme on 4 October 2002 at a price of 1.46.
2 These options originally granted under the Holdings Scheme were cash cancelled at the time of Admission, in July 2004.
Full details were disclosed in the Listing Particulars.
On cash cancellation of these options, each executive director made a profit per share of 1.95.
Robert Schoeld received 1.3m and Paul Thomas received 0.5m from the cash cancellation.
The balance of the executive directors options under the Holdings Scheme were rolled-over into options over Premier Foods plc shares see footnote 3 below.
3 Rolled-over options granted in respect of the balance of outstanding options under the Holdings Scheme see footnote 2 above.
The exercise of these options is not subject to any performance conditions.
4 Options granted under the Premier Foods plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
The exercise of these options is conditional upon the satisfaction of both EPS and TSR based performance targets further details of which are set out on page 25.
31 Premier Foods plc Directors remuneration report On 31 December 2004 the market price of ordinary shares of Premier Foods plc was 272p and the range during 2004 was 208p to 272p.
No options have expired unexercised during 2004.
There were no changes in the options held by the directors between 31 December 2004 and 18 March 2005.
The Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors shareholdings and options.
Pension entitlements The following tables set out information on directors dened benefit pension entitlements under the PF Scheme: Increase in Total accrued Increase in accrued benefit benefit at accrued benefit during the year, Age at Years service at 31 December 2004 during the year excluding ination 31 December 2004 31 December 2004 Robert Schoeld 53 3 years 7 months 12,094 3,608 3,328 Paul Thomas 49 2 years 6 months 5,522 2,237 2,144 For each director, the total accrued benefit at 31 December 2004 represents the annual pension that is expected to be payable on eventual retirement, given the length of service and salary of each director at 31 December 2004.
The increase in accrued benefit earned during the year represents the increase in this expected pension including the effect of ination when compared with the position at 31 December 2003.
The increase in accrued pension excluding the effect of ination over the year is also shown.
Requirements under: Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 The Listing Rules Transfer value at Transfer value at Value of increase 31 December 2003 31 December 2004 Value of increase in accrued benefit of total accrued of total accrued in accrued benefit during the year, benefit benefit during the year excluding ination Robert Schoeld 84,500 132,800 48,300 36,500 Paul Thomas 26,100 46,700 20,600 18,100 For each director, the value of the increase in accrued benefit under the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 is the amount obtained by subtracting from the transfer value of the total accrued benefit at 31 December 2004 from the corresponding transfer value at 31 December 2003.
The value of the increase in accrued benefit under the Listing Rules is the transfer value at 31 December 2004 of the increase in accrued benefit during the period, excluding ination.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead, they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
David Felwick Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 March 2005 Premier Foods plc Premier House Centrium Business Park Grifths Way St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 2RE Registered in England No.
