Report on directors remuneration 27 Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Regulations.
The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report is therefore divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
The Board has reviewed the Groups compliance with the Combined Code the Code on remuneration related matters.
It is the opinion of the Board that the group complied with all remuneration related aspects of the Code during the year.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee Your Board believes that a properly constituted Remuneration Committee is key to ensuring that the Companys policy on Executive Directors remuneration supports the creation of enhanced shareholder value.
The Board has therefore delegated to the Boards Remuneration Committee the assessment and recommendation of a broad policy on executive remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee of the Board comprised of Fritz Ternofsky Chairman, Phil Cox and Mike Foster all of whom are Non-executive Directors and all served throughout the year ended 21 August 2004.
Since the year end Martin Glenn has replaced Phil Cox on the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee members have no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee determines the remuneration and benefits packages for Executive Directors and any changes to their service contracts, as well as the remuneration of Senior Group Executives.
The Committee also approves any share incentive and performance bonus arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee, which has formal written terms of reference, has been delegated responsibility by the Board to: determine and agree with the Board the framework and broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Senior Group Executives of the Company: the remuneration of Non-executive Directors is a matter for the Executive Directors who take advice from the independent consultants.
No Director or Executive is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration: determine, within the terms of the agreed policy, the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director including, where appropriate, bonuses, benefits, long-term incentive payments and share options: determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements for each Executive Director: determine targets for any performance-related pay and share schemes operated by the Company: give due regard, in determining such packages and arrangements, to the comments and recommendations of the Code as well as the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance: ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised, in line with the statement of best practice in the ABI Guidelines: ensure that provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, as set out in the Regulations and the Code, are fulfilled: be aware of and advise on any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group: be exclusively responsible for establishing the selection criteria, and for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee: meet as required during the year and at least twice a year: and report the frequency of, and attendance by members at, Remuneration Committee meetings in the annual report.
The Remuneration Committee appointed and received wholly independent advice on executive compensation and share schemes, from Halliwell Consulting and associated share scheme administration.
No other services were provided to the Company by Halliwell Consulting during the year.
In determining Executive Directors and Senior Group Executives remuneration for the year, the Remuneration Committee consulted with the Chief Executive, Giles Thorley.
No Executive played a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary, Neil Preston, was available to provide advice to the members of the Remuneration Committee when required.
The Remuneration Committee met formally twice during the year.
Remuneration policy overview The Remuneration Committees policy is to set the main elements of the remuneration package at the following quartiles in comparison to the Companys Comparator Group: Base salary Annual bonus potential Pension Benefits in kind Share incentives Median Upper Quartile Lower Quartile to Median Market Practice Upper Quartile This new policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 January 2004 and has been first operated in 2004.
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide remuneration packages that will retain talented people in the business, enable the recruitment of appropriately skilled and experienced newcomers and be seen as competitive in the markets in which the Company operates.
The Remuneration Committee believes that shareholders interests are best served by remuneration packages having a large emphasis on performance-related pay.
It is therefore the aim of the Remuneration Committee to encourage and reward superior performance by Executives.
Report on directors remuneration 28 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com It should be noted that the real value received by the Executive Directors under the share incentive arrangements will be dependent upon the degree to which the associated performance conditions have been satisfied at the end of the three year performance period and the share price of the Company at that time.
For the purposes of benchmarking remuneration during 2003 04 the Remuneration Committee used the following comparator group of companies which constitute the FTSE 350 Leisure and Hotels Index: Carnival plc Manchester United plc fide Vere Group plc Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Enterprise Inns plc Mitchells & Butlers plc First Choice Holidays plc Rank Group plc Greene King plc Stanley Leisure plc Hilton Group plc Wetherspoon JD plc Holidaybreak plc Whitbread plc Intercontinental Hotels Group plc William Hill plc Luminar plc Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries plc The basis of the selection of this Comparator Group was: companies with related businesses to the Company: companies of a comparable size to the Company: companies with the similar types of operation to the Company: and companies competing for the same pool of executive talent.
The Remuneration Committee, with input from the Executive Directors, continually reviews the Comparator Group for its appropriateness to the current stage of the Companys development and market factors generally.
In light of the Companys growth since flotation and the acquisitions of Pubmaster and InnSpired the Remuneration Committee has changed the Comparator Group for 2004 05 to include only those companies that are members of the FTSE 350 Leisure and Hotels Index and are one of the 250 largest as measured by market capitalisation companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
These are in bold in the table above.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the policy on an annual basis to ensure that it is in line with the Companys objectives and shareholders interests.
In addition, the life of the Punch Taverns plc Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Punch Taverns plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 January 2004 is five years requiring the Company to revert to shareholders for a formal approval at the end of this period for any future arrangements.
The charts below demonstrate the balance between fixed and variable performance based pay for each Executive Director: Key Giles Thorley CEO Robert McDonald FD Adrian Fawcett COO Fixed compensation is calculated as: 73% 66% 66% salary pension benefits Performance compensation is calculated as: bonus available 27% face value of LTIP on grant fair value of options 34% 34% on grant Performance compensation Fixed compensation Other than the Chief Executive, the Executive Directors do not have any external appointments as directors of other companies.
The Chief Executive is a Non-executive Director of Ducati Holding S. p. A.
The main elements of these packages and the performance conditions are described on page 29.
Report on directors remuneration 29 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Elements of Executive Directors Remuneration Basic Salary Policy: Median The Remuneration Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in October 2004 and provided the rises set out in the table below: Salary Salary Percentage Name 2003 04 2004 05 rise Giles Thorley Chief Executive 328,500 350,000 6.5% Robert McDonald Finance Director 190,000 200,000 5.3% Adrian Fawcett Chief Operating Officer 180,000 190,000 5.6% When determining the salary of the Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration: the levels of base salary for similar positions within comparable status, responsibility and skills in organisations of broadly similar size and complexity, in particular the median salary levels of those companies within the comparator group: the performance of the individual Executive Director: the individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and the pay and conditions throughout the Group.
Annual Performance Related Bonus Policy: Upper Quartile Bonus Potential The policy of the Remuneration Committee is to set the maximum annual bonus potential at the upper quartile in relation to the Comparator Group.
At the AGM on 15 January 2004 shareholders approved a new bonus structure for Executive Directors and Senior Group Executives, the Punch Taverns plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
This Plan has been operated for the 2004 bonus year.
The objectives of the Plan are: to ensure the satisfaction of stretching performance targets before bonuses are earned: to provide an element of bonus earned in shares: to provide a retention mechanism for Executives by rewarding the retention of the share element of their bonus provided additional performance conditions are satisfied: and to provide a Plan which assists Executives in meeting their minimum shareholding requirements.
The following table shows the split between the maximum immediate cash bonus, bonus share and deferred bonus share potential for participants in the Plan as a percentage of their basic salary: Giles Thorley Robert McDonald Adrian Fawcett Bonus CEO FD COO Maximum annual bonus potential 100% 100% 100% Cash element 75% 75% 75% Bonus shares 25% 25% 25% Conditions satisfied Deferred bonus shares 25% 25% 25% The cash element of the bonus and the bonus shares are earned in accordance with the satisfaction of the annual bonus performance conditions set out below.
75% of the maximum annual bonus potential is payable in cash with 25% of this maximum payable in shares.
The cash element of the bonus is paid through payroll at the end of the financial year.
The bonus shares will be acquired for the Executives at the end of the financial year net of tax and held in the Punch Taverns plc General Employee Benefit Trust.
The Company will then grant an award of deferred bonus shares to each Executive calculated by dividing the acquisition cost per share for the bonus shares into the pre-tax amount of bonus for that Executive used to acquire the bonus shares.
Deferred bonus shares will only be provided to an Executive, if the following conditions are satisfied: he or she is still in the employment of the Company at the end of the three year holding period from the date of award of the deferred bonus shares: the Companys earnings per share tax normalised is equal to or exceeds RPI 5% p. a. over the holding period: and the Executive has retained his or her bonus shares for the holding period.
Report on directors remuneration 30 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com The bonus earned by the Executive Directors is set out in the following tables: Giles Thorley Robert McDonald Adrian Fawcett Name CEO FD COO Maximum bonus potential percentage of salary 100% 100% 100% 2004 bonus paid cash element and bonus shares 279,225 155,800 120,600 2004 bonus paid as a percentage of salary 85% 82% 67% The bonuses for 2004 have been paid on the basis of the level of the satisfaction of the performance targets.
The table below shows the principal performance targets used for 2004.
Giles Thorley Robert McDonald Adrian Fawcett CEO FD COO EBITDA EBITDA EBITDA Internal Financial Measures Internal Financial Measures Internal Financial Measures Pubmaster Integration Pubmaster Integration Pubmaster Integration EPS Growth Debt Management Operational Targets Investor Relations Investor Relations Divisional Targets Bonus targets are reviewed and agreed by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each financial year.
The performance measures for the Executive Directors participation in the Punch Taverns plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that they are appropriate to the current market conditions and position of the Company, so that they continue to remain challenging.
Participants in the annual bonus plan will only be eligible to receive a bonus if they meet the performance targets.
However, the Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to adjust bonus payments either up or down if in their opinion the results would otherwise be inappropriate.
It should be noted that this discretion will be exercised sparingly to ensure certainty for participants and transparency for shareholders.
If the Remuneration Committee does exercise its discretion to adjust bonus payments it will only do so where there is an objective justification which can be explained to shareholders in the Remuneration Committee report.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any changes to the basis of payment or financial performance targets are independently verified.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Share Incentives Policy: Upper Quartile The Remuneration Committees policy is to provide annual share grants to Executives at the upper quartile level compared to the Comparator Group.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether the performance conditions for share awards or options are satisfied.
Where the 2 performance requirements are based on earnings per share EPS the Committee will use the principles behind the audited figures disclosed in the Companys financial statements, and may take advice from independent advisors as to whether any adjustments are required to ensure consistency in accordance with the terms of the performance conditions.
Where the performance measure is 3 Total Shareholder Return TSR, Halliwell Consulting, the Remuneration Committees advisors shall calculate the TSR in accordance with the principles contained within the Regulations and sign-off these figures prior to the release of any award.
Overview Until the AGM on 15 January 2004, the only discretionary share incentive arrangement in place for Executive Directors and Senior Group Executives was the Company Discretionary Share Plan.
This Plan provides that the maximum annual grant of options was 200% of salary.
Under this Plan options are granted over ordinary shares in the Company, at the prevailing market price at the time of grant, exercisable between three and ten years after the date of grant, with performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee.
The last grants made under the Plan prior to the adoption of the new policy required annual growth in earnings per share of RPI 3% over a fixed three year period from the date of grant before options vest.
There is no facility for the re-testing of performance conditions.
As indicated in the 2003 Remuneration Committee report the Company completed a comprehensive review of its share incentive arrangements during the year which resulted in formal proposals being put to shareholders at the AGM on 15 January 2004 on changes to the operation of the existing Company Discretionary Share Plan and the introduction of the new Punch Taverns plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP : shareholders approved both the changes and the introduction of the new LTIP.
Both these Plans have been operated by the Company during 2004.
2 Earnings per share EPS is the total profits of the Company divided by the number of shares in issue which gives the profit generated per share.
This is calculated based on a consistent effective tax rate across periods.
3 Total Shareholder Return TSR is a measure showing the return on investing in one share of the Company over the performance period the return is the value of the capital gain and reinvested dividends.
It is normally used comparatively and the company which achieves the best return is ranked number one.
Report on directors remuneration 31 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Current policy The new Remuneration Committee policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 January 2004.
In line with the share incentive element of this policy the Remuneration Committee has granted combined awards of both options and LTIP share awards during 2004.
The Remuneration Committee believes that a mixture of share options and share awards retains the strengths of both methods of providing shares: in addition the disadvantages are minimised by enabling the Company to provide a competitive incentive and retention tool which is also cost effective in respect of both shareholder dilution and P&L cost.
Further, the use of combined grants with the various attached performance conditions ensures that the Companys comparative TSR performance is at least at the upper quartile, that absolute share price has increased since the date of grant and that the Companys earnings per share growth over the measurement period is a minimum of RPI 15% p. a. before Executives will receive the full benefit of their share incentives.
There is no re-testing of performance requirements.
The maximum combined grant which can be made in any financial year is 300% of salary 200% of salary under the LTIP and 100% of salary under the Discretionary Share Option Plan.
There will be no re-testing of performance conditions under the Companys current remuneration policy.
The following table sets out the combined grants made to Executive Directors during 2004: Discretionary Total Long-Term Share Plan Annual Incentive Plan options Share Award Position % of salary % of salary % of salary Giles Thorley CEO 200% 100% 300% Robert McDonald FD 100% 50% 150% Adrian Fawcett COO 100% 50% 150% The above levels of grant will not apply in future years of the operation of the Plan.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that in future years the maximum potential award under the LTIP and Discretionary Share Plan for the Chief Executive will be 200% of salary with corresponding reductions in the grant levels to other participants.
Discretionary Share Plan The principal changes to the historic operation of the Plan relate to the level at which the earnings per share performance condition has been set and the introduction of a sliding scale for the vesting of options.
The Remuneration Committee took the following factors into account when deciding the appropriate earnings per share performance measure for grants of options during 2004: the median and upper quartile historic levels of year on year growth in earnings per share for the Comparator Group companies: and the projected EPS growth for the Company provided by external analysts.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to review these factors when considering the appropriate level of the performance condition for future grants of options.
For 2004 grants the threshold before options can be exercised is earnings per share growth of RPI 12% p. a. over the three year period from the date of the grant.
At this point 40% of share options will vest.
All of the options i. e. 100% will vest for EPS growth of RPI 15%.
There will be straight line vesting between the two points.
This practice has substantially increased the threshold level of performance as reflected through Company performance required of Executives.
This structure demonstrates the Remuneration Committees desire to correlate incentive arrangements with the achievement of substantial performance.
The EPS figures used by the Company to calculate the vesting of options will be the audited EPS figures disclosed in the Companys financial statements as adjusted to normalise the tax charge being the same effective rate each year.
The Remuneration Committee endeavours to ensure that the performance conditions used are at least in line with market practice in the Index.
For the year ahead the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the performance conditions for the Discretionary Share Plan.
The Remuneration Committee has revised the EPS targets for next years grants.
The threshold before options can be exercised is EPS growth of RPI 8% p. a. over the the three year period from the date of grant.
All of the options will vest for EPS growth of RPI 12% p. a.
The Remuneration Committee considers these levels of earnings growth more appropriate for the Company as following the acquisition of Pubmaster the Companys base earnings per share upon grant of options are substantially higher than for the 2003 financial year.
In light of the acquisition the Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that earnings growth of between 8%-12% p. a. above RPI is a challenging target and will reward the Executive Directors as such.
Earnings per share was selected as the performance condition for options by the Remuneration Committee as in combination with options it ensures that both the Companys share price and its underlying financial value increases before any benefit is provided to Executives.
Details of all subsisting option grants are set out on page 36.
Report on directors remuneration 32 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com The Punch Taverns plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP The LTIP was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 January 2004.
Prior to the AGM, the Company conducted a full consultation with major shareholders and shareholder bodies which ensured that the terms of the Plan were acceptable to shareholders and complied with corporate governance best practice.
Executive Directors, Senior Group Executives and certain senior employees are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
The Plan provides appropriate incentives to reward sustained success through the achievement of challenging business targets, thereby better aligning the interests of shareholders and Executives.
The maximum annual award that can be made to an individual is 200% of salary.
Eligible executives are awarded rights to receive a maximum number of shares at the beginning of a three year period, a proportion of which they will be entitled to receive at the end of that period depending on the extent to which if at all the challenging performance conditions set by the Remuneration Committee at the time the allocation are made is satisfied.
The performance conditions for the first grant of awards under the LTIP are set out in the following table: TSR position against Long-Term Incentive Plan comparator group % of shares released Below Median 0 Median 30 Upper Quartile 100 There is straight line vesting between points The Remuneration Committee will satisfy itself that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Due to the combined nature of awards made under the current share incentive policy one of the corporate performance measures that the Remuneration Committee will be considering in determining whether the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying financial performance of the Company is its EPS performance over the measurement period.
Comparative TSR was selected as the performance condition for LTIP awards by the Remuneration Committee as it ensures that the Executives have outperformed their peers in the Comparator Group over the measurement period in delivering shareholder value before being entitled to receive any of their awards irrespective of general market conditions.
Details of all subsisting LTIP Awards are set out on page 36.
Dilution The following table sets out the current level of dilution against the ABI limits for all share plans and discretionary plans principally Executive Plans and sets out the commitments to issue shares made during the financial year reported: Additional dilution during Maximum Current dilution the year in question 10% dilution in ten years 0.82% 0.28% 5% dilution in ten years 0.63% 0.26% In accordance with the ABI guidelines the Company can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten year period to employees under all its share plans.
In addition, of this 10% the Company can only issue 5% to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
The additional dilution considers the commitments the Company has made under its share plans during the financial year.
It should be noted that the above figures exclude 3.56% of dilution relating to options granted prior to the companys flotation in May 2002 and therefore not subject to the ABI guidelines.
Shareholding requirement As part of the introduction of the Companys new share incentive policy Executive Directors and Senior Group Executives who have been selected to participate in the LTIP will be required to satisfy a minimum shareholding requirement.
The following table shows the minimum shareholding requirement as a percentage of salary which participants will be required to build up over a five year period: Percentage of salary at Current shareholding 4 Position end of five year period as percentage of salary Giles Thorley CEO 200% 240% Robert McDonald FD 150% 144% Adrian Fawcett COO 150% 10% 4 The share price used is the price on 1 December 2003, 6.0825.
The salary figures used are the current salaries.
Participants will be required to retain a proportion of the share awards released options exercised each year to build up the shareholding requirement over a 5 year period.
A proportion of each released award or option exercised shall if necessary be retained as shares so that by the end of 2008 participants will have met the minimum shareholding requirement.
Report on directors remuneration 33 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com When considering whether the participant has met the minimum shareholding requirement the Remuneration Committee will take into account all shares held by the Executive.
Participants will only be required to meet the minimum shareholding requirement from shares provided through the Company share arrangements: if these do not provide shares the participant will not be expected to purchase shares in the market.
If the Company share arrangements provide the participant with shares and the appropriate percentage is not retained, the Remuneration Committee will reduce the future levels of share incentives granted.
The Remuneration Committee will consider the circumstances surrounding a participants disposal of shares as part of its determination.
Pension Policy: Lower Quartile to Median Giles Thorley, Robert McDonald and Adrian Fawcett are entitled to receive a contribution to their personal pension arrangements representing 12% of their salary.
Benefits in Kind Policy: Market Practice In line with market practice, the Companys policy is to provide Executive Directors with standard benefits in kind appropriate for executive directors, such as a car or car allowance, medical insurance and life assurance.
Other Remuneration matters All Employee Share Schemes SAYE Scheme The Company operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related share option scheme for the benefit of group employees.
Eligible employees, including Executive Directors and Senior Group Executives, may be granted options over the Companys shares at a discount of up to 20% to the prevailing market price at the time of grant of the option, which subject to certain conditions can be exercised after either three or five years.
Approximately 23% of eligible group employees currently participate in the Scheme.
The Punch Taverns plc Share Incentive Plan SIP Shareholders approved the SIP at the AGM on 15 January 2004.
The Board of the Company was keen to give all employees the opportunity to: invest their salary in Company shares: build up a shareholding in the Company: and receive an element of bonus in the form of shares.
The Company is currently offering eligible employees, including Executive Directors and Senior Group Executives, the opportunity of purchasing 1,500 of shares a year out of pre-tax salary and providing additional matching shares on a 1:1 ratio.
These matching shares will be normally released three years after they have been awarded provided that the associated shares purchased by the employee have been retained and provided the employee is still employed by a Group Company at this time.
Approximately 53% of eligible group employees currently participate in the Plan.
Executive Directors contracts The policy on termination is that the Company does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations.
In addition, Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss.
The Remuneration Committee is considering introducing phasing the payments of notice on cessation in line with the combined ABI and NAPF guidelines, subject to existing contractual constraints.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified payments for failure.
None of the Executive Directors contracts provides for liquidated damages.
There are no special provisions contained in any of the Executive Directors contracts which provide for longer periods of notice on a change of control of the Company.
Further, there are no special provisions providing for additional compensation on an Executive Directors cessation of employment with the Company.
Potential termination Potential payment Potential payment Name Payment upon Company takeover in event of liquidation Giles Thorley CEO 12 months salary Nil Nil Robert McDonald FD 12 months salary Nil Nil Adrian Fawcett COO 12 months salary Nil Nil The above table shows that the only event on the occurrence of which the Company is liable to make a payment to Executive Directors is on cessation of employment.
Report on directors remuneration 34 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Non-executive Directors fees Policy: Median Level Fees All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based upon recommendations from the Chairman and Chief Executive or, in the case of the Chairman, based on recommendations from the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the Chief Executive within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on the median level of fees payable to peers in the same Comparator Group as that used for Executive Directors remuneration and the time commitment each Non-executive Director makes to the Company through membership of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share incentive schemes or performances based plans and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
The basic fee is currently 33,000 p. a.
In addition, the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committee are paid an additional 7,000 p. a.
Directors contracts The following table summarises the contract details for both the current Directors of the Company and those who have resigned during the year: Unexpired term of contract Name Status Company notice period Contract date months Giles Thorley Executive 12 months 17 August 2001 Rolling Contract Robert McDonald Executive 12 months 3 June 2003 Rolling Contract 5 Adrian Fawcett Executive 12 months 2 July 2003 Rolling Contract 6 Jonathan Paveley Executive 12 months 3 May 2004 Rolling Contract Peter Cawdron Non-executive 12 months 18 June 2003 21 months Phil Cox Non-executive 12 months 20 May 2002 9 months Mike Foster Non-executive 12 months 3 May 2002 9 months 7 Ian Fraser Non-executive 1 month 22 Sept 2004 34 months 8 Martin Glenn Non-executive 1 month 22 Sept 2004 34 months 9 Marc Jonas Non-executive n a 16 July 2003 n a resigned 10 Cornel Riklin Non-executive n a 18 June 2003 n a resigned Randl Shure Non-executive 12 months 29 July 2003 9 months Fritz Ternofsky Non-executive 12 months 3 May 2002 9 months Contract will continue until terminated by notice either by the Company or the Director.
5 Appointed on 15 January 2004 6 Appointed on 22 September 2004 7 Appointed on 22 September 2004 8 Appointed on 22 September 2004 9 Resigned from the Board on 22 September 2004 10 Resigned from the Board on 15 December 2003 It should be noted that the fees paid for the services of Cornel Riklin, Marc Jonas, Randl Shure and Mike Foster are paid to third parties.
Total shareholder return performance graph The graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return TSR, compared with the FTSE 350 Leisure and Hotels Index which is the Companys comparator group.
The Remuneration Committee consider the Index a relevant index for TSR comparison as the Index members represent the broad range of UK quoted leisure companies comparable to the Company.
com Audited information The total of Directors emoluments in the year was 1,600,000 2003: 1,607,000, including pension contributions of 75,000 2003: 90,000.
2 These figures include the amount of the annual performance related bonus 25% deferred to buy shares Bonus Shares, in line with the Punch Taverns plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan approved by shareholders at the AGM on 15 January 2004.
Full details of the operation of the Plan are contained in the first part of the Report.
3 Appointed to the Board on 15 January 2004.
4 Marc Jonas was an Executive Director until 21 February 2003 when he became a Non-executive Director.
5 Resigned from the Board on 15 December 2003.
6 Other emoluments comprises compensation for loss of office and full and final settlement of any other claims.
7 Relates to a period when Marc Jonas was an Executive Director, which ceased on 21 February 2003.
Pension Since 5 April 2003 the Company contributes 12% of Robert McDonalds pensionable salary to his individual defined contribution scheme.
Giles Thorley and Adrian Fawcett are entitled to receive a contribution into their personal pension arrangements representing 12% of their pensionable salary.
Robert McDonald was a member of the Spirit Group Pension Scheme, a defined benefit salary scheme and the Company contributed 23% of his pensionable salary into the scheme.
Pursuant to the demerger of the Spirit Group in 2002 the Group ceased to participate in the scheme on 5 April 2003.
Robert McDonalds pension entitlements under this scheme are as follows: Defined benefit salary scheme Accrued Change in Change in annual benefit Change in transfer value accrued benefit as at accrued benefit Transfer value Transfer value over the year in excess 1 1 21 August 2004 over the year at 21 August 2004 at 23 August 2003 less Directors of inflation 000 000 000 000 contributions 000 Robert McDonald 67 2 776 714 62 0 1 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Guidance Note GN11 issued by the Faculty and Institute of Actuaries.
The transfer values represent the actuarial liability of the pension plan and not the sum paid or due to an individual.
Report on directors remuneration 36 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Directors interests in the Companys Share Plans Long-Term Incentive Plan Approved by shareholders on 15 January 2004 2004 Value of Shares Date of the end Value of Shares conditionally Shares of the Holding conditionally awarded during conditionally Period when awarded during the year as a awarded during Shares may 2 3 the year % of salary the year be released 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Giles Thorley 657 200% 126,711 2.03.07 Robert McDonald 190 100% 36,644 2.03.07 Adrian Fawcett 180 100% 34,715 2.03.07 1 Awards under the LTIP which were granted on 2 March 2004 will only be released if the Companys comparative TSR performance is equal to or greater than the median level of performance of the Comparator Group over the holding period at which point 30% of awards will be released, with full vesting occurring for upper quartile performance straight line vesting between points.
Further details are shown on page 32.
2 Value based on the price of the Companys ordinary shares on 2 March 2004 of 5.185.
3 Value as a % of salary based on salary level on 2 March 2004.
Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive Plan Approved by shareholders on 15 January 2004 2004 Matching Shares Number of conditionally Date of Partnership Shares awarded release of purchased during the year Matching Shares Executive Directors Giles Thorley 294 294 30.06.07 Robert McDonald 294 294 30.06.07 Adrian Fawcett 294 294 30.06.07 1 Partnership Shares are ordinary shares of the Company purchased on 30 June 2004 at a price per share of 5.0982.
2 Matching Shares are ordinary shares of the Company awarded on 30 June 2004 which will vest if the employee is still employed by the Company on 30 June 2007.
b options held at date of appointment as a director on 15 January 2004.
Performance vesting criteria Number Condition 1 Vest in equal monthly amounts and will fully vest by May 2005.
2 Vest if EPS growth is at least RPI 3% per annum.
3 40% of options vest if EPS growth of 12% RPI achieved, 100% vest if EPS growth of RPI 15% achieved straight line vesting between points.
4 Vest in equal quarterly amounts and will fully vest by May 2005.
Report on directors remuneration 37 continued Punch Taverns plc Annual report and financial statements 2004 www.
com Inland Revenue Approved SAYE share option scheme Number Number held at Gain on held at Date of Exercise 23 August Exercise August Grant Date 2003 Granted Exercised 000 2004 Executive Directors Giles Thorley 27.05.02 27.05.05 4,750 4,750 Robert McDonald 27.05.02 27.05.07 8,275 8,275 SAYE options have an exercise price of 200p per share and must be exercised within six months of the date shown above.
The Company is taking advantage of the exemption allowed under UITF 17 Revised for accounting for options issued at a discount.
The market price of the Companys shares on 21 August 2004 was 4.335 per share and the high and low share prices during the year were 5.655 and 2.95 respectively.
On behalf of the Board Fritz Ternofsky Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
