DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee The core principles on which Reckitt Benckisers remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is is based are as follows.
First, in order to attract and retain the best responsible for determining and reviewing the terms of employment available people, the Committee has and will continue to adopt and remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior executives.
a policy of executive remuneration based on competitive practice.
The remuneration principles established for this senior group of Reckitt Benckiser competes for management skills and talent in the employees provide the framework for the remuneration packages of same international market place as its main competitors, the vast all other executives.
Following a review of the terms of reference, the majority of which are based in the US.
In accordance with this policy Committee now has responsibility for determining the remuneration principle, total remuneration for Executive Directors and other senior of the Chairman.
executives will be benchmarked against the upper quartile of a peer group comprising Reckitt Benckisers main competitors, together with The Committee meets as necessary but at least three times each a range of comparable companies in the US consumer goods industry.
The Committee comprises three members, of whom two are considered independent by the standards of the Combined Code.
The second principle is that variable pay is, and will continue to be, the major element of our current Executive Directors and Judith Sprieser has served as Chairman of the Committee since senior executives total compensation package.
Accordingly, the June 2004, succeeding Peter Harf.
She joined the Committee Executive Directors compensation package comprises, in addition in November 2003., an annual cash bonus and share-based incentives.
to base salary Adrian Bellamy has served on the Committee since 1999.
As Highly leveraged annual cash bonuses, linked to the achievement Chairman, he is not considered independent for the purposes of of key business measures within the year, are designed to stimulate the Combined Code.
The Board has decided that shareholders the achievement of outstanding annual results.
To balance the interests are best met by him serving on the Committee, and is managements orientation between the achievement of short and satisfied that his personal integrity and experience makes him long-term business measures, and focus them directly on increasing a highly effective member of the Remuneration Committee.
believes that longer-term shareshareholder value, the Committee based incentives are also appropriate.
Graham Mackay joined the Committee in February 2005, succeeding Dr George Greener.
In broad terms, if the Group achieves its target levels of performance, the variable elements will account on average for As well as reviewing Executive Directors base salaries and benefits, 80% of Executive Directors total remuneration.
If performance is the Committee determines the incentive arrangements that will apply.
unsatisfactory, then no cash bonuses will be paid and long-term It aims to set challenging and demanding performance targets and incentives will not vest.
to ensure that incentive awards at the end of each year fully reflect the Companys performance.
The final principle underlying the Committees remuneration policy is to create a global executive team through a cost-effective international Policy on remuneration transfer programme.
The Committees overriding objective is to ensure that Reckitt Benckisers remuneration policy encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery The Company believes that the remuneration package in place and of outstanding shareholder value.
This approach has been a key the mix of fixed and variable pay within that package meets these ingredient to the success of Reckitt Benckiser.
The graphs below three core principles.
However, the Committees market-driven approach show that the Company has outperformed both the UK FTSE 100 to remuneration requires that it regularly reviews its policies, and will and the US remuneration peer group in terms of Total Shareholder discuss changes with shareholders as appropriate.
Return TSR over the last five years.
Historical TSR performance Historical TSR performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years five years FTSE 100 comparison based on spot values Peer group comparison based on spot values 350 350 300 300 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 50 DEC 99 DEC 00 DEC 01 DEC 02 DEC 03 DEC 04 DEC 99 DEC 00 DEC 01 DEC 02 DEC 03 DEC 04 FTSE 100 Peer Group Reckitt Benckiser Reckitt Benckiser Notes Notes The graph above shows the performance of Reckitt Benckiser in terms of The graph above shows the performance of Reckitt Benckiser in terms of TSR TSR performance against the UK FTSE 100 index over a five-year period and performance against our current US remuneration peer group over a five-year conforms to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
These companies include Church & Dwight, Clorox, Colgate-Palmolive, was selected on the basis of companies of a comparable size in the absence Gillette, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble and Sara Lee.
of an appropriate industry peer group in the UK.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 27 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Base salaries EPS is measured on an adjusted diluted basis as shown in the Base salaries are normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 January.
Companys reported accounts as this provides an independently Increases are determined by reference to a peer group, comprising verifiable measure.
our main competitors, individual performance and in the context The vesting schedule for the options and restricted shares rewards of salary increases across the Company as a whole.
The policy is that superior performance.
For 2005, the Committee has set the same salaries for Executive Directors and other Executive Committee members targets and levels of awards as in the previous year, having regard should typically be around the median of competitor market practice.
to: the industry context in which the Company operates, sensible Base pay increases for Executive Directors from 1 January 2005 expectations of what will constitute performance at the top of were 4%, in line with typical base pay increases for executives the peer group, and factors specific to the Company.
The Committee has set the targets for initial vesting under its longAnnual cash bonus term incentive plans of an average 6% growth in EPS per annum, The annual cash bonus is closely linked to the achievement equivalent to a 19% growth over a three-year period, which it of demanding pre-determined profitable growth and asset considers, based on past performance, to be around the industry management targets geared to above industry performance.
For exceptional performance of an average 9% The two performance measures are net revenue and net income growth per annum, equivalent to almost 30% over a three-year growth.
The Remuneration Committee each year sets performance period, all the options and shares will vest.
standards with reference to prevailing growth rates in the Companys EPS growth Compound EPS % of options peer group and across the consumer goods industry more broadly.
per annum growth over three years and shares % % vesting Target bonus will only be earned where the Companys performance is above the industry median.
Still more stretching percentage growth 6 19.1 40 rates have been set above target, and the achievement of these 7 22.5 60 delivers higher bonus payments for superior performance.
8 26.0 80 For 2005, as in 2004, the Executive Directors will participate in the 9 29.5 100 annual cash bonus scheme under which they may receive 100% CEO and 75% CFO of base salary for achieving target performance.
These levels of EPS growth have remained unchanged since 2001, For the achievement of outstanding performance, which the Board and inevitably over time become harder to achieve.
Note that in sets at a level approximately double the industry median, the bonus transitioning to the new accounting standards, annual EPS growth potential is 360% CEO and 270% CFO of base salary.
will be measured on a comparable basis i. e. UK standards for comparing 2003 to 2004 and IFRS for 2004 to 2005 and Similar incentive arrangements are used for other executives worldwide.
On this basis, there is only a minor impact in moving Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
The Committee also reserves to the new reporting standards.
the right, in exceptional circumstances, to make individual cash awards.
During 2004 the Committee has considered, in light of the views of Long-term incentives a number of UK institutional shareholders, whether the performance The Committee believes that a significant element of share-based target should allow for re-testing.
Currently if the performance remuneration ensures close alignment of the financial interests of the not been achieved, it may be re-tested in each of the target has Executive Directors and other key executives with those of shareholders.
two subsequent years, based on the previous three year period.
This is underpinned by a significant share ownership requirement The Committee has concluded that this feature is both necessary on senior executives, with penalties for non-compliance, which is and prudent, given performance conditions are not typical practice described in more detail below.
These are also the terms on among Reckitt which the existing long-term incentive arrangements were approved Long-term incentives comprise a mix of share options and restricted by shareholders in 1999. shares.
Both the levels and mix of share options and restricted shares are determined with reference to competitive market data and the If the target has not been met within five years from grant, the associated cost of share provision.
The Committee benchmarks total shares lapse.
If the performance condition is met, then the option remuneration for executives against the 75th percentile of its peer term is ten years from the date of grant.
In carrying out the benchmarking exercise, the Companys Awards under the long-term incentive plans are not pensionable.
long-term incentives and those of the peer group are valued using the Black-Scholes valuation methodology which is widely accepted Share ownership policy and enables like for like comparisons.
The award levels under Executive Directors and other senior executives are subject to a the long-term incentives for the executives are then determined by compulsory share ownership policy.
The objective of this policy is calculating the difference between the executives target total cash to emphasise the alignment of senior executives to the Company compensation and upper quartile total remuneration amongst the and its business targets.
In order to fulfil the share ownership policy, Executive Directors and While performance conditions are not typical practice among other senior executives must own the following number of shares: Reckitt Benckisers peer group, the Committee believes that the Individual Group Ownership requirement exercise of options and vesting of restricted share awards should be subject to the satisfaction of appropriate performance conditions.
CEO 1 400,000 shares CFO EVPs 6 200,000 shares As such, long-term incentives only vest subject to the achievement Other senior executives 27 50-75,000 shares of demanding earnings per share EPS growth targets.
EPS has been selected as the performance condition for three reasons: It focuses executives on real profit growth.
It provides the most appropriate measure of the Companys underlying financial performance.
It is a measure that the performance of the Executive Directors can directly impact.
28 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Executives, including those newly-recruited or promoted into senior In addition to the basic fees payable, Non-Executive Directors executive positions, have been allowed six years to reach these received an additional 5,000 and 15,000 per annum respectively targets.
As the share ownership policy requires executives to hold for their Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and a fixed number of shares, the increase in the share price since the Audit Committee see Table 1. policy was first introduced has made the requirement considerably It has been approved by the Board that as of 1 January 2005 more demanding.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee intends Adrian Bellamys annual fee as Chairman will increase to 240,000 to increase this time limit to eight years for all new entrants and and the net proceeds of 40,000 of this fee will be used to acquire proposes to shareholders to amend the terms of the share ownership shares in the Company which he is obliged to retain until he steps policy plan accordingly.
Furthermore, the basic level of fees for If the Executive does not meet these requirements within the required Non-Executive Directors will increase to 60,000.
Of this, 10,000 time period, the Committee will not make any further option grants must be used to acquire shares in the Company, which are retained or awards of restricted shares to the Executive until the targets have until the Non-Executive Director steps down from the Board.
Further, if, in the Committees opinion, an Executive is not Additional fees for the Chairmanship of the Remuneration making sufficient progress towards satisfying the requirement, then Committee will increase to 10,000. it will reduce the level of grants and awards to that Executive until It is the policy of the Board which the Board has no plans to change improvement is demonstrated.
that Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for pension fund Pensions membership and will not participate in any of the Companys bonus, In line with the Committees emphasis on the importance of only share option or long-term incentive schemes.
rewarding the Executive Directors for creating shareholder value, Fee levels are reviewed annually, with the Board taking external advice Reckitt Benckiser operates a defined contribution pension plan, on best practice and competitive levels, taking into account the the Reckitt Benckiser Executive Pension Plan.
Mr Becht and Mr Day responsibilities and time commitment of each Non-Executive Director.
are both members of this Plan.
External appointments Bart Bechts standard Company pension contribution was 30% of Executive Directors of the Company may accept one appointment pensionable pay during 2004.
A further annual contribution of 20% as a Non-Executive Director of another company.
The Board must of pensionable pay was also paid in 2004 to take account of the approve such appointments and any exceptions.
Directors are permitted uncompetitive level of his pension contributions since his appointment to retain fees for non-executive appointments.
This additional contribution will cease to be payable in 2005.
Pensions policy will be kept under review in the In 2004, Bart Becht received a fee of 33,333 for serving as light of proposed UK tax changes effective from April 2006. a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Prudential plc until he stepped down in August.
Colin Day received a fee of 50,000 Service agreements for serving as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of Easyjet plc.
For newly-appointed Executive Directors, termination payments, He also received a fee of 32,816 for serving on the Board of Bell including compensation paid during any notice period, will not exceed Group plc until his resignation in June following the sale of Bell 12 months pay.
Service contracts will be rolling and terminable on Group to Securitas.
Contracts will also provide liquidated damages of six months base salary plus an amount equal to one times the The process of the Committee average bonus paid if any in the two years up to termination.
The Committee has formally appointed Towers Perrin as its external Any bonus earned will be included in the termination payment adviser and, during the year, they have provided advice to the Board on the basis that a high proportion of pay is related to performance on executive compensation levels, structure and design and issues and that in the event of termination for poor performance it is relating to retirement benefits.
unlikely that any bonus will have been paid.
Internal advisers include the Chief Executive Officer, Bart Becht and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but are subject the SVP Human Resources, Frank Ruether.
No individual is present to re-election by shareholders every three years.
when their own remuneration is being discussed.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Throughout 2004, the Company complied with the provisions Non-Executive Directors of the FRC Combined Code published in 2003 relating to the design The Board, in the light of recommendations from the CEO, Bart Becht of performance-related remuneration except where noted above.
and the CFO, Colin Day determines the remuneration of the The contents of this report also comply with the Directors Non-Executive Directors.
Adrian Bellamys annual fee as Chairman in 2004 was 220,000, Approved by the Board on 21 March 2005 and signed on its and the net proceeds of 40,000 of this fee were used to acquire behalf by: shares in the Company which he is obliged to retain until he steps down from the Board.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of fees for their services in connection with Board and Board committee meetings.
In 2004, the basic level of fees was 47,500.
The net proceeds of the increase Judith Sprieser in fee from 2003 to 2004 7,500 had to be used to acquire shares Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in the Company, which must be retained until the Non-Executive Director steps down from the Board.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 29 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The information on pages 30 to 32 comprises the auditable disclosures of The Report on Directors Remuneration.
Remuneration disclosures In 2004, Reckitt Benckiser performed very well against its peers yet the bonus for Bart Becht dropped by nearly a third compared to 2003 when measured as a percentage of base salary, from 360% to 256%.
For while the Company had a net revenue growth of 4% 10% at constant exchange rates and a 20% increase in net income 26%, it did not fully meet the stretch growth targets set by the Board to the extent achieved in 2003.
Colin Days bonus payments also reflect his outstanding personal contribution to the Company throughout the year, and he has invested a significant part of this earned bonus after tax in the Companys shares.
These fees include 40,000 gross, the net amount of which was applied to buy ordinary shares in the Company.
These shares must be retained by Mr Bellamy while in office.
2 The remuneration reported under Other Payments in respect of Mr Becht and Mr Day relates to a non-pensionable cash supplement related to the unapproved element of their pension and other benefits 2003: 187,052 and 36,754 respectively.
3 Non-Executive Director fees include 7,500 gross, the net amount of which was applied to buy ordinary shares in the Company.
These shares must be retained by the Director while in office.
4 The total emoluments of the Directors of Reckitt Benckiser plc as defined by schedule 6 of the Companies Act were 5,415,000 2003 5,681,650.
5 The aggregate gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options and restricted shares during the year were 5,035,290 2003 3,958,400.
The gains are calculated based on the market price at the date of exercise for share options and restricted shares, although the shares may have been retained.
6 The total emoluments of the highest paid Director excluding pension contributions were 3,231,648 2003 3,852,500.
The 2004 remuneration package for Executive Directors comprised base salary, annual cash incentive bonus, long-term incentives in the form of share options and restricted shares, non-pensionable cash supplement, pension contributions, fully-expensed company car or cash equivalent and health insurance, and school fees and tax advice in the case of the Chief Executive Officer.
Pensions Mr Becht and Mr Day are both members of the Reckitt Benckiser Executive Pension Plan, a defined contribution plan, with a standard company contribution rate of 30% of pensionable pay for Mr Becht 2003: 30% and 25% for Mr Day 2003: 25%.
A supplement of 20% of pensionable pay was also paid to Mr Becht in 2004 2003: 20%.
30 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Table 2 Directors options and restricted share awards Table 2 sets out each Directors options over or rights to ordinary shares of the Company under the Companys various share option and restricted share schemes.
The middle market price of the ordinary shares at the year end was 15.74 and the range during the year was 12.38 to 16.06.
Market Market Exercised price at price at Granted vested date of date of Executive options At during during At Option award exercise Exercise vesting and restricted shares Notes Grant date 1.1.
04 the year the year 31.12.04 price vesting period Bart Becht Options 1 29.9.
04 the year the year 31.12.04 price Exercise period Bart Becht 15.9.
01 1,967 1,967 8.412 Feb 07 Jul 07 Notes 1 For compound average annual growth CAAG in earnings per share over a three year period of 6%, 9%, 12% and 15%, the percentage of options vesting under the initial grant on 29 September 1999 is 40%, 60%, 80% and 100% respectively.
This grant vested 100% on 7 May 2003 but is exercisable as to one-third of the grant from that date, the second one-third exercisable from 1 January 2004 and the final one-third from 1 January 2005.
2Vesting of options and restricted shares is subject to the achievement of the following compound average annual growth CAAG in earnings per share over a three year period.
Proportion of Grant Vesting % 40 60 80 100 CAAG for options and restricted shares granted in Dec 99 and Sep 00 6 9 12 15 CAAG for options and restricted shares granted in Dec 00 6 8 10 12 CAAG for options and restricted shares granted in Dec 01, Nov 02, Dec 03 and Dec 04 6789 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 31 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Table 3 Service contracts for Executive Directors Date of Date of Unexpired Notice service contract amendment term period Compensation for early termination Bart Becht 3 December 1999 19 November 2003 n a 6 months 0.5 x base salary, 1 x average bonus in previous two years Colin Day 21 July 2000 9 December 2003 n a 6 months 0.5 x base salary, 1 x average bonus in previous two years Table 4 not auditable In 2004, members of the Executive Committee nine received around 40%, senior executives next 30 around 20% and other executives next 350 around 40% of the total awards made under the long-term incentive plans.
The total grants have resulted in 0.7% of issued share capital being used for discretionary long-term incentive plans in 2004 and 4.7% over a rolling ten-year period from 1994 to 2004.
Shares placed under option in all schemes in the last ten years, less lapsed Total millions Discretionary Plans Reckitt Benckiser Executive Plans 30.9 Reckitt & Colman Executive Plans 2.9 Share Ownership Policy Plan 0.2 Employee Sharesave UK 1.0 Sharesave US 1.7 Sharesave Overseas 1.2 Share Participation Scheme 0.2 Total 38.1 32 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004
