Annual report 2004 Directors remuneration report 18 Remuneration policy Pension arrangements The Board as a whole is responsible for the overall The Company makes annual contributions to individual remuneration policy.
The remuneration and nomination pension policies for each executive director, based upon committee is responsible for making recommendations a percentage of basic salary, as follows: to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the D R McMurtry 41% of previous years salary Companys framework of executive remuneration.
D J Deer 41% of previous years salary It makes recommendations to the Board on specific B R Taylor 15% of current years salary remuneration packages for each of the A C G Roberts 15% of current years salary executive directors.
G McFarland participates in the Companys defined William M Mercer provides advice in relation to certain benefit scheme and more details are given in note 4 on benefits for the directors.
The non-executive directors do not participate Details of directors remuneration including pensions, in the Companys pension scheme.
which form the audited section of this report, are shown Service contracts in note 4 on page 26.
No director has a service contract although the committee Remuneration and Nomination committee is working on the implementation of executive service The committee was chaired by Joe McGeehan until 23rd contracts including the compensation implications of July 2003, the other members to this date being Sir David early termination which is expected to be completed in McMurtry, Chairman and Chief Executive and John Deer, the next financial year.
The three non-executive directors the Deputy Chairman.
From 23rd July 2003, David have been appointed under contracts for services which Snowden and Terry Garthwaite non-executive directors are intended to continue for an initial period of three joined the committee, with David Snowden chairing the years.
However, these contracts may be terminated by committee from that date.
Sir David McMurtry and John either the Company or the director on one months notice.
Deer stepped down from membership of the committee Benefits on 21st November 2003.
Accordingly the committee has comprised solely non-executive directors from that date.
Company cars and other benefits provided to directors The committee has access to internal and external are subject to income tax and no benefits are advisers when required.
The benefits are included in the directors remuneration table on page 26.
Remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors.
Share options and long-term incentive schemes The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive There are no share options or long-term incentive directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and schemes in operation for the directors.
benefit packages and incentives which are linked to personal performance and the overall performance of the Performance graph Group and, in turn, to the interests of the shareholders.
The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder The remuneration and nomination committee reviews return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid annually all aspects of the executive directors 250 index, which the directors believe is the most remuneration, performance and employment.
appropriate broad index for comparison.
Basic salary 140 Basic salaries are reviewed by the committee to take 120 effect from 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee takes account of financial data taken 100 100 from a cross-section of UK companies within the electronic and engineering sectors.
80 60 Appreciation award June 1999 June 2000 June 2001 June 2002 June 2003 June 2004 50 The Company operates an annual appreciation award Rebased to 100 at 30th June 1999 scheme for all group employees and directors, on which Renishaw FTSE mid 250 no pension contributions are made.
The award is based upon group profit performance and the achievement of a The report was approved by the Board of directors on number of strategic objectives to maintain the long-term 21st July 2004 and has been signed on its behalf by:- development of the Group.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the appreciation award scheme.
T D Snowden Chairman, Remuneration and Nomination committee Return
