44 SABMiller plc Remuneration report Introduction Remuneration policies The following report from, and the recommendations of, The remuneration committee has operated a framework of the remuneration committee have been approved without policies, within which it has set the remuneration package for amendment by the board for submission to shareholders.
each executive director, which applies the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
It is satisfied that it has complied with Other than as is specifically indicated in this report, the the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the remuneration committee intends to apply identical policies to year.
It is the policy of the remuneration committee that executive each component of executive director remuneration as in the directors should have 12-month contracts.
Current practice year under review.
complies fully with this policy.
The overall policy of the remuneration committee has been Throughout the year under review, the company complied with to ensure that executive directors and senior managers are the provisions of Schedule A of the Combined Code published rewarded for their contribution to the groups operating and in June 1998 relating to the design of performance-related financial performance at levels which take account of industry, remuneration except where noted below.
In preparing this report, market and country benchmarks.
The basic objective of the policy the board has followed the provisions of Schedule B of the is that members of the executive committee should receive Combined Code.
The contents of this report also comply with remuneration which is appropriate to their scale of responsibility the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. and performance and which will attract, motivate and retain individuals of the necessary calibre.
In the application of its policy, Information not subject to audit the remuneration committee also has had regard to the necessity Composition and terms of reference of the remuneration of being competitive in the different parts of the world in which the committee company operates.
The remuneration committees approach to During the financial year ended 31 March 2004 the members of payment for performance is illustrated in the summary table on the remuneration committee were Lord Renwick of Clifton in the page 48. chair, Lord Fellowes, Mr Kahn, Mr Morland and Mr Manser.
The remuneration committee has implemented its policy by Mr Bible joined meetings as an observer and also present were providing for each executive director a remuneration package the chief executive, Mr Mackay, and the group secretary, comprised of annual base salary, an annual cash bonus plan, Mr Tonkinson, other than when their own remuneration long-term incentives through participation in share option and was discussed.
performance share plans, pension contributions, other security Following the companys annual general meeting, with effect and health benefits and benefits in kind.
The base salaries, from 1 August 2004, Lord Renwick will be standing down as pensions and other benefits provided are intended to establish a remuneration committee chairman and Mr Morland will assume level of fixed pay which is competitive with the median provision the chair.
Mr Kahn, as chairman of the board, will step down of the chosen comparators.
The variable pay elements provided from the committee.
by short and long-term incentives form a significant proportion The remuneration committee deals with the remuneration of executive directors pay and are intended to provide superior of the executive directors and other members of the executive total pay opportunities if the companys and each individuals committee, as well as approving all grants and awards under the performance merits that.
companys share incentive plans, in accordance with its terms of The short-term and long-term incentives provided to the reference approved by the board.
Consideration is also given to executives have been based on multiples of base pay and have the companys group-wide compensation and incentive policies been provided under plans, details of which are set out in the to ensure alignment.
In order to promote an identity of interest with shareholders, share incentives are considered to be critical Advisers elements of executive remuneration policy.
The remuneration In the course of its deliberations, the remuneration committee committee considers that all elements of the package are of has considered the views of the chief executive on the equal importance in supporting the groups remuneration policy.
remuneration and performance of his colleagues on the executive In setting remuneration for the executive directors and committee.
The group secretary, the human resources director other members of the executive committee, the remuneration Mr Nel and Mr Scoones, head of compensation and benefits, committee has continued to apply the principles as set out in the have also provided information to the remuneration committee 2003 remuneration report, namely, having regard to the pay levels relating to such matters as expatriate pay for international of UK companies of comparable size to SABMiller plc, but also deployments and equity usage through share incentive plans.
taking into account pay levels and practices in the companys The remuneration committee has continued to employ Mercer principal international competitors operating in the markets in Human Resource Consulting Mercer, which provides advice which it is engaged.
to the company on pensions and risk matters, to provide During the year the remuneration committee reviewed the independent market information and remuneration advice on structure and level of short-term incentive opportunity against an ongoing basis.
It decided to increase the maximum opportunity, SABMiller plc 45 as set out in the relevant section below, but not to make divisional financial where applicable, strategic and personal other changes.
performance objectives agreed by the remuneration committee.
Also during the year the remuneration committee proceeded Following its review of short-term incentive opportunities, the with a review of pension contribution levels, as indicated in last remuneration committee agreed that the chief executive may earn years report.
The companys UK pension arrangements had a bonus of up to 100% of base salary previously 80% and the not changed since listing on the London Stock Exchange in chief financial officer and other executive committee members March 1999.
Mercer advised that these arrangements were may earn bonuses of up to 75% previously 60% in line with uncompetitive in the market for UK executives and in any case current UK market practice.
should be reviewed in the light of the UK Government proposals The common group financial performance targets for the for pension tax simplification.
The remuneration committee, noting bonus plans related to adjusted earnings per share growth and that the companys UK retirement schemes were entirely money pre-exceptional EBITA margin.
The divisional financial targets purchase, concluded that the existing level of retirement funding varied according to divisional value drivers derived from group provision for executives was inadequate in the light of market needs and include EVA, EBITA and EBITA margin.
practice as well as in the level of pensions this would provide.
For the chief executive, chief financial officer and corporate It, therefore, decided to increase the rate of contribution for the officers on the executive committee the proportions of maximum executive directors from 15.6% of salary to 30%.
bonus derived from the different sets of measures were 60% group financials, 20% strategic objectives and 20% personal Base pay objectives.
For the other executive committee members the The remuneration committee reviewed the salaries of executive proportions of maximum bonus derived from the different sets directors at its meeting in May 2003.
Following its established of measures were 60% divisional financials and 40% strategic practice, the salaries of the executive directors were compared and personal objectives.
with median pay levels of a group of 30 UK listed companies of At its meeting on 18 May 2004 the remuneration committee comparable size to SABMiller plc at that time in terms of market received assessments of the performance of the executives value as analysed by Mercer.
participating in the bonus plans against their agreed targets.
Details of the salaries applying from 1 April 2003 and the In the light of the operating and financial performance of the percentage changes from 31 March 2003 levels for the executive group, including the group EPS and EBITA margin performance, directors are shown in the table below: the remuneration committee agreed the payments of bonuses as shown below to the executive directors: 2004 2003 Total % Executive directors salary salary change 2004 bonus % of salary 2003 bonus at 31 March 2004 from 2003 EAG Mackay 681,000 625,000 8.96 EAG Mackay 681,000 100 425,000 MI Wyman 425,000 390,000 8.97 MI Wyman 315,000 74 215,000 The remuneration committee received advice from the chief Long-term incentive plans executive and Mercer on appropriate pay levels for the other Share option schemes members of the companys executive committee: Since its listing on the London Stock Exchange, the company For those executives based in the UK, salaries were has operated the SABMiller plc Approved Share Option Scheme determined by reference to appropriate UK benchmarks Approved Scheme approved by the UK Inland Revenue, the For those executives, other than Mr Adami, whose primary SABMiller plc Executive Share Option No 2 Scheme No 2 responsibilities were for operations of business units outside Scheme and the SABMiller plc Mirror Executive Share Purchase the UK, part of base pay was related to appropriate Scheme South Africa Mirror Scheme.
benchmarks in their theatres of operation and the balance On the acquisition of Miller, shareholders approved the to UK pay levels establishment of share incentive arrangements for international In the case of the executives responsible for the South employees of the group, principally in the Americas.
These African, European and Africa & Asia operations respectively, arrangements have taken form in the SABMiller plc International salary was determined on the assessment that 30% of their Employee Share Scheme and the SABMiller plc International time was spent on SABMiller plc duties and therefore related Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme.
Employees in the to the UK and global markets, while 70% was on duties for UK, including the executive directors, participate only in the UK their businesses in their regions share incentive grants.
Mr Adamis salary was determined by reference to the relevant All grants of options or rights over shares under these plans US market comparators.
have to be at the market value of the companys shares at the time of grant.
Annual incentive plans Executive directors have only been permitted to participate In addition to salary, each of the executive directors and members in the Approved Scheme in which participation is limited to of the executive committee were entitled to participate in an 30,000 of outstanding options and the No 2 Scheme.
annual bonus plan to reward the achievement of group financial, The tables on page 50 give details of the grants made in the 46 SABMiller plc Remuneration report year ended 31 March 2004 and those still outstanding and appropriate, also converted into sterling from US$ at the average unexercised from previous years.
exchange rates relevant to those financial years to establish the Following approval at the companys AGM in July 2001 of the percentage growth over each period: and then the outturn will remuneration policy as set out in the annual report for the year be compared with the change in UK RPI, plus the applicable ended 31 March 2001, the company amended its practice in minimum growth factor, over the relevant period.
This method has regard to share option grants.
The policy since then provides been chosen to ensure that executives are rewarded for achieving for annual grants subject to the new performance condition real growth in earnings when tested against UK inflation, where described below equivalent to fixed percentages of base salary.
the company has its primary listing.
Grants made in the year under review were to 200% of base salary for the chief executive and to 150% in the case of the Performance share award scheme chief financial officer other executive committee members may The company also has in place the SABMiller plc Performance be granted up to either 125% or 150% under this scheme, Share Award Scheme, Performance Share Scheme which is depending on their roles and responsibilities.
operated in conjunction with the companys Employee Benefit For these annual grants a new performance condition relates Trust EBT.
The trustee of the EBT grants awards in consultation the ability to exercise vesting an increasing proportion of an with the company.
Awards are subject to performance conditions option to higher performance achieved sliding scale vesting.
and will normally vest after three years with a provision that if If such an option has not vested by the fifth anniversary of its vested awards are retained for a further two years they will be grant date it will lapse.
increased by an allocation of 50% of the number of shares in the Options granted under the Approved and the No 2 Schemes original award that vested.
may normally only be exercised between three and ten years after Normally awards under this plan are made annually to a grant.
The right to exercise is dependent on the achievement of value of 100% of base salary for the chief executive, 75% of adjusted earnings per share EPS growth targets, calculated on base salary for the chief financial officer and other members of the basis of the definition of Headline Earnings in the Institute of the executive committee and up to 50% of base salary for other Investment Management and Researchs Statement of Investment senior executives.
The table on page 51 gives details of the Practice No1, chosen because of their ready visibility both to awards made in the year ended 31 March 2004 and awards executives and to shareholders: still outstanding from previous years.
Options granted prior to 2002 to each executive director have For normal awards under this plan, vesting will only occur if a performance condition which requires growth in adjusted over the three years after grant the companys total shareholder EPS expressed in sterling of 3% per annum compound in return TSR exceeds the median TSR of a comparator group excess of the change in retail price index RPI over any of companies identified at the time of award.
On exceeding the three-year period within the ten-year option life.
This median performance of the relevant comparator group, 25% of performance condition has not been applied to any options the award will vest and on reaching the upper quartile, 100% of granted after 2001 the award will vest.
Between these levels of achievement awards Options granted in 2002 and after to each executive director vest pro rata.
have a performance condition that the base annual award TSR is calculated using the equation: TSR [ 1 Z x Y] X: determined by reference to the previous grant levels of 130% where X is the base price the average of the daily closing share of annual salary for the chief executive, 115% of annual prices over the three months preceding the start of the salary for other executive directors and up to 100% for other measurement period : Y is the final price the average of the daily participants will continue to vest at compound EPS growth closing share prices over the three months immediately preceding of RPI 3% subject to testing at three, four and five-year the end of the measurement period : and Z is the sum of the intervals from a fixed base.
Half of any additional annual fractions of an ordinary share purchasable by reinvestment of the amount will vest at RPI 4%: and the other half of any dividends paid during the measurement period, on the relevant additional annual amount will vest at RPI 5% compound payment dates.
EPS growth, measured from a fixed base and only capable Relative TSR was chosen as the performance measure of testing after three, four or five years.
After the five-year test because it allows for performance to be measured relative to any unvested portion of the option will lapse.
other companies and reflects the benefit to shareholders of Mercer will undertake for the remuneration committee an management effort.
For the purpose of calculating TSR the share assessment of whether the performance condition applying to the prices and dividends of the comparator companies are converted, vesting of any option has been met following the announcement as necessary, into sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at the of the results for the financial year.
This assessment will be relevant times.
The conversion into sterling is intended to remove reviewed by the companys auditors.
distortions arising from differing rates of inflation in the countries in For the purpose of the assessment: the adjusted EPS results which the comparator companies are listed.
as reported in US$ will be converted into sterling using the As set out in the 2003 remuneration report, special conditional average exchange rate for the previous 12 months: the resulting share awards were made to the chief executive and chief financial value will be compared with the adjusted EPS figure for the officer within the rules of the Performance Share Scheme with financial years ended three, four or five years previously as effect from 9 July 2002.
These awards may vest after three years, SABMiller plc 47 dependent on the performance achieved and subject to Dilution continued employment of the executive.
Taking account of all share options granted over the five years to At the third anniversary of the effective date of the awards the 31 March 2004 under all the companys share option schemes remuneration committee will consider the performance of the since Listing on 8 March 1999, less lapses, potential dilution company over the period, looking at: amounts to 1.83% of the issued ordinary shares of the company The TSR of the company compared to the TSR of 30 on 31 March 2004.
The calculation excludes outstanding options companies which together comprise a FTSE comparator granted under the closed SAB Executive Share Purchase group: and Scheme prior to listing, as was disclosed in the original listing The financial performance of the company.
Obligations under the companys other long-term The base price for the TSR calculation was 477p, the average of incentive schemes are settled by the EBT from shares purchased the daily closing share prices in the three months to 3 April 2002 in the market.
the date on which the negotiations for the purchase of Miller was announced.
The comparator group is the same 15 companies Pensions above and 15 companies below SAB plc in the FTSE 100 on It is the companys policy to provide occupational retirement 28 March 2002 used as the reference group for the 2002 funding schemes on a money purchase basis wherever possible executive pay reviews.
so as to minimise the companys funding risk.
Where feasible, the The companies comprising the TSR comparator groups for company applies this policy to its new acquisitions.
all the Performance Share Awards which had not yet vested or During the year the company made contributions for the lapsed at 31 March 2004 are listed below: executive directors to the SABMiller Executive Pension Scheme, an approved occupational pension scheme established as a selfJune 2001, May 2002 administered money purchase scheme.
The rate of contribution and May 2003 awards July 2002 awards paid in respect of each executive directors salary was 15.6%, Ambev 3i Group to the extent allowed by the earnings cap.
Contributions in Anheuser Busch Alliance & Leicester relation to salary above the earnings cap were given as additional Asahi Breweries Allied Domecq Asia Pacific Breweries Amersham taxable pay.
Bavaria Associated British Foods The value of contributions made to each executive director in Carlsberg A BOC Group regard to qualifying service during the financial year is included in Coors Adolph B Cable & Wireless the Emoluments Paid table on page 49.
Femsa UBD Dixons As previously stated, the remuneration committee has Fosters Brewing Group Friends Provident concluded after thorough review that pension provision for the Greene King Gallaher Group executive directors and the other executive committee members Grolsch Kon Granada is currently inadequate.
The rate of contribution from the company Hartwall A Hanson as a percentage of salaries paid in sterling is, therefore, to be Heineken Hilton Group increased from 15.6% to 30%.
Interbrew ICI Kirin Brewery Invensys Lion Nathan Kingfisher Service contracts Molson A Land Securities Service contracts of all the executives are renewable annually on a Quinsa Next rolling basis.
Notice to be given by the executives to the company San Miguel B Old Mutual or its subsidiaries under their contracts is 12 months.
Notice to be Sapporo Breweries P & O Princess Cruising given by the company to the executives is 12 months.
Mr Mackay Scottish & Newcastle Powergen and Mr Wyman have service contracts with the company.
Wolverhampton & Dudley Rentokil Initial Under the service contracts with the company, a payment in Royal & Sun Alliance lieu of notice may be made on termination of employment.
Such Scottish & Newcastle payment shall be calculated by reference to the executives base Scottish & Southern Energy Smith & Nephew salary plus company pension contributions for the relevant period, Smiths Group less any deduction considered by the company to be appropriate United Utilities and reasonable to take account of accelerated receipt and the Wm Morrison Supermarkets executives duty to mitigate his loss.
Wolseley Details of the executive directors service contracts are Hartwall which was in the comparator group for the June 2001 and May 2002 awards noted below: was acquired by Scottish & Newcastle in December 2002 and has been removed for future measurement.
Execution Date first Date last Date next date of service appointed to re-elected as due for Director contract the board a director re-election Mercer undertakes the assessment of the companys TSR performance relative to the comparator groups.
The rules EAG Mackay 27 02 99 08 02 99 31 07 02 July 05 MI Wyman 26 02 99 08 02 99 30 07 01 July 04 of this scheme require that these calculations are checked by the companys auditors.
48 SABMiller plc Remuneration report Other benefits Performance review The executive directors are provided with medical insurance, permanent health insurance, company car or car allowance Cumulative TSR Performance at their choice, spousal travel and death in service benefit.
140 SABMiller FTSE 100 The estimated values of these provisions are included in the 120 Emoluments Paid table on page 49.
100 80 Non-executive directors fees 60 Fees for the chairman and the other non-executive directors 40 were not reviewed during the course of the year, having been 20 reviewed in the previous year.
The current annual rate of fees for 0 1 April 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March the chairman is 120,000 in respect of his duties as chairman.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 The basic annual rate of fees for each other non-executive director is 37,500.
The above graph compares the companys TSR over the period For membership of the audit, remuneration or corporate from 1 April 1999 to 31 March 2004 with the FTSE 100 Total accountability and risk assurance CARAC committees over Return Index over the same period.
Over the last five years, a full year, a non-executive director will receive a fee of 5,000: SABMiller initially performed in line with the FTSE 100 Total Return as chair of the audit, remuneration or CARAC committees a Index but has, for the last two years significantly outperformed the non-executive director will receive a fee of 6,000 over a full FTSE 100 Total Return Index.
Membership of the nomination committee attracts no The company is a member of the FTSE 100 Total Return additional fees but the chair of that committee receives an Index, and accordingly this is considered to be the most additional 8,000. appropriate broad equity market index for the purpose of As senior non-executive director, Lord Fellowes receives an measuring the companys relative performance.
additional fee for this role of 5,000 pa.
The chairman is provided with access to an office, a secretary and a car.
The table below shows the ratio of performance The non-executive directors do not participate in any of compensation to total compensation of the executive directors the open incentive schemes, nor do they receive any other on the basis of including the expected value of the long-term benefits or pension rights.
Non-executive directors do not have share-based compensation awarded in the year under review.
The ratios are in line with the remuneration committees policy Details of the non-executive directors letters of appointment on performance incentivisation.
The assumptions used to calculate the expected value of the long-term share based compensation awards are provided within the share incentive plan tables on pages 50 and 51.
Value of 100 invested on 1 April 1999 SABMiller plc 49 Directors beneficial interests in shares of the company The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at 31 March 2004 were: Beneficial Beneficial holding at Non-beneficial Purchased sold holding at Directors 31 March 2003 holding during the year 31 March 2004 JM Kahn 1,470,578 1,470,578 EAG Mackay 6 100,000 90,000 6,000 4,006 MI Wyman 120,224 2,000 109 2,000 109 120,224 LC Camilleri GC Bible NJ fide Lisi Lord Fellowes 1,000 1,000 Ning Gaoning MJ Levett 40,000 40,000 MQ Morland 14,800 14,800 PJ Manser MC Ramaphosa 4,000 Lord Renwick of Clifton 9,000 9,000 Share inheritance from the estate of the late OM Wyman.
The holding remained unchanged during the year.
Since the year end and up to the date of this report, no director has reported to the company a change in his or her interests in the shares of the company.
The following tables form the auditable part of the remuneration report.
Directors emoluments The directors emoluments in the year ended 31 March 2004 in total have been audited and were as follows: Emoluments paid for the period 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2004 Pension fund Total contriExpense excl.
Mr Ning has waived his fees in favour of China Resources Enterprise Ltd, a Hong Kong company, which have been accrued and not yet paid.
Note on past executive directors: Mr Goedhals, who stepped down from the board on 29 February 2000 along with Mr Stringfellow, continues to be employed as a part-time consultant following his retirement for which he receives fees.
Mr Stringfellow transferred employment from 1 April 2003 to associate Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited.
Mr Cox stepped down from the board on 28 February 2001 and transferred his employment to SABMiller Europe where he is chief financial officer based in Budapest.
Mr Adami, Mr Lloyd, Mr Parker and Mr Simms left the board on 31 July 2002 but continued in their executive employment.
Mr Simms and Mr Lloyd retired from the group on 31 August and 31 October 2003 respectively.
Note on executive directors salaries: The salaries reported include in the case of Mr Mackay 50,400 2003: 40,625 and in the case of Mr Wyman 3,930 2003: nil asretirement contributions in excess of the tax allowable benefit cap paid as a salary supplement.
50 SABMiller plc Remuneration report Share incentive plans The interests of the executive directors in shares of the company provided in the form of options and awards since listing on 8 March 1999 are shown in the tables below, and have been audited.
During the year ended 31 March 2004 the highest and lowest market prices for the companys shares were 627p and 397.5p respectively and the market price on 31 March 2004 was 626p.
SABMiller plc Approved Share Option Scheme No of share No of share No of share Subscription Exercisable No of share options Expected options as at options granted options exercised price 3-10 years as at 31 March value Directors 31 March 2003 during the year during the year from 2004 EAG Mackay 5,586 5.37 16 03 1999 5,586 13,200 MI Wyman 5,586 5.37 16 03 1999 5,586 13,200 The share options indicated were eligible to be tested against the performance condition described in this report for the three years ended 31 March 2004.
The performance hurdle having been exceeded, these share options are eligible to be exercised.
No variations have been made to the terms and conditions of the options during the relevant period, including to the performance conditions to which exercise of the options are subject, as set out on page 46.
The Black-Scholes values have been calculated by Mercer using a model that uses daily share price data and takes account of the option grant date, exercise price and time to maturity, with assumptions as to dividend yield and the risk-free rate of return.
The share options indicated were eligible to be tested against the performance condition described in this report for the three years ended 31 March 2004.
The expected values shown are the aggregate expected values of all outstanding awards estimated by reference to the probabilities of any portion of each award vesting.
The indicated conditional awards of free shares were tested against the performance condition described in this report over the three years ended 31 May 2004.
Having achieved upper quartile performance, these vested in full.
SABMiller plc Executive Share Purchase Scheme Prior to adoption of new share schemes, in March 1999, each of the executive directors and the chairman participated in the old SAB Executive Share Purchase Scheme.
The executive directors are not eligible to receive further awards under this scheme.
The characteristics for this scheme are such that gains on exercise of options were recognised in prior years in respect of all the share rights reflected in the table.
From 3 June 2000 the SAB Executive Share Purchase Scheme was closed for purposes of new awards.
The successor Mirror Scheme is used for the purposes of grants to employees of South African employers in the group and certain categories of other employees of South African origin elsewhere in the group other than SABMiller plc directors, principally in Africa.
Approval This report was approved by the board on 19 May 2004.
By order of the board Lord Renwick of Clifton Director 7 June 2004
