Remuneration Report of the Directors Remuneration Report of the Directors 1 Consideration of Remuneration Matters by the Directors 2 Statement of Remuneration Policy 3 Elements of the Remuneration Package 2003 04 any decision relating to their own remuneration.
Consideration of Remuneration Matters The Committee is able to draw on advice from by the Directors independent remuneration consultants and internal expertise.
1 The ScottishPower Board is responsible for determining Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc.
Towers Perrin act as the remuneration policy for the ScottishPower group.
The remuneration consultant and independent advisor to the Remuneration Committee, with delegated authority from the Committee.
Towers Perrins appointment by the Committee Board, determines the detail of remuneration arrangements for followed a competitive tendering exercise.
Towers Perrin also the Executive Team, including the executive directors, and provides remuneration and other human resources consultancy reviews proposals in respect of other senior executives.
The services directly to some ScottishPower companies within relationship between the Board and the Committee is based on parameters established by the Committee.
Company executives formal Terms of Reference, which are regularly reviewed to whom the Committee may consult include the Group Company ensure that they reflect best practice.
Secretary, Andrew Mitchell who acts as Secretary to the The Remuneration Committee consists solely of Committee, the Group Director, Human Resources, Michael independent non-executive directors.
Its members are Sir Peter Pittman, the Director Group Leadership Development and Gregson Chairman, Euan Baird, Mair Barnes, Donald Brydon Reward, Sandy Begbie, and the Head of Group Reward, Nigel appointed to the Committee on 24 October 2003, Philip Johnson.
The Terms of Reference empower the Committee to Carroll appointed to the Committee on 24 October 2003 and avail itself of external legal and professional advice at the Nolan Karras.
Ewen Macpherson was a member of the expense of the company.
Committee until his retirement from the Board on 25 July 2003.
The Committee met on seven occasions during the year These members have no personal financial interest, other than as ended 31 March 2004. shareholders, in the matters considered by the Committee.
During the year, the Board accepted all of the Details of the payments made to all non-executive directors are recommendations from the Committee without significant set out in Table 44 page 79. amendment.
The Chairman of the company, Charles Miller Smith, and the Chief Executive, Ian Russell, are invited to attend meetings Statement of Remuneration Policy and may provide guidance on the impact of remuneration policy and advise, as appropriate, on the performance of senior Philosophy and Policy 2 executives.
They are not present during any discussion of their ScottishPower seeks to ensure that remuneration and own remuneration.
The Terms of Reference contain conflict of incentive schemes are in line with best practice, provide a strong interest provisions to ensure that no directors are involved in link to individual and company performance and promote a 72 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 community of interest between employees and shareholders.
implemented changes to ScottishPowers incentive strategy in Rewards for executives and directors are designed to order to help deliver enhanced shareholder returns.
At this time, attract and retain individuals of high quality, who have the no other substantial changes to the companys policies with requisite skills and are incentivised to achieve levels of regard to directors remuneration are envisaged over the next performance which exceed that of competitor companies.
As year and in subsequent years.
However, the Committee may such, remuneration packages must be market-competitive and develop policy and, should it determine any changes to be capable of rewarding exceptional performance.
All senior appropriate, will report such changes to shareholders through management remuneration packages are set according to a midestablished channels of consultation and reporting.
For example, market position, with packages above the mid-market level the Committee and the Board will consider carefully the impact provided only where supported by demonstrably superior of the Governments reform of the pensions taxation personal performance.
Remuneration packages are developed to environment and may amend executive pensions policy reflect the prevailing market practice in each business accordingly.
Annual bonus arrangements have been structured so that Elements of the Remuneration Package stretching targets are based on corporate, business unit and 2003 04 individual performance.
3 The company operates a Personal Shareholding Policy Base Salaries PSP, requiring executives and key senior managers to buildThe Committee sets base salaries for the Executive Team by up and retain a shareholding in the company in proportion to reference to individual performance through a formal appraisal their annual salaries.
These proportions are three times base system applied to all management employees, and to external salary for the Chief Executive and two times base salary for market data, reflecting similar roles in comparable companies.
The Committee expects PSP Account is also taken of salary increases and employment participants to have accumulated their respective shareholding conditions across the company.
targets within eight years of the introduction of the Policy, that is by the end of May 2008, or eight years after the first award under Annual Performance-Related Bonus any discretionary share plan for external appointees to the Executive directors and senior management participate in the Board.
The Committee reviewed this policy during the year and companys performance-related annual incentive plans.
Any will continue to do so to ensure that it is in line with evolving payments to UK executives under the plans are non-pensionable best practice and in the interests of shareholders.
and are determined by the Committee following assessment In setting remuneration levels, the Committee against stretching pre-determined targets.
In line with US commissions an independent evaluation of the roles of the market practice, a proportion of bonus paid to US senior Executive Team, and also of the next levels of management executives, including Judi Johansen the CEO of PacifiCorp, is within the company.
The Committee takes independent advice pensionable.
from Towers Perrin on market-level remuneration, based on The 2003 04 plan for executive directors provided a comparisons with other companies of similar size and maximum incentive opportunity of 75% of salary.
For the Chief complexity, including the major utility companies, with which Executive, half is determined by the companys performance, the company competes for executive talent.
with the balance linked to the achievement of key personal, The Committee recognises the importance of linking strategic and behavioural objectives, both short-term and longrewards to business and personal performance and believes that term.
For the other four executive directors, one-third is the arrangements detailed below provide an appropriate focus determined by the companys performance, one-third is based on on performance and balance between shortand long-term the performance of the relevant function division and one-third incentives.
At target level, base salary is expected to deliver on the achievement of key personal, strategic and behavioural around 48% of total reward excluding benefits and pension.
The objectives, both short-term and long-term.
annual bonus plan and long-term incentive arrangements are Company, divisional and functional performance is expected to provide 52% of total reward for the achievement of measured on the basis of balanced scorecards.
Each scorecard is stretching target level business and personal performance focused on the delivery of key performance metrics including, objectives.
Higher proportions of performance based reward are for example, pre-determined financial targets and, where available for the delivery of exceptional personal and business appropriate, customer service and health and safety targets.
performance resulting in enhanced shareholder value.
With regard to the financial measures, for the 2003 04 financial The Committee constantly monitors market practice in year, the company scorecard contained stretch targets for order to remain competitive, to ensure that reward policy earnings before interest and tax, excluding goodwill amortisation supports company strategy and to reflect good corporate and exceptional items, EBIT, earnings per share, excluding governance practice.
As outlined below under the section goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, EPS, dividend entitled Future Incentive Strategy the Committee has cover, cash flow and return on capital.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 73 Remuneration Report of the Directors Objectives are set annually by the Committee and Union Fenosa: Williams Companies Inc: and Xcel Energy Inc. performance against these is reviewed by the Committee at the No shares vest unless the companys TSR performance is half year and year end.
In determining annual incentive at least equal to the median performance of the comparator payments for 2003 04, the Remuneration Committee gave group, at which point 40% of the initial award vests.
100% of the detailed consideration to out turn against target in relation to shares vest if the companys performance is equal to or exceeds company, divisional functional and personal performance.
The number of shares that vest for performance Payments made to executive directors were within the range of between these two points is determined on a straight-line basis.
83% to 90% of the maximum available opportunity, which was For LTIP Award 5, which had the potential to vest during 75% of salary for 2003 04, representing exceptional personal the year, TSR performance was measured against that of the contributions by the executive directors to the financial and FTSE 100 index and an index of the Electricity and Water operational performance of the company.
sectors of the FTSE All Share Index over the three-year period to 4 May 2003.
After careful consideration, the Committee Executive Share Plans determined that the gateway measures relating to the financial The company currently operates a performance share plan, and customer service performance of the company had been known as the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, and an achieved.
As the company was ranked between the median and Executive Share Option Plan 2001 ExSOP for executive upper quartile TSR performance levels against the FTSE 100 directors and other senior managers.
companies, a proportion of the 50% of the initial award Under the LTIP, awards to acquire shares in measured against these companies vested.
With regard to the ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost are made to the 50% of the initial award measured against the Electricity and participants up to a maximum value equal to 75% of base salary.
Water sector companies, the TSR performance of ScottishPower The award will vest only if the Committee is satisfied that there was below the median of the group and this part of the initial has been sustained underlying performance of the company and, award lapsed with no vesting of shares.
At the maximum level of to this end, certain gateway performance targets are measured participation whereby awards were made over shares with an and the Committee reviews performance against these measures initial value of 75% of base salary at May 2000, an award equal to when determining if awards vest.
The measures relate to the key 35.4% of base salary became available for exercise by participants financial performance indicators of the company and customer at the end of the one-year deferral period in May 2004. service standards.
These measures provide a mechanism to The Committee has approved the operation of the LTIP safeguard stakeholder interests and provide an overview of the for 2004 05 and has agreed to place a greater focus on financial and operational success of the business.
performance and potential in determining LTIP participation.
As The number of shares which actually vest is dependent an extra incentive and retention tool, the Committee agreed to upon the companys comparative Total Shareholder Return include selected key high potential high performance TSR performance, over a three-year performance period.
individuals in the LTIP as identified by the talent management TSR measures ScottishPowers comparative performance against process if not already at a level that qualifies for participation.
key competitors and only provides rewards if ScottishPower is at The Committee has also agreed that participants who would least equal to the median performance of appropriate normally receive an LTIP award as a result of their level in the comparators.
The Committee chose TSR as the performance company will only do so if they achieve a certain pre-determined measure for the LTIP as it believes that it provides a clear link to level of performance as determined by the companys the creation of shareholder value.
No other significant changes LTIP awards were granted to 46 directors and senior to the operation of the LTIP have been implemented for executives during the year Award 8.
TSR performance is 2004 05. measured against an international comparator group of 37 major Options were granted at market value to 292 directors energy companies, as identified below.
and other executives across the company during the year.
AES Corp: American Electric Power Inc: Calpine Corp: Executive directors in post at May 2003 received an award of Centrepoint Energy Inc: Centrica: Chubu Electric Power Co Inc: options with a value equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Options CLP Holdings Limited: Constellation Energy Group Inc: granted to UK executives under the ExSOP are subject to the Dominion Resources Inc: Duke Energy Corp: Dynegy Inc: performance criterion that the average annual percentage Edison International: El Paso Corp: Electrabel SA: Electricidade increase in the companys EPS be at least 3% adjusted for any fide Portugal SA: Endesa SA: Ente Nazionale per lEnergia increase in the Retail Price Index.
The Committee believes that Elettrica SpA Enel : Entergy Corp: Exelon: FirstEnergy Corp: EPS is an appropriate measure for the purposes of testing the FPL Group Inc: Gas Natural SDG SA: Iberdrola SA: Kansai ExSOP because it is based on the underlying financial Electric Power Co Inc: National Grid Transco plc: PPL Corp: performance of the company.
This criterion is assessed at the Progress Energy Inc: Public Service Enterprise Group Inc: RWE end of the third financial year, the first year being the financial AG: Scottish and Southern Energy plc: Southern Company Inc: year starting immediately before the date of grant.
If not satisfied Tenaga Nasional Bhd: Tokyo Electric Power Co Inc: TXU Corp: on the third anniversary, the criterion may be retested, from the 74 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 same base, on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
20% from the prevailing market price at the time of grant to Unvested options lapse at the fifth anniversary.
eligible employees who commit to save up to 250 per month The Committee has approved the operation of the over a period of three or five years.
ExSOP for 2004 05 and, as outlined with regard to the LTIP above, has agreed to place a greater focus on performance and Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP potential in determining ExSOP participation.
No other The company operates an ESOP also known as a Share significant changes to the operation of the ExSOP have been Incentive Plan for all UK domiciled employees.
The ESOP implemented for 2004 05. enables employees to purchase shares in the company from pretax income up to the limits specified in the legislation.
The value Performance Graph of these shares is at risk as they are not normally released until The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations require that a the legislation allows.
The company matches these shares at no graph be presented showing the companys TSR performance cost to the employee on a one-for-one ratio.
against the TSR performance of a broad equity market index over a five-year period.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen because Defined Contribution Savings Plan 401 k it is the principal index in which the companys shares are Employees domiciled in the US are eligible to participate in a quoted.
The graph below presents the comparative TSR tax-beneficial savings plan known as a 401 k plan provided performance of the company during the period 1 April 1999 31 for all US employees.
The Plan provides for employee March 2004.
The graph shows that ScottishPower has contributions up to statutory limits, which are matched by the outperformed the index over this period.
company at 50% of the employee contribution up to the first 6% of pay i. e. a 3% match.
The company also makes an additional contribution of 2% of eligible pay for all participants.
All Total shareholder return contributions to the Plan are invested in a range of investment 120 funds, including ScottishPower ADSs, at the discretion of the participant.
100 80 Pension The UK domiciled executive directors, and other UK senior 60 managers of the company, are provided with pension benefits through the companys main pension scheme, and through an 40 executive top-up pension plan which provides a maximum 20 pension of two-thirds of final salary on retirement at age 63, reduced where service to age 63 is less than 20 years.
0 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Pensionable salary is normally base salary in the 12 months 99 00 01 02 03 04 prior to leaving the company although there are prescribed Scottish Power plc FTSE 100 Index mechanisms for calculating pensionable salary by averaging base Source: Datastream salary over a period of up to three out of the last 10 years service.
The employee contributes 5% of salary to the scheme.
This graph looks at the value net of withholding tax, at 31 Life assurance provision of four times pensionable salary and a March 2004, of 100 invested in ScottishPower on 31 March 1999 widows pension of half the executives pension on death are compared with that of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
UK domiciled individuals who joined the company on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to the Inland Revenue earnings All-Employee Share Plans cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989.
Entitlement to To facilitate high levels of share ownership by employees, the pension benefits above the cap cannot be provided through the company operates three savings-related share ownership plans.
companys approved pension scheme, and therefore These are all-employee Inland Revenue or Internal Revenue arrangements on an unapproved basis have been made to Service approved plans and are not subject to performance provide total benefits for executives affected by the legislation as conditions.
Participation is available to executive directors on though there was no cap.
The total liability calculated on an FRS the same basis as to all other eligible employees.
17 basis in respect of executives and senior employees arising in relation to unapproved benefits accrued for service for the year Sharesave to 31 March 2004 was 934,100.
The Trustee body of the Employees domiciled in the UK are eligible to participate in the Executive Top Up Plan is chaired by the Company Secretary.
Under this plan, The US domiciled executive director and other US senior options are granted over ScottishPower shares at a discount of managers of the company participate in a qualified defined ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 75 Remuneration Report of the Directors benefit pension plan and a Supplemental Executive Retirement Service Contracts Plan.
The defined benefit plan is a non-contributory retirement Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish entered into new plan.
Benefits vest after five years of service and are service contracts with the company dated 3 June 2003.
These determined by each employees years of service with the are rolling contracts terminable by either party on twelve company, final average pay the highest 60 consecutive months months notice.
They contain a payment in lieu of notice of eligible pay over the last 120 months of employment and provision that allows the company to terminate the contract age at retirement.
Pay includes base pay plus annual incentive immediately and a liquidated damages provision which plan payments up to 10% of annual base pay.
The amount of provides for a payment to the director if the company pay considered under the plan is further limited by statute.
The payment in lieu of Benefits under the plan, plus benefits payable from the US notice and liquidated damages provisions are calculated by Social Security system, at age 65 normal retirement are reference to twelve months basic salary and contractual targeted to replace 60%-70% of final average pay after a full benefits except bonus as set out below.
The company has the career defined as 30 years with the company.
discretion to pay these amounts in full on termination of As a US domiciled executive director, Judi Johansen employment or, in line with emerging best practice, in participates in the PacifiCorp Supplemental Executive instalments.
If instalments are paid, an initial payment will be Retirement Plan SERP which provides additional made in respect of six months loss only.
Further instalments retirement benefits to a select group of management or highly may be paid if the director has not started alternative compensated employees as a means to attract and retain highly employment within six months of the termination date.
Participants receive benefits at retirement director will only receive payment in respect of twelve months based on length of service with the company and average pay loss should he or she fail to start alternative employment in the 60 consecutive months of highest pay out of the last 120 within nine months of termination.
If the director starts months, and pay for this purpose would include salary and alternative employment within nine months of termination, the annual incentive plan payments.
Benefits are based on 50% of instalments will be reduced by the basic salary received by the final average pay plus up to an additional 15% of final average director in his alternative employment.
pay depending upon whether the company meets certain The directors entitlement under any performance performance goals set for each fiscal year by the company.
related pay scheme for the period prior to termination will be Retirement benefits are reduced to reflect Social Security unaffected as will any entitlement under any executive share benefits as well as certain prior employer retirement benefits scheme.
In addition, the company will pay to the director an and other retirement benefits from the companys qualified amount representing a proportion of his or her maximum retirement plan.
Participants are entitled to receive full benefits annual bonus for the notice period based on the companys upon retirement after age 60 with at least 15 years of service.
performance against its pre-determined financial objectives.
Participants are also entitled to receive reduced benefits upon This will be paid at the same time as annual bonuses are paid early retirement after age 55 or after age 50 with at least 15 to other employees providing the director has complied with years of service and 5 years of participation in the confidentiality obligations and any restrictive covenants and supplemental plan.
may be reduced if the director obtains alternative The Committee has reported the pension expense in employment.
accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority The new contract does not provide for any additional and Directors Remuneration Report Regulations.
Pension benefits where termination of a director is as a result of a costs detailed in the Accounts are calculated as the cost of change in control of the company.
providing benefits accrued in the 2003 04 year, in accordance If not otherwise terminated, the service contracts with appropriate accounting standards.
terminate automatically at Normal Retirement Age.
On appointment to the Board, Simon Lowth and Judi Benefits Johansen entered into new service contracts with the company Executive directors are eligible for a range of benefits on which on the same basis as for existing directors as outlined above.
they are assessed for tax.
These include the provision of a The effective date of these contracts was 1 September 2003 for company car or a cash allowance in lieu of a car, fuel, private Simon Lowth and 1 October 2003 for Judi Johansen.
The medical provision and permanent health insurance.
The companys policy is that all new directors will be offered service provision and level of benefits is reviewed regularly to ensure contracts on the terms outlined above.
that practice is in line with the market.
The Committees policy on early termination is to The US domiciled executive director participates in emphasise the duty to mitigate to the fullest extent practicable.
post-retirement healthcare plans, subject to the eligibility Senior managers within the company have notice periods criteria at termination from the company.
Currently, those ranging from six months to one year.
criteria are termination after age 55 with five or more years of The Chairman, Charles Miller Smith, does not have a service.
service contract with the company.
76 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Future Incentive Strategy financial targets, including EPS, dividend cover, cash flow and During the year the Remuneration Committee has given detailed return on capital.
A further 40% is based on the achievement of consideration to company strategy as it impacts on our key strategic objectives including appropriate pre-determined remuneration philosophy for executive directors and other key targets in relation to customer service and health and safety, senior executives.
amongst others and 10% is based on cultural and leadership ScottishPowers strategic focus continues to be on behaviours, including the results of a 360 leadership survey of organic growth and continual operational improvement in our feedback from reporting manager, peers and direct reports.
It is expected that this will enhance For the other four executive directors, 25% of bonus is shareholder value and provide dividend growth in line with the based on the achievement of key company financial targets, 25% growth in earnings.
The Remuneration Committee believes is based on the achievement of key strategic objectives, 40% on strongly that, to support our strategy, the balance of incentives the achievement of the appropriate function division balanced needs to be shifted towards achieving higher returns from scorecard targets with financial metrics and performance improved operational performance.
targets relating to the function division, including, where The Remuneration Committee has developed the revised appropriate, customer service and health and safety metrics and approach below for 2004 05 in order to refocus our incentive 10% is based on cultural and leadership behaviours, including policy: the results of a 360 leadership survey of feedback from reporting manager, peers and direct reports.
Make no further awards under the ExSOP after the May 2004 award.
External Non-Executive Appointments The company encourages its directors to become non-executive Increase the bonus plan levels for the year beginning 1 April directors of other companies, provided that these appointments 2004 but deliver that increase in the form of shares which are are not with competing companies, are not likely to lead to any deferred for 3 years.
conflicts of interest, and do not require extensive commitments of time which would prejudice their roles within the company.
Retain the LTIP in the existing form until the plan expires at This serves to add to their personal and professional experience the 2006 AGM, at which time the Remuneration Committee and knowledge, to the benefit of the company.
Any fees derived will conduct a further review of our incentive strategy and from such appointments may be retained by the executives.
consult with major shareholders prior to seeking approval for any proposed new plan.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by Under the new arrangements the target annual bonus for the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board and, for executive directors will be increased from 56% to 70% of salary the period 1 April 2003 to 30 September 2003, consisted of a and the maximum annual bonus from 75% to 100% of base base fee of 24,000 p. a. a committee membership fee of 3,500 salary.
The cash payments at the year end would be the same as p. a. a fee of 7,500 p. a. for chairing the Audit Committee and the under the existing plan for achieving the equivalent level of Remuneration Committee, and an international travel fee of performance.
The additional bonus of one-third of the cash 1,000 for attending a tranche of meetings that involve a bonus would be payable in ScottishPower shares deferred for Transatlantic journey.
Due to the increased responsibility of non-executive roles The deferred shares will be bought in the employees in recent years, and as fees were not set at a competitive market name and the certificate lodged with the company for three level based on analyses provided by Towers Perrin, the fees years, but dividend and voting rights will be retained by the payable to non-executive directors were reviewed during the employee.
There would be no award of matching shares at the year for the first time since December 1999. end of the three-year deferral period.
As the deferred shares are As a result of the review, for the period 1 October 2003 a part of an annual bonus award, the shares would be returned to 31 March 2004 remuneration consisted of a base fee of to the employee in circumstances involving a termination of 31,000 p. a. a committee membership fee of 5,000 p. a. not employment.
paid to a committee chairman, a fee of 15,000 p. a. for chairing In determining the structure of the annual incentive plan the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, and an for 2004 05, the Remuneration Committee gave detailed international travel fee of 1,000 for attending a tranche of consideration to the metrics used and the payment calibration meetings that involve a Transatlantic journey.
scale given the increase in focus on this element of the With effect from 1 April 2004, the Board introduced a fee remuneration package.
As a result, the Committee decreased the of 10,000 p. a. for chairing the Group Finance Committee of the percentage bonus payment for achieving stretch budget.
Board and 3,000 p. a. to be a member.
Such fees are only paid to The 2004 05 annual incentive plan for the Chief the independent non-executive directors who serve on the Executive is based 50% on the achievement of key company Group Finance Committee.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 77 Remuneration Report of the Directors In line with best practice, the independent non-executive directors do not have service contracts, are not members of the company's pension schemes and do not participate in any bonus, share option or other profit or long-term incentive plan.
Full details of the remuneration of the non-executive directors are contained in Table 44.
Compensation of Directors and Officers For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests for directors and officers.
The aggregate amount of compensation paid by the group to all directors and officers of the company, as a group, was 5,872,296.
During 2003 04 the cost to the group to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for directors and officers of the company pursuant to any existing plan provided or contributed to by the group was 1,933,134 calculated in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for pension costs.
Interest of Management in Certain Transactions There have been no material transactions during the groups three most recent financial years, nor are there presently proposed to be any material transactions to which the company or any of its subsidiaries was or is a party and in which any director or officer, or 10% shareholder, or any relative or spouse thereof or any relative of such a spouse, who had the same home as such person or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of the company has or is to have a direct or indirect material interest.
During the groups three most recent financial years there has been no, and at present there is no, outstanding indebtedness to the company or any of its subsidiaries owed or owing by any director or officer of the group or any associate thereof.
Directors Interests Other than as disclosed, none of the directors had a material interest in any contract of significance with the company and its subsidiaries during or at the end of the financial year.
The directors interests, all beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the company, including interests in options under the companys ExSOP and Sharesave Scheme and awards under the LTIP, are shown on pages 81 to 83.
Directors Emoluments Table 44 provides a breakdown of the total emoluments of the Chairman and all the directors in office during the year ended 31 March 2004.
Directors Pension Benefits Details of pension benefits earned by the executive directors during the year are shown in Table 45.
78 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 The following tables provide details of the remuneration, pensions and share interests of the directors and the information is audited.
The bonus figure represents the annual incentive payment for the whole twelve months of the year 2003 04.
The conversion rate used is 1 $1.694, being the average exchange rate during the year.
Nolan Karras received emoluments in the US of 9,637 2003 16,807 in respect of services to the PacifiCorp and Utah advisory boards in the form of cash and shares.
These amounts are included within Fees in the above table.
i The emoluments of the highest paid director Ian Russell excluding pension contributions were 1,097,144 2003 995,280.
In addition, gains on exercise of share options during the year by Ian Russell amounted to 46,416 2003 nil.
Details of other share related incentives are contained in Tables 46 and 47. ii Ian Russell has an entitlement under the unapproved pension benefits described further in Table 45.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 79 Remuneration Report of the Directors Table 45 Defined Benefits Pension Plans 2003 04 A Transfer B Total Additional value of change in pension increases Value of Value of value during earned Accrued after inflation accrued accrued the year in year pension net of pension pension net of Transferred net of at end directors at start at end directors - in benefits inflation of year contribution of year of year contributions p. a. p. a. p. a. Ian Russell 17,838 43,715 208,489 560,208 1,915,459 2,637,029 716,620 Charles Berry 0 11,109 111,004 141,099 1,197,029 1,416,165 214,185 Judi Johansen 0 18,400 42,658 66,888 74,929 160,104 85,176 Simon Lowth 33,371 5,782 40,120 50,803 347,325 347,141 3,071 David Nish 44,267 21,682 103,852 211,386 804,254 1,020,190 210,986 Judi Johansen was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2003.
The figures shown above relate to the period between 1 April 2003 and 31 March 2004, and the value at start of year relates to the value at 1 April 2003.
Part of her benefits are provided in defined contribution form, through a company 401 k plan.
The figures in the table do not include any 401 k element.
The company contribution payable to the 401 k plan in respect of Judi Johansen for the period 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2004 was 7,132.
See also note xi regarding her potential entitlement to postretirement healthcare benefits.
Simon Lowth joined the company as a director on 1 September 2003.
The figures shown above relate to the period between 1 September 2003 and 31 March 2004. i The accrued entitlement of the highest paid director Ian Russell was 208,489 2003 160,286.
During the year, retirement benefits were accrued under the defined benefits pension schemes in respect of 5 directors 2003 3 directors.
ii The transfer value of the increases after inflation A represents the current capital sum which would be required, using demographic and financial assumptions, to produce an equivalent increase in accrued pension and ancillary benefits, excluding the statutory inflationary increase, and after deduction of members contributions.
Although the transfer value represents a liability, to the Pension Scheme in respect of approved benefits and to the company in respect of any unapproved benefits, it is not a single sum paid or due to be paid to the individual director and cannot therefore meaningfully be added to the annual remuneration.
Instead, this value would not be payable until the directors retirement date, and thereafter would be spread over the remainder of his lifetime and also covering the cost of dependants benefits after his death.
iii The total change in value B in the last column of the table above reflects the following elements: 1. changes to the economic and demographic assumptions underlying the transfer value basis over the year 2. any increases in pensionable salary received during the year 3. the completion of another year of pensionable service during the year 4. the directors are a year closer to drawing their pensions, which increases their pension value all other things being equal.
The change in the amount of the transfer values over the year includes the effect of fluctuations in factors that are beyond the control of the company and its directors, such as stockmarket movements and long-term interest rates.
Due to market conditions at the end of the year, the transfer value basis at that time provides lower transfer values than the basis at the start of the year all other things being equal.
This has led to a negative figure in the final column B of the above table for Simon Lowth i. e. a fall in value of his total pension.
iv The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based upon service to the end of the year.
Members of the companys schemes have the option of paying additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
v Directors who joined the pension scheme on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to the earnings cap, introduced in the Finance Act 1989.
Pension entitlements which cannot be provided through the companys approved schemes due to the earnings cap are provided through unapproved pension arrangements, details of which are included in the Remuneration Report.
The pension benefits disclosed above include approved and unapproved pension arrangements.
vi The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes the increase due to RPI inflation as measured at December 2003 2.8%.
vii The value of directors entitlements has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance note GN11, in two parts: the approved element being based upon the normal cash equivalent transfer value assumptions: the unapproved element being calculated in line with FRS 17 assumptions.
For the transfer value of increases after inflation, the figures shown represent values after deducting directors contributions.
viii Transferred-in benefits represent pension rights accrued in respect of previous employments.
The accrued pension shown at the end of the year includes transferred-in benefits.
ix The total liabilities, calculated on an FRS 17 basis, arising in relation to UK unapproved benefits for all executives and senior employees for service for the year to 31 March 2004 was 934,100 2003 208,700.
This figure relates only to the cost of benefits accruing over the year but does not include any finance items.
It therefore differs from the full FRS17 charge for unapproved benefits over the same period.
x All benefits above are provided on a defined benefit basis.
xi Judi Johansen may also be eligible to participate in the company's post-retirement healthcare plans, providing that she meets the eligibility criteria at the time she terminates or retires from the company.
Currently those criteria are termination after age 55 with five of more years of service.
80 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Table 46 Directors' Interests in ScottishPower Shares 1 Ordinary shares Share options Executive Share options Sharesave Long Term Incentive Plan 1.4.
03 or date of or date of or date of appointment appointment appointment 1.4.
1 Includes options granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 and, where applicable, the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan.
These shares represent, in each case, the maximum number of shares which the directors may receive, dependent on the satisfaction of performance criteria as approved by shareholders in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan.
These shares represent the number of shares the directors are entitled to receive when the LTIP award becomes exercisable calculated according to the performance criteria measured over the three-year performance period.
These shares include the number of shares which the directors hold in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, shown below.
Free shares Partnership shares Matching shares Dividend shares Total 31.3.
03 Ian Russell 50 50 1,210 799 1,210 799 266 135 2,736 1,783 Charles Berry 50 50 1,210 799 1,210 799 266 135 2,736 1,783 David Nish 50 50 1,210 799 1,210 799 266 135 2,736 1,783 Between 31 March 2004 and 20 May 2004, Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish each acquired 65 Partnership shares and 65 Matching shares as part of the regular monthly transactions of the Employee Share Ownership Plan: and Judi Johansen and Nolan Karras acquired 447.609 and 36.1664 ScottishPower ADSs 1,790 and 144 ordinary shares respectively as part of the PacifiCorp Compensation Reduction Plan.
Additionally, 1,225 ADSs 4,900 ordinary shares held by Judi Johansen in the form of Unvested Restricted Stock in the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan, vested and became non-forfeitable on 24 April 2004 and, in accordance with the deferral election executed by Judi Johansen, were all immediately transferred into the PacifiCorp Compensation Reduction Plan.
Otherwise, there have been no changes to the directors interests between 31 March 2004 and 20 May 2004.
However, these awards may not be exercised until the fourth anniversary of grant and are exercisable until the seventh anniversary.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares at the date of grant of these awards was 548 pence and on 2 May 2003, being the last trading date before vesting, was 388.25 pence.
Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted before 2001 became exercisable on the fourth anniversary of grant.
Awards granted in 2001 and subsequently become exercisable on the third anniversary of grant, as approved by shareholders.
Awards granted during the year were granted for no consideration.
The market value of a ScottishPower share at the date of grant was 376.25 pence.
The exercise of PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan options by Judi Johansen on 8 March 2004 was over 13,500 ADSs at US$25.70 per ADS, on which date the market value of a ScottishPower ADS was US$27.46.
i The market price of the shares at 31 March 2004 was 380.75 pence and the range during 2003 04 was 344.75 pence to 395.25 pence.
ii The Long Term Incentive Plan makes annual awards to acquire shares in ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost to the plan participants up to a maximum value equal to 75% of base salary.
The award will vest only if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that certain performance measures related to the sustained underlying financial performance of the company and sustained underlying performance in certain Customer Service Standards are achieved over a period of three financial years commencing with the financial year preceding the date an award is made.
Assuming that such targets have been achieved, the number of shares that can be acquired will be dependent upon how the company ranks in terms of its total shareholder return performance over a three-year period, in comparison to the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index and the Electricity and Water sectors for awards granted before May 2001.
A percentage of each half of the award will vest depending upon the company's ranking within each of the comparator groups.
For awards granted in May 2001 and subsequently, the companys total shareholder return performance is compared over a three-year period against an international comparator group of major energy companies.
A percentage of the award will vest depending upon the companys ranking within the comparator group.
The plan participant may acquire the shares in respect of the percentage of the award which has vested at any time after the third or fourth year, as appropriate, up to the seventh year after the grant of the award.
No dividends accrue to participants prior to vesting.
82 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 iii The company grants options annually under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 to relevant executives and senior managers at nil or nominal cost.
The exercise of options granted to UK executives and senior managers is subject to the performance criterion that the percentage increase in the company's annualised earnings per share be at least 3% adjusted for any increase in the Retail Price Index.
This criterion is assessed at the end of the third financial year, the first year being the financial year starting immediately before the date of grant.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, it is tested again at the end of the fourth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, it is tested again at the end of the fifth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, then the options lapse.
The exercise of options granted to US participants is not normally subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria, and they normally become exercisable as follows: one-third of the options from the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further one-third from the second anniversary and the final one-third from the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In 2002, an additional, conditional share option award was made to some senior managers, including Judi Johansen, under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001.
The exercise of these additional, conditional options is subject to the same exercise period and performance criterion as options granted to UK participants.
iv Options granted to Judi Johansen under the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 are granted over ScottishPower ADSs.
For the purposes of the above table, these options, in the case of Judi Johansen, have been converted to ordinary shares as follows: one ScottishPower ADS equals four ScottishPower ordinary shares.
The US$ ADS option prices were converted so that they may be represented in terms of ScottishPower ordinary shares.
The prices were further converted at the closing exchange rate on 31 March 2004 of 1 $1.838 so as to be quoted in pence in the table above.
61,824 options granted to Judi Johansen on 2 May 2002 under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 became exercisable on 2 May 2003.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares on 2 May 2002 was 411.5 pence and on 2 May 2003 was 388.25 pence.
76,468 options granted on 24 January 2001 and a further 76,468 options granted on 24 April 2001 to Judi Johansen under the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan became exercisable on 25 January 2004 and 24 April 2003 respectively.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares on 25 January 2001, 24 April 2001, 24 April 2003 and 23 January 2004 being the last trading date before 25 January 2004 was 438.0 pence, 477.0 pence, 387.5 pence and 358.75 pence respectively.
The option price for Sharesave options is calculated by reference to the middle-market quotation on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation and discounted by 20% in accordance with the Inland Revenue rules for such schemes.
The number of options granted to a director under the Sharesave Scheme is calculated by reference to the total amount which the director agrees to save for a period of three or five years under an Inland Revenue approved savings contract, subject to a current maximum.
Total gains made on exercise of directors' share options and awards during the year were 60,442 2003 33,580.
The conversion rate for gains made by Judi Johansen is 1 $1.694, being the average exchange rate during the year.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Sir Peter Gregson, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 May 2004 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 83
