41 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 December 2004 This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and The Listing Rules.
The report is divided into two sections, unaudited and audited information in accordance with Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985.
The audited information commences on page 44.
The Remuneration Committee The Board has a long established Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year.
It has since May 2004 comprised the independent Non-Executive Directors and is Chaired by Mr. P H Blackburn.
Until his retirement on 30 April 2004 Mr. B Cottingham, the previous Non Executive Chairman of the Board, was a member of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the salary and benefits received by the Chairman and the Executive Directors and for overseeing the remuneration of other Senior Executives.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board.
The Chief Executive, Mr. D Williams, is consulted on the remuneration of Executive Directors and attends all meetings, except when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Chairman of the Board also attends by invitation but does not attend or participate in any way in connection with the determination of his own salary.
The Company Secretary provides information to the Committee and is in attendance at meetings.
During the year the Committee received survey information on management pay levels from a number of external providers including Monks Partnership.
The Committee also takes independent professional advice, on an ad hoc basis, as required.
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors The Companys policy for 2004 and subsequent years is to provide remuneration packages that fairly reward the Executive Directors for the contribution they make to the business and are competitive enough to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and Senior Managers of the right calibre.
The policy is designed to incentivise the Directors to meet the Companys financial and strategic objectives such that a significant proportion of remuneration is performance related.
In reviewing Executive Directors salaries due consideration is given to the levels of increase granted to other employees within the Group and the Committee reviews and notes the total individual remuneration packages of each of the other Senior Executives.
The Committee established in 2003 that the Executive Directors remuneration packages were considerably below both market rates and the Companys comparator group.
The salary increases awarded to the Directors in 2004 reflect the ongoing process of alignment with market rates for the various positions.
Basic salaries are reviewed annually or when a change of responsibility occurs.
The Committee considers that the targets set for the different elements of performance related remuneration including the share option schemes are appropriate and demanding in the context of the Companys trading environment and the business challenges it faces.
The Committee believes that the EPS condition is appropriate for its share option schemes as it requires substantial improvements in the underlying financial performance of the Company in order for the options to become exercisable.
Deloitte & Touche LLP in their capacity as auditors are required to review the calculations as to whether the performance targets for share schemes have been achieved before any exercise is permitted.
The main components of Executive Directors remuneration are given below.
Base salary and benefits Base salary and benefits are determined on an annual basis by the Committee based upon the recommendations of the Chief Executive and after a review of the individuals performance and market trends.
The Chief Executive does not make recommendations to the Committee in respect of his own remuneration.
The Committee takes into account published remuneration information on comparable companies and salary policy within the rest of the Group.
Benefits include a company car and medical insurance.
The value of benefits is not pensionable.
Annual bonus The annual performance related bonus provides Executive Directors with an incentive to achieve performance targets which are set at the beginning of a financial year.
The performance targets are predominantly based on profit before tax either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate.
In addition, for certain Executives, additional targets are based on cash flows and reduction in gearing, again, either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate.
The annual bonus is not pensionable.
The pre-determined performance targets for 2004 were achieved in full by each of the Executive Directors resulting in the maximum 50% of base salary being payable to Mr. Williams and Mr. Davies and an amount of 100,000 to Mr. Chivers.
For the 2005 financial year the Committee has agreed that the maximum bonus that can be earned will increase from 50% to 60% for Messrs. M J Chivers and G W Davies and 70% for Mr. D Williams against the achievement of more stretching targets.
For 2005 the Committee has agreed appropriate bonus criteria based on profit performance growth targets and additional specific objectives.
The payment of annual bonuses is not guaranteed.
42 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Pension schemes All Executive Directors are members of the Groups contributory defined benefit pension scheme, which enables members to retire at age 60 with a maximum pension after 40 years pensionable service equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary.
Pensionable salary is basic salary, excluding bonuses.
Final pensionable salary is the average of the highest three consecutive pensionable salaries in the last ten years before retirement.
For service up to 31 July 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by 5% per annum compound.
Following consultation with the active membership of the scheme certain changes were made to the contribution levels and benefits in order to limit future liabilities and, consequently, for service from 1 August 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the lower of 5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
On death before retirement, a lump sum equal to 4 times current salary is paid, together with a spouses pension of 50% of pensionable salary.
As part of this scheme, all Executive Directors are covered by permanent health insurance.
Share option schemes Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP All Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
Under the LTIP participating Directors and other designated senior managers are granted nominal value share options up to a maximum of 50% of base salary.
In 2004 shareholders approved the adoption of a new LTIP.
Options were granted in each of the 5 years ended 31 December 2003 under the old Plan and in 2004 under the new Plan.
The three year performance periods in respect of both Plans commenced on 1 January in each of those years.
As set out on page 46 in the Directors share options table under the heading Long Term Incentive Plan, Messrs. Williams, Chivers and Davies have awards under both Plans, which had not vested at 31 December 2004.
The performance conditions which apply to them are given below.
At the end of the relevant period the Remuneration Committee assesses whether the performance conditions have been satisfied.
Awards under the LTIP are not pensionable.
Awards under both the LTIPs are exercisable between three and seven years from the date of grant.
In the case of options granted prior to 2004, provided the individuals performance criteria are met the award would vest in full if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 10% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
None of the award vests if the growth in earnings per share is less than 6% above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
Between these two limits, the award vests proportionately.
The right to exercise options terminates upon the employee ceasing to hold office with the Group, subject to certain exceptions and the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
If the 6% minimum growth performance target is not met, the performance period is extended by one year and the minimum growth in the Groups earnings per share, over a consecutive four year period, is increased to 8% over the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
The maximum for the full award to vest would be 13.33%.
The awards for Messrs. D Williams and G W Davies would vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
50% of the awards for Mr. Chivers would vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
Providing the 6%, or 8% if extended to a fourth year, minimum growth performance target is met, the remaining 50% of the shares under the award would vest in full if the actual profit before tax of the SIG Roofing Supplies business in aggregate for the consecutive three or four year period, referred to above, exceeds budgeted profit before tax in aggregate for the same period by 1%.
In the case of the 2004 LTIP Awards the percentage growth in the Companys earnings per share over the three year period from the commencement of the financial year in which the award is made must exceed the percentage growth in the Retail Prices Index over the same period by a minimum of 3% per annum compounded for any of the award to vest.
At 3% per annum compounded 30% of the Award vests, between 3% and 10% compounded growth the Award vests proportionately between 30% and 100%.
Above 10% per annum the award vests in full.
No re-testing of the performance criteria will occur.
The above performance conditions were chosen because they were believed to be challenging and not only take account of the need for long-term performance and commitment but also are an important means of aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme In 2004, shareholders approved the introduction of a Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS the first awards under which will be made in 2005.
The DABS will operate by inviting participants including Executive Directors to use up to 50% of their annual performance related cash bonus after tax and National Insurance in respect of the preceding financial year to purchase shares in the Company.
Participants purchasing such shares will be eligible to receive additional matching shares, providing certain pre-set earnings per share performance targets are met over a consecutive three year period.
For 2005 the Remuneration Committee has confirmed that the performance targets for the DABS will be the same as those applicable to the 2004 LTIP awards.
43 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 1989 Executive Share Option Scheme This Scheme was superceded by the LTIP and the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme in 1997.
Messrs. D Williams and M J Chivers had awards outstanding under this scheme at 31 December 2003 which have been exercised in 2004.
There were no performance criteria attached to the exercise of these options which were granted in 1994 in line with market practice at that time.
Awards under this scheme are not pensionable.
At 31 December 2004 there are no options outstanding under this scheme.
1997 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Under the ESOS, Executives can be awarded an annual grant of share options at market price, provided that the total amount payable by him to exercise options under the ESOS or any other share option scheme of the Group excluding savings related schemes granted during the immediately preceding 10 years does not exceed 4 times base salary, bonus and benefits.
As set out on page 46 in the Directors share options table, Mr. Davies has awards under this scheme, which had not vested at 31 December 2004, to which the performance condition in the next paragraph applies.
The ESOS is exercisable between three and ten years for the Inland Revenue approved scheme and three and seven years for the unapproved scheme from the date of grant.
The award would vest in full if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 6% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
None of the award would vest if the growth in earnings per share is less than 6% above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
The above performance condition was chosen because it is believed to be challenging and not only takes account of the need for long-term performance and commitment but also is an important means of aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
The Committee has resolved that following the introduction of the DABS, approved by shareholders at the 2004 AGM, that no further options will be granted under this scheme.
Savings Related Schemes The Company currently operates within the UK a savings related share option scheme which is open to all UK employees and is linked to a monthly savings contract over three and five year periods.
Options have been granted to scheme participants at 80% of the prevailing market price.
Similar arrangements have been introduced in the Republic of Ireland.
In line with common practice there are no performance conditions attached to the exercise of these options.
These options may be exercised within a fixed six month period three or five years from the date of grant.
The right to exercise options terminates if the employee ceases to be employed by the Group otherwise than by way of death, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement or Group reconstruction.
Exercise of options following cessation of employment by early retirement or other reason is permitted at the discretion of the Board provided that the date of cessation is at least three years after the date of grant.
The Board sought and obtained approval from shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting to introduce a Shareholder Investment Plan SIP.
The Board will consider and decide whether to introduce a SIP in 2005 as an alternative to offering new options under the savings related share option scheme.
A decision has been taken not to operate both schemes at the same time.
Non-Executive Directors For Non-Executive Directors, the Companys policy is that their appointment will be for an initial term of three years, unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon three months written notice.
Non-Executive Directors will normally be expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional period.
The Executive Directors are responsible for recommending to the Board the fees of Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive benefits from the Company.
They are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme or participate in any bonus or incentive scheme or any of the Companys share option schemes.
Service Contracts The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts.
The Committees policy is for Executive Directors to have service contracts for a continuous term to retirement age providing for a rolling 12 months notice period in writing by either party.
All contracts comply with this.
The service contract for Mr. D Williams is dated 7 May 2002.
The Company can terminate his employment forthwith in lieu of a 12 month notice period or any unexpired portion thereof by paying to him an amount equal to his basic salary for such period and an amount in lieu of bonus which he would have received had he remained employed during the notice period and providing him with all benefits to which he is entitled, with the exception of his company car.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which he may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
44 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Service Contracts continued The service contracts for Messrs. M J Chivers and G W Davies are dated 1 January 1995 and 1 August 2002 respectively.
The Company can discharge any obligation in relation to the unexpired portion of their notice period or any notice required to be given under their service contracts by making a payment in lieu thereof subject to the deduction of tax and national insurance.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which the Executive may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
Share ownership guidelines To better align Executive Director interests with those of shareholders the Company has established the principle of requiring Executive Directors to build up and maintain a beneficial holding of shares in the Company equivalent to a minimum of one times basic salary.
Under normal circumstances it is expected that this should be achieved within 5 years of 31 December 2004, or within 5 years of appointment, whichever is the later.
It is anticipated that the satisfaction of this target will be mainly achieved by the vesting of shares through the Companys share schemes Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR share price growth plus dividends paid performance, compared with the performance of the FTSE Construction & Buildings Material Index, over the 5 year period 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2004.
This index has been selected because the Company believes that the constituent companies comprising the FTSE Construction & Buildings Material Index are the most appropriate for this comparison as they are affected by similar commercial and economic factors to SIG.
Total Shareholder Return TSR 1 January 2000 to 31 December 2004 260 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 SIG plc FTSE UK Construction & Building Materials Index Audited Information Directors interests in the shares of SIG plc The beneficial shareholdings of the Directors who held office at 31 December 2004 in the Ordinary shares of the Company were as follows: 31 December 1 January 2004 2004 P H Blackburn 8,000 8,000 M J C Borlenghi 5,000 Nil M J Chivers 43,138 32,227 G W Davies 12,940 7,940 D A Haxby Nil Nil L O Tench 20,000 10,000 D Williams 74,396 60,765 at date of appointment The Register of Directors interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys Registered Office, contains full details of Directors shareholdings and share options.
All shareholdings were unchanged as at 7 March 2005.
45 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Directors emoluments Performance 2004 2003 Salary related Total Total and fees bonus Benefits emoluments emoluments 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Chairman B Cottingham Chairman to 30 April 2004 31 31 93 L O Tench Chairman from 1 May 2004 79 79 32 Executive D Williams 350 175 18 543 400 M J Chivers 175 100 14 289 230 G W Davies 200 100 18 318 234 Non-Executive P H Blackburn 36 36 32 M J C Borlenghi Appointed 2 April 2004 25 25 D A Haxby 33 33 27 N C Paul Resigned 1 March 2003 8 929 375 50 1,354 1,056 There were no expense allowance or compensation for loss of office payments.
There were no deferred bonuses payable in the period.
Benefits relate to the estimated value of the provision of a company car and medical insurance premiums.
There were no sums paid to third parties in respect of the services of any Director.
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Executive Directors.
Directors pensions The following Directors had retirement benefits accruing under the Companys main contributory defined benefit scheme in respect of qualifying services during the year: Transfer Transfer Increase value of Accrued Transfer value at Contributions Transfer value in accrued increase in benefits at value at 1 January made by increase after Increase benefits accrued 31 December 31 December 2004 or Executive to deducting in accrued net of benefits net 2004 or date 2004 or date Date of the scheme Executive benefits inflation of inflation of cessation of cessation appointment in the year contributions 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s D Williams 29 26 327 125 2,170 1,520 26 624 M J Chivers 15 13 150 77 1,268 931 13 324 G W Davies 9 9 52 27 261 152 15 94 The transfer values disclosed above are calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
They do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director, but instead represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Members of the above scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither such contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
46 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Directors share options Messrs. Blackburn, Borlenghi, Haxby and Tench, as Non-Executive Directors, did not hold or have granted any share options during the year.
The aggregate of the total theoretical gains on options exercised by the Directors during 2004 amounted to 169,570 2003 : 15,592.
This is calculated by reference to the difference between the closing mid-market price of the shares on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the options, disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained on exercise, and is stated before tax.
47 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 No price has been paid for any awards of share options which were unexpired at any time in the financial year.
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2004 was 585p and the range during 2004 was 325p to 585p.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board of SIG plc has approved this remuneration report.
On behalf of the Board P H Blackburn Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2005
