Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2004 The following report complies with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr P S Wood Chairman, Mr P J Welch and Mr G Montezemolo.
The Committee is responsible for determining the companys policy on executive remuneration and the specific remuneration for each of the executive directors including pension rights.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the remuneration of senior executives throughout the group.
The Committee was assisted in its deliberations on executive directors remuneration by Monks Partnership Monks and the Chief Executive.
With the approval of the Remuneration Committee, Monks were retained by the company and during the year provided general executive remuneration advice for salary review purposes and specific remuneration advice in connection with the recruitment of senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee appointed Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited Hewitt during the year to conduct a review of incentive arrangements.
Hewitt has not provided any other services to the company during the year.
The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors, including members of the Remuneration Committee but the non-executive directors do not participate in the decision on their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during 2004 and each meeting was fully attended by the Committees members.
Remuneration Policy Non-executive directors remuneration It is the Boards policy to review fees paid to non-executive directors on a regular basis.
The last review of non-executive director remuneration was carried out in 2003.
Each non-executive director other than the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman receives a fee of 26,000 per annum.
Fees of 100,000 per annum and 33,000 per annum are paid to the Chairman and Deputy Chairman respectively.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive awards under any of the companys share schemes or other employee benefit schemes nor does the company make any contribution to their pension arrangements.
Dr M J Peagram holds share options relating to his service with Holliday Chemical Holdings PLC.
No options have been granted to non-executive directors in their capacity as non-executive directors of the company.
Executive directors remuneration The companys policy for 2004 was and continues to be for 2005 and subsequent years to structure executive pay in such a way that key executives may be recruited, motivated and retained through being offered remuneration packages that are competitive.
For that purpose, the Committee uses data provided by external independent surveys relevant to the industry or sector in which each Yule Catto subsidiary operates.
Whilst not adopting set formulae the Committee is also sensitive to the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group when considering annual salary increases and total remuneration.
The major element of the remuneration package of senior executives is a competitive basic salary which is reviewed with effect from 1 January each year.
For executive directors this review is conducted with the assistance of an annual independent survey of salaries at UK industrial and service companies with a similar profile to the company in terms of overseas operations, turnover and market capitalisation.
The survey presents market guidelines for basic pay and increases in basic salaries for executive directors in the UK during the previous twelve months.
The Committee then use this information to recommend basic salaries for the executive directors in line with the Boards policy of awarding for good performance a basic salary of approximately the market median for companies of a similar size and complexity.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee has overseen the introduction of incentives, which are designed to reward the achievement of predetermined targets by the individuals concerned.
These incentives, which were designed in accordance with the provisions of Schedule A to the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance, currently comprise annual cash bonuses and membership of one of two shareholder approved longer-term incentive plans the Share Plans.
Annual cash bonuses The annual cash bonus payment for the executive directors is an amount equal to the percentage of basic pay calculated by reference to the annual growth in the companys adjusted earnings per share after deducting the annual rise in the rate of headline inflation RPI multiplied by a factor of 2.5 subject to a limit of 50% of basic pay.
For divisional chief executives, managing directors of subsidiary companies and senior head office employees the annual cash bonus payments are based on appropriate combinations of profit, cash flow and safety and environmental targets and personal business objectives.
In 2004 the bonuses were subject to limits of 40%, 35% and 30% of basic pay respectively.
The structures of the bonuses and awards under it are reviewed periodically and are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
32 Yule Catto & Co plc Share plans The Share Plans comprise the Performance Share Plan the Performance Plan and the Longer-term Deferred Bonus Plan the Deferred Plan.
The Performance Plan was introduced in 2002 following shareholder approval at that years Annual General Meeting and covers the executive directors, divisional chief executives and senior head office employees.
An award consists of a right to acquire shares which can be exercised for a nominal price, subject to the company satisfying performance conditions.
For awards to be made in 2005 an award will vest in respect of 100 per cent of the shares only if the companys adjusted earnings per share over a three year period ending in 31 December 2007 has increased by more than the annual rise in RPI plus 6% per annum compared with the companys adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2004 with adjusted earnings per share to be calculated on a consistent basis.
The award will not vest in respect of any shares unless the companys earnings per share over the same period has increased by at least the annual rise in RPI plus 3% per annum at which point the award will vest in respect of 30 per cent of the shares under the award.
The proportion of the award which will vest for an increase in the companys earnings per share over the same period between these points will be calculated on a straight line basis.
In addition an award which vests in accordance with these targets will only be exercisable and allocated shares may only be transferred as to one half after the third anniversary of the date the award is made and as to the remaining half after the fourth anniversary of the date the award is made.
The value of shares awarded under the Performance Plan in any financial year to any individual may not exceed 100 per cent of his annual basic salary.
As a result of the companys earnings per share performance in 2004 the performance conditions attaching to the awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2002 have not been met.
The Performance Plan replaced the companys Longer-term Performance Share Plan which covered the same group of executives.
The final awards were made under that plan in 2001 which also consisted of a right to acquire shares which could be exercised for a nominal price and the performance conditions attaching to those awards were measured by comparing the growth in adjusted earnings per share with that of a similar group of UK and continental European chemical companies over a three year Note period subject to such growth being not less than 2% above inflation in each of the three years.
In 2004 the performance conditions relating to the awards made in 2001 were assessed and as a result of the growth in the companys earnings per share over the three year period from 2001 to 2004 ranking it in the top quartile of the comparator group each participant received 100% of the shares awarded in 2001, the value of which did not exceed 50% of any persons annual salary excluding benefits in kind.
The awards must be exercised as to one third after the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
The Deferred Plan covers managing directors of subsidiary companies and an award takes the form of a right to acquire shares in the company which can be exercised for a nominal price after three years.
The value of shares subject to an award is determined by reference to sustained growth in the profit before tax set at a minimum of 5% per annum of the company or subsidiary for which the participant works by reference to a base year determined at the date of grant.
The value of shares subject to an award may not exceed 20% of any participants basic salary in any year.
During 2004, 428,731 shares and 6,210 shares were awarded under the Performance Plan and the Deferred Plan respectively.
The impact of the obligation on the company to prepare its consolidated accounts in accordance with international financial reporting standards from 1 January 2005 on performance conditions that have been and may be set in connection with the Share Plans will be considered by the Committee during the course of 2005.
Executive directors are entitled to participate in grants of options made under the companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme as and when these are made.
Pension arrangements Executive directors are members of the company pension scheme.
Their spouses are eligible for widows pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
To the extent that a directors benefits from the company scheme are restricted by Inland Revenue limits, payments are made to enable the director to make his own arrangements.
There are no unfunded pension promises or similar arrangements for directors.
Remuneration details The amount and components of the directors remuneration are set out below.
No elements of remuneration other than basic salary are pensionable.
Note The comparator group comprises: Ascot Chemicals Limited, British Vita plc, Ciba Speciality Chemicals Inc, Clariant Chemicals plc, Croda International plc, Degussa AG, DSM NV, Elementis plc, European Colour plc, Imperial Chemical Industries plc, Johnson Matthey plc, Kemira oyj, Lonza Biologics plc, Rhodia sa, Scapa Group plc, Victrex plc, Yorkshire Chemicals plc, Zotefoams plc.
Directors Remuneration Report continued Service contracts No director other than Mr A Walker and Mr S V Cummins has a service contract.
Mr Walkers service contract comprises a letter of appointment dated 10 April 1986 as subsequently amended, has no unexpired term, provides for a notice period of one year and makes no provision for pre-determined compensation on termination.
Mr Cummins service contract comprises a letter of appointment dated 21 June 1999, has no unexpired term, provides for a notice period of one year and makes no provision for predetermined compensation on termination.
The Remuneration Committees policy on contracts and notice periods for executive directors is to seek to comply with best practices in corporate governance.
Non-executive directorships held by the executive directors Mr A Walker is a non-executive director of Rotork plc and fees due in respect of that position in 2004 totalling 24,000 were paid to the company.
Total shareholder return over 5 years The following graph compares the share price performance of the company by reference to total shareholder return with that of the FTSE 250.
As the company is a member of the FTSE 250 this is considered to be the most appropriate index against which to make a comparison.
Yule Catto total shareholder return versus FTSE 250 total return cumulative years ended 31 December 200 Yule Catto FTSE 250 150 100 50 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 AGM approval The directors remuneration report has been submitted to the 2005 Annual General Meeting for approval.
