Corporate governance Part one application of Combined Code principles The board practises good corporate governance and supports the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Services Authority in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The company has applied the principles of the Combined Code as follows: The board In 2004, the board comprised the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director, as well as five independent non-executive directors.
Alice Perkins joined the board as a non-executive director in March 2005.
The non-executive directors, with their broad range of experience, bring an important independent perspective to board decision making.
Tony Cowling chairs the board and Mike Kirkham is Chief Executive.
The board has agreed their respective roles and responsibilities, to ensure they are clearly defined and that there are appropriate checks and balances in place.
Rob Rowley acts as the senior independent director.
Biographical information on the board directors is given on page 64.
The board is accountable to shareholders for the groups business operations and affairs.
It participates in the establishment of the groups strategy and oversees its implementation.
The board is responsible for monitoring the groups financial and operational performance and appropriate risk management.
In addition, it ensures that appropriate corporate governance procedures are in place to protect the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Chairman meets regularly with the non-executive directors to consider their views.
They constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy at board meetings and an annual strategy meeting, attended by all board members.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board that includes, inter alia, the approval of longterm objectives and commercial strategy, financial statements, major changes to the groups corporate structure, major acquisitions and disposals, dividend payments, expenditure authority levels and treasury and risk management procedures.
The following table identifies the number of board and committee meetings held during 2004 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Board meetings Committee meetings Regular Ad hoc Audit Nomination Remuneration Number of meetings in year 8154 7 Executive directors 1 Andy Boland 8 n a Tony Cowling 8 1 4 Mike Kirkham 8 1 4 2 William Lipner 11 David Lowden 8 1 Non-executive directors Stephan Buck 8 1 4 7 Neil Cross 8 1 5 7 Rob Rowley 7154 7 Rmy Sautter 6 1 3 5 Sharon Studer 8154 1 appointed 12 January 2004 2resigned 12 May 2004 indicates not a member of that committee Independent non-executive directors The board has determined that all of its non-executive directors are independent.
Stephan Buck has been a member of the board for more than nine years and has received fees for consultancy services provided to the company.
These factors do not conform to the criteria given in the Combined Code to assist boards in determining whether a director is independent.
As allowed by the Code, however, the board has determined that, in its opinion, Stephan Buck is independent.
The board believes that he is independent both in opinion and judgement and that he demonstrates this at board meetings, where he actively scrutinises the companys performance.
Stephan Buck along with Neil Cross, who himself has served as a board member for nearly nine years, will be retiring from the board at the 2005 AGM.
69 the sixth sense of business The terms and conditions of appointment for each of the non-executive directors are highlighted in the remuneration report.
Information and professional development The group has an induction process for newly appointed directors to meet key personnel and, on request, major shareholders.
On an on-going basis, regular presentations and site visits are given to board members to keep them up-to-date with the groups activities.
During the year, some directors attended tailored training programmes, specific to their individual needs and such programmes are available to all board members.
The board is also regularly briefed on matters affecting the groups activities, such as significant industry developments, as well as changes to the legal and regulatory environment in which the group operates.
Reporting is designed to ensure that management submits to board members all information relevant to board decisions, in a timely manner prior to each board meeting.
There is an agreed procedure whereby all board members may obtain independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties.
Such advice was not sought by any director during 2004.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Performance evaluation The annual board and committee evaluations have been carried out for 2004.
The directors evaluations took the form of questionnaires and interviews conducted by the Chairman.
The results were collated, analysed and fed back to board members.
The Chairmans review was led by the senior independent director with the non-executive directors.
This was followed up by a review of board and committee performances involving all board directors, which was also conducted by questionnaire.
The results were reviewed by board members following which a short set of action plans, to improve board performance, was agreed for the coming year.
Retirement by rotation In accordance with the companys articles of association, executive directors retire by rotation and submit themselves for re-election every three years and non-executive directors every two years.
Insurance The company has purchased and maintains appropriate directors and officers insurance in respect of legal action against its directors.
Board committees The board has three committees to assist in fulfiling its duties: an audit committee, a nomination committee and a remuneration committee.
Terms of reference for each of these committees are reviewed annually by the board.
They are posted on the groups website and hard copies are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Audit committee The audit committee consists of three independent non-executive directors, one of whom has recent and relevant financial experience and is chaired by Neil Cross.
Its primary responsibilities include monitoring internal control and risk management systems, approving the groups accounting policies, reviewing the interim and annual financial statements before their submission to the board and keeping under review the scope and costs of audit, as well as the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors.
During the year, the committee reviewed internal business and internal control reports, together with external audit reports.
The external auditor attended all audit committee meetings and met separately with the committees chairman.
The committee has adopted a formal policy for the supply of non-audit services provided by its external auditors.
Its aim is to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is not compromised whilst, at the same time, allowing the company to benefit from their expertise where it is needed.
The policy provides that proposals for all non-audit work carried out by the companys external auditors, incurring fees of over 50,000, require the approval of the audit committee.
All such proposals need to be accompanied by a written note to the committee, specifying why the work would not compromise the external auditors independence and objectivity and stating why the external auditors are being recommended for the work.
In addition, the policy provides that all other non-audit work carried out for the group by the companys external auditors, which incurs fees of less than 50,000, be reported to the board on a regular basis.
A summary of the fees for non-audit work during 2004 is given on page 36.
The committee is entitled to take independent professional advice and has full independent powers of investigation and access to information.
No such advice was required in 2004.
70 the sixth sense of business Nomination committee The nomination committee consists of three independent non-executive directors, as well as the Chairman and Chief Executive and is chaired by Stephan Buck.
Its role is to review regularly the composition of the board, consider succession planning and nominate to the board, for approval, candidates to fill board vacancies.
Under the board appointment process, led by the nomination committee, it agrees a job specification that takes account of skills analysis of the existing board members.
Specialised external consultancies are asked to tender for the business.
The chosen consultancy provides a list of potential candidates, from which the committee agrees a short list.
Interviews are held by members of the committee and the successful candidate is recommended for board approval.
This process was followed for the appointments of both Andy Boland and Alice Perkins.
Remuneration committee The composition and responsibilities of the remuneration committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Combined Code in setting director remuneration, are included in the remuneration report on pages 73 to 80.
Financial controls and reporting The group operates a comprehensive system for financial reporting to the board, based on an annual budget and regular forecasts.
Financial performance is reported and appraised regularly and the operational management team identifies any new business matters, key risks facing the operating units and recent acquisitions in its reports.
The board approves budgetary expenditure in line with the groups corporate strategy.
Internal control The board is responsible for ensuring the group has an appropriate system of internal controls.
Day-to-day management of those controls is delegated to senior management of the relevant operating units.
Each year, all operations perform an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls in place in their business, through an internal control questionnaire and report their findings to the group.
The group has a business review department which reviews financial, operational, and compliance controls in a number of key businesses.
Recommendations are reported to senior management and, ultimately, to the audit committee and board.
In 2004, the business review department, which is the companys internal audit function, performed reviews at 11 companies and monitored the implementation of recommendations previously made.
By these mechanisms the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The groups system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In 2004, the key business, financial, operational and compliance risks facing the group were reviewed and prioritised.
The procedures in place to detect risks were addressed and the results were reported to the board.
The board believes that there are appropriate on-going procedures for identifying and evaluating any significant risks faced by the group.
These procedures have been in place for the financial year covered by this report and up to the date the annual report and accounts were approved.
The procedures comply with the Internal Control Guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
Code of conduct In 2004, the company took steps to embed further the code of conduct within the organisation.
The code provides guidance and assistance on how employees should conduct business throughout the group, including how to manage relationships with the companys stakeholders.
An ethics help-line allows employees to report suspected breaches of the code of conduct to the Company Secretary who reports directly to the Chairman.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The group has in place a structured programme of communications with shareholders.
Executive directors and the Head of Investor Relations meet regularly with existing and prospective institutional investors in the UK, Continental Europe and North America, to provide background information regarding the group and to improve their understanding of the companys business and strategy.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, price-sensitive information is released to both institutional and private shareholders at the same time.
Group results are announced twice a year and the presentations made to analysts are webcast on the groups website, www.
com, on the day of announcement.
In addition, both the Chairman and the senior independent director communicate with the companys brokers, to keep abreast of institutional shareholders attitudes to the company.
The Chairman and senior independent director offer annually to meet with major shareholders to review with them the performance and governance of the group.
All non-executive directors are offered the 71 the sixth sense of business opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
Directors are also kept informed of shareholders views via brokers briefings and surveys of shareholders opinion.
The annual general meeting provides an opportunity for all shareholders to meet with and question the directors.
During 2004, nine Regulatory News Service announcements were released, informing the market of acquisitions, financial results and board changes.
These announcements, together with current and back issues of annual and interim reports and other items of interest to shareholders, are available on the groups website.
Pension funds The group operates a number of pension plans and post-retirement benefit plans for its employees throughout the world.
The pensions consist of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans.
Assets of the pension funds established for the benefit of the groups employees are held separately from those of the group.
In the UK these are held under trust by Taylor Nelson Sofres Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises both employee representatives and group board members, in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995.
In the Netherlands, these are held by Stichting NIPO Pension funds.
In the US, the group operates a number of section 401K plans with independent providers, as well as the CMR LLC Union Pension Plan, the assets of which are held under trust by Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N. A, together with defined benefit plans sponsored by TNS CMR.
TNS NFO operates a defined benefit plan, the NFO WorldGroup, Inc. Pension Plan, the assets of which are held under trust by KeyBank.
Details of pension commitments are given on pages 51 to 57.
Annual general meeting The notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review during the meeting and recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
The Chairman, executive directors and chairs of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees all attend the annual general meeting and are available to answer questions from shareholders.
Part two compliance with Combined Code During 2004, the group complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code except to the extent that the notice period in the service contact of Mike Kirkham, the Chief Executive, was two years.
As explained in the remuneration report, with effect from 1 January 2005 this has been reduced to one year.
By order of the board Ian Portal Company Secretary 7 March 2005 72 the sixth sense of business Remuneration report The remuneration committee comprises five of the non-executive directors as detailed on page 64 and throughout 2004 was chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members of the remuneration committee, in both 2004 and 2005, are considered by the board to be independent in corporate governance terms see the corporate governance report for information on Stephan Buck.
Mike Petch, Group Human Resources Director and Jane Drysdale, Group Compensation and Benefits Director provide support to and information for the remuneration committee.
The remuneration committees role is to advise the board on overall remuneration policy and, on its behalf, to determine the remuneration packages of the executive directors and senior executives.
The committees responsibilities are to ensure that: in determining salary, its policy and practices support business strategy by being competitive and cost-effective: the structure and level of total remuneration are broadly consistent with the principles of corporate governance as contained within the Combined Code: the interests of executive directors and senior executives are aligned with those of shareholders, through the establishment of appropriate short and long-term incentives: performance targets applicable to variable remuneration are agreed: comments are solicited from principal shareholders regarding the companys remuneration principles: the determination of remuneration packages follows formal and transparent procedures, and that due regard is given to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions and recommendations of the Combined Code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance.
To achieve its goals, the committee needs access to consistent, standardised information annually, regarding remuneration in comparable companies and ongoing remuneration trends.
To that end it receives input from New Bridge Street Consultants NBSC, Mercer Human Resource Consultants Mercer and ORC Worldwide ORC on remuneration matters that affect senior executives.
In addition, the group participates in and purchases a number of remuneration surveys, the data from which are used to help formulate remuneration decisions.
NBSC, Mercer and ORC provide compensation advice to the human resources team on other remuneration-related matters, but do not undertake tax or audit services, or any other services that may lead to a conflict of interest.
Remuneration policy The following remuneration principles applied in 2004 across the group to all employees, including executive directors and senior executives, and remain relevant for 2005: total remuneration should be structured to facilitate the recruitment and retention of key individuals: remuneration should be competitive and reasonable within the local and global market places: bonus plans should be in place to encourage delivery against challenging annual financial targets: individuals long-term interests should be aligned with company performance through long-term incentive plans and equity ownership: and individuals should have an appropriate balance of salary, short and long-term incentives and benefits within their total remuneration.
In reviewing executive directors base pay, the committee takes into account external market data supplied by independent professional sources.
For competitive benchmarking purposes, the group continues to position itself against companies in the FTSE 250, with a specific focus on those organisations with sector and size similarities.
A number of the groups key senior executives are located outside the UK.
Total remuneration, therefore, is compared both internationally and locally.
In 2004, the company worked with ORC to establish a market research sector remuneration survey in which 10 market research companies participated.
Specific data are therefore now available for some senior posts, and work will continue in 2005 to extend the depth and breadth of coverage within the survey.
The remuneration committees policy remains that cash remuneration should be positioned at the median of the comparable market place, with high-performing individuals able to increase their total remuneration above the median through their annual bonus plans and incentive arrangements.
The objective continues to be to create a harmonised approach to total compensation across the group, including employee benefits.
This approach is essential to facilitate career development and movement of employees and to serve as an attraction and retention tool.
The fees of the non-executive directors are a matter reserved for the executive directors.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the companys pension, annual bonus or share option plans and their fees are paid entirely in cash.
The group currently has no plans to pay part of non-executive directors fees in shares.
With effect from 1 January 2004, the company changed the fee structure for its non-executive directors, so that remuneration comprises a base fee together with committee membership and chairmanship fees as well as reflecting the time commitments of the role in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The company will be reviewing fee levels again in 2005.
73 the sixth sense of business Board changes William Lipner, Vice Chairman, left the company on 12 May 2004.
The associated remuneration arrangements, which were largely contractual, are set out on page 79.
With effect from January 2005, Sharon Studer replaced Rob Rowley as Chair of the remuneration committee.
Rob Rowley remains a member of the remuneration committee.
Composition of Chairman and executive directors remuneration packages Pay mix Executive directors would normally expect to receive approximately 40 per cent of their total potential direct compensation from base salary, and 60 per cent from variable, performance-linked pay bonus plus share options, as illustrated below.
This mix will be examined as part of the long-term incentive review, see page 75.
Relative pay mix Andy Boland Tony Cowling Mike Kirkham David Lowden 0 20 40 60 80 100 % of total direct compensation Base salary Bonus maximum LTIP maximum Note The expected value of share options has been calculated using a Black-Scholes multiple of 39 per cent with a discount factor of 10 per cent for the applicable performance conditions.
Volatility has been calculated over the five-year period prior to March 2005, in line with TNS standard methodology throughout this report.
In approximate terms, the value of benefits in relation to base pay is: Mike Kirkham 34 per cent: David Lowden 11 per cent: Tony Cowling 6 per cent and Andy Boland 5 per cent.
Base pay This is normally reviewed annually on 1 January and reflects the rate for the specific role.
Base pay increases recognise external pay movements and individual performance, and it is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
Mike Kirkhams 2004 base salary increase specifically reflected the substantially increased responsibility brought about by the NFO acquisition.
As stated in the 2003 remuneration report, David Lowdens base salary was increased in October 2003 and no further changes were made in 2004.
Annual bonus Executive directors and senior executives have annual cash bonus plans that reward growth in profit and operating margin.
Each years results provide the threshold for the next years target, encouraging a continuous drive for higher levels of performance.
In 2005 the bonus potential is a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary for Mike Kirkham, 90 per cent for David Lowden, and 75 per cent for both Tony Cowling and Andy Boland.
The groups executive bonus plan remains in place for 2005 and bonus payments for all senior executives are capped.
In 2004, bonuses for the main board were based entirely on financial performance measures, comprising EPS, operating profit, operating margin and free cash flow.
Bonuses for senior executives excluding the main board were based 90 per cent on financial and 10 per cent on selective non-financial measures.
An element of these executives bonus was also based on group EPS as a representative consistent measure, with profit and cash flow measures relating to the specific regions or global business sectors for which they were responsible.
Bonus structure and financial goals across agreed performance measures are reviewed at the start of each year.
The 2005 senior executive bonus plan will be similar to that for 2004 and all senior bonus plans will remain capped.
Under the rules of the 2004 bonus plan, an executive may elect to sacrifice part, or all, of his or her annual bonus and request an enhancement to his or her pension plan in lieu.
74 the sixth sense of business Long-term incentives Long-term incentive arrangements are used to encourage performance and as a retention tool.
In 2004, executive directors were eligible to participate in the 2001 Executive Share Option Plan ESP, the Equity Participation Plan EPP and, in exceptional circumstances, the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Participation remains at the discretion of the remuneration committee, subject to the rules of the plans and within the terms of the agreed remuneration policy.
Under the 2004 long-term incentive arrangements, Mike Kirkham, David Lowden and Andy Boland had the opportunity to be considered for an annual grant of options over shares with a maximum market value, at the time of grant, of two times base salary.
In 2004 the company updated the ESP and, additionally, started a review of long-term incentive plans in light of their market competitiveness, suitability for purpose, conformance with best practice in corporate governance and share usage.
The review started in November with the assistance of NBSC.
Pension Mike Kirkham, Tony Cowling, David Lowden and Andy Boland are members of a money purchase plan governed by an independent trust.
The group contributed 6 per cent of base salary for David Lowden and 4 per cent for Andy Boland in 2004.
The group contributed 26 per cent to Mike Kirkhams pension in 2004.
This comprised a regular contribution of 8 per cent and a salary sacrifice.
Mike Kirkham elected to sacrifice 12 per cent of his base pay, which was increased by a factor of 1.5 to reflect loss of bonus on this amount, resulting in an additional company contribution to the pension of 18 per cent.
During 2003, the company undertook a substantial review and redrafting of the Trust Deed and Rules of Pension Plan 1 to take account of the numerous changes in employment legislation in recent years.
One of the changes to the rules of the plan was that employees who remained in employment beyond retirement age were entitled to continued membership of the plan.
On this basis, Tony Cowling continued to contribute towards his pension fund post normal retirement age.
In addition Tony Cowling elected to sacrifice salary to pension as noted in the emoluments table on page 79.
There were no company contributions into Tony Cowlings pension fund.
In light of pending pension legislative changes, due to take effect in April 2006, the company intends to continue its policy of flexible funding of pensions.
Executives can choose to sacrifice salary and bonus in return for additional company contributions to their pension fund.
Post April 2006, the remuneration committee has agreed that there will be no compensation for any executive for whom the pension plan is no longer tax efficient.
However, an executive will be able to elect to take taxable cash in lieu of pension at neutral cost to the company.
At current levels, contributions to pension plans for senior executives are below the market rate and the company therefore intends to review pension provision for senior executives for 2005 onward.
In 2004, William Lipner was a member of a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan operated by NFO.
The relevant disclosures of this benefit required under the Companies Act and the Financial Service Authoritys Listing Rules are set out below.
Notes $ Accrued pension as at 31 December 2003 1 115,752 Increase in accrued pension in year: 1 Effect of inflation 2 3,820 Increase in excess of inflation 1 3,052 Accrued pension as at 31 December 2004 1 116,520 Transfer value of accrued pension as at 31 December 2003 3 847,323 Increase in transfer value of accrued pension during year net of director's contributions 4 28,866 Transfer value of accrued pension as at 31 December 2004 3 876,189 Normal retirement age under the plan is 65 years.
William Lipner was aged 57 on 31 December 2004.
The transfer value less director's contribution of the increase in accrued benefit net of inflation during the period was $904.
The above table reflects pension accruals through 12 May 2004, when William Lipner left the company.
Notes 1The accrued pension is the annual payment on retirement based on service and salary as at the retirement date.
2 Inflation is assumed to be 3.3 per cent based on the US Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for December 2004.
3 The transfer value is the present value of the accrued pension and associated benefits as at 31 December 2004.
The transfer value represents a liability of the pension plan and is not a sum due or paid to the director.
4William Lipner made no contributions to the plan during the period.
75 the sixth sense of business Benefits Executive directors receive individual private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, independent financial and taxation counselling, life assurance and health screening benefits.
There is no company car benefit for any board director.
Equity-based incentive plans for employees and executives The groups policy is that, wherever feasible, employees should have the opportunity to participate in equity-based incentive and ownership plans.
This helps the group to align the interests of employees from diverse backgrounds and cultures, to retain and attract key senior executives and to drive business growth.
In 2004, the remuneration committee approved the use of approximately 8.3 million shares across all the equity-based plans.
It is anticipated that, under the current long-term incentive plan LTIP arrangements, approximately 10 million shares would be necessary to meet the 2005 long-term incentive plan requirements.
These would be provided through a combination of newly issued and market purchased shares.
However, as part of the review, alternative arrangements are being proposed and the company anticipates that fewer shares will be required.
Details of the proposed arrangements are set out in a separate circular sent to the shareholders with this report and if approved, the company would grant awards of performance shares subject to the performance conditions set out in the circular.
The remuneration committee has recommended that under an amended LTIP, executive directors should be encouraged to hold shares in the group and it is planned that this shareholding will be achieved through a policy of retention of a proportion of the shares gained through the LTIP arrangements.
2001 Executive Share Option Plan ESP Executive directors and selected employees are eligible to participate in the plan at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Annual grants of options may be made over shares worth up to twice the value of an individuals base salary.
Grant levels are subject to the individuals performance and value to the business.
Options are exercisable between three and ten years after grant, subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions: for 50 per cent of each grant, growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS before goodwill charges must exceed inflation plus an average of 4 per cent per annum over three years: and for the remaining 50 per cent, growth in adjusted EPS before goodwill charges must exceed inflation plus an average of 8 per cent per annum over three years.
Following the implementation of IFRS, the group expects to calculate EPS for LTIP purposes excluding IFRS 2 charges for sharebased payments and amortisation of intangibles set up on acquisitions under IFRS 3.
The remuneration committee will ensure a consistent approach is taken to measuring EPS.
For options granted prior to September 2004, if performance conditions have not been met after three years, re-measurement will take place annually for up to two further years, using the original year as a fixed base.
If performance conditions have not been satisfied at this point, the options will lapse.
For options granted in or after September 2004, only one re-test is permissible, from the fixed base.
If performance conditions have not been satisfied after the fourth year, the options will lapse.
Re-testing has historically been viewed as appropriate for this plan, as it is a key retention tool for the group that demands high levels of performance from its participants.
This policy is being re-examined as part of the long-term incentive review in light of current best practice in corporate governance.
Adjusted EPS was chosen as a suitable performance measure for the ESP, as it provides a meaningful and clear measure of improvement in the companys financial performance and, as it is disclosed in the accounts, it is transparent to shareholders.
The committee considers that annual growth in earnings should be expected, but that the long-term growth in earnings is essential.
A three-year average earnings growth objective is considered sufficient to reward senior executives for continuing, long-term growth.
For some senior executives within the group, operating profit growth is used as the key financial performance measure, as longterm profit is more directly relevant to them in their business units than EPS.
In 2004, approximately 6.7 million options in total were granted to 316 employees under the ESP.
76 the sixth sense of business
