REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ON REMUNERATION THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee No changes have been made to basic pay policy.
A summary is governed by formal Terms of Reference agreed by the Board of the policy is set out below.
Further details of the current and is composed entirely of independent Non-executive arrangements and proposed changes are provided in the Directors.
No member of the Remuneration Committee has following sections.
any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in Our executive remuneration policy will then combine the the matters to be decided, and no day-to-day involvement in following key elements: running the business of Tesco.
Basic salaries based on the responsibilities, skills and The remuneration packages, including contract periods, of Executive experience of the individual against a benchmark Directors, are determined by the Remuneration Committee the determined by reference to other major FTSE 100 Committee.
The Committee comprised Mr C L Allen Chairman companies and other large retailers.
of the Committee, Dr H Einsmann, Mr G F Pimlott and Annual bonuses based on achieving stretching Earnings Per Mr R F Chase who are all independent Non-executive Directors.
Share EPS growth targets and specic corporate The Committee met on nine occasions during the year.
Annual bonuses are paid part in cash and For the year ended 28 February 2004, Mr R S Ager was part in shares with a compulsory deferral of the Secretary to the Committee and attended the meetings.
From share-based bonus for three years.
The share element March 2004, this role was undertaken by the new Company is also subject to a measure of relative performance Secretary, Ms L Neville-Rolfe.
Mr J A Gardiner, Non-executive using an assessment of value delivered to shareholders Chairman of the Group until 2 April 2004, and Sir Terry Leahy, compared to other global food retailers.
This combination Chief Executive of the Group, both attended the meetings at will replace the existing annual bonus plan.
Further details the invitation of the Committee.
However, Directors do not are provided below.
attend the meetings when their own remuneration is being Awards of performance shares based on stretching threediscussed.
The Committee is supported by Mrs C M Chapman, year Return On Capital Employed ROCE targets.
The Human Resources Director of Tesco Stores Ltd, and has award is over shares which must be held for four years appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as an external, independent in total.
This will replace the existing longer-term bonus advisor.
Deloitte & Touche LLP also provided advisory services based on EPS.
Further details are provided below.
in respect of Corporate tax planning, share schemes, pensions In normal practice, Executive Directors would be expected and international taxation to the Group during the year.
to build and hold a shareholding with a value at least equal to their basic salary: full participation in the Performance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Committee applies the Share Plan is conditional upon meeting this target.
following remuneration policy to all Executive Directors.
Participation in the share option schemes requiring Business success in a retail environment depends on the talents sustained growth in EPS.
of the key team, but outstanding success comes from teamwork.
All Executive Directors will have 12 month notice periods.
Building and retaining that team at senior levels within Tesco is vital to success.
The remuneration strategy for Executive Directors In line with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and other key executives has been tailored to emphasise the the Committee also ensures that the remuneration relationship delivery of strong year-on-year earnings growth whilst at the between the Main Board and Senior Executives of the company same time ensuring efficient use of capital over the long-term, below this level is appropriate.
In particular, any exceptional by providing executives with a significant proportion of salary arrangements or award of share options for Senior performance-related remuneration delivered in Tesco shares over Executives are to be advised to the Committee.
TOTAL REMUNERATION The total remuneration levels of Executive The Remuneration Committee has conducted a review of Directors are normally reviewed annually by the Committee, Executive Directors remuneration to ensure that this continues having regard to competitive market practice in the retail sector to support the business objectives of strong financial progression and in the context of the FTSE 100 companies, which are of and improvements in shareholder returns.
As a result of this a comparable size to Tesco.
As part of the review process, the years review, a number of changes have been proposed to the Committee has access to, and makes use of, external independent short and long-term incentives which, subject to shareholder remuneration surveys.
approval, will take effect in the year ending February 2005.
TESCO PLC 13 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED In the current year, the total remuneration package of Executive accept Non-executive appointments and retain the fees received, Directors comprised the following elements: provided that these appointments are not likely to lead to conicts of interest.
base salary: short and long-term performance-related share awards via COMPLIANCE The Committee is constituted and operated the Executive Incentive Scheme: throughout the period in accordance with the principles outlined performance-related share option awards via the Executive in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority derived Share Option Scheme: from Schedule A of the Combined Code.
Following an assessment benets which comprise car benets, life assurance, of the principles of Schedule B of the Revised Combined Code, disability and health insurance : the Committee has taken steps to ensure compliance.
These steps, most notably changes to service contracts, are detailed pensions: and on page 16.
In framing the remuneration policy, full consideration profit share on the same terms as other UK employees.
has been given to the best practice provisions set out in Schedule B, annexed to the Listing Rules.
The auditors report set out In addition to the above elements of remuneration, Executive on page 25, covers the disclosures referred to in this report Directors who have completed one years service are also eligible that are specified for audit by the Financial Services Authority.
to participate in the companys all-employee savings related share This report also complies with disclosures required by the option scheme SAYE, and Buy As You Earn BAYE on the Director Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Details of same terms as all other UK employees.
Directors emoluments and interests, including executive and Subject to shareholder approval being received at the Annual savings-related share options, are set out on pages 17 to 23.
General Meeting AGM, changes will be made to the short The following summarises the remuneration packages for and long-term incentive arrangements as set out in the Executive Directors.
Copies of the Executive Directors contracts following sections.
of employment are available for inspection by shareholders at The Committee considers that a significant proportion of total the AGM or as required.
remuneration should be performance-related and at risk of forfeiture.
In addition, performance-related rewards should be EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE SCHEME The company operates a delivered partly in shares to closely align the interests of performance-related incentive scheme designed to provide a shareholders and executives.
In all cases, base salary currently competitive level of reward.
Awards under the scheme are constitutes approximately one-third of the total annual cash and delivered in shares to further align the interests of Executive share incentive opportunity for Executive Directors.
determining the balance between the xed and variable elements The Committee sets performance targets annually for the of the Executive Directors remuneration packages, the incentive scheme for each of the criteria noted below, confirms Committee has regard to market practice.
achievement of performance and awards to be made under the All awards made to Executive Directors under the Executive scheme and directs the general administration of the scheme.
Incentive Scheme and all options granted under the Executive The Executive Committee has adopted a policy of extending Share Option Scheme are subject to the satisfaction of executive incentive schemes to a wider body of senior executives performance conditions, which are explained below.
The within the Group using similar measures.
Committee regularly reviews these performance conditions and Under the current system, long-term share bonuses are awarded considers that the proposed mix of performance conditions best annually for each of the Executive Directors, the maximum longsupports the Groups business strategy and provides a set of term share bonus is equivalent to 75% of salary.
The long-term broad-based and robust measures of managements effort and bonus is based on a combination of the following performance success in creating shareholder value.
conditions: Tesco recognises that its Executive Directors are likely to be 1 The achievement of targets set each year for growth in invited to become Non-executive directors of other companies EPS over that financial year is the basis for 77% of the and that such Non-executive duties can broaden experience award.
EPS has been chosen to reect the core focus of and knowledge, which will benefit Tesco.
Therefore, Executive the Group on continuous and sustainable earnings growth.
Directors are, subject to approval by the Board, allowed to 14 TESCO PLC 2 An assessment of total shareholder return is the basis for In respect of the current year, the awards were long-term 75% 15% of the award.
The total shareholder return share price and short-term 75% of salary for each Executive Director.
growth and dividend performance of the company at the Mr D E Reid was awarded 430,000, as part of a special bonus end of the year, taking into account performance over the in respect of the development of the Groups international previous three and five years, is compared to the total business.
This amount has been sacrificed in return for pension shareholder return of a selected peer group of UK and augmentation.
Mr J Gildersleeve and Mr R S Ager were awarded International companies, comprising Ahold, Carrefour, Metro, bonuses of 150,000 each, which have been sacrificed for pension Safeway plc UK, Safeway Inc.
US, J Sainsbury and Target augmentation.
Total shareholder return has been chosen as it is a In addition to providing the opportunity to earn greater rewards clear indicator of the value created for shareholders.
The for superior performance, the Executive Incentive Scheme further Committee considers a comparator group comprising large aligns the interests of shareholders and Executive Directors by international food retailers as the most appropriate basis helping them to build up a shareholding in Tesco.
As outlined in the Directors Remuneration Policy section on 3 An assessment of the progress towards the achievement page 13, the executive incentive arrangements will be reof specic strategic corporate goals is the basis for 8% of structured during the financial year ending February 2005 to the award.
increase the link between rewards received and Tescos longerShares awarded have to be held for a period of four years, term financial goals.
conditional upon continuous service with the company.
The share Annual performance will remain a key driver of the rebalanced equivalent of dividends, which would have been paid on the arrangements, with the annual bonus structure being retained.
shares, is added to the award during the deferral period.
The bonus will be delivered part in cash which cannot be Short-term share bonuses are awarded annually to each of the deferred and part in Tesco shares, receipt of which will be Executive Directors, the maximum short-term bonus payable is deferred and conditional upon continuous employment with the equivalent to 75% of salary.
The bonus is based on a combination company.
The deferral period will now be compulsory and will of the following performance conditions: be extended from two to three years.
1 The achievement of targets set each year for growth in The maximum awards that can be made will be 100% of salary EPS over the relevant financial year is the basis for 77% under the cash bonus and 75% of salary under the deferred of the award.
The deferred share award will no longer be 2 An assessment of achievement against specic strategic increased by any matching awards during the deferral period.
corporate goals is the basis for 23% of the award.
The bonus will continue to be subject to stretching performance The bonus can be augmented by 50% if the participants elect targets based on earnings per share growth and strategic for the trustees of the scheme to retain the shares awarded objectives and in the case of the deferred share element, a for a minimum period of two years, conditional upon continuous measure of TSR as well, on a similar basis as the existing service with the company.
The share equivalent of dividends, incentives.
which would have been paid on the shares, is added to the Participants will also be eligible to receive an award under award during the deferral period.
the proposed Performance Share Plan PSP, the level of which will The Executive Directors may choose to further extend the be determined in relation to the achievement of ROCE objectives.
holding period for both the short and long-term shares by a This plan will replace the existing long-term incentive arrangements.
further three years in each case.
During this holding period, the Awards will be made over shares equal to 75% of salary.
Awards shares held are increased by 12.5% at the beginning of each will vest on a sliding scale according to the achievement of the year, based on the scheme shares held and are conditional upon ROCE targets measured over three years.
The deferred shares continuous employment with the company.
This holding period must then be retained for a further 12 months.
may be extended subject to personal shareholding targets set by the Committee, equivalent to shares to the value of one The proposed vesting schedule for PSP awards has been based times salary, being met by the Executive Directors.
on the companys targets for the next five years regarding the efficient use of capital.
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis: TESCO PLC 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED only 25% of the award will vest for baseline performance.
BAYE Since January 2002, the Group has operated the partnership The maximum 100% of the award will vest for outstanding shares element of an Inland Revenue approved share investment performance ROCE improving to 11.5% over the next three years.
plan for the benefit of employees, including Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this combination Under this scheme, employees save four-weekly to buy shares of robust annual EPS and ROCE targets, that are both challenging at market value in Tesco PLC.
and appropriate, provide a sound framework for aligning executive interests with those of shareholders.
The rebalanced PENSIONS Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC executive incentive arrangements will ensure continued emphasis Pension Scheme which provides a pension of up to two-thirds on strong annual performance combined with long-term of base salary on retirement, normally at the age of 60, executive share ownership, with a better link between the dependent upon service.
The scheme also provides for incentives received and shareholder value delivered.
dependants pensions and lump sums on death in service.
The scheme is a dened benefit pension scheme, which is approved SHARE OPTIONS Executive Directors are included in Executive by the Inland Revenue.
Executive options granted since 2000 may only be exercised subject to the achievement of EPS SERVICE AGREEMENTS In response to shareholder feedback and growth of at least RPI plus 9% over three years.
in line with best practice, the Committee has reviewed Executive Director Service Agreements.
The 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 1994 International Executive Share Option Scheme are due to expire It is proposed that Sir Terry Leahy, Mr P A Clarke, Mr A T during 2004.
It is proposed that the two existing schemes and Higginson, Mr T J R Mason and Mr D T Potts will have new the 1996 Tesco Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme be service agreements with entitlement to notice of 12 months by replaced with one new discretionary share option scheme.
The the company and six months notice by the Executive.
Mr R W key features of the current share option schemes will be retained P Brasher, who was appointed on 15 March 2004 has the same and there will be no retesting of performance.
Share options are an important part of the incentive framework If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other than for senior management of Tesco, and forthcoming accounting pursuant to the notice provisions in the service agreement or changes are being fully evaluated.
In the meantime, the by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or Committee considers the continuation of share option plans to conduct the company will pay, by way of liquidated damages, be in the best interests of shareholders.
a sum equal to one years salary and one years average annual bonus calculated as the average of the two most recent financial SAYE Since 1981, the Group has operated an Inland Revenue years.
The termination payment is subject to the Executive approved savings-related share option scheme for the benefit of Director entering into restrictive covenants, to apply for a sixemployees including Executive Directors.
month period after such termination, so as to protect the goodwill of the business.
Under this scheme, employees save on a four-weekly basis via a bank building society, with an option to buy shares in Tesco The company will apply mitigation to termination payments, PLC at the end of a three or five-year period, at a discount whilst reecting its policy of rewarding loyalty and recognising of up to 20% of the market value.
There are no performance long service.
Payments will cease on the date the Executive conditions attached to SAYE options.
If the termination occurs within one year of retirement, the SHARES IN SUCCESS Since March 2002 the Group has operated termination payment would be reduced accordingly.
a UK profit-sharing scheme Shares in Success for the benefit of employees, including Executive Directors.
The scheme is available The Committee has agreed that, in future, new appointments to employees with at least one years service at the Groups year of Executive Directors will normally be on a notice period of end.
Shares in the company are allocated to participants in the 12 months.
The Committee reserves the right to vary this period scheme on a pro-rata basis to base salary earned, up to Inland to 24 months for the initial period of appointment and for the Revenue approved limits currently 3,000 per annum.
The notice period to then revert to 12 months.
amount of profit allocated to the scheme is determined by the Board, taking account of company performance.
16 TESCO PLC NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration of the NonPERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph highlights the Groups total executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole, on shareholder return performance i. e. share price movements plus the recommendation of the Executive Committee, after dividends reinvested over the last five financial years, relative considering external market research.
to the FTSE 100 index of companies.
This index has been selected to provide an established and broad-based comparator Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment, and their group of retail and non-retail companies of similar scale to Tesco, appointment can be terminated by either party without notice.
against which the Groups TSR performance can be measured.
Each appointment is subject to review every three years.
Nonexecutive Directors receive a basic fee plus an additional sum in respect of committee membership.
To reect their additional responsibilities, supplementary fees are also paid to NonTes co executives who chair committees and to the senior Non- 150 executive Director.
Mr D E Reid has the benefit of the use of a company car.
100 FTSE 50 Feb 99 Feb 00 Feb 01 Feb 02 Feb 03 Feb 04 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR TSR is the notional return from a stock or index based on share price movements and declared dividends Tables 1 to 6 are audited information.
b Retired from the Tesco Group in March 2004.
Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve were awarded bonuses of 150,000 each, which have been sacrificed in return for pension augmentation.
c Mr D E Reid has sacrificed an amount of 430,000 from his long-term bonus relating to overseas business growth in return for pension augmentation.
Mr D E Reid resigned as an Executive Director in December 2003 and was appointed Non-executive Chairman in April 2004.
The performance criteria set out on pages 14 to 16 is audited information.
TESCO PLC 17 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED TABLE 2 Gains made on share options Number of shares at exercise price pence Value realisable Price at exercise 2004 2003 70.0 98.3 151.7 176.7 178.0 205.0 Total pence 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy 523,728 523,728 214.75 610 2,422 Mr D E Reid 11,427 223,728 601,305 836,460 241.30 879 Mr R S Ager Mr P A Clarke Mr J Gildersleeve 122,034 122,034 214.75 142 Mr A T Higginson Mr T J R Mason 198,669 18,000 15,000 9,888 241,557 244.00 209 Mr D T Potts Date of grant 10.06.1997 3.. 07.1999 07.10.2000 21.05.2001 28.01.2002 26.06.2003 Includes Mrs F M Mason The value realisable from shares acquired on exercise is the difference between the fair market value at exercise and the exercise price of the options, although the shares may have been retained.
Where individual Directors exercised options on different dates, the price at exercise shown represents an average of the prices on these dates weighted to the number of options exercised.
In the case of Mr D E Reid, all of the options at 70.0p were exercised at 59.7p as targets related to growth in earnings per share in accordance with ABI guidelines, have been achieved.
The share price at 28 February 2004 was 257.5p.
The share price during the 53 weeks to 28 February 2004 ranged from 159.0p to 262.0p.
The performance criteria for share options set out on page 16 is audited information.
TABLE 3 Pension details of the Directors Transfer Transfer Increase Transfer value value Total Increase in accrued value of total of total Increase accrued in accrued pension of previous accrued accrued in transfer Age at Years of pension at pension during the column at pension at pension at value less 28 February company 28 February during the year net of 28 February 22 February 28 February Directors 2004 service 2004 a year ination 2004 2003 2004 contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy b 48 25 433 50 39 471 2,554 3,801 1,247 Mr D E Reid c 57 19 409 38 27 1,531 5,273 8,010 2,737 Mr R S Ager e 58 18 287 30 23 390 3,910 4,844 934 Mr P A Clarke 43 29 200 31 26 191 941 1,447 506 Mr J Gildersleeve e 59 39 404 34 23 423 6,113 7,273 1,160 Mr A T Higginson d 46 6 112 25 22 181 545 908 363 Mr T J R Mason 46 22 223 26 20 163 1,204 1,802 598 Mr D T Potts 46 31 222 34 29 238 1,197 1,833 636 a The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 28 February 2004. b Sir Terry Leahy is entitled to retire at any age from 57 to 60 inclusive, with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
Part of his pension may be provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
c Mr D E Reid retired early on 31 December 2003.
The accrued total pension shown is his pension immediately after retirement.
In addition, Mr D E Reid sacrificed 430,000 of a bonus payment in return for pension augmentation.
This pension augmentation has been taken into account for the accrued pension and transfer values at 28 February 2004. d Part of Mr A T Higginsons benets, in respect of pensionable earnings in excess of the earnings limit imposed by the Finance Act 1989, are provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
e As disclosed in Table 1, Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve each sacrificed 150,000 of bonus for pension augmentation.
The actual augmentations took place after 28 February 2004 and are therefore not included in the table above.
All transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
b Options granted in the year Mid-market price on date of grant 202.75p.
The subscription price for options granted during the year under the savings-related share option scheme was 195.0p and the options mature in either 2007 three-year scheme or 2009 five-year scheme.
The mid-market price at the date of the grant was 238.5p.
The shares relating to options exercised in the year were all retained.
Long-Term awards from 2001 are classed as four year cycles as no election for enhancement is possible yet.
Short-Term matching award for 2002 is classed as a two year cycle as no election for enhancement is possible yet.
Long-Term awards can be enhanced from the 4th year, extending the cycle to seven years.
Short-Term matching awards can be enhanced from the 2nd year, extending the cycle to five years.
Between 28 February 2004 and 19 April 2004, 586 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the Partnership Share Plan BAYE operated by the Group.
The ordinary shares include shares held as part of incentive plans shown in table 6.
