TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Remuneration report For the year ended 31 December 2004 Introduction This report sets out the companys remuneration policies for its directors and senior executives and describes how those policies are applied in practice.
The directors confirm that this report has been drawn up in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 the Schedule and the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
As required by the Schedule, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Unaudited information Remuneration committee The committee was established in July 2003, having previously been a combined Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
Its principal roles are to establish the companys policy on executive directors and senior executives remuneration, to determine the remuneration packages for each of the executive directors, and to review with the chief executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives.
It is required to give due regard to the best practice provisions contained in the Code.
The committee members are Peter Maydon chairman together with Michael Dearden and Tim Stevenson.
These directors are non-executive and have no day-to-day involvement in the running of the business, no financial interest in the business except as shareholders and no conflicts of interest arising from other directorships.
The committee has been advised on remuneration matters by three independent external consultants engaged by it, namely, Mercer Human Resources Consulting, Hay Group and New Bridge Street Consultants.
In addition, Andrew Pike, the company secretary and Rob Tansey, the group human resources director have advised the committee from time to time as requested, but never in respect of their own remuneration.
Policy on executive directors remuneration The companys policy on executive remuneration is to ensure that it has an appropriate mix of fixed and variable pay over the short and long term, to attract and retain high quality executives with an appropriate blend of skills and experience.
The committee consults with the chief executive on the remuneration of the other executive directors and senior executives.
It aims to reward executives in line with the median of the top 250 companies in the FTSE All Share index and of a selected comparator group.
The committee believes this will enable the company to recruit and retain staff of high quality, contributing to the delivery of long-term shareholder value.
As a consequence the companys focus is on the following elements of the remuneration package: Basic salary: to remain competitive in the labour market: Annual bonus payment: to provide additional short term remuneration which directly reflects company performance during the year: Long term incentive scheme: the Share Matching Scheme, approved by shareholders in 2004, gives executives the opportunity to receive part of their annual bonus in the form of shares, the final number of which depends on company performance: Share options: through the regular grant of options to reward outstanding business performance over the longer term: Pension arrangements: to enable executives to make appropriate provision for retirement.
39 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC A significant proportion of a directors total remuneration package is variable being subject to the achievement of specified business objectives.
It is the committees intention to continue with this policy, and in applying it the committee has taken account of the provisions of Schedule A of the Code.
Basic salary A directors basic salary is generally determined by the Remuneration Committee annually and when an individual changes role.
Salaries are normally reviewed in November each year, with increases taking effect from 1 January in the following year.
In the case of the four executive directors, with effect from 1 February 2005 in the case of Geoff Cooper and 1 January 2005 in the other cases, their annual salaries are: J. P. Carter 300,000 P. N. Hampden Smith 300,000 G. I. Cooper 450,000 F. J. McKay 510,000 retiring from the board on 14 March 2005 In 2005, the committee intends to review the salaries of the executive directors and other senior executives to ensure that they remain competitive, following significant expansion of the group through the acquisition of Wickes.
Annual bonus payments The committee establishes the objectives that must be met if a cash payment is to be made.
It believes that any annual bonus award should be related to the interests of the companys shareholders and that the principal measure of those interests is shareholder value.
Hence, bonus payments for all executive directors have previously been based on a formula related to the level of net earnings per share achieved by the group.
In 2004, maximum bonus of 55 per cent of salary was earned, which reflected earnings per share growth well in excess of the target of 105 per cent of budget, at which maximum bonus was payable.
In 2005, bonus payments will be based both on the level of net earnings per share growth and the extent to which the companys net debt is reduced.
The measure of net debt reduction is a new component and reflects the companys wish to reduce the debt incurred for the Wickes acquisition as quickly as possible.
The committee will review the amount of capital expenditure incurred over the year compared to budget, before determining the amount of any bonus payable relating to debt reduction.
The maximum bonus payable in cash has been raised from 55 per cent of base salary to 75 per cent, to reflect the new element relating to debt reduction for which up to 30 per cent of salary will be paid.
Taking the two elements together, a bonus of 36 per cent of salary will be payable on achievement of budget, with maximum bonus payable on achieving 103 per cent of budget in respect of earnings per share and an improvement over budget in net debt reduction of 37.5 million.
Based on external advice, the committee considers this increased annual bonus opportunity to be in line with market practice for businesses of the size of the company following the Wickes acquisition.
It has also taken into account the stretching budgets which have been set for 2005 against a background of strong historic performance.
In addition, under the Share Matching Scheme, the percentage of salary that can potentially be earned by executive directors under the annual bonus arrangements rises to 101 per cent, but for awards in 2005, more stretching performance targets will be adopted than those described to shareholders when the scheme was approved in 2004 see Long Term Incentive section on page 41.
In December 2004, the committee decided that Frank McKay should be eligible for an additional bonus of 100,000 in 2005 in consideration for effecting an orderly transfer of responsibilities to Geoff Cooper, who joined the company on 1 February 2005, preparatory to becoming chief executive on 1 March 2005.
Frank McKays contractual retirement date is October 2005, in keeping with the normal retirement for executive directors on reaching age 60.
To ensure an orderly succession, the Nominations Committee commenced the search for a new chief executive early, in June 2004.
Having reached agreement in principle with Geoff Cooper that he would succeed Frank McKay, the committee initially agreed that this would occur in summer 2005, with a short handover period.
However, this timetable was necessarily brought forward following the decision to acquire Wickes, which represented a major strategic step for the company.
The Nominations Committee judged that, at this very important point in the companys history, it was crucial that the new chief executive assumed responsibility for the business as soon as possible, and 40 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC this required that Frank McKay be asked to relinquish his post much sooner than either he or the company initially had intended.
Nevertheless, the board wished to retain the skills and commitment of Frank McKay, to aid the integration of Wickes and to achieve a seamless handover of responsibility to Geoff Cooper of all aspects of the enlarged business.
Discussions about a structure that would best achieve these objectives resulted in an arrangement being agreed with Frank McKay which included the additional bonus opportunity of 100,000.
Long term incentive scheme In 2004, shareholders approved the introduction, for the most senior executives, of a Share Matching Scheme, to complement the annual bonus scheme.
Under this scheme, executives receive shares in the company of a value up to 35 per cent of their annual cash bonus Deferred Shares.
These shares are to be held in trust for three years.
Executives also have the opportunity to invest up to 35 per cent of annual salary in the companys shares, Investment Shares using the proceeds of their annual cash bonus.
After 3 years, subject to satisfaction of a performance criterion linked to the earnings per share of the company, executives might receive a further award of shares, Matching Shares.
It is expected that the first awards under the scheme will be made in Spring 2005.
The performance criterion which will apply to determine the number of Matching Shares which executives will receive will be such that they will receive 1 Matching Share for every 3 Deferred Shares and for every 3 Investment Shares respectively if the growth in the companys earnings per share over the three year performance period exceeds inflation by 12 per cent.
In the description of the scheme given to the shareholders in 2004, if the growth in the companys earnings per share over the three year performance period exceeds inflation by 24 per cent then the executives will receive 1 Matching Share for every Deferred Share and for every Investment Share respectively.
Between 12 per cent and 24 per cent the number of Matching Shares received will be determined on a straight-line basis.
However, as a result of the Wickes acquisition, the Remuneration Committee has decided that the grant of Matching Awards in 2005 will be subject to a more demanding earnings per share target.
In order to receive the full match, earnings per share will have to exceed inflation by 30 per cent, not 24 per cent, over the three-year performance period.
The committee regards the use of earnings per share as an appropriate performance measure because i it is the companys key internal financial measure, ii it is a measure to which executives can easily relate, and iii it directly reflects the executive directors own performance.
Share options For many years, the company has further motivated directors and senior executives through granting them share options.
The executive share option scheme adopted in 2001, which covers all executive directors and other senior executives, provides for the grant of options on an annual basis, with a value limit up to twice basic salary.
Options are not granted at a discount to the market value.
Currently, for all eligible executives, options may only be exercised if the growth in the companys earnings per share exceeds inflation by at least 9 per cent over a three-year period.
In the case of executive directors and certain other senior executives, achievement of this target will allow only 50 per cent of options to be exercised.
For all options to be exercisable, earnings per share growth must exceed inflation by at least 15 per cent over the three-year period.
Between 9 per cent and 15 per cent the number of options exercisable is calculated on a straight-line basis.
For options which are due to be granted to the executive directors and senior executives in Spring 2005, the committee intends to impose more demanding earnings per share targets so as to ensure that those targets remain challenging over the three-year performance period following the Wickes acquisition.
Twenty five per cent of those options may be exercised if the growth in the companys earnings per share exceeds inflation by at least 9 per cent over the performance period while exercise of the remainder of the options will only be possible if the earnings per share growth exceeds inflation by 21 per cent over the performance period.
Between 9 per cent and 21 per cent the number of options exercisable will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
The reasons for using earnings per share as a performance measure are described in the section above headed Long Term Incentive Scheme.
The performance conditions for options granted between 2002 and 2003 may be retested for two years if they are not satisfied at the end of the original three-year period.
However, in 2004 the committee considered that this provision was no longer in line with best practice and therefore options granted in 2004 and thereafter do not permit retesting of the performance conditions.
41 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Under the 1995 executive share option scheme, options granted prior to 1998 were not subject to performance conditions.
Those granted between 1998 and 2000 are exercisable if the growth in the companys earnings per share exceeds inflation by at least 6 per cent over a three-year period.
The committee considers these successive arrangements were in line with market practice at the time the grants were made.
In March 2005, the company issued shareholding guidelines to its most senior executives encouraging them to build up a shareholding in the company over a five-year period.
The target shareholding is 1x salary for the executive directors and 0.5x salary for the other executives.
While these guidelines are not mandatory, the committee has reserved the right to take into account an individuals position relative to the target, when making future awards under the executive share option scheme or the share matching scheme.
The committee is monitoring carefully the impact of new International Accounting Standards on the valuation of share options and share matching scheme awards, to ensure performance targets remain suitably stretching.
Pension arrangements The general policy is for executive directors to be members of the companys final salary pension scheme and to accrue benefits at a rate of 1 30 of pensionable salary for each years pensionable service after appointment as a director.
In the case of John Carter and Paul Hampden Smith, the effective accrual rate is less than 1 30 due to their potential length of service up to retirement age, so that their pension does not exceed two thirds of pensionable salary.
As with all other members, executive directors dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and a payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
Except in the case of Frank McKay, the pension arrangements provide for a pension in retirement based on the directors length of service in the group pension scheme and the average of the best three of the last ten years of pensionable salary.
Frank McKay has been guaranteed, on retirement at age 60, a pension of thirty per cent of his final pensionable salary including the pension from a previous employment.
This pension will be funded partly by the group scheme and partly by separate funded and unfunded arrangements established for him.
In the event that a directors pension benefits are limited by the Inland Revenue earnings cap, the general policy is to pay an age related annual salary supplement.
Geoff Cooper and Paul Hampden Smith receive such a salary supplement.
For many years, bonus payments to executive directors and management formed a part of scheme members pensionable emoluments and both the company and the employee contributed a proportion of any such bonus to the scheme funds.
However, for pensionable service from 1 December 2004, pensionable salary for all members is basic salary only.
There have been no changes in the basis of directors pension entitlements during the year.
Except as described above for Frank McKay, there are no unfunded pension commitments or similar arrangements for directors.
The committee is considering the impact of changes in the taxation of pension arrangements at April 2006, which are expected to affect some senior executives in the company.
It has recognised that the company should not compensate such executives for any additional tax for which they would be liable under the new arrangements, but may consider making available alternatives to continued pension provision.
During 2005, the committee will finalise a policy in relation to these changes and communicate this to senior executives.
The policy will be described in the committees report in 2006.
42 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Service contracts The companys policy for executive directors is to have contracts which are not for a fixed period, and which are terminable on twelve months notice from the company, and six months from the director.
It is not the policy to specify what compensation would be payable on termination by the company.
If such compensation was due, it would be calculated by reference to the unexpired part of the notice period, and the directors salary and other benefits, including pension rights, taking due account of the directors duty to mitigate his loss.
Service contracts do not specify any particular level of compensation in the event of termination following change of control of the company.
Each of the executive directors has a service contract, the date of which is shown below, which will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Paul Hampden Smith 8 October 1996 Frank McKay 1 November 1999 John Carter 6 August 2001 Geoff Cooper 1 February 2005 Non-executive directors The policy of the board is to recruit non-executive directors of the highest calibre, with a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for the companys business.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a period of three years, at the end of which the appointment may be renewed by mutual agreement.
It is the boards policy that non-executive directors should serve for six years two three year terms and that any term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous review.
This review would take into account both the need for progressive refreshing of the board, and the particular requirements of the company at the time of the possible extension.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board.
Each non-executive director receives an annual fee.
In addition Chris Bunker and Peter Maydon receive an additional fee for chairing the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, respectively.
Ted Adams receives an additional fee for chairing the companys pension trusts.
Non-executive directors do not receive any other benefits and are not eligible to join a company pension scheme.
No compensation is payable on termination of their employment, which may be without notice from the company.
They cannot participate in any of the companys share option schemes.
Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, but each has received a letter of appointment expiring on the following dates: Peter Maydon December 2005 Ted Adams December 2005 Michael Dearden November 2006 Chris Bunker January 2007 Tim Stevenson September 2007 John Coleman February 2008 Travis Perkins Total Shareholder Return Total shareholder return 350% The company considers itself distinctive 300% in its sector, as there are no directly comparable competitors in terms of size, 250% demographic spread or activities.
The 200% company measures the performance of its 150% shares against the top 250 companies in the FTSE All Share index, which it 100% considers the most appropriate 50% comparator group.
The graph shows total shareholder return for Travis Perkins 0% shares over the last five years, relative to Dec-99 Dec-00 Dec-01 Dec-02 Dec-03 Dec-04 that group of companies.
Total Travis Perkins Total Shareholder Return FTSE 1 - 250 Total Shareholder Return shareholder return is defined as a combination of growth in the companys share price and dividends paid to shareholders.
43 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Directors shareholdings The directors holdings of ordinary 10p shares of Travis Perkins plc at 31 December 2003 and 2004 were as follows: 2004 2003 Director Interest No.
T. E. P. Stevenson Beneficial owner 5,000 5,000 E. C. Adams Beneficial owner 103,749 103,749 C. J. Bunker Beneficial owner 2,000 J. P. Carter Beneficial owner 10,958 11,090 M. B. Dearden Beneficial owner 1,000 1,000 P. N. Hampden Smith Beneficial owner 6,008 4,419 P. J. Maydon Beneficial owner 1,000 1,000 F. J. McKay Beneficial owner 7,444 7,444 Details of directors share options are given on page 47.
There have been no changes in the holdings of the directors between 31 December 2004 and the date of this report.
Travis Perkins share price information 2004 2003 Mid-market price at 31 December 1,733.0p 1,278.0p Highest mid-market price during the year 1,733.0p 1,366.0p Average mid-market price during the year 1,387.1p 1,159.8p Lowest mid-market price during the year 1,249.0p 921.0p 44 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Audited information Amount of directors emoluments Details of directors remuneration are set out in the table below.
Part of each executive directors remuneration may consist of benefits in kind not payable in cash, such as the provision of a company car, a fuel card, and private healthcare insurance.
No director receives an expense allowance which is chargeable to tax.
It also includes a 1,500 fuel allowance.
Paul Hampden Smith also received, and retained, in 2004 13,920 in respect of his non-executive directorship of DX Services plc.
Basic salary includes a 12,500 car allowance and a 1,500 fuel allowance.
Frank McKay also received, and retained, in 2004 remuneration of 22,453 2003: 22,013 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Luxfer Holdings plc.
3 Retired 30 April 2004 Directors pension entitlements Pension entitlements of the executive directors during the year were as follows: J. P. Carter P. N. Hampden Smith F. J. McKay Age at 31 December 2004 43 44 59 000 000 000 Accrued pension at 31 December 2003 110 26 57 Accrued pension at 31 December 2004 148 30 85 Increase in accrued pension in 2004 38 4 28 Real increase in accrued pension in 2004 35 2 27 Transfer value of the real increase in accrued pension net of members contributions 284 15 456 Value of increase in accrued benefit 302 21 471 Members contributions towards pension 18 6 15 Increase in transfer value net of members contributions 454 58 594 Transfer value of benefits accrued at 31 December 2003 778 188 905 Transfer value of benefits accrued at 31 December 2004 1,250 252 1,514 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead, they represent a potential liability of the group pension scheme, and in the case of Frank McKay, the separate arrangements previously described.
45 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Share options The following options over ordinary shares have been granted under the 1995 and the 2001 Executive Share Option Schemes and the Travis Perkins Sharesave Schemes 1992 and 2002 and remained outstanding at 31 December 2004: Executive share options Outstanding at Granted Lapsed Exercised Outstanding at Exercise Exercise 1 January during during during 31 December price period 2004 year year year 2004 No.
Sharesave options Outstanding at Granted Lapsed Exercised Outstanding at Exercise Exercise 1 January during during during 31 December price period 2004 year year year 2004 No.
At 31 December 2004, in addition to the directors, there were 271 employees 2003: 210 who had holdings of executive share options and 3,199 employees 2003: 3,231 who were participating in the Sharesave Scheme.
Shareholders approval The shareholders will be invited to approve the remuneration policy set out in this report at the Annual General Meeting, at which the chairman of the committee will be available to answer any questions.
Approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: P. J. Maydon Chairman, Remuneration Committee 4 March 2005 47
