Directors remuneration report Reward philosophy paid to Jane Newell includes an amount to reect additional responsibilities The group needs people of the right calibre able to meet and beat the as chairman of the trustees of the companys major pension schemes.
challenges it faces, in order to ensure corporate success and to enhance Non-executive directors do not participate in any annual bonus or incentive shareholder value.
Therefore, the group must ensure its remuneration plan, the pension scheme, the healthcare arrangements, the companys long arrangements attract and keep the right people.
term incentive plans, Sharesave scheme or ShareBuy.
The company repays The groups overall philosophy is to: the reasonable expenses they incur in carrying out their duties as directors.
attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels: Non-executive directors remuneration pay competitive salaries and benets to all its staff: With the exception of the chairman, non-executive directors fees were encourage its staff to hold shares in the company: and increased with effect from 1 May 2004.
The base fee to be paid is now focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the group 45,000 a year.
The annual fee to be paid to Sir Peter Middleton, deputy meet its specic challenges.
chairman, is 80,000 and the additional fee to be paid to Jane Newell is When pay levels are set, account is taken of the work an employee does, 30,000 a year.
The additional fee to be paid to the chairmen of the audit what is paid in other companies for that work and how well the groups and remuneration committees is 10,000 and 7,500 a year respectively.
The board believes that share ownership From 1 July 2004, the chairmans fee will increase to 198,000 a year.
The is an effective way of bringing together the interests of employees and next review is due in September 2005 and annually thereafter.
The company promotes greater ownership of its shares directors remuneration for the year to 31 March 2004 is set out in table 2. by offering employees the opportunity to build up a shareholding through its share schemes the Sharesave SAYE share option scheme and Table 2: Non-executive directors fees audited information the share incentive plan, ShareBuy.
Senior executives also have the Total fees opportunity to acquire shares through the groups performance share plan.
2004 2003 000 000 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Richard Evans 180.0 180.0 A committee of the board decides the remuneration of the non-executive Norman Broadhurst 40.0 39.6 directors other than the chairman.
Its members are the chairman Sir Richard Evans and the executive directors John Roberts, Simon Batey, Sir Peter Middleton 60.0 59.2 Charlie Cornish and Gordon Waters.
The committee may take independent Jane Newell 55.0 54.2 advice.
It is also advised by the groups human resources director Linda Andrew Pinder 35.0 34.6 Booth.
The committee did not meet during the year.
The remuneration committee decides the remuneration of the chairman.
The chairmans John Seed 40.0 39.6 remuneration was not reviewed during the year.
Total 410.0 407.2 Terms of appointment Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS which may be renewed for further three-year terms thereafter.
However, as with all directors, they are subject to re-appointment at an annual general The remuneration committee meeting at least every three years.
After nine years in ofce a nonThe remuneration committee makes recommendations to the board on the executive director will be required to seek re-appointment each year at the groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The committee annual general meeting.
They do not have contracts of service and, in the approves, on the boards behalf, the general recruitment terms, remuneration event of early termination of their appointment for whatever reason, they benets, employment conditions and severance terms for executive are not entitled to compensation.
The letters of appointment of nonmanagement.
It decides the specic recruitment terms, remuneration benets, executive directors are made available for inspection at the companys employment conditions, pension rights, compensation payments and registered ofce.
They set out the expected time commitment and nonseverance terms for the executive directors and for other senior executives.
executives agree to devote sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The committees members are John Seed Chairman, Norman Broadhurst, Sir Richard Evans to 30 March 2004, Sir Peter Middleton, Jane Newell and Table 1: Non-executive directors terms of appointment Andrew Pinder, all independent non-executive directors.
They have no Date first Date of last Re-appoint Compensation personal financial interest in the company other than as shareholders and appointed appointment no later than Notice upon early the fees paid to them as non-executive directors.
They have no conicts of to board AGM in AGM in period termination interest arising from cross directorships and are not involved in the day-toSir Richard Evans 01.09.1997 2001 2004 none none day running of the groups businesses.
The committees terms of reference Sir Peter Middleton 01.01.1994 2001 2004 none none are available to shareholders on request and are on the companys web site at www.
Norman Broadhurst 01.04.1999 2002 2005 none none During the year, the committee appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP Jane Newell 01.09.1996 2003 2006 none none to advise it on executive remuneration.
They have no other connection with the Andrew Pinder 01.09.2001 2002 2005 none none company.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting also advised the committee.
John Seed 01.03.1996 2002 2005 none none They are also the actuaries to one of the companys pension schemes United Utilities Pension Scheme and advise the company on matters relating to its Policy statement on non-executive directors remuneration operation.
Addleshaw Goddard provide legal advice on the operation of the The companys policy is to pay annual fees that reect the responsibilities groups share incentive and share option plans, including drafting the rules and placed upon the non-executive directors.
They also provide general legal advice to the When reviewing fees, account is taken of the level of fees paid in company and other companies in the group.
companies of similar size and complexity.
There are separate annual fees for the chairman, deputy chairman and the other non-executive directors.
The committee is assisted by the chief executive John Roberts, who is Additional fees are paid to the chairmen of the audit and remuneration consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive committees Norman Broadhurst and John Seed respectively.
The fee directors and senior executives and by the group human resources director.
26 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 The chief executive and group human resources director attend meetings except market median but may pay more for an outstanding performer or to attract executives of the right calibre.
Earnings may be increased through the operation when the committee discusses matters relating to their own remuneration.
of annual and long-term incentive plans.
In its work, the committee considers fully the principles of good governance The incentive plans are designed to encourage and reward out-performance.
and the code of best practice.
The committee met eight times in the year to 31 March 2004.
Details of individual attendance at the meetings is stated in They link executives rewards directly to the groups performance and shareholders interests.
The company expects executive directors and other the corporate governance report on page 22. senior executives to acquire and hold shares at least to the value of their The board accepted the committees recommendations without amendment.
To assist them in satisfying this minimum share ownership The chairman of the board ensures the company talks to its major target, it may pay incentive awards partly or wholly in shares.
shareholders, when appropriate, about matters relating to remuneration.
The committee aims to achieve an appropriate balance between xed and variable rewards.
Fixed rewards include: Policy statement on executive directors remuneration The boards policy for executive directors and senior executives basic salary: remuneration is to: a car allowance or company car and fuel for private mileage: pay a basic salary which competes with other companies of about the medical insurance: and same size and complexity: pension benets.
use short and long-term incentives to encourage executives to outperform key targets, thereby giving them the opportunity to increase their earnings: The taxable value of the car, fuel, medical insurance and life insurance element of pension benets are included in other benets in table 3. encourage executives to hold shares in the company: and Variable rewards take the form of the annual bonus and the performance overall, reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to share plan.
These rewards are performance based and provide each the groups short and long-term performance and avoid paying more than executive director with the opportunity to earn up to a further 60 per cent is necessary for achieving this objective.
and 80 per cent of basic salary respectively each year.
Together, this is In deciding the executive directors total remuneration package and individual almost 60 per cent of their total annual reward opportunity excluding pension benets.
Detailed policy in relation to each element of executive elements of it, the remuneration committee assesses where the company should be positioned relative to other companies.
It makes appropriate directors remuneration is set out below.
The board continually reviews its comparisons but treats them with caution.
The company aims to pay about the policy in the light of emerging best practice.
Les Dawson resigned from the board on 25 March 2003 and ceased employment with the company on 31 August 2003.
His emoluments for 2003 relate to the period up to and including the date of his resignation as a director.
The value of the long-term incentive vesting during the year ended 31 March 2004 relates to the full performance period to 31 March 2003.
The value of the long-term incentive vesting during the year ended 31 March 2004 is based on the share price when the options were exercised.
Charlie Cornish was appointed to the board on 27 January 2004.
His other benets during the year ended 31 March 2003 include a non-pensionable salary supplement of 3,332 to compensate him for lost pension benets from his previous employment and relocation costs of 74,043.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 27 Directors remuneration report continued A Salary of the maximum awards becomes payable when threshold targets The committee reviews salaries each year taking account of group are met.
Awards increase in value on a straight line basis until half of the and personal performance.
Any changes are made with effect from maximum award is payable for achieving an intermediate target midway 1 September.
The committee commissions independent assessments between the threshold and stretch targets.
Awards continue to increase of market rates based on the practice of other utility companies and in value on a straight line basis between the intermediate and stretch companies of a similar size and complexity.
The committee also takes targets at which point the maximum award is payable.
Thus, there is account of the levels of pay awards elsewhere in the group.
Following greater incentivisation to achieve stretch targets.
The stretch targets are its annual review in 2003, the committee agreed the following changes demanding and achievement represents results which are in excess of to the annual salaries of executive directors: expectations.
One fifth of the annual bonus, accounting for 12 per cent of salary, will depend on achieving improvements in the groups score Table 4: Executive directors salary review in the Business in the Environments BiE Index, the groups employee 1 September 2003 1 September 2002 opinion survey and the achievement of individual objectives.
000 000 b 2003 04 John Roberts 480.0 450.0 The financial measures for the determination of annual bonuses for Simon Batey 330.0 300.0 2003 04 were also PBEIT and PBET.
The maximum bonus opportunity allocated to each of these targets was 24 per cent, the same as for Gordon Waters 280.0 230.0 2004 05.
The stretch PBET and PBEIT targets were achieved.
The total Note: payable for performance against financial targets was, therefore, 48 per Charlie Cornish was appointed to the board on 27 January 2004.
Non-financial targets accounted for up to 12 per cent of salary.
Six is 235,000. per cent was based on the achievement of individual objectives, three per B Annual bonus cent on the group score in the BiE index and three per cent on scores in The annual bonus is designed to motivate executive directors and other senior the 2003 04 employee opinion survey.
Each director achieved their executives to achieve the groups key operational and strategic objectives.
individual objectives and the environmental and employee-related targets The maximum award is 60 per cent of annual salary.
Directors are rewarded were achieved.
Therefore 12 per cent bonus was payable bringing the according to the companys financial and non-financial performance for the overall bonus payable to a total of 60 per cent of salary.
year and the achievement of individual targets.
Targets are set each year.
The c Prior year annual bonuses paid in deferred shares non-financial and individual targets may include personal objectives, measures Half of the value of the 2001 annual bonus awards for executive directors related to customer service and environmental performance and performance were satisfied by the grant of contingent rights to receive shares in the against other key stakeholder measures.
Annual bonus awards may be made company to be purchased in the market by the companys employee share partly or wholly in shares where a participant has still to satisfy the companys trust.
The right to these shares may be forfeited in certain circumstances minimum share ownership target.
if an executive is not in the companys employment when the shares are a 2004 05 due to be transferred to him from the trust in June 2004.
The financial performance measures to be used for determining annual The company does not match the number of deferred shares and there bonuses for 2004 05 are profit before exceptional items, interest and tax are no additional performance measures associated with the release of PBEIT and profit before exceptional items and tax PBET.
A maximum award of 24 per cent of salary is allocated to each measure.
One quarter these shares see table 5.
Table 5: Executive directors contingent interests in deferred shares relating to past bonus awards audited information Contingent interest Contingent interest Shares transferred Contingent Award in Contingent interest in Contingent interest in in shares at in shares added to executive interest in shares respect of shares at date of award shares at 1 April 2003 27 August 2003 during the year during the year at 31 March 2004 Value Value Value Value Value Value No.
This was the average of the mid-market price of a share for the three business days immediately prior to 1 June 2001.
The value of the contingent interest in shares on 1 April 2003 is based on the mid-market price of a share on that day of 601.5 pence.
The number of shares comprising the contingent interest in shares at 27 August 2003 incorporates an adjustment to take account of the rights issue.
The values of the shares comprising awards based on the last quoted cum rights share price of 531.5 pence was divided by the theoretical ex-rights price of 459.54 pence to determine the revised numbers of shares comprising awards shown above.
The contingent interest in shares added during the year is calculated by taking the values of notional dividends payable on 29 August 2003 and 9 February 2004 on the shares in trust and dividing by the mid-market price of a share on those dates.
These were 466.5 pence and 484.5 pence respectively.
The value of the contingent interest in shares on 31 March 2004 is based on the mid-market price of a share on that day of 519.0 pence.
28 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 C Other benets a 2004 05 grant Directors are paid a car allowance or have the use of a company car It is proposed to apply the above performance conditions to awards to where business use warrants it, are reimbursed fuel for business and be granted during 2004 05 and that each director is awarded an option to private use and are provided with medical and life insurance.
Charlie acquire shares worth up to 80 per cent of their annual salary.
It is expected Cornish is paid a non-pensionable salary supplement of 18,500 a year that for the 2004 05 award, the TSR comparator group will comprise to compensate him for the reduction in employer contribution rate the following 16 companies in addition to United Utilities: AMEC, AWG, to his pension scheme relative to his previous employment.
BAA, Balfour Beatty, BG Group, BT Group, Centrica, International Power, Kelda Group, National Grid Transco, Northumbrian Water, Pennon Group, D Long-term incentives Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Trent, and Viridian.
It is the boards policy that shareholders will be invited specically to In addition, three smaller companies, Bristol Water, East Surrey Holdings approve all new long-term incentive schemes as dened in the Listing and International Energy Group, will be included as a notional combined Rules and significant changes to existing schemes, save in the 17th company made up in proportion to their market capitalisations at the circumstances permitted by the Listing Rules.
start of the performance period.
The performance period will be 1 April 2004 The performance share plan, adopted at the annual general meeting held to 31 March 2007.
Awards will vest after the end of the performance period on 21 July 2000, is the long-term incentive scheme for executive directors provided that the remuneration committee is satisfied that the companys and a restricted number of other senior executives.
Participation is at recorded TSR performance is consistent with the achievement of the discretion of the plans trustee United Utilities Employee Share Trust appropriate measures of underlying business performance.
Limited on the recommendation of the remuneration committee.
Each year, b 2003 04 grant participants may be awarded a right to acquire shares or, at the discretion During the year awards to a maximum value of 80 per cent of annual salary of the trustee, the cash equivalent normally worth up to 80 per cent of their were made to directors in respect of the 2003 04 performance share plan.
annual salary at the date of the award, at no cost to them.
The number The extent to which awards vest will be based on the companys TSR of shares awarded is based on the market price of a share at that time.
performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held in 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2006.
At the beginning of the performance period July 2004 seeking shareholder approval to increase the maximum value the comparator group comprised the following 15 companies in addition to of an award to 100 per cent of annual salary.
United Utilities: BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, Centrica, The proportion of the award that will vest depends on the groups International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda Group, Morrison Supermarkets, performance against specified targets over a performance period.
This National Grid Transco, Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn period is usually not less than three years duration, beginning at the start Trent, Tesco and Viridian.
There have been no changes during the year.
The of the financial year during which the award is made.
test against measures of underlying business performance will take account of performance against the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest The extent to which awards granted to date vest depends on a the cover targets for 2005 06 set out in the groups five-year business plan to companys total shareholder return TSR performance when compared 2007 08.
The awards are scheduled to vest after 31 March 2006. with the TSR performance of a group of other companies over three year performance periods and b underlying business performance.
TSR is c 2002 03 grant widely accepted as an easily understood and externally veriable measure The extent to which awards vest will be based on the companys TSR of a shareholders return.
Relating awards to the companys relative TSR performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period performance supports the policy objectives of linking executives rewards 1 April 2002 to 31 March 2005.
At the beginning of the performance period directly to the groups performance and shareholders interests and giving the comparator group comprised the following 18 companies in addition executives the opportunity to increase their earnings by meeting and to United Utilities: AWG, BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, out-performing key long-term measures.
Centrica, International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda Group, Lattice Group, Morrison Supermarkets, National Grid Group, Safeway, Scottish & Southern The inclusion of appropriate companies in the comparator group is critical Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Trent, Tesco and Viridian.
The merger of for relative performance to be meaningful.
However, it is also important National Grid Group and Lattice Group occurred within the first three months that the comparator group should be of a reasonable size to avoid the of the performance period.
Lattice Group has, therefore, subsequently been performance of a few companies having a disproportionate impact on the excluded from the group.
Takeover activity affecting Safeway and AWG outcome of the plan, to be able to accommodate changes in the comparator occurred after the first three months of the performance period.
They have, group and to avoid too high a leverage between the companys relative therefore, been retained in the group and United Utilities TSR performance position in the group and the proportion of the award that vests.
The relative to them will be compared from the beginning of the performance remuneration committee determines the composition of the comparator period until the day before takeover activity announcements.
The test group when awards are granted each year.
It has the discretion to make against measures of underlying business performance will be determined subsequent adjustments to the group or the period over which relative TSR by performance against the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest is measured during the performance period, for example, following a takeover cover targets for 2004 05 set out in the groups five-year business plan to bid or merger demerger announcement to maintain the integrity of the plan.
The awards are scheduled to vest after 31 March 2005.
During the year, the remuneration committee considered the treatment of changes affecting companies in the comparator groups for awards made d 2001 02 grant in 2001 02 and after where the respective performance periods had not The extent to which awards vest will be based on the companys TSR nished.
performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2004.
At the beginning of the performance period No award will vest if the companys TSR performance is below the median the comparator group comprised the following 24 companies in addition for the comparator group.
If the companys TSR performance is between to United Utilities: AWG, BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, median and upper quartile, the proportion of the maximum award which the Capita Group, Centrica, Daily Mail & General Trust, Dixons Group, Imperial participant may receive will be calculated on a straight-line basis between Tobacco Group, International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda Group, Lattice 33 per cent and 100 per cent.
Group, National Grid Group, Powergen, Railtrack, Safeway, Scottish & However, awards will not vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied Newcastle, Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Trent, that the companys recorded TSR performance is consistent with the Viridian and Whitbread.
Powergen was subsequently excluded from the achievement of appropriate measures of underlying business performance.
comparator group as a result of the takeover bid announcement occurring United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29 Directors remuneration report continued within the first three months of the performance period.
The announcements announcements and the date of Railtracks share suspension.
The test of the merger of National Grid Group and Lattice Group, the takeover bid against measures of underlying business performance will be determined for Safeway, takeover activity for AWG and the suspension of dealings in by performance against the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest Railtrack shares occurred after the first three months of the performance cover targets for 2003 04 set out in the groups five-year business plan period.
All were retained in the comparator group.
The awards are scheduled to vest after 31 March 2004. continued as National Grid Transco.
United Utilities TSR performance Details of directors continuing scheme interests in the performance share relative to the other companies will be compared from the beginning of the performance period until the day before merger or takeover activity plan, including those awarded during the year, are set out in table 6.
Table 6: Executive directors continuing scheme interests in the performance share plan audited information Contingent scheme Contingent scheme Contingent scheme interest at 1 April interest awarded interest at 31 March Award details 2003 note a during the year 2004 note a Market price Maximum value of a share Max.
at award date Performance at award Max.
value Award date period % of salary 000 pence of shares of shares 000 of shares 000 of shares 000 John Roberts 2001 02 9.7.
b The maximum number of shares comprising the contingent scheme interest at 31 March 2004 for the 2001 02 and 2002 03 awards incorporate an adjustment to take account of the rights issue.
The values of the shares comprising awards based on the last quoted cum rights share price of 531.5 pence was divided by the theoretical ex-rights price of 459.54 pence to determine the revised numbers of shares shown above.
c The market price of a share at award is the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share on close of business on the last trading day immediately prior to the award date.
This is used to calculate the maximum number of shares comprised in the award.
d The 2003 04 awards comprise ordinary and A shares in the ratio of 9:5 to reect the rights offer to shareholders.
The maximum value of the awards for John Roberts, Simon Batey and Gordon Waters were based on their annual salaries on the original intended date of award, 30 June 2003.
Awards were not granted until 29 September 2003 because of dealing restrictions associated with the rights issue.
e The above awards were granted as option awards, whereby the participant is granted an option to acquire the number of shares which vests under the plan.
The options are exercisable over a period of three months from the vesting date.
No consideration is payable by the executives either upon grant of the option award or its subsequent exercise.
30 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 e 2000 01 grant measures of underlying business performance.
The awards, therefore, During the year, awards granted under the 2000 01 plan vested.
vested in accordance with the companys relative TSR performance.
The extent to which awards vested was based on the companys TSR Further details of directors scheme interests in the performance share plan, performance relative to the comparator group of companies over the period vested during the year, are set out in table 7.
At the beginning of the performance period Performance graph the comparator group comprised the following 27 companies in addition The following graph compares the companys annual total shareholder return to United Utilities: AWG, BAA, BG Group, Boots Company, British Energy, TSR performance for the past five years against the FTSE 100 Index, the Capita Group, Centrica, Daily Mail & General Trust, Dixons Group, Flextech, most appropriate broad equity market index.
The TSR indices used in the Hyder, Imperial Tobacco Group, International Power, J Sainsbury, Kelda chart have been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Group, National Grid Group, National Power, Powergen, Railtrack, Safeway, Report Regulations 2002 relative to a base date of 31 March 1999.
Scottish & Newcastle, Scottish & Southern Energy, Scottish Power, Severn Total shareholder return Trent, Thames Water, Viridian and Whitbread.
Flextech and National Power 140 were subsequently excluded from the comparator group as a result of the takeover bid announcements prior to the beginning of the performance 120 period.
TSR calculations for Hyder, Powergen, Thames Water, Safeway 100 and AWG were calculated up to the ofcial date of takeover activity 80 announcement and for Railtrack for the period to the share suspension date.
60 United Utilities TSR for the performance period was 12.04 per cent which 40 placed it eighth out of 26, resulting in 88 per cent of the maximum award United Utilities vesting and 12 per cent lapsing, subject to the additional measures of 20 FTSE 100 Source: Thomson Financial underlying business performance being satisfied.
The test against measures 0 Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar of underlying business performance was determined by performance against 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 the earnings per share, dividend cover and interest cover targets for 2002 03 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2004, of 100 invested in United Utilities set out in the groups five-year business plan to 2004 05.
The remuneration on 31 March 1999 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
committee was satisfied that the TSR performance was consistent with The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Table 7: Executive directors scheme interests in the performance share plan vested during the year audited information Contingent scheme interest Contingentlapsed Contingent scheme interest during scheme interest Value of Award details at 1 April 2003 the year vested during the year award at exercise Market Market Maximum price of price of value at a share a share Award Performance % of award date at award Max.
of Value at exercise Value date period salary 000 pence of shares of shares 000 shares shares 000 pence 000 John Roberts 2000 01 29.3.
03 80 146.4 607.5 24,098 24,098 145.0 2,892 21,206 130.4 614.0 130.2 Notes: The market price of a share at award is the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share on close of business on the last trading day immediately prior to the award date.
The maximum values shown for 1 April 2003 have been calculated using the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share of 601.5 pence on close of business on that date.
Awards vested on 4 June 2003 in respect of 88 per cent of the maximum number of shares under option and lapsed in respect of 12 per cent.
The values for scheme interests vesting during the year have been calculated using the mid-market price of a United Utilities PLC share of 615 pence on close of business on that date.
The above awards were granted as option awards, whereby the participant was granted an option to acquire the number of shares which vests under the plan.
No consideration is payable by the executives either upon grant of the option award or upon the subsequent exercise of the option.
Simon Batey exercised his option on 10 June 2003 and John Roberts and Gordon Waters on 16 June 2003 over all of the shares that vested.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Value Directors remuneration report continued Share options earnings for calculating benets.
The company has put in place separate The executive directors do not participate in the company share option plan arrangements, the effect of which is to provide pension benets calculated 1999.
They can participate in the all-employee Sharesave scheme.
Neither on the same basis as for executives whose pensionable earnings are not the award nor the exercise of Sharesave options is dependent upon the limited by the cap.
Further details of Sharesave options Although pension benets are calculated on basic salary only, to protect are shown in table 8. his contractual entitlement, the calculations are adjusted for Gordon Waters, Pension arrangements whose annual bonus had been pensionable before the incentive plan The United Utilities Pension Scheme is open to all eligible employees.
It provides pensions and other benets to members within Inland Revenue The pension benets earned by directors during the year are shown in limits.
John Roberts, Simon Batey and Gordon Waters are members of, table 9 on page 33. and contribute to, the dened benefit section of the scheme.
It provides a pension for them on normal retirement at age 60 equal to 1 30th of Since 1 July 2003, the dened benets section of the pension scheme pensionable earnings for each completed year of service.
The maximum has been closed to newly recruited executive directors.
They may join pension is two thirds of pensionable earnings.
Early retirement is possible the dened contribution section of the scheme.
Charlie Cornish is a from age 50 if the company agrees.
member of, and contributes to, the dened contribution section of the The Finance Act 1989 restricts the pension benets that can be paid by the pension scheme.
The accrual of his pension benets is limited by the scheme to the executive directors as the earnings cap limits pensionable earnings cap.
The mid-market price of an A share on 31 March 2004 was 319.75 pence and the range in the year was 262.0 pence to 332.0 pence.
After adjusting for the rights issue, the ordinary share price range in the year was 453.75 pence to 544.27 pence.
No amount is payable by a participant for the grant of a Sharesave option.
The number of shares under option and the exercise prices except for Sharesave 2004 were adjusted on 27 August 2003 to take account of the rights issue.
The aggregate notional gain made by directors on the exercise of options during the year based on the difference between the mid-market price of a share on the day on which options were exercised and the exercise price was nil 2003 nil.
32 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Table 9: Executive directors pension benets dened benefit scheme audited information Increase in accrued pension during the year Transfer value Total change Accumulated total accrued Accumulated total accrued of increase in transfer value pension at 1 April 2003 pension at 31 March 2004 Increase net Member net of member net of member Transfer value of ination contributions contributions contributions Transfer value 000 p. a.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The transfer value of the net increase in pension 2 represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year-end, or at date of leaving employment or retirement if earlier.
It is based on the accrued pension increase 1 and is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
The change in the transfer value 3 includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and directors, such as stock market movements.
It is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benets are not shown.
The transfer value represents a liability of the company to make pension payments in the future but not a sum paid to the individual.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, the company paid contributions for Charlie Cornish totalling 7,187 2003 nil to the dened contribution section of the pension scheme.
Contracts of service and compensation for termination Service contracts do not provide explicitly for termination payments other The companys policy is that the executive directors normally have one-year than for holidays due but not taken, liquidated damages or payments in lieu notice periods.
The company may offer a longer notice period if it considers of notice.
If a contract is to be terminated, the remuneration committee will, that necessary to recruit a new director.
If it offers an initial notice period of in each circumstance, determine the compensation that may be paid after more than one year, it will usually reduce that to a rolling one-year notice applying such mitigation it considers is fair and reasonable.
It will take into period after the initial period has expired.
All the current executive directors account the best practice provisions of the Combined Code and will take have one-year notice periods.
legal advice on the companys liability to pay compensation and the amount of the compensation in each case.
Its policy is to take a robust line on Contracts terminate automatically upon the director reaching age 60 Charlie reducing compensation to reect departing directors obligations to mitigate Cornish: 65 unless the company agrees that a director may continue to work after attaining age 60 Charlie Cornish: 65.
The committee reviews this policy each year.
No changes were made apply if there is a change of control.
Details of directors contracts are set out in table 10.
Table 10: Executive directors service contracts Date of contract Unexpired term to 60th birthday Notice period Contractual compensation upon early termination John Roberts 01.09.99 2 March 2006 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Simon Batey 01.04.00 4 September 2013 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Gordon Waters 01.03.96 6 June 2007 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Charlie Cornish 05.01.04 30 November 2024 12 months rolling No explicit provision other than payment for outstanding holidays Note: The unexpired term for Charlie Cornish is to his 65th birthday.
Approved by the board of directors on 19 May 2004 and signed on its behalf by John Seed Remuneration committee chairman United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33
