Vedanta Resources plc 34 Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report Introduction The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policies and practices adopted by the Company since its Listing in December 2003 in respect of the Executive Directors, the key operational and functional heads within the Group whose remuneration falls within the remit of the Remuneration Committee the Senior Management Group and the Non-executive Directors.
Since Listing, the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the Previous Code and has taken steps to ensure that its policy and practices in relation to Directors remuneration are compliant with the Revised Code, which has applied to the Company since 1 April 2004.
The Groups operations, primarily located in India, have grown through acquisition so that today the Group employs over 12,500 people.
This number will increase further as the Group continues with its US$2 billion investment programme.
The Group has progressively sought to develop the capability of its senior management team over the past few years.
Consequently, the Committee regards the recruitment, retention and incentivisation of the Senior Management Group as a whole, most of whom are located in India, as critical to ensuring the successful management of the Groups activities and implementation of the Groups strategic priorities.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
Part II of this report contains the information on which the auditors are required to report to the Companys members.
PART I Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for recommending remuneration policy to the Board and setting the remuneration packages for the Senior Management Group.
The Committees role is to set levels of remuneration to attract and retain Executive Directors, other members of the Senior Management Group and the Chairman.
The Committees aim is to ensure that the Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Group are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and are motivated to enhance the return to shareholders.
The Committee was formed on 11 November 2003 shortly before Listing and its members at that time were Mr Chidambaram Chairman and Sir David Gore-Booth.
Mr Fowle joined the Committee upon his appointment to the Board on 14 November 2003.
Messrs Gilbertson and Agarwal, in their respective capacities of Chairman and Chief Executive, attend the meetings by invitation.
On 22 May 2004 Mr Chidambaram resigned as a Director.
Sir David Gore-Booth was appointed Chairman of the Committee in place of Mr Chidambaram and Mr Chandra was appointed to the Committee on 14 June 2004.
No Director plays a part in any discussions about his own remuneration.
The Committee has a responsibility to monitor trends in executive pay throughout the Group and, therefore, it has involved Mr Venkatesh Head of Human Resources and Mr Agarwal in determining the remuneration and benefits offered to the Senior Management Group in general during the period.
In addition, independent advice on executive remuneration and share schemes was received from  LLP following their appointment by the Committee and who provided no other services to the Company in the UK during the year.
The Indian associate firm of  provided internal assurance services to the Group during the year.
The Australian associate firm of  are the external auditors to one of the Groups operating companies in Australia, Thalanga Copper Mines Pty Limited.
The Committees terms of reference, along with the terms of reference of the other Board committees, are currently being reviewed to ensure that they reflect the recommendations of the Revised Code.
Upon completion of this review, the terms of reference of all the Board committees will be available on the Companys website.
Remuneration Policy The policy of the Committee is to reward the Senior Management Group competitively, enabling the Group to recruit, motivate and retain executives of high calibre, whilst avoiding paying excess remuneration.
The Committee is particularly concerned to ensure that the members of the Senior Management Group are motivated and incentivised to continue to perform at high levels.
To this end, the Group strives to recruit senior managers with strong track records in multinational companies, both in India and the UK, and to remunerate them appropriately.
In setting the remuneration policy for the Senior Management Group, the Vedanta Resources plc 35 Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report continued Committee takes into account: the levels of remuneration throughout the Group: the market practices prevailing in the countries in which the senior managers work: and the market practices in the Indian mining and industrial sectors in respect of operational management and in all sectors in respect of corporate and supporting functions.
The Committee attempts to align the interests of the Senior Management Group with those of the shareholders, by linking share and cash incentives to corporate performance.
Therefore, the remuneration packages of the Senior Management Group comprise: a basic salary for day-to-day performance of duties: an annual bonus as an incentive to meet short term goals: awards under the long term incentive plan referred to below in order to incentivise long-term and strategic performance: and benefits in kind in accordance with local market practice.
In addition, certain members of the Senior Management Group excluding the Executive Directors received awards under the Reward Plan, which was used solely to provide awards on Listing as a reward for employees who had significantly contributed to the Companys development and growth over the period leading up to Listing.
Basic Salaries, Pensions and Other Benefits Basic Salaries Basic salaries for the Executive Directors are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market for company directors in the mining sector and for companies in the FTSE 250 Index.
In India salaries for members of the Senior Management Group are set by reference to those positions of comparable status, skills and responsibility in the metals and mining industries, and in the manufacturing and engineering industries more generally.
Salaries for members of the Senior Management Group utilising specialist professional knowledge are set by reference to the prevailing levels of pay for executives in similar roles in companies of similar size, scope of activities and geographical location.
Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis and changes will generally be implemented with effect from 1 April each year taking into account the period of service during the year.
In view of the weak share price since Listing, the Chief Executive has waived any salary increase for the year ending 31 March 2005, as well as any bonus entitlement in respect of the year ended 31 March 2004.
The Finance Director received an increase to his basic salary effective from 1 April 2004 taking his basic salary to 250,000 per annum.
Pensions The Company does not currently provide pension benefits to the Executive Directors or any of the UK-based employees and this is reflected in the determination of the overall remuneration packages for those members of the Senior Management Group.
The members of the Senior Management Group based in India are entitled to membership of the Central Provident Fund and Superannuation Scheme which provide pension benefits consistent with local market practice.
Benefits in Kind Benefits in kind provided to the Executive Directors and UK-based employees are private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance cover.
Similar benefits are provided to other members of the Senior Management Group based in India in line with local market practice.
The Chief Executive is also provided with a car and a driver for business use and the exclusive use of a Company-owned house on his frequent business visits to India.
Annual Bonus The Company operates an annual bonus scheme providing the Senior Management Group with an opportunity to earn a cash amount based on the achievement of demanding annual performance targets and will be set by the Committee prior to the commencement of the financial year over which performance will be measured.
The annual bonus is non-pensionable.
The maximum bonus payable to the Chief Executive and Finance Director is 100% of salary.
As noted above, the Chief Executive has waived any bonus entitlement for the reporting period.
The bonus payable to the Finance Director was 20,000, which equated to 33% of basic salary earned in the period from Listing to 31 March 2004.
The bonus was discretionary in nature as pre-defined bonus criteria had not been set in place at the time of Listing.
The bonus payable reflected the contribution made by the Finance Director leading up to and after the Listing, as judged by the Committee.
Vedanta Resources plc 36 Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report continued In addition, the Finance Director was contractually entitled to a retention bonus of 30,000 in recognition of his services prior to Listing.
This bonus was included in the terms of his service contract.
With effect from 1 April 2004, the payment of the annual bonus is dependent on the achievement of a combination of individual and corporate objectives, which closely correlate to the responsibilities of the Director and the Group budget for the following year.
Employee Share Schemes The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration for Executive Directors and senior employees.
Consequently, on Listing, the Company introduced three employee share schemes.
The Vedanta Resources Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Committee intends that the LTIP will be the primary arrangement under which share-based incentives will be provided to Executive Directors and senior management.
Awards were made under the LTIP on 26 February 2004 and further awards are expected be made on an annual basis following the announcement of the Groups results.
The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of annual basic salary.
The maximum value of shares that can be awarded to members of the Senior Management Group other than the Executive Directors is calculated by reference to the balance of basic salary and share-based remuneration consistent with local market practice.
The performance condition attaching to outstanding awards under the LTIP is that the Companys performance, measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR being the movement in a companys share price plus reinvested dividends, is compared over a three-year period with the performance of the companies constituting the FTSE Worldwide Mining Index excluding precious metals from the date of grant.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Companys TSR rank against the comparator group at the end of the three-year performance period.
The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with straightline vesting in between the points shown and rounding down to the nearest whole share.
Vedantas TSR Performance against Index % of Award Vesting Below median 0 At median 40 At or above upper quartile 100 The performance condition will be measured by taking the Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately preceding the end of the three-year performance period and comparing its performance with that of the comparator group described above.
The calculation will be carried out on behalf of the Committee by  LLP.
The Committee considers that this performance condition, which requires that the Companys total return has out-performed the mining sector, provides a reasonable alignment of the interests of the Senior Management Group with those of the shareholders.
No awards will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that the Companys TSR performance reasonably reflects the Companys underlying financial performance.
Details of the awards held by the Executive Directors at 31 March 2004 are shown in the table of Directors Long Term Incentive Awards on page 40.
There were no outstanding options or share awards over Company shares under pre-Listing arrangements held by Executive Directors or other members of the Senior Management Group at the time of Listing in December 2003.
The Vedanta Resources Share Reward Plan the Reward Plan The Reward Plan was adopted for the purpose of rewarding 43 employees none of whom are Executive Directors of the Group who had contributed to the Companys development and growth over the period leading up to Listing.
It was used solely to provide awards on Listing and no further awards will be granted under the Reward Plan.
Under the Reward Plan, awards were made in respect of 776,000 shares on 26 February 2004 and vest in two installments: half of the award vested immediately and the shares were receivable upon the payment of their nominal price of the shares within one month of the date of award and the other half will vest on the first anniversary of the date of award subject generally to the employees continued employment at that date and the relevant shares will be receivable on payment of the nominal value of the shares within one month of that date.
Awards made under the Reward Plan are not subject to performance conditions as these are considered to be rewards for past service rather than incentives for future performance.
Vedanta Resources plc 37 Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report continued The Vedanta Resources Share Option Plan the Share Option Plan The Share Option Plan was adopted to provide maximum flexibility in the design of incentive arrangements over the long term.
However, at this stage, it is not intended that share options will be granted in the foreseeable future.
Total Shareholder Return Performance Graph The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company in comparison with that of the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE Worldwide Mining Index excluding precious metals for the period from 10 December 2003 the date of Listing to 31 March 2004.
The FTSE 250 Index has been chosen as a suitable comparator index because it comprises UK listed companies of similar size and complexity to the Company.
The FTSE Worldwide Mining Index excluding precious metals is also presented as it is the comparator group for the LTIP.
To provide more detail the graph is based on a daily moving average rather than on year end dates as required by the Regulations.
The period covered by the graph is short and is not necessarily representative of the Groups underlying financial performance over the period since Listing.
Vedanta Resources plc 115 Comparator group median FTSE 250 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 10 Dec 03 10 Jan 04 10 Feb 04 10 Mar 04 31 Mar 04 Relative Importance of Fixed and Variable Pay A significant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is performancelinked.
Assuming the Executive Directors receive the maximum bonus entitlement and full vesting of the maximum LTIP awards, the chart to the right demonstrates the balance of fixed and variable pay in these circumstances for the Executive Directors.
Executive Directors Service Contracts The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with the Company which took effect from Listing and which in the case of Mr Agarwal may be terminated by not more than 12 months notice.
Mr Sydney-Smiths initial contract of employment was Salary 34% for a fixed term of 12 months from Listing and would have automatically been renewed Bonus 33% for a further period of 12 months unless terminated by either party giving three months LTIP 33% notice to the other at any time during the Employment as defined therein.
Mr SydneySmiths contract of employment has subsequently been amended so that it may be Relative importance of elements terminated by not more than 12 months notice.
of remuneration Both Executive Directors have provision in their contracts for payment to be made in lieu of notice equal to i in the event of the Chief Executives departure, basic salary and costs to the Company for providing certain benefits during the notice period or part thereof: and ii in the event of the Finance Directors departure, basic salary and bonus during the notice period or part thereof.
There are no other provisions for compensation to be paid on early termination of either contract.
Non-executive Directors fees In setting the fees of Non-executive Directors, the Board has taken into account the complexity of the Company, the significant travel and time commitment required for attending Board and other meetings in India and the unusual risk profile of an Indian company listed in the UK.
The Board reviews Non-executive Directors fees annually.
Vedanta Resources plc 38 Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report continued Non-executive Directors fees are made up of three elements: Base fee 50,000 Committee membership fee Up to 5,000 depending on the scope of the Committee Committee chairmanship fee Up to 20,000 depending on the scope of the Committee Chairmans Fees The Chairmans fees are approved by the Board without the Chairman being present on the recommendation of the Committee and the Chief Executive, who take advice on market fee levels in comparable companies.
Mr Gilbertson is entitled to a fee of 350,000 per annum.
The Company has agreed to reimburse Mr Gilbertson for up to half his costs of retaining executive office accommodation other than at the Companys offices and secretarial assistance for the period of his tenure and three months thereafter, although no such costs have been claimed or paid during the year ended 31 March 2004.
The Company also paid 15,000 of costs for Mr Gilbertsons professional advice in connection with the terms of his appointment.
Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment which may be terminated by either party giving three months notice.
All Directors who have been appointed by the Board during the period since Listing will have their appointments confirmed at the AGM and one-third of the other Directors will retire and be put forward for re-appointment at the AGM.
The articles of association require one-third of the Directors to retire and be put forward for re-appointment at each subsequent annual general meeting.
Consequently, no Director may serve for more than three years without being re-appointed.
There are no provisions in the letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors or the Chairman for compensation to be paid in the event of early termination.
Mr Gilbertson has been appointed for a fixed term commencing on Listing and terminating at the Companys 2004 AGM.
Individual Service Contract Details Director Date of contract Notice period Outstanding term AK Agarwal 27 Nov 2003 12 months 12 months PE Sydney-Smith 27 Nov 2003 12 months 12 months BP Gilbertson 4 Dec 2003 None Until 29 July 2004 Sir D Gore-Booth 14 Nov 2003 3 months Until 13 Nov 2006 WMT Fowle 14 Nov 2003 3 months Until 13 Nov 2006 N Chandra 14 May 2004 3 months Until 13 May 2005 J-P Rodier 14 June 2004 3 months Until 13 June 2007 External Appointments The Boards policy on external appointments is that an Executive Director may accept one appointment other than any Group appointment as non-executive director of a publicly listed company anywhere and that the fees for any such appointment may be retained by the individual.
Currently, neither of the Executive Directors holds any such outside appointments, other then Mr Agarwals directorships of the Groups quoted Indian subsidiaries.
Equity Dilution resulting from Employee Share Schemes The dilution limits set out in the rules of the employee share schemes adopted in December 2003 allow up to an aggregate of 10% of the Companys issued share capital to be issued or issuable pursuant to awards under any of the Companys employee share schemes over a period of ten years.
Up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital may be used for the Companys discretionary schemes over a ten-year period.
As anticipated in the Companys Listing Particulars, shares issued or issuable pursuant to awards made under the Reward Plan are not counted for these purposes.
Currently 0.71% of the Companys issued share capital is issuable in respect of outstanding awards under these schemes including the Reward Plan.
Vedanta Resources plc 39 Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report continued PART II Audited Directors Remuneration Period from 10 December 2003 to 31 March 2004 The following table sets out an analysis of the pre tax remuneration for the period from 10 December 2003 to 31 March 2004 for individual directors who held office in the Company during this period.
All amounts are in UK pounds sterling.
Base salary and fees Annual performance bonus Benefits in kind Total 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 AK Agarwal 129 129 1 2 PE Sydney-Smith 90 20 110 Chairman BP Gilbertson 117 15 132 Non-executive Directors Sir D Gore-Booth 20 20 P Chidambaram 23 23 WMT Fowle 25 25 404 20 15 439 Notes: 1 Whilst the Executive Directors are entitled to private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life insurance cover, these arrangements were not put in place by the Company until June 2004.
2 Mr Sydney-Smith was entitled to a guaranteed retention bonus of 30,000 to reflect his services prior to the Listing in December 2003, and this amount has been included in base salary in the above table.
Year ended 31 March 2003 and Period from 1 April 2003 to 9 December 2003 Throughout the period from 1 April 2002 to 9 December 2003, with the exception of Mr Agarwal, none of the Directors were directors of the predecessor group.
Mr Agarwal had a service contract with Sterlite which began on 20 October 1999 and terminated on 9 December 2003, following the agreement of his service contract with the Company.
All amounts are in UK pounds sterling unless disclosed.
The pre tax remuneration of Mr Agarwal under his service contract with Sterlite for the period from 1 April 2002 to 9 December 2003 was as follows: Year ended Period from 1 April 2003 31 March 2003 to 9 December 2003 Anil Agarwal 000 000 Salary 144 96 Bonus 167 96 Pension contributions 46 33 Other benefits 183 110 Total 540 335 Mr Agarwal was entitled to a bonus of up to 2% of the amount of net profits appearing in Sterlites audited annual profit and loss account for each financial year, unless otherwise decided by the Sterlite board subject to the restriction that the total remuneration salary, bonus and benefits payable by Sterlite in any one financial year shall not exceed the limits prescribed from time to time under Sections 198, 309 and other applicable provisions of the Indian Companies Act 1956 along with Schedule XIII to that Act.
Contributions were made to the Provident, Superannuation and Gratuity Funds in line with market practice.
Under the terms of his Sterlite service contract, in addition to salary and bonus payable, Mr Agarwal was entitled to benefits including furnished accommodation, or house rent in lieu thereof, together with gas, electricity, water, furnishings, medical reimbursements, leave travel concessions for him and his family, club fees and medical and personal insurance in accordance with the rules of Sterlite or as may be agreed to by the Sterlite board of directors.
Benefits receivable in India were restricted to an amount equal to his annual salary.
As accommodation in India was provided in a Sterlite-owned house, a deduction of 10% was made from his basic salary to compensate Sterlite for this cost.
Sterlite paid a fixed contribution to a service company, Hill Street Services Company Limited, for Mr Agarwals use of office facilities in London.
Mr Agarwal was also entitled to the reimbursement of expenses related to this office by Sterlite.
Vedanta Resources plc 40 Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report continued In the period from 1 April 2003 to 9 December 2003, Mr Sydney-Smith received consultancy fees and a basic salary amounting to 82,055 in aggregate.
In the same period, Sir David Gore-Booth received a consultancy fee of 10,000.
No other emoluments were received by any of the directors of the Company, save as noted above, for Mr Agarwal, Mr Sydney-Smith and Sir David Gore-Booth, in the period from 1 April 2002 to 9 December 2003.
Directors Long Term Incentive Awards Number of Options At At Exercise EarliestLatest 10 December 31 March price exercise exercise 2003 Granted 2004 US$ date date AK Agarwal 120,000 120,000 0.10 26.2.
07 The performance conditions attaching to LTIP awards granted in the current year require the Companys TSR to equal or exceed the TSR performance of the median company of the FTSE Worldwide Mining index excluding precious metals before 40% of the award can vest and to be equal or greater than the performance of the Company at the upper quartile of that group for the whole award to vest.
Awards vest on a sliding scale in between these points.
The mid-market price of the shares at 31 March 2004 was 330p and from the date of Listing to 31 March 2004 the share price varied between 320p and 383p.
The mid-market price at the date of award was 350p.
No options lapsed or were exercised in the period to 31 March 2004.
Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares The interests of the Directors which are beneficial unless otherwise stated in Ordinary Shares as at 31 March 2004 were: At 10 December 2003 Number of Ordinary Shares held in the Company At 31 March 2004 or date of appointment if later AK Agarwal 1 154,157,911 154,157,911 PE Sydney-Smith 13,000 BP Gilbertson 938,128 938,128 Sir D Gore-Booth WMT Fowle 60,000 N Chandra J-P Rodier 1 Mr Agarwal has an interest in the 154,157,911 Ordinary Shares held by Volcan Investments Limited.
In addition Mr Agarwal held one share in each of Sterlite Paper Limited, Vedanta Alumina Limited formerly Sterlite Transmission Limited and Sterlite Copper Limited as a nominee for Sterlite.
These companies are indirect subsidiaries of the Company.
There have been no changes in the beneficial shareholdings of the Directors between the end of the financial year and 18 June 2004.
Mr Gilbertson received 1,842,089 Ordinary Shares from Volcan in consideration for his agreeing to act as Chairman of the Company.
Mr Gilbertson agreed to reimburse the Company for employers national insurance contributions in respect of this transfer and sold 903,961 Ordinary Shares on Listing to raise sufficient funds to pay this amount and discharge his own consequential tax liabilities.
Approval This report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Vedanta Resources plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Sir David GoreBooth Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 June 2004
