DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors managing the significant risks faced by Cookson.
The Board considers the remuneration policy for the non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors fees have not been increased The Group operates a risk management process designed during the year and remain at 30,000 per annum, with a to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to supplementary fee payable to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Audit Committee on how those risks are being managed.
which remains at 15,000 per annum.
As a basis for this report, each of the Groups major business units produces a risk map which identifies their key risks and The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receives an additional assesses the likelihood of those risks occurring, their impact if fee of 10,000 per annum.
A supplementary fee of 5,000 per annum they do occur and the actions being taken to manage those is paid to the Senior Independent Director.
The Group Chairmans risks to a desired level.
remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
It is subject to periodic review.
Neither the Group Chairman, who The internal control system is monitored and supported by the is not an executive Director, nor the other non-executive Directors Groups internal audit function, which operates on a global basis.
are members of the Groups pension plans, nor do they participate This function assists management and the Board in the effective in the Groups incentive schemes.
discharge of their responsibility for internal control by conducting reviews of Cookson businesses and reporting objectively both on Legal matters the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group in place, with a particular emphasis on financial controls, and as Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for Directors, to whether those businesses are in compliance with applicable in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent legal advice Group policies and procedures.
The Group Head of Internal Audit if necessary, at the Companys expense.
is responsible for developing the function, within the framework Remuneration matters of common Group policies and standards, and for carrying out The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 31 to 39. assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee receives reports from Corporate responsibility the Group Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis and reports to A statement on corporate responsibility is shown on page 40, the Board on the results of its review.
which includes details of Cooksons Code of Conduct.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of Health, Safety and Environmental matters the system of internal control, it delegates the following matters A report on Cooksons policy and management of health, safety to the Audit Committee to be carried out during the year: and environmental matters is shown on page 41. review of external and internal audit work plans: Treasury management Treasury policy consideration of reports from management and internal audit Cooksons treasury policy seeks to ensure that adequate financial on the system of internal control and any material control resources are available for the development of the Groups businesses weaknesses: and whilst managing its currency, interest rate and counterparty risks.
discussions with management on the actions taken on problem Cooksons policy in respect of the major areas of treasury activity areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or is set out below.
in external audit management letters.
Currency translation exposure The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the The results of the Groups foreign subsidiaries are translated into Audit Committee meetings to the Board and the Board receives sterling at the average exchange rates for the period concerned.
the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
The balance sheets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the closing exchange rates.
Any gains and losses resulting from In addition to the above, the Board considers significant financing translation are recorded in reserves where they are matched with and investment decisions concerning the Group, including the the gains and losses on borrowings, foreign exchange contracts giving of guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and or currency swaps taken out in the same currencies to hedge the control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
The Board also net assets of subsidiaries.
The Group aims to hedge a reasonable reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in managing proportion of its non-sterling assets in this way.
risks across the Group, receives regular reports on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment The Group does not currently hedge translation exposures arising of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
At the year end, the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews Currency transaction exposure the results of the risk management exercise conducted by senior This arises where actual sales and purchases are made by a business management, including the self-certification exercise by business unit in a currency other than its own functional currency.
which they certify the effectiveness of the system of internal controls It is Cookson policy that material foreign currency transaction within the businesses for which they are responsible, together exposures are hedged using appropriate instruments such as with their compliance throughout the year with the Groups policies forward foreign exchange contracts.
28 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 Interest rate risk ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These principles are Cooksons policy is to borrow a mix of fixed and floating rate debt.
Cookson gives full and Where appropriate, the Group will manage its interest rate exposures fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled using interest rate swap agreements or other instruments.
Should an employee become disabled during their interest rate and currency hedging programmes require the approval employment with Cookson, every effort will be made to enable of the Finance Committee or the Board.
them to continue their service with the Company.
Credit risk Pensions Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk, In each country in which the Group operates, the pension which represents the loss that would be recognised if a counterparty arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with failed to perform as contracted.
The counterparties to the Groups good employment practice in that particular area.
During the year, financial instruments are reputable financial institutions and the a defined contribution pension plan was implemented for future credit rating of these counterparties is monitored on a regular basis UK employees: the Groups principal defined benefit pension plans in accordance with Board approved guidelines.
remain for current and past UK employees and for employees in the USA.
Independent advisers are used to ensure that defined Further information relating to the Groups financial risk management benefit plan assets are invested in the best interests of the plan can be found in note 17 on pages 60 and 61. members.
Group policy prohibits investment of pension fund assets Creditor payment policy in its own businesses.
Outside the UK and the USA, the majority Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing of pension plans in the Group are of a defined contribution nature.
the terms and conditions under which business transactions with In the UK, a trustee board is appointed by the Company for each their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to arrangement.
For the main UK plan this comprises employees, suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided that former employees and an independent trustee.
This structure the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
has been accepted by the plan membership under the regulations In the accounts of the Company at 31 December 2004, the number concerning Member Nominated Trustees.
The administration of of days purchases outstanding was 28 2003: 26 days.
the main UK plan is outsourced.
Employment policies All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An independent Conduct is that Cooksons goals and vision can only be met financial institution acts as the trustee.
The trust assets are protected through the efforts of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job by law and by Federal Government Regulation and are subject to satisfaction requires working environments that motivate employees annual audit by an independent accountant, the Internal Revenue to be productive and innovative and provide opportunities for Service and the Department of Labor.
employee training and development to maximise personal potential and develop careers within the Group.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in note 30 on pages 67 to 71.
Cookson is managed on a decentralised basis and within each division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief Directors Executive to adopt employment policies and practices that best Biographical information for the current Directors of the Company suit the size, style and geographical location of their operations.
This allows the Groups operations to respond competitively to Mr A G L Alexander, formerly Senior Independent Director, retired changes in the marketplace and to develop and retain a strong from the Board on 14 May 2004 at the Companys 2004 AGM.
sense of identity whilst benefiting from being a part of a major Mrs J F fide Moller, non-executive Director and former Chair of the international group.
Remuneration Committee, retired from the Board on 1 October Cookson values the involvement of its employees and keeps 2004.
Mr S L Howard, formerly Group Chief Executive, resigned them informed on matters affecting them as employees and from the Board on 4 November 2004 and Mr R P Sharpe, former factors relevant to the performance of the Group.
The Board executive Director and Chief Executive of the Electronics division, encourages greater employee involvement in the Groups financial resigned on 19 May 2004. performance through participation in Company share ownership Mr G C Cozzani, Mr D H Millard and Mr B W Perry will retire at the schemes.
Such schemes have been established in the UK, other AGM and will offer themselves for re-election.
Mr J P Oosterveld, European countries and in North America, affording employees at Mr N R Salmon and Mr J G Sussens will also retire at the AGM all levels the opportunity to acquire Company shares on favourable and will offer themselves for election.
Further information on the terms, in line with local revenue authority regulations.
Approximately service agreements of the executive Directors, including Messrs 570 of Cooksons shareholders are employees and a significant Cozzani, Millard and Salmon, is given on pages 33 and 34.
The number of employees also participate in the Companys share non-executive Directors, including Mr Perry who is standing for option schemes.
re-election and Messrs Oosterveld and Sussens who are standing It is established policy throughout Cookson that decisions on for election, do not have such agreements.
recruitment, career development, training, promotion and other The interests of Directors and their related parties in the ordinary employment related issues are made solely on grounds of individual shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as disclosed in 29 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED accordance with the Companies Act 1985, are as set out on page Authority for purchase of own shares 37 and details of the Directors MTI awards, LTIP allocations and At the 2004 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed share options are set out on pages 37 to 39. authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% at that time of the Companys issued ordinary share capital Share capital 189.5 million shares.
As at the date of this report, the Company Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital has made no such purchases under this authority.
The Directors during the year are given in note 21 on page 63.
In 2002 Cooksons believe it advisable to seek renewal of this authority at the AGM.
shares were subdivided and converted from one existing ordinary share of 50p into one ordinary share of 1p and one deferred Substantial interests share of 49p.
This resulted in 727.6 million ordinary shares and As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified in 727.6 million deferred shares being created under a share capital accordance with sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985 of reorganisation.
As at 31 December 2004, the Companys issued the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary shares.
equity share capital amounted to 375.5 million and comprised % 1,895.5 million ordinary shares of 1p with an aggregate nominal Schroder Investment Management 11.13% value of 19.0 million and 727.6 million deferred shares of 49p Fidelity Investments Ltd 6.67% with an aggregate nominal value of 356.5 million.
Hermes Administration Services Limited 6.37% Standard Life Investments 6.02% Each ordinary share of 1p has the same rights including voting and Aviva plc 5.25% dividend rights and rights on a return of capital as each ordinary Barclays Global Investors 3.93% share of 50p did prior to the share capital reorganisation.
As the Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 3.01% deferred shares carry no rights to dividends or voting and are not listed, they are rendered effectively worthless.
By Order of the Board Since the year end, 467,265 ordinary shares have been issued as a result of exercises of options granted under the Companys share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to allot further shares and make allotments of shares to persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will again be Richard M H Malthouse Group Secretary proposed at the AGM.
15 March 2005 30 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of management below Board level, and setting the appropriate remuneration for the Group Chairman, the executive Directors and the Group Secretary.
A copy of the Committees Terms of Reference is available on the Companys website at: www.
The current members of the Committee are all the non-executive Directors, namely Mr M K Atkinson, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry and Mr J G Sussens, who also chairs the Committee.
All the members of the Committee are independent.
Mr A G L Alexander and Mrs J F fide Moller former chair of the Committee also served as members of the Committee during the year.
The two former Directors resigned from the Committee when they retired from the Company.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to attend Committee meetings as appropriate.
In formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration levels, the Committee was advised during the year by the current and former Chief Executives Messrs Salmon and Howard, the Group Secretary Mr Malthouse and by the external advisers New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBS, Ernst & Young LLP E&Y and the law firms McDermott, Will & Emery UK LLP MWE and Clifford Chance LLP CC.
NBS and MWE were appointed directly by the Committee and CC and E&Y were appointed by the Company on its behalf.
NBS, MWE, E&Y and CC also provide other limited advice to the Group, in their specialist areas of remuneration practice, employment law, general accounting services including tax and share schemes respectively.
Remuneration policy for executive Directors The Committee has established employment and remuneration practices for the Companys executive Directors aimed at fostering sound ethical behaviour within a culture focused upon high performance.
In formulating remuneration policy, the Committee has regard to the international scale and nature of the Groups operations.
The remuneration packages of executive Directors have been designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of remuneration is linked to performance.
Prior to implementation of the new remuneration programme during 2004, consideration was given to the size of potential rewards under the various elements, as modelled by NBS, to confirm that these were in line with market practice and were appropriate given the nature of the performance that was being sought.
Overall, the objective of the policy is to align Directors interests with those of shareholders generally in maximising shareholder value.
Annual salary and benefits Base salary is set by reference to market rates in the relevant country for jobs of similar complexity and responsibility.
The salaries of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are benchmarked against the median salaries of a comparator group which takes into account the Companys size in terms of turnover, its business activity and the international nature of the Company.
This comparator group currently includes the following companies: AMEC, Aggregate Industries, Bodycote International, BPB, British Vita, Enodis, GKN, Invensys, Kidde, Morgan Crucible Company, Novar, Rexam, Smiths Group, Spectris, Spirax-Sarco Engineering, Tomkins, Weir Group and the John Wood Group.
Given the complexities of matching the role of Mr Cozzani, an expatriate based in Belgium, additional Belgian, UK and US data sources are used to benchmark this salary.
The salaries of individual executive Directors are normally reviewed on 1 January each year.
With effect from 1 January 2005 Messrs Millard and Salmon were given increases of 3% following a review of market data and in line with increases given to other senior managers in the Group.
Pension and life assurance benefits provided for executive Directors reflect market practice in the countries in which they are employed.
Medical and disability insurance, company car allowances and other benefits are also provided to the executive Directors.
The executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Groups savings-related share option schemes.
Variable remuneration The remuneration programme is structured such that variable, performance related remuneration potentially represents more than half of total remuneration.
Annual incentive In line with the Groups other senior executives, the executive Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against specified financial targets.
Each year the Committee establishes the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
These criteria are set by reference to Group budgets.
For 2004, the executive Directors annual incentive awards were based on Group profit before tax, amortisation of intangibles and non-operating exceptional items.
Messrs Howard, Millard and Salmon were all assessed solely against this criterion.
The divisional CEOs, Messrs Cozzani and Sharpe, had half of their incentive based upon Group profit and the remainder based upon the performance of their divisions Ceramics and Electronics respectively.
70% of that portion of their bonus based on divisional performance was assessed against their divisions operating profit targets and 30% against their divisions operating cash flow targets.
The Annual Incentive has a Threshold level of performance below which no award is paid, a Target level at which executive Directors are entitled to a payment equal to 50% of their base salary and a Maximum performance level at which a maximum award worth 100% of base salary is earned.
The former Chief Executive Mr Howard was entitled to a payment of 62.5% of base salary at Target and a Maximum award of 125% of base salary.
31 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED For 2004, the Group as a whole, the Ceramics and the Electronics divisions all reached the Maximum level of performance target with respect to both profit and cash flow objectives.
This level of achievement of annual incentive targets is reflected in the annual bonuses payable to the executive Directors in 2004, which are recorded in the Directors remuneration table on page 36.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2005 the executive Directors annual incentive will be based on Group profit before tax, amortisation of intangibles and all exceptional items.
Mr Cozzanis bonus will once again be based half on this Group profit objective and half on the performance of the Ceramics division.
This latter divisional element will be based on divisional operating profit adjusted for performance against key operating cash flow targets.
Long-term incentive At the 2004 AGM, shareholders approved a new Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP to replace both the existing Mid-Term Incentive Plan the MTI Plan and executive share option schemes.
The LTIP rewards executives for delivering superior Total Shareholder Return TSR defined as the increase in the value of a share including reinvested dividends and is intended to align executive remuneration more closely with shareholders interests.
The LTIP has two elements.
Firstly, executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional annual award of shares worth up to 100% of base salary Performance Shares.
Secondly, executive Directors can elect to invest all or part of their annual incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Bonus Investment Shares in return for which they receive a conditional award of ordinary shares equal in value to the pre-tax equivalent of the annual incentive so invested Matching Shares.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys TSR performance over that three-year period relative to that of the constituent companies of its comparator group.
For awards made during the year, the comparator group used for the Company was the FTSE Mid 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
This performance measure was chosen to enhance the link between the interests of Directors and shareholders.
It is intended that the same comparator group be used for awards made in 2005.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares will be as follows: TSR ranking relative to FTSE Mid 250 Matching Shares Vesting Ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares Vesting Percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 25% 0.5:1 Upper Quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 An executive Directors Matching Shares award will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
No Performance Shares or Matching Shares will vest for below median performance.
To determine whether the performance conditions have been met, the TSR of each of the comparator companies will be measured.
Measurement will take place over a performance period commencing on the first day of Cooksons financial year in which the award is granted.
Thus for grants made in 2004 the performance period commenced on 1 January 2004 and will end three years later, i. e. 31 December 2006.
TSR will be measured as the percentage increase in a return index net of tax between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period, and the same three-month averaging method will be used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period.
The companies will then be ranked, in descending order, according to their TSR.
If Cookson is ranked at or above median against the comparator group then some proportion of the awards will be eligible to vest.
The Committee will appoint an external remuneration consultant to assess whether the Company has met the performance conditions at the end of the performance period.
This consultant will be asked to confirm the companies that make up the index and to ensure that the Companys performance has been measured in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Prior to the vesting of any award, the Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it will need to be satisfied that vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee determined that in 2004, the first year of the LTIP, allocations of Performance Shares to the executive Directors should be limited to the value of 70% of base salary.
Allocations were made to these individuals in June 2004, with the exception of Mr Salmon who received an award based on his pro-rated 2004 salary upon joining the Company in July.
None of the Directors purchased shares under the Matching Share element of the LTIP in 2004.
In addition to the Board, members of the then Executive Committee, were also awarded Performance Shares under the 2004 LTIP, and given the opportunity to participate in the Matching Shares element.
Other senior corporate executives also received Performance Shares under the LTIP.
For 2005, consideration is being given to broadening participation in either one or both of the Performance and Matching Share elements of the LTIP to include senior divisional and corporate executives.
32 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 Former long-term incentive arrangements Historically, Cooksons long-term incentive arrangements were based around the MTI Plan and the Companys executive share option schemes.
During 2003 the Committee undertook a review of Cooksons incentive arrangements and decided that the new LTIP should be implemented to replace the MTI Plan and executive share option schemes.
It was felt that this would more closely align executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
The executive Directors have not participated in any new MTI Plan cycles since January 2003 and no options have been granted under any executive share option scheme since September 2003.
There is no intention to make any future awards or grants of options to Directors under either the MTI Plan or the executive share option schemes.
The Directors remain as participants in the MTI Plan cycles which commenced prior to 2004 and continue to have options outstanding from previous executive share option grants.
A summary of the performance conditions that apply to those awards that remain outstanding can be found on pages 37 and 38.
Dilution limits The rules of each of Cooksons share based incentive schemes, including the LTIP, the pre-existing share option schemes and the employee share savings schemes, contain limitations to the total number of options over new shares that can be awarded in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
Shareholding guidelines The Remuneration Committee encourages executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times salary.
To this end, executive Directors will normally only be able to sell a maximum of up to 50% measured as the value after tax of any Performance Shares or Matching Shares vesting under the LTIP, until this criterion has been met.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Whilst the majority of the performance measures attached to the outstanding awards under Cooksons incentive schemes are not affected by the move to IFRS, the earnings per share EPS performance conditions applicable to the Companys executive share option schemes will be affected.
It is intended that EPS will continue to be calculated in accordance with UK GAAP for this purpose until the last option has lapsed.
Performance graph The graph below compares Cooksons Total Shareholder Return over the last five years with the return on the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Groups businesses and is the comparator group against which Cooksons performance is measured for the LTIP.
Cookson Group plc FTSE Mid 250 Index Excluding Investment Trusts 150 100 50 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2004, of 100 invested in Cookson Group on 31 December 1999 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Directors service contracts It has been the Companys general practice for many years to employ executives on local terms while giving due consideration to global market practices.
Where executive Directors are primarily employed outside the UK, their contracts reflect local law and employment practice for senior executives in the territory concerned.
Mr Cozzani has an employment contract governed by Illinois, USA law and a secondment agreement governed by Belgian law.
He is based in Belgium and mandatory Belgian employment law will continue to determine any severance payment, which will be offset against his Illinois contractual entitlement.
His Illinois contract originates from his employment with Vesuvius Crucible Company.
The Board has determined that any new executive Director would be appointed with a notice period not exceeding one year, although in certain circumstances the Board would consider a longer initial term.
All the current executive Directors have contractual notice periods not exceeding 12 months.
Mr Millard has a pension provision which entitled him to pension accrual for two years should his contract have been terminated without cause.
None of the Directors contracts contain any change of control provisions.
All the Directors contracts contain a duty to mitigate should they find alternative employment during their notice period.
33 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED A summary of the main conditions of the contracts of the executive Directors is as follows: Executive Directors Date and jurisdiction Executive Director of contract s Unexpired term Notice period for employer Basis of compensation on termination without cause G C Cozzani 23 02 04 12 months 12 months from At all times subject to offset of any Illinois, USA 31 12 04 to amounts mandatorily payable under 05 05 97 Belgium 06 10 05, Belgian law: salary and annual incentive thereafter no notice compensation based on percentage level required under paid in most recent prior payment year for contract but the applicable contractual notice period, six months required payable half in a lump sum and the balance under Belgian law.
in equal monthly instalments commencing half way through the applicable contractual notice period, mitigated by any salary earned from new employment.
D H Millard 19 02 04 UK 12 months 12 months One times salary, benefits and average of last three years annual and MTI Plan incentive payments, payable half in a lump sum and the balance in six separate monthly instalments commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by any salary earned from new employment.
Pension accrual for two years.
N R Salmon 14 06 04 UK 12 months 12 months One times salary, pension allowance and benefits payable half in a lump sum and the balance in six separate monthly instalments commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by any salary earned from new employment.
Former executive Directors On 5 May 2004, the Company announced that Mr S L Howard intended to relinquish his role as Group Chief Executive.
The Company agreed that he would work up to 31 December 2004, but that he would be free to leave once a successor had been appointed.
Mr Howard left the Company on 4 November 2004.
Mr Howard had two contracts one UK and one Rhode Island, USA both dated 1 January 2003.
Mr Howards contracts could be terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice or by Mr Howard giving the Company three months notice.
It was agreed prior to his departure that Mr Howard would remain eligible for a pro-rated vesting of his 2004 Performance Share Allocation, should the performance conditions be met for the 2004 LTIP.
Agreement was also reached on the treatment of his executive share options.
The majority of his options lapsed on the date of his departure 4 November 2004 but it was agreed that he should retain the right to exercise options granted to him in November 2002 and September 2003, subject to the following performance condition.
In order for these options to become exercisable, the average mid-market closing price of Cooksons shares for a period of 30 consecutive dealing days must exceed 50p prior to the option lapse date of 31 December 2005.
Further details of Mr Howards LTIP and executive share option entitlements can be found in the LTIP allocations and Share options tables on pages 37 and 39.
On 19 May 2004, the Company announced that Mr R P Sharpe had resigned as a Director of the Company with immediate effect.
He left the Company on 18 August 2004.
Mr Sharpe had a Rhode Island, USA contract dated 23 February 2004.
At the time of his departure Mr Sharpes contract could be terminated by the Company giving him 24 months notice.
However, agreement had already been reached on the reduction of this notice period to 12 months to take effect on 31 December 2004.
34 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 Non-executive Directors In accordance with the Code, each non-executive Director is appointed for an initial fixed term of three years subject to their election at the Companys first AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, subject to approval of the Board and their re-election at the appropriate AGM, they are appointed for a further three year term.
Non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
Date of appointment Date of retirement Unexpired term Notice period Current non-executive Directors M K Atkinson 01 04 03 15 04 05 To AGM in 2006 Not required J P Oosterveld 15 06 04 To AGM in 2007 Not required B W Perry 01 01 02 To AGM in 2005 Not required J G Sussens 01 05 04 To AGM in 2007 Not required Former non-executive Directors A G L Alexander 01 12 96 14 05 04 To AGM in 2006 Not required J F fide Moller 01 04 99 01 10 04 To AGM in 2005 Not required The Group Chairman, Mr R G Beeston, was appointed on 1 April 2003 for a fixed period which expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2008.
He is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company.
Any compensation for loss of office would be based upon his annual fee.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board sets the remuneration of the non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies.
The Group Chairmans remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to conflicts of interest.
The Board sanctions each such request on a case by case basis.
Fees received are retained by the executive Director concerned.
In 2004 Mr Millard served as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee on the Board of Exel plc and received fees of 50,000.
Mr Howard served as a non-executive director of Novar plc and Slough Estates plc, for which he was entitled to annual fees of 33,000 and 34,633 respectively.
No Directors have had any material interest in a contract of significance other than service agreements with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Pension arrangements The pension arrangements for each individual director are as follows: Mr Cozzanis pension is provided for through defined contribution arrangements with external providers.
On retirement he will be entitled to the accumulated value of his defined contribution fund.
The Companys contributions in 2004 were 164,776.
Mr Millards pension is being provided in the UK through a combination of the tax-approved pension plan and the unfunded unapproved retirement benefits scheme.
Based on a progressive formula, on retirement at age 62, he would be entitled to a pension of 66.7% of his base salary.
In accordance with Company practice at the time of his appointment, Mr Millards annual bonus is pensionable.
Therefore, at retirement he would also be entitled to 33.3% of averaged annual bonus for his last full three years service.
Mr Millards pension entitlement will be payable less any retained benefits in respect of previous employment.
Once in payment the pension will increase each year by the rise in the Retail Price Index up to a maximum increase of 5% per annum.
Mr Salmon is not entitled to participate in any of the Groups pension arrangements.
In accordance with his contract he receives a pension allowance of 25% of his base salary to enable him to make his own pension provision.
Former Directors Mr Howards pension was provided for under the US cash balance retirement security plan, the 401K savings plan of Cookson Electronics Inc and the US top-hat pension plan.
Together, these aimed to provide Mr Howard with a lump sum, in lieu of regular pension payments, equivalent to a pension of 50% of his final pensionable salary on completion of at least 35 years service at age 65.
In accordance with US practice prior to his appointment as a Director, Mr Howards annual incentive was pensionable.
He was also a member of the UK defined benefit arrangement for pension benefits up to the Earnings Cap up until his resignation on 4 November 2004.
As Mr Howard had participated in the UK plan for less than two years he received a refund of his contributions.
Mr Sharpes pension was provided for under the US cash balance retirement security plan, the 401K savings plan of Cookson Electronics Inc and the US top-hat pension plan.
In addition to the 401K, similar investment funds existed to provide Mr Sharpes pension arrangements through another Group company.
Together these aimed to provide Mr Sharpe with a lump sum, in lieu of regular pension payments, of 50% of his final pensionable salary on completion of at least 35 years service at age 65.
In accordance with US practice prior to his appointment as a Director, Mr Sharpes annual incentive was pensionable.
35 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Transfer value of per annum pension Projected per annum pension Net of inflation increase in Change during 2004 payable at NRD payable at NRD based on 2004 of per annum pension in transfer value less 1 2 service to 31 Dec 2004 payable at NRD 2004 2003 members contributions Executive Directors 3 G C Cozzani n a n a n a n a n a 10 D H Millard 130,462 16,451 1,800,193 1,134,398 636,652 9 N R Salmon n a n a n a n a n a Former executive Directors 4, 5, 6,10 S L Howard 205,362 33,578 1,193,331 1,030,569 157,247 4, 7, 8,10 R P Sharpe 130,885 13,136 944,593 773,238 171,355 Notes 1.
These amounts are calculated under the accrued benefit method, that is the annual pension payable at normal retirement date NRD, which is age 65 except where noted, to which each Director is currently entitled, based upon the number of years they have already served with the Group and their current salary levels.
These amounts represent the difference between the net present capital value measured at 31 December 2004 which would be needed to provide for the payment at NRD of the accrued pension benefit as at 31 December 2004, less the net present capital value measured as at 31 December 2003, less the members contributions.
Pension provision is made under defined contribution arrangements with external providers.
Messrs Howard and Sharpe also participated in defined contribution arrangements.
Company contributions into these plans in 2004 were 8,227 for Mr Howard and 18,853 for Mr Sharpe.
In addition to the amounts in the above table, Mr Howards departure from the Company during the year triggered the vesting provisions of a deferred compensation arrangement.
Under this arrangement, Mr Howard became entitled to receive an annuity purchased by the Company with the proceeds of a rabbi trust established as part of the arrangement.
This type of deferred compensation arrangement is common practice in the USA.
The arrangement provided that in the event of Mr Howard leaving service in certain circumstances, the proceeds of the trust fund or $700,000 if greater would be used to purchase an annuity for the benefit of Mr Howard.
As at 31 December 2004, the value of the fund was $622,787.
The figures in the table above are based on Mr Howards total accrued benefits in the UK and USA.
Upon his departure, Mr Howard had been a participant of the UK pensions plan for less than two years, and so under the rules of this plan he received a refund of his contributions 7,748.
This amount was paid net of tax.
His accrued benefit under the UK plan 2,475 p. a. as at 31 December 2003 therefore lapsed on 4 November 2004.
Mr Sharpes total annual pension amount in payment at 1 January 2005 was $115,670 p. a.
This amount is less than his accrued pension at 31 December 2004, due to the fact that the figures shown above, produced as at 31 December 2004, are based on Mr Sharpe retiring at age 65.
In actual fact Mr Sharpe retired earlier at the age of 56, and as such his pension benefit was correspondingly reduced to reflect the longer expected period of payment.
The transfer value amount in respect of Mr Sharpes pension benefits as at 1 January 2005 was $1,692,200.
Pension benefit for Mr Sharpe was increasing for each year of future service by 1.25% of final average compensation plus 0.45% of final average compensation in excess of US Social Security Compensation.
Mr Salmon does not participate in any Group Pension Scheme, instead he receives a pension allowance in the form of a salary supplement of 25% of his base salary.
An amount up to the Inland Revenue limit for contributions is paid into an Inland Revenue approved pension plan nominated by the employee to the Company, with the excess currently being paid as a salary supplement.
Mr Salmons pro-rated salary supplement in 2004 amounted to 51,164.
The transfer value of the net-of-inflation increase in accrued benefits during 2004, less any member contributions, was 6,695 for Mr Howard, 197,840 for Mr Millard and 62,794 for Mr Sharpe.
The information in the above table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
Directors remuneration The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004, together with comparative totals in respect of the year ended 31 December 2003.
Directors remuneration which is received in non-sterling denominations is converted to sterling in the above table using the average exchange rates for the year.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of medical insurance, life assurance, school fees, non-business-related subscriptions and the provision of a company car.
The Annual Incentive bonuses awarded to Messrs Howard, Millard and Salmon for 2004 were based on the achievement of Group profit targets.
Messrs Cozzani and Sharpes Annual Incentive bonuses were based on the achievement of Group profit targets and divisional profit and cash flow targets based upon the performance of Ceramics and Electronics respectively.
Annual Incentive bonus awards to Messrs Howard and Sharpe were pro-rated to their date of leaving and Mr Salmons was pro-rated from his date of joining.
Details of the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors can be found on page 28.
In addition to the above, ex gratia pensions of 9,917 2003: 9,691 were paid to former Directors in 2004.
36 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
