directors remuneration report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code relating to Executive Directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to consider and approve the report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee Composition and advisors All the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors sit on the Remuneration Committee.
Mr D E Brill, Mr P J Byrom and Dr A D Portno have served throughout the year and Mr A J Giles and Mr I P Lough were appointed to the Committee on 5th October 2004.
Dr A D Portno is the senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
There have been no other changes in the composition or chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The Remuneration Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, setting out its role and the authority delegated by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the overall remuneration policy in relation to pay, incentives and benefits of the Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Company and for ensuring the appropriate implementation of that policy.
In addition, the Committee makes recommendations on and monitors the remuneration of the Directors of the principal subsidiary companies and monitors the remuneration policy of the first level of management below these subsidiary Boards.
The Remuneration Committee meets regularly and also periodically instructs external consultants to review the Executive Directors remuneration and the structure of the Companys share incentive schemes.
This review includes a comparison of the Directors remuneration with the remuneration of Directors in other companies of a similar size within the sector.
These reviews are undertaken every three years and the latest review by the Companys remuneration consultants, Towers Perrin, was completed in November 2004.
This review concluded that overall the remuneration of the Directors was at an appropriately competitive level and consistent with the Companys remuneration policy.
Following the review some changes have been made in the application of the Groups policy and these are explained in this report.
Since the review, the Committee is satisfied that the overall remuneration policy remains appropriate.
The following persons provided advice or services that materially assisted the Remuneration Committee in its consideration of Directors remuneration matters during the year: The Group Human Resources Director, Mr G A Headley, has provided information to the Remuneration Committee on relative pay both within the Wilson Bowden Group and in other organisations, particularly with regard to those sectors in which the Group operates: Towers Perrin has been retained by the Remuneration Committee to provide advice on specific matters in relation to the Executive Directors remuneration and the design and operation of the Companys share incentive schemes.
Towers Perrin do not provide advice on any other matters: Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, the Companys main legal advisors, have been appointed to advise the Remuneration Committee on compliance with the Regulations and the Code: and Internal support was provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Group Finance Director, Mr G M Brown, who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Compliance The Company has complied with the Codes provisions relating to Directors remuneration throughout the year.
Remuneration policy General The Companys remuneration policy is designed to provide competitive packages to attract, retain and motivate highly talented and able executives consistent with the nature, scale and complexity of the Groups operations.
It is necessary to provide reward schemes that are fully competitive and offer sufficient incentive to secure and retain the services of knowledgeable and experienced individuals who have demonstrated a high level of ability and commitment, along with a high level of future potential.
To ensure the successful growth and development of the Group and maximise shareholder value, the highest levels of reward are targeted against the delivery of outstanding personal and corporate performance both in the short and long-term.
No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 37 directors remuneration report continued This report sets out the Companys remuneration policy for 2005 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The inclusion in the report of remuneration policy in respect of years after 2005 is required by the Regulations.
The Remuneration Committee is able to state its remuneration policy for 2005 with reasonable certainty, and this policy will continue unless changed by the Remuneration Committee in subsequent years.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
Any changes to policy for years after 2005 will be described in future Directors remuneration reports, which will continue to be subject to shareholder approval.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors comprises four main elements: Basic annual salary and benefits in kind: Annual performance related bonus, which cannot exceed a specified percentage of salary: Share incentive plans: and Pension arrangements.
It is Company policy that a significant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be performance related.
It is also Company policy that Executive Directors interest should be aligned with the interest of shareholders.
The Company achieves this by encouraging Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company equivalent to at least one times the Directors base salary.
Basic salary and benefits Salaries are normally reviewed annually, on 1st October, or when responsibilities change.
In deciding the appropriate levels, the Remuneration Committee takes into account the external advice it has received and the level of reward provided to comparable executives elsewhere in the sector, as well as the overall pay structure within the Wilson Bowden Group.
In relation to benefits, each Executive Director is provided with an appropriate fully expensed motor car and health care benefits.
The Executive Directors are encouraged to broaden their experience and knowledge by taking appropriate external non-executive appointments, provided the commitment required is consistent with their fulfilling their responsibilities to the Group.
Mr N H Richardson is a Non-Executive Director of Derby Cityscape Limited, a Government sponsored urban regeneration company, and Mr N J Townsend is Chairman of Leicester Shire Economic Partnership: a Director of Leicester Regeneration Company Limited and a member of The Commission on Sustainable Development in the South East.
No fees or other remuneration is received in respect of these external roles.
Annual performance related bonus Demanding budgets and targets are established by the Board, which are directly related to the delivery of the Companys strategic and business plans and to the achievement of personal and corporate objectives.
The performance achieved against these targets is reviewed by the Committee at the end of each financial year to determine the degree of achievement.
Each Executive Directors remuneration includes a performance related bonus expressed as a percentage of salary.
The percentage of salary payable as bonus in 2005, is dependent upon both the profit performance of the Company and its subsidiaries, and the successful delivery of personal objectives determined between each Executive Director and the Group Chairman and the Group Chief Executive at the beginning of each financial year.
The bonus plan has been modified for 2005 following the review of Directors remuneration completed in November 2004.
The performance related bonus in 2005 will be earned on an incremental scale with no bonus earned in the event of profit before tax falling 15% or more below budget.
For on budget performance the bonus will be 40% of the Directors average salary during the year.
For profit performance in excess of budget additional bonus is earned on an incremental scale with a maximum payment of 90% of average salary for achievement of profit before tax equating to 112% of budget.
Any bonus entitlement determined under the plan amounting to 40% or less of salary will be paid in cash, following approval by the Directors of the audited accounts for the relevant financial year.
For any entitlement in excess of 40% of salary one half of the excess will be paid in cash, with the balance discharged through the award of shares in the Company.
The vesting of such award will be deferred for three years and will be subject to satisfaction of income tax and national insurance liabilities.
In addition bonus amounting to 10% of salary is available for delivery of specific personal objectives.
Mr D W Wilson also participates in the Companys performance related bonus plan.
It is not considered appropriate for personal objectives to be set for Mr Wilson and accordingly the above incremental scale is modified to provide the payment of bonus equating to 50% of salary for on budget performance and a maximum bonus equating to 100% of salary for performance equating to 112% of budget.
38 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The Remuneration Committee may, if it considers it appropriate in the context of the business environment, substitute a rigorous and challenging target in lieu of budget but at a lower level.
Any decision to set such a target in lieu of budget may only be made during the first quarter of the financial year and the incremental scale of bonus awards set out above may be reduced by up to 50%, at the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee, in the event of such a target being set.
The 2004 performance related bonus plan was described in the 2003 Directors Remuneration Report.
The bonuses earned in respect of 2004, included in the remuneration table on page 42, have been determined in accordance with the criteria described in that Remuneration Report and includes elements based both on profit before tax and the achievement of specific personal objectives.
The bonuses earned in 2004 ranged between 36.5% and 46.1% of the Directors basic salaries.
Share incentive schemes Mr N H Richardson, Mr I Robertson, Mr N J Townsend and Mr G M Brown all participate in the share incentive schemes listed below.
It is, however, the present intention of the Committee that share incentive awards to these Directors will, in future, only be made under the Wilson Bowden Performance Share Plan.
The Committee will, however, continue its present practice of granting options over the Companys shares to executives below Board level where justified by their performance and contribution to the Groups success.
The performance conditions attached to these incentive plans, the reasons for selecting them and the methods of measuring whether they have been met and why those methods have been chosen are set out below: The Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan PSP Shareholders approved the PSP at the 2002 Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the PSP are made to each of the Companys Executive Directors, except Mr D W Wilson, and a small number of other senior executives who contribute directly to the successful performance of the Group.
The value of shares subject to awards under the plan may not exceed 100% of annual salary.
The remuneration Committee determines appropriate performance criteria each year.
The Committee have determined that for awards made in 2005: 1. an Earnings per Share EPS criteria measured by reference to the increase in real EPS in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for the period of three years starting with the financial year ended before the date of the award will apply to half the award: and 2. a Total Shareholder Return TSR criteria for the period of three years ending on the third anniversary of the date of the award and measured against a comparator group of nine companies in the Housebuilding sector, will apply to the balance.
The performance targets will not be subject to retesting over a further period if not met.
The comparator group of companies for the TSR performance criteria comprises Barratt Developments PLC, Crest Nicholson PLC, Taylor Woodrow plc, Bellway p. l. c. Persimmon PLC, Westbury plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Redrow plc and George Wimpey Plc.
These performance criteria will be applied over a three year measurement period as follows: EPS growth in excess of RPI % of award receivable TSR Relative Performance % of award receivable Equal to greater than 40% 100% Upper Quartile 100% Equal to 10% 10% Median 30% Between 10% and 40% Pro rata Between upper quartile and median Pro rata Below 10% Nil Below median Nil The performance criteria applicable in relation to the awards made on 29th August 2002, are set out in the table below and are dependent on the extent to which the growth in the Companys earnings per share in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for the periods of three years starting with the financial year ended before the date of the award, exceeds the growth in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period.
EPS growth % of in excess of RPI award receivable 30% 100% 10% 25% Between 10% and 30% Pro rata Less than 10% Nil Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 39 directors remuneration report continued Upon becoming entitled to receive shares following the third anniversary of the start date 60% of shares vest to the executive immediately: and subject normally to remaining in service, 11.5% vest on the fourth anniversary: 12.5% on the fifth anniversary: and 16% on the sixth anniversary.
The reasons for selecting earnings per share as the measure of performance are set out under the WBSESOS and apply similarly to the PSP.
TSR was selected as a measure of performance as Total Shareholder Return aligns management performance with shareholders interests.
The performance targets described above are considered to be appropriate based on current market practice and advice from the external consultants.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether performance criteria have been satisfied based on reports from the Companys corporate broker and may request the Companys auditors to report on whether the calculations, and any adjustments required under scheme rules, have been correctly performed.
The Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme WBSESOS Shareholders originally approved the WBSESOS at the 2000 Annual General Meeting.
It was amended at the 2002 Annual General Meeting.
Options are granted under the WBSESOS to senior management who contribute directly to the successful strategic direction and operational management of the Group.
The performance condition relative to the exercise of options granted prior to 17th April 2002, is that the growth in earnings per share shown in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for any consecutive period of three years, starting with the financial year commencing immediately before the date of grant must exceed the increase in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period by 3% per annum.
The performance condition relative to the exercise of options granted after 17th April 2002, is that the growth in earnings per share in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for any consecutive periods of three, four or five years, starting with the financial year commencing immediately before the date of grant: i. must exceed the increase in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period by 3% per annum in respect of awards in any one year, the value of which does not exceed the basic annual salary of the executive: and ii.
must exceed the increase in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period by 5% per annum in respect of awards in any one year, the value of which exceeds one times basic annual salary of the executive.
The value of options granted under the WBSESOS to a participant in any one year is up to a maximum of four times their annual salary, but options would not normally be granted in excess of twice annual salary.
The reasons for selecting earnings per share as a measure of performance are that it directly reflects operational performance and is also a significant factor in determining the markets view of the Companys value.
The real growth targets of 3% and 5% respectively referred to above are considered to be appropriate levels of achievement based on current market practice and advice from the external consultants who assisted in the design of the WBSESOS.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether performance criteria have been satisfied based on calculations performed internally and may request the Companys auditors to report on whether the calculations, and any adjustments required under scheme rules, have been performed correctly.
The Wilson Bowden plc Bonus Share Matching Scheme BSMS The Remuneration Committee determined in 2001 that no new awards would be made under the BSMS.
All matching and retention awards under this scheme lapsed without any shares vesting to participants.
Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme WBSRSOS Under the WBSRSOS, participants are required to make monthly contributions to an approved savings authority under a contractual savings scheme for a period of three or five years.
On entering into the savings contract participants are granted an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at a discount, of no more than 20%, to the middle market price of the Companys shares immediately prior to the date of grant.
The exercise of options under the WBSRSOS is not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as the WBSRSOS is Inland Revenue approved and open to all eligible employees.
On 21st April 2004, the Company granted options to 371 employees under the WBSRSOS over 105,392 ordinary shares at a price of 1,055 pence per share, equivalent to a discount of 10% to middle market price.
40 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 200 Wilson Bowden Performance graph FTSE-250 excluding investment companies The adjacent line graph, which complies with the Regulations, shows 180 the Total Shareholder Return over the last five years for a holding of 160 shares in the Company and the corresponding performance shown 140 by the FTSE Mid 250 index.
The Shareholder Return of the 120 FTSE Mid 250 index was chosen as it represents a national and 100 broad equity market index and because the Company has been 80 a constituent of this index throughout the period.
31.12.99 31.12.00 31.12.01 31.12.02 31.12.03 31.12.04 Pensions The following section describes the pension arrangements currently in force for the Executive Directors.
These arrangements will be affected by the changes to tax treatment of the current UK pension regime as contained in the Finance Act 2004.
The Remuneration Committee is currently reviewing appropriate action to take account of these changes and will report on the outcome next year.
All the Executive Directors, except Mr D W Wilson, are members of the Wilson Bowden plc Directors Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme.
The Company has established a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme the FURBS to provide, at the Companys discretion, additional Directors pension benefits equivalent to the effect of the restriction on their pension contributions caused by the limitation of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
These methods of reward are in accordance with competitive market practice within the housebuilding and property development sectors and demonstrate the purpose of the remuneration policy to retain the services of high quality directors and motivate them to greater success in a highly competitive market.
Executive Directors service contracts The Companys policy on the Executive Directors service contracts is that each Executive Directors contract, and the Companys period of notice thereunder, will not exceed a period of one year.
Each Executive Directors service contract can therefore be terminated on 12 months notice given to the Executive Director at any time.
No provision is made for contractual termination payments and any compensation payable will be determined by the circumstances of any breach, having regard to principles of mitigation.
The Executive Directors have entered into service agreements with the Company as detailed below: Notice period Notice period Name Date Unexpired term by Company by Director D W Wilson 3 Nov 1993 12 months rolling 12 months 12 months I Robertson 17 Mar 1995 12 months rolling 12 months 6 months 1 M J Stansfield 17 Mar 1995 12 months rolling 12 months 6 months N H Richardson 5 Dec 1995 12 months rolling 12 months 6 months N J Townsend 1 Oct 1997 12 months rolling 12 months 6 months G M Brown 17 Mar 1995 12 months rolling 12 months 6 months Notes 1.
Mr Stansfields service contract with the Company was terminated on 14th January 2005.
Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement, which are terminable by the Company at any time without liability for compensation: they do not have service contracts.
Their remuneration is determined by the Board taking into account the scope and nature of their duties and the level of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus or share incentive schemes and no pension contributions are made in respect of them.
No additional fees are paid for membership of Board Committees.
Details of the fees paid are set out in the audited information on page 42.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 41 Value of hypothetical 100 holding directors remuneration report continued Audited information Directors emoluments The remuneration of the Directors of Wilson Bowden plc for the year including remuneration as Directors of subsidiary companies is set out in the table below: Tax on Total before FURBS Consultancy Benefits pension Pension pension Salary fees Bonus fees in kind benefits contributions benefits Total Total 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 2003 Year ended 31st December 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors salaries and other remuneration D W Wilson 684 280 83 1,047 1,047 1,097 I Robertson 473 189 20 682 139 52 873 848 M J Stansfield 381 175 21 577 110 687 687 N H Richardson 329 120 21 470 96 62 628 606 N J Townsend 274 102 26 402 80 482 492 G M Brown 252 99 25 376 72 448 353 Non-Executive Directors fees and other remuneration D E Brill 36 36 36 28 P J Byrom 39 39 39 33 A J Giles 9 9 9 I P Lough 12 12 12 A D Portno 43 43 43 38 A Greasley retired 1 Nov 2004 28 22 11 61 61 72 T G Neiland retired 1 Nov 2004 25 6 31 31 29 Directors remuneration 2,585 965 22 213 3,785 497 114 4,396 4,283 Gain on exercise of share options 578 883 Total remuneration 4,974 5,166 Notes 1.
All the Executive Directors, except Mr Wilson, are members of the Wilson Bowden plc Directors Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme.
As explained under the Pensions Policy on page 41 Mr Robertson and Mr Richardson are also members of the FURBS.
Accordingly the Companys contributions, set out above, reflect the cost during the year of providing pension benefits to these Directors.
The tax liability in relation to the FURBS is shown separately.
Mr Wilson is not a member of a Company pension scheme and no pension contributions are made in respect of him.
There were no payments by the Company during the financial year for compensation for loss of office or payments in connection with the termination of qualifying services.
There were no amounts paid to Executive Directors in respect of their qualifying services by way of expenses allowance that were chargeable to UK income tax.
The non-cash elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages consist principally of the provision of a fully expensed company car and healthcare benefits.
42 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors share incentive schemes Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme WBSESOS and Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme WBSRSOS Details of the options held by the Directors over the Companys 10p ordinary shares are set out in the table below.
No consideration was paid for the grant of options.
The performance criteria to be satisfied before an option may be exercised are explained in the remuneration policy section of this report.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares was in the range 936.5p to 1,195.5p during the year.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares on 31st December 2004 was 1,140p.
There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the WBSESOS interests during 2004.
Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan PSP Details of the potential entitlements of the Directors under the PSP are set out in the table below.
The performance criteria to be satisfied before an award can vest are explained in the remuneration policy section of this report.
Market price of shares Awards Interests Plan interests Date of Plan interests Award on dates vesting lapsing 31st December expiry of 1st January 2004 during year of award during year during year 2004 qualifying Date of award Number Number Pence Number Number Number conditions I Robertson 29 Aug 2002 6,000 915 6,000 31 Dec 2004 M J Stansfield 29 Aug 2002 6,000 915 6,000 31 Dec 2004 N H Richardson 29 Aug 2002 6,000 915 6,000 31 Dec 2004 N J Townsend 29 Aug 2002 6,000 915 6,000 31 Dec 2004 G M Brown 29 Aug 2002 4,000 915 4,000 31 Dec 2004 Notes 1.
There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the PSP interests during 2004.
Approved by and signed on behalf of the Board Dr A D Portno CBE Remuneration Committee Chairman 2nd March 2005 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 43
