Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Report on Directors remuneration This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee Remuneration principles Xansas current remuneration the Committee and approved by the Board.
The report principles are: complies with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the reward will be aligned with individual and Company Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Disclosures performance relating to individual Directors remuneration on page 41, Directors interests in share options and other long term all parts of the total reward package will add worth to the incentive schemes on pages 44 to 46 and pensions information business on page 43 have been audited.
As required by the the Company will strive to reward effective employees at the Remuneration Report Regulations, an advisory resolution to marketplace median.
Superior performers will be rewarded at approve the Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at a higher premium the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee is chaired by Professor N Hood.
Its other Xansas core values and behaviours will be reinforced members are Mr D M Thomas and Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB.
economic and market forces will be considered There were no Committee membership changes during the year.
All members of the Committee are independent Non-executive policies will be flexible within a common Company Directors.
The Committee determines the remuneration policy framework, equitable and legal adopted for Xansa employees and specifically the contract reviews will be regularly carried out to ensure alignment with terms, remuneration and other benefits for Executive Directors.
business strategy and the market in which Xansa operates.
38 Details of the Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2004 are set out in the table on page 41.
In implementing these principles, the Committee consults The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and procedures with the Human Resources Director and is assisted by the in the light of the publication in July 2003 of the new Chairman and Chief Executive in determining appropriate Combined Code on Corporate Governance to ensure that it performance measures, although they are not involved in complies with the Codes best practice provisions.
In 2003 the Committee also The Committees full terms of reference are available on Xansas appointed the Executive Compensation Consulting Practice of website, www.
During the year, the Committee met Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte, as its principal external five times.
Members attendance at Committee meetings during adviser on matters of Executive Director and senior management the year is summarised on page 33. remuneration.
Deloitte does not provide other services to the Company except in relation to employee share schemes.
The Committees responsibilities include: In consultation with Deloitte, the Committee commenced a recommending to the Board the framework or broad review of the current executive incentive plans, to ensure that remuneration policy relating to the Chairman, Executive they reflected best practice whilst meeting Xansas business Directors and other members of the executive management needs.
The Committee is also keen to ensure these plans team, including the Company Secretary further enhance the alignment between executive remuneration and delivery of shareholder value.
The Committee commissioned determining performance-related pay targets for any Deloitte to prepare a comprehensive benchmarking report as a incentive schemes operated by Xansa preliminary step in the process.
The first outcome from this within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total review is the introduction, from this financial year, of a revised individual remuneration package for each Executive Director, annual bonus scheme for Executive Directors and certain senior including where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments members of the management team, details of which are set out and share options in the Bonuses section of this report.
The Committee believes the introduction of this new bonus scheme is important in order determining the policy for and scope of pension to more appropriately encourage and reward superior arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and performance amongst the leadership team, consistent compensation commitments with Xansas remuneration principles and the prevailing overseeing any major changes in employee benefits market environment.
After careful consideration of current market positioning and the need to align reward to the Companys longer term Remuneration philosophy The Committee is committed to business strategy, the Committee also recommended to the creating a competitive, flexible and performance-oriented Board the introduction of a new incentive arrangement, the reward structure both to reinforce Xansas values and strategy Xansa Equity Incentive Plan EIP.
This plan aims to reward and to successfully recruit, motivate and retain skilled Executive Directors and key members of the executive employees throughout the organisation.
management team for the delivery of shareholder value and Whilst total remuneration should be market competitive, profitable business growth, and is underpinned by an individual the Committee believes that employees should look to shareholding requirement in order to further promote a culture performance-related incentives, rather than base salary, to of ownership and accountability among the senior leadership achieve above average reward.
Although not technically required, the Board has determined that the adoption of the EIP should be subject to shareholder approval and a resolution is being put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Within Xansa, a total reward approach is used when making any Bonuses These are determined first by Company performance remuneration decision.
The current total reward components and then on how individuals meet their specific objectives.
for Xansa employees, including Executive Directors, comprise The Company performance targets are set by the Committee the following: each year.
In the 2003 financial year, bonus levels were set at an overall cap of 60% for all Executive Directors except Component Objective Mr A R Cox who had a cap of 50%.
Except for Mr Weston, Reference salary The fixed element of reward.
bonuses were not earned by Executive Directors in the year.
The level of reference salary As previously reported, a new bonus scheme has been will reflect an employees developed, in consultation with Deloitte, for the Executive market value, competency Directors and nominated members of the executive and sustained individual management team, which is being implemented for 2004 2005. performance.
Under this new scheme, Executive Directors will be eligible to Bonus commission schemes Deliver reward when individual receive a bonus of up to a maximum of 80% of reference salary, and or Company targets are with an on-target bonus of 40% of salary.
There will be five achieved exceeded on an bonus objectives, one will be based on the Companys total annual basis.
budget and will carry a maximum award of 40% with on-target Benefits Promotes employee well-being.
The other four objectives will each Enable employees to take carry a maximum award of 10% with on-target performance advantage of tax efficiencies yielding only 5%.
All bonus objectives will be measurable or and discounts arising from the capable of objective assessment.
Awards against each objective Companys purchasing power.
will be made as follows: The level of Company funded Award Individual bonus Measurable objectives % of maximum % benefits will reflect an employees market value.
Less than 90% achieved 0% 0% Employee share schemes Enable employees to share 90% achieved 25% 2.5% or 10% in the Companys success depending via share ownership whilst on objective promoting recruitment and 100% achieved 50% 5% or 20% retention.
Policies will be depending market driven and take full on objective advantage of government, 110% achieved Maximum 10% or 40% legal and tax opportunities.
depending Recognition Promotes a positive working on objective culture.
Recognises and acknowledges effort above Performance for achievement above 90%, but which falls and beyond that expected.
between the figures quoted above, will be made on a straight line basis between the award points.
In general, the more senior the individual, the greater the proportion of variable pay, and with Company performance Where a bonus objective cannot be measured numerically and rather than individual performance determining a greater requires judgement to determine performance, the following proportion of the award.
Excluding allowances, the potential definitions will be used to compare against the measurable proportion of variable remuneration through short-term and objective criteria: long-term incentives is approximately 50% for the Executive Objectives requiring judgement Measurable objective Directors, with fixed remuneration making up 50% of total Minimum expected outputs not met Less than 90% achieved remuneration.
The appropriateness of these proportions is kept Virtually all expected outputs met 90% achieved under review by the Committee.
The individual components of Executive Directors All expected outputs met 100% achieved remuneration are disclosed below: Exceeded all expected outputs 110% achieved Reference salary Each Executive Directors reference salary is At the end of the financial year, the Committee will oversee a reviewed annually based on performance during the year, robust process to ensure that awards are determined consistently achievement of objectives and comparative salary.
In line with this process, each participants Benefits Benefits are provided under Xansas Flexible Benefits performance will be assessed against their objectives.
Scheme and may include the provision of a company car, For other senior management participants, the maximum private fuel and medical insurance if so elected.
bonus received for outstanding performance will be 30% or 60% potential is dependent on role which is in line with current market practice for comparable roles.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Report on Directors remuneration continued Long-term incentives Executive Directors are eligible to Details of service contracts are given below: participate in the Companys share schemes, details of which Director Contract date Notice period are given on page 42.
Mrs L K Barrat 01 November 1990 12 months Chairman Mr W J Alexander was appointed Chairman on Mr A R Cox 23 May 2002 12 months 1 January 2004 by letter of appointment dated 11 December 1 Dame Hilary Cropper 04 September 2002 12 months 2003.
As Chairman, Mr Alexander chairs the Companys regular Mr P R Gill 30 October 2002 12 months Board meetings, any adhoc Board meetings, the AGM and any Mr S Srivastava 24 February 1998 6 months EGM.
As Chairman, Mr Alexander is also responsible for the structure and balance of the Board and for leading the Board Mr S R Weston 10 January 2001 12 months evaluation discussions, and the appraisals of Non-executive 2 Mr A L Wood 23 July 2001 12 months Directors and the Chief Executive.
His terms of reference are displayed on the Companys website, www.
1 Dame Hilary Cropper retired on 17 September 2003.
Mr Alexanders fee has been set by the Committee at 150,000 2 Mr A L Wood resigned as a Director on 28 January 2004. per annum, paid in equal monthly instalments, and this will be Non-executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, are appointed reviewed annually.
Although no minimum fixed term has been for fixed terms not exceeding three years, subject to their set, the Board expects Mr Alexander to remain as Chairman for re-election by shareholders at the subsequent AGM.
Because of at least five years.
In line with the current policy concerning the experience they have built over this period of service and the duration of Non-executive Directors, his maximum period of 40 the benefit this experience brings to the Board, Non-executive service would normally be nine years.
Mr Alexander is provided Directors typically serve for three periods of three years, with an office and secretarial facilities at the Head Office in although appointments may be terminated by either party, Reading and is also entitled to use the company car and at any time, without compensation.
Reasonable travel and related business expenses are have letters of appointment and their remuneration comprises also reimbursed.
Mr Alexander is also entitled to obtain, at the cash fees, paid on a monthly basis in pounds sterling, with Companys expense, such external independent professional increments for positions of additional responsibility to advice that is reasonably necessary to enable him to carry reflect increased workload and accountability.
In addition, out his duties.
Mr Alexander receives no other benefits and is Non-executive Directors receive reimbursement of reasonable not entitled to participate in Xansas share or bonus schemes.
travel and related business expenses.
They are not eligible to Non-executive Directors fees The fees for Non-executive participate in Xansas share or bonus schemes.
Directors are determined by the Executive Directors and are Shareholders will be asked to approve an increase in the set to reflect the responsibilities and time spent on Company fee limit set out in the Companys Articles of Association affairs, taking full account of fee levels for Non-executive at the forthcoming AGM so that Xansa may continue to attract Directors in comparable businesses.
The fees were reviewed and retain high calibre individuals to such non-executive roles.
Non-executive Directors are not involved in any In this context and on the recommendation of the Executive decisions about their own remuneration and they do not Directors, the Board propose to increase the annual aggregate participate in the Companys incentive arrangements or sum to 500,000. receive any other elements of remuneration as provided to Date of Date of last Executive Directors.
appointment re-appointment as a Non-executive at Annual Service contracts Executive Directors each have a service Director General Meeting contract of indefinite duration until normal retirement age.
Mr W J Alexander 01 January The Committee believes that, as a general rule, the notice 2004 period should be 12 months, in line with current market Mrs C C Brooke 23 May 18 September practice, and currently no Executive Director has a notice 2002 2002 period inconsistent with this.
1.6 of the Combined Code, the Committee retains the Mr A R F Buxton CMG 09 November 18 September flexibility on recruitment for longer initial terms to be approved.
1999 2002 The Committee also believes that service contracts should not Professor N Hood CBE 08 July 17 September contain any provision for compensation upon termination of 1997 2003 employment beyond payment in lieu of contractual notice.
2 Included in taxable benefits Mr Cox received relocation expenses of 173,169.
This comprised the provision of relocation assistance from a professional relocation agency, costs of moving goods and storage costs, fees related to property purchase and an allowance of 30,000 towards miscellaneous costs incurred in respect of his permanent accommodation.
3 Dame Hilary Cropper retired on 17 September 2003.
4 Owing to the integration of Business Process Outsourcing, Mr A L Wood resigned from the Board on 28 January 2004.
As a consequence, the Company agreed to pay him, by way of compensation for loss of office and the termination of his employment, a sum of 209,919 payable in three instalments between 29 February and 1 June 2004.
If Mr Wood had started in full-time employment by 1 June 2004, this sum would have been reduced to 143,628.
5 Mr W J Alexander was appointed 1 January 2004.
6 Due to Dame Hilary Croppers illness during the year, Mr Buxton took on additional responsibilities, and to reflect these, his annual fee was increased to 70,000 per annum.
For the three and a half months he assumed the Chairmanship, he received a further one-off additional fee of 10,000.
With effect from 1 January 2004, Mr Buxtons fee was reduced to its previous level of 50,000 per annum.
7 50% of Mr Thomass fees are paid to the Whitbread Charitable Trust.
The figures for pensions shown in the table are the contributions paid by the Company to the Xansa Pension Plan.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Report on Directors remuneration continued External appointments Executive Directors, if so authorised by To enable Xansa to compete in the recruitment and retention the Board, may accept appointments as Non-executive Directors of senior individuals, the Company operates a Management of suitable companies outside Xansa as this can broaden their Incentive Plan under the Xansa 1996 Share Option Scheme and knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
Options have been granted dependent Executive Directors would normally be permitted to take only on the performance of Xansa and the individual, and their one such appointment, provided this is not likely to lead to a seniority.
For Executive Directors and other senior management conflict of interest or constrain their ability to fulfil their the performance conditions for all grants commencing from normal duties and would also normally be permitted to retain 30 April 2001 have been set as follows: any fees received.
None of the Executive Directors currently 50% of options become exercisable if average earnings per hold external appointments.
share growth per annum equals or exceeds UK Retail Price Share schemes Executive Directors are eligible to participate in Index plus 4% over a three-year period the Companys share schemes.
75% of options become exercisable if average earnings per In the UK, the employee share arrangements are the Xansa share growth per annum equals or exceeds UK Retail Price All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP, the Xansa 1996 Index plus 5% over a three-year period Share Option Scheme and the ShareSave Scheme.
Elsewhere Xansa operates the All Employee International Share Option 100% of options become exercisable if average earnings per Scheme International Scheme and the ShareSave Scheme.
share growth per annum equals or exceeds UK Retail Price Both the AESOP and the International Scheme offer employees Index plus 6% over a three-year period.
42 the opportunity to acquire shares in three ways: These performance conditions have been chosen to align the by receiving free shares or market value options based on option holders interests with those of shareholders and to how well Xansa has performed against its targets support the Companys objectives in achieving sustained profitability growth.
If the conditions have not been met in full by buying partnership shares after three years, performance is retested over four and five by receiving matching shares or market value options against years using the same base year throughout with the option partnership shares.
then lapsing if the performance condition has not been satisfied after this period.
The principal difference between these arrangements is that It is the Committees current intention that the annual the AESOP has been designed using shares whilst the value of awards calculated in terms of the market price of the International Scheme uses options.
This is to comply with local shares under option as a percentage of salary to Executive tax and legal requirements in other countries.
Directors and other senior executives will not, as a general To reflect the fact that employees have to make a payment rule, exceed 100% of earnings defined as reference salary to exercise their option, participants in the International and bonus in respect of the previous performance year.
Scheme have been granted options over a greater number of Options granted in excess of annual earnings would normally Xansa shares than they would have had if they had been given be subject to more demanding performance conditions.
During the year, matching was at the level of two and At its AGM in 2003, the Board sought and obtained a half options for every one partnership share purchased.
shareholders consent to surrender for cancellation up to In India, because employees are not able to participate in the 7,237,946 share options and to grant in their place up to matching element of the International Scheme for regulatory 2,482,000 new options.
Following receipt of shareholders reasons, in 2003, the Board introduced a ShareSave Plus approval, eligible employees excluding Executive Directors Scheme which provides one linked option for every share were invited to participate, and on 5 December 2003, purchased under ShareSave.
Under the ShareSave Scheme all 1,633,557 new options were granted following the employees can save a fixed amount every month for a period of cancellation of 4,725,108 existing options.
At the end of that period, they can buy Xansa shares at a discount.
The monthly savings limit has been fixed at 100 for this ShareSave Scheme year.
The AESOP was launched in August 2001 with a grant of 3,000 worth of free shares to all UK employees with broadly comparable share options granted to employees overseas.
For this year the Board set the matching level at one matching share for every one partnership share purchased.
The Board intends to make a Free share grant in August 2004 to all eligible employees, based on 2% of reference salary.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Directors pension entitlements The Executive Directors On death after retirement, a spouses pension of 50% of the other than Mr P R Gill and Mr S Srivastava are members of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
In the event of Xansa Pension Plan.
The Plan is a defined benefit scheme under the death of the member after leaving service, but prior to which Executive Directors are entitled to receive retirement commencement of pension, a spouses pension of 50% of the benefits that are based on one thirtieth or one forty-fifth of preserved pension, with revaluation up to the date of death, is final pensionable earnings for each year of pensionable service.
Early retirement after age 50 is subject to Company The Plan operates on a non-contributory basis as part of the and Trustee consent and pensions are actuarially reduced for Companys Flexible Benefit arrangements, under which a early payment.
deduction is made from the Executive Directors Flexible All pensions will increase in the course of payment in line Benefits Scheme fund, to provide the Plans benefits.
with the Retail Price Index to a maximum of 5% per annum for The normal retirement age under the Plan is 60, which Executive Directors who joined the Plan prior to 1 May 1993. enables Executive Directors to achieve a maximum pension For Executive Directors that joined on or after 1 May 1993 all of two thirds of their salary at normal retirement date after pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions GMPs 20 years or after 30 years service, subject to the maximum will increase in payment in line with the Retail Price Index to a benefits set down by the Inland Revenue Pension maximum of 5% per annum and GMPs will receive statutory Schemes Office.
The Trustees have not at any time exercised their A lump sum is payable on death in service which, subject discretion to provide further increases to pensions in payment.
to a minimum core benefit, is elected by the member under the Substantial protection is also offered in the event of Flexible Benefit arrangements, together with a spouses pension incapacity, through a Group Permanent Health Insurance of 50% of the members prospective Plan pension at age 60.
2 Mr A L Wood resigned from the Board on 28 January 2004.
3 As supplied by Punter Southall & Co Ltd. Notes: 1.
The accrued pension at 30 April 2004 is the pension which the Director would have been entitled to receive based on completed pensionable service had he she left on 30 April 2004, payable from normal retirement age and subject to revaluation increases between leaving and retirement.
A transfer value represents the present value of accrued benefits.
It does not represent an amount of money which the individual is entitled to receive.
The change in transfer value over the year reflects the additional pension earned and the effect of changes in the stock market conditions during the year.
Transfer Values are calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values GN11 published by the actuarial profession.
Members of the Companys pension schemes have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions and additional flexible contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
Xansa India Limited has no pension scheme.
Public Provident Fund India During the year ended 30 April 2004, Xansa India Limited paid 754 2003: 799 by way of a contribution to a Public Provident Fund in respect of Mr S Srivastava.
Under the rules of the Fund, Mr Srivastava may withdraw all, or part, of the amount of the Fund.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Report on Directors remuneration continued Directors interests Except where otherwise stated, the Directors at 30 April 2004 and their beneficial interests in the share capital were: 2004 2003 Number of Number of 5p shares 5p shares Mr W J Alexander Mrs L K Barrat 1,246,735 1,226,761 Mrs C C Brooke Mr A R F Buxton CMG 50,000 50,000 Mr A R Cox 40,648 36,367 Mr P R Gill 24,151 20,362 1 Professor N Hood CBE 22,333 21,542 Mr S Srivastava 29,788 29,788 Mr D M Thomas CBE 10,800 10,417 Mr S R Weston 15,055 11,999 Lord Wilson of Dinton GCB 44 1 Includes 5,421 shares gifted at nil consideration to a charity in which Professor Hood maintains a non-beneficial interest as a Trustee.
For options granted before 30 April 2001, these become exercisable if average earnings per share growth per annum equal or exceeds the UK Retail Price Index plus 2% over a three-year period.
1b After 30 April 2001, the performance conditions attaching to the options granted to Executive Directors under the schemes are as set out on page 42 of this Report.
2 Granted under the ShareSave Scheme.
30.04.04 30.04.03 30.04.02 30.04.01 30.04.00 30.04.99 Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Report on Directors remuneration continued The following options were exercised during the year.
Number of Market value at Gain based on 5p shares date of exercise exercise price Mrs L K Barrat 19,974 105.5p 8,335.15 Dame Hilary Cropper 38,826 105.5p 16,202.09 The interests of the Directors under the AESOP at 30 April 2004 are as follows: Partnership Free and shares Matching shares Mrs L K Barrat 1,015 Mr A R Cox 3,293 4,257 1 Dame Hilary Cropper 3,097 5,077 Mr P R Gill 1,709 1,709 Mr S R Weston 4,009 5,989 2 Mr A L Wood 3,253 5,233 1 46 At 17 September 2003.
No changes in Directors interests have occurred between Re-election Mrs L K Barrat, Mrs C C Brooke and 30 April 2004 and 23 June 2004.
Mr D M Thomas will offer themselves for re-election at the The market price of the Companys shares on 30 April 2004 forthcoming AGM in accordance with the provisions for was 91p and the high and low prices during the year ended 30 retirement by rotation set out in the Companys Articles of April 2004 were 126.25p and 76.5p respectively.
Mr W J Alexander, who was appointed during the year by the Board, will offer himself for election at the Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Companys Articles between the Companys total shareholder return performance of Association.
compared with the companies in the FTSE Software and Computer Services Index for the five years 1999-2004.
On behalf of the Board The graph looks at the value at each subsequent 30 April, of Professor Neil Hood CBE 100 invested in Xansa on 30 April 1999 with the value of 23 June 2004 100 invested in the FTSE Software and Computer Services Index.
To produce a fair value, each point is a 30-day average of the return index.
The FTSE Software and Computer Services Index has been chosen to be the comparator as it is a broad-based and recognised index of companies in Xansas business sector.
300 200 100 0 Xansa FTSE software and computer services Source: Datastream
