30 Yell Group plc REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committee Within agreed terms of reference the Remuneration Committee the Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board of Yell Group plc the Company on the policy for the remuneration of executive directors and for reviewing the performance of these individuals.
The Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt and its other member is Charles Carey.
The Company will appoint a third member of the Committee during the current year.
Both members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors of the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend Committee meetings, except when his remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee met on three occasions during the year ended 31 March 2004.
The Committee received advice from the Chief Executive Officer and Head of Human Resources.
The Committee also appointed and received advice from Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of remuneration policy, market practice and corporate governance for senior management and other employees.
Tax and internal audit services were also received from Deloitte & Touche LLP by the Company during the year.
Development of remuneration policy Over the last year the Committee has focused on the development of the Companys remuneration policy to ensure that it supports the organisations corporate objectives and business needs and fully meets the challenges and expectations associated with the Company moving from being a private to a listed entity.
The Committee believes that a robust incentive and reward framework will achieve this.
The transition from private company to public company is an ongoing process and the Committee is therefore committed to the development of the Companys remuneration policy over time in consultation with shareholders and institutional investors where appropriate.
Remuneration principles have been adopted to promote and underpin an environment of entrepreneurial leadership which supports the Companys core values of inclusion, teamwork and fairness, as well as the Companys objective of sustained growth.
The Committee believes that the best way to create and maintain this environment and enable the Company to achieve its potential is by attracting and retaining high quality people and providing them with a competitive overall remuneration package with clear targeted incentives which enable them to be amongst the best paid people in the marketplace if they and the Company deliver outstanding results.
Performance graph The following graph sets out the performance of the Company relative to the FTSE 100 index, of which the Company has been a constituent since September 2003.
The performance graph has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under any of the Companys incentive plans.
Yell Group Total Shareholder Return Yell Group since IPO 15th July 2003 plotted against the FTSE 100 FTSE 100 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Sep 03 Oct 03 Nov 03 Dec 03 Jan 04 Feb 04 Apr 04 Rebased TSR - one month 23 working day rolling average 31 Annual Report 2003 04 Remuneration policy The remuneration policy developed by the Committee is designed to provide a cohesive framework which maximises the achievement of individual and Company potential through targeted, results-driven reward and incentives which pay for performance at the executive director and senior management level and also throughout the organisation.
The design criteria for the remuneration policy adopted were the following key principles: Simplicity and coherence: Fairness of rewards against comparable companies: Reward alignment between the UK and USA: Alignment of executive interests with the interests of shareholders: Variable award based on local profit and share price growth: Encouraging all-employee share ownership: and Effecting a cultural shift from being a privately held public company to a listed public company.
During the course of 2003 and 2004 the Committee has been reviewing the remuneration framework to ensure that the Company is able to recruit and retain key talent as well as position salaries and incentive potential at a level that reflects the Committees policy of measuring and rewarding superior performance against the Companys objectives.
Through the application of this policy the Committee believes that it will best help the Company to achieve its growth potential and align the interests of executive directors and other employees with those of shareholders and the Company.
The Committee has adopted a tiered approach to remuneration which encompasses all employees including executive directors within the same policy framework.
This approach emphasises the importance to the Company of the team at all levels within the organisation and highlights the Committees determination to reward all employees fairly and consistently and to encourage and promote employee share ownership.
Under the Companys remuneration policy, total remuneration is broadly based on the market median for on target performance, with the potential for upper quartile remuneration for superior performance.
The vehicle for delivering medium and long term incentives at each level within the organisation differs to accommodate the specific issues, desired behaviours and performance drivers for the different groups of employees as illustrated in the diagram below: Target population Executive Executive Directors and Options Senior Executive Group Yell Group Capital Management Group Accumulation Plan UK Share & US Stock All Employees Purchase Plan Annual Bonus Plan All Employees 32 Yell Group plc REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED To facilitate the implementation of the remuneration policy, the following share plans were adopted by Yell at the time of IPO, all of which were fully disclosed in the listing particulars relating to the IPO: The Yell Group plc Sharesave Plan the Sharesave : The Yell Group plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP : The Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme the UK Option Scheme : The Yell Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP : The Yell Group plc 2003 US Equity Incentive Plan the US EIP : and The Yell Group plc 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan the US ESPP.
To date the Company has not made awards under the SIP or LTIP, although the Committee will consider the use of these plans in the future to support the overall remuneration policy.
Awards have been made under all other share plans during the year see pages 83-85.
All plans incorporate dilution limits consistent with the guidelines provided by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, the National Association of Pension Funds and other shareholder representative bodies.
In addition, the Company discussed the above plans with the ABI in advance of the IPO.
During the year the Committee identified a need to introduce a plan aimed specifically at the retention of key talent within the organisation and as a result the Yell Group plc Capital Accumulation Plan CAP was adopted.
This is a medium to long-term share based retention plan, participation in which is linked to individuals potential as recognised in the annual talent review.
Executive directors are not eligible to participate in this plan.
The CAP operates over market purchased shares to conserve the availability of newly issued shares.
Description of Share Schemes a The Yell Group plc Sharesave Plan The Yell Group plc Sharesave Plan the Sharesave was established in July 2003.
Eligible employees who wish to participate must enter into a savings contract for a period of three or five years under which they will contribute payments of between 5 and 250 per month, and a bonus is added at the end of three, five or seven years.
In conjunction with the savings contract, an eligible employee is granted an option to subscribe for Ordinary shares of the Company out of the repayment made under that contract at the end of three, five or seven years.
The exercise price of any option will not be manifestly less than 80% of the market value of the Ordinary shares at the date of grant.
The Sharesave is Inland Revenue approved and therefore no charge has been recorded to the profit and loss account in accordance with the exemption available under UITF 17.
During the year ended 31 March 2004 3,579,347 options were granted at an exercise price of 2.60 and 113,065 of these had lapsed by the end of the year.
b The Yell Group plc Share Incentive Plan The Yell Group plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP was established in July 2003.
The SIP has been approved by the Inland Revenue.
The Board has sole discretion to determine who may receive awards under the SIP.
The Board also has the discretion to offer awards with any combination of the following three features in any tax year, subject to applicable statutory limits: free shares: partnership shares: matching shares.
An objective performance condition must be satisfied before an option can be exercised.
Free shares will be subject to a minimum holding period of no less than 3 years and no more than 5 years, after the free shares are awarded.
No awards were granted under the SIP as at 31 March 2004.
33 Annual Report 2003 04 c The Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme The Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme the UK Option Scheme was established in July 2003, and contains an unapproved section and a section approved by the Inland Revenue.
The price per Ordinary share at which options will be exercised will be not less than the market value of the Ordinary shares at the date of grant.
Options will normally be granted within a period of 42 days commencing on the day after the date on which the Group releases its quarterly, halfyearly or final results for any financial period.
In most circumstances an objective performance condition must be satisfied before an option can be exercised.
Normally options may only be exercised three years after their initial date of grant with, where appropriate, one re-test of the performance condition at the end of the fourth year.
The option life under this plan is ten years from the date of grant.
During the year ended 31 March 2004 3,319,043 options were granted at an average price of 2.91. d The Yell Group plc Long-Term Incentive Plan The Yell Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP was established in July 2003 and is not intended to be approved by the Inland Revenue.
The Board has sole discretion to determine which executives are granted awards under the LTIP.
The price per Ordinary share at which options will be exercised will be 1.00 in aggregate.
Options will normally be granted within a period of 42 days commencing the day after the date on which the Group releases its quarterly, half yearly or final results for any financial period.
Normally options may only be exercised three years after their initial date of grant.
No options were granted under the LTIP as at 31 March 2004. e The Yell Group plc 2003 US Equity Incentive Plan The Yell Group plc 2003 US Equity Incentive Plan the US EIP was established in July 2003.
It allows the Company to issue both non-qualified and incentive stock options and Ordinary shares.
The Board has sole discretion to determine who may receive awards under the US EIP and any performance conditions.
The exercise price for incentive stock options will not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the Ordinary shares on the date of grant.
Stock awards may be made to officers or employees, and the purchase price, if any, is as established by the Company.
During the year ended 31 March 2004 4,610,281 options were granted at an average exercise price of 2.93. f The Yell Group plc 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan The Yell Group plc 2003 Employee Stock Purchase Plan the US ESPP was established in July 2003.
Eligible employees are entitled to purchase Ordinary shares at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the Ordinary shares on the date the Ordinary shares are offered and 85% of the fair market value of the Ordinary shares on the date ending the offer period when the Ordinary shares are purchased by the employee.
All Ordinary shares must be purchased through the savings accumulated during an offer period through payroll deductions.
Based on the value at date of offer, 984,617 options were issued in November 2003. g The Capital Accumulation Plan The Yell Group plc Capital Accumulation Plan CAP was established in February 2004.
It allows the Company to award Ordinary shares to employees which vest three years from the date of grant.
There are no performance criteria attached to the vesting of these shares, which are awarded to employees whom the Company wishes to retain as key talent within the organisation.
1,774,327 Ordinary shares were issued under this plan to employees in March 2004.
Summary of individual elements of executive directors remuneration Executive directors total remuneration comprises short, medium and long term incentives in the form of salary, annual bonus, share options and pension benefits.
The aim of the Committee is to ensure that executive directors remuneration reflects the principles of the policy outlined above.
The benefit derived from the various elements of remuneration, excluding salary and pensions, is subject to the achievement of predetermined performance targets.
The Committee considers there to be an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
34 Yell Group plc REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Base salary Base salaries are set taking account of the individual role, responsibility, experience and long term contribution.
Annual bonus Each executive director is eligible to receive a bonus subject to the achievement of performance targets.
The performance targets are set by the Committee each year having regard to the business plan.
For 2003 04 the Committee determined that performance will be measured based upon achievement of the Groups revenue, profit and cash generation targets.
The Annual Bonus Plans for sales and non-sales staff operate on the same principles.
Share options The executive directors and other key UK senior managers of the Company participate in the UK Option Scheme.
Key US senior managers participate in the US EIP.
Options are granted under both plans with an exercise price at least equal to the market value of the underlying shares at the date of grant.
On IPO, the executive directors were each granted an exceptional award of share options under the UK Option Scheme equal to five times their respective annual salaries.
Options granted over three times the executive directors salary are only exercisable if the adjusted Earnings per Share EPS of the Company, taken over an initial three year period, is equal to or exceeds the cumulative increase in the Retail Price Index RPI plus 3% per annum at the end of such three year period.
If this performance condition is not met over the fixed three year period, it may be tested at the end of the fourth year such test period having the same start date.
If the performance condition is not met at the end of the fourth year the option lapses.
The remaining options are only exercisable if the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR at the end of the three year period exceeds the growth in the TSR for companies making up the FTSE 100 at the date of the IPO.
If the Companys TSR at the end of the three year period is below the 50th position of the FTSE 100, no options are exercisable.
At the 50th position, 25% of the options become exercisable, rising on a straight line basis to 100% at the 25th position.
If the performance condition is not met at the end of the third year the option lapses.
The Committee determined that these conditions most appropriately focused executive directors on increasing the Companys earnings and shareholder return and therefore helped to align the interests of the executive directors with both shareholders and the Company.
The executive directors and other senior managers were also granted options under the Yell Group Limited Senior Manager Incentive Plan.
These options were granted prior to the IPO and became immediately exercisable on the date of admission and are not subject to any performance conditions although a proportion of the underlying shares are subject to a twelve month sale restriction.
Further details of options granted to executive directors under the UK Option Scheme and other plans are provided on page 37.
The executive directors were not granted any further options during the financial year, although it is the Committees intention that annual awards of long-term incentives will be made in future years.
Options were granted to other key senior managers under the UK Option Scheme and the US EIP.
The Committee has determined, on the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer, that grants made to key senior managers both in the UK and the US should be subject to the same EPS performance condition as described above.
The Committee determined that this performance condition reflects current practice within the UK and is appropriate for the international group.
Although to date the Committee has not needed to assess whether performance conditions have been satisfied, the Committee has determined that it will exercise its judgement and discretion to make adjustments to EPS only for significant items and only where the adjustment is made for the purpose of ensuring that the performance measured is equitable to both participants and shareholders.
Where the Committee exercises such discretion and judgement in the future it will outline the reason and basis for its decision to shareholders in the Directors Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
35 Annual Report 2003 04 Pension Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer participate in the Yell Pension Plan, which is an Inland Revenue approved plan.
Under the terms of the applicable Yell Pension Plan, both executive directors will receive retirement benefits on a defined benefit basis.
The Chief Executive Officer is not subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap for pension purposes due to his prior membership of the BT Pension Scheme and is entitled to an enhancement of his pensionable service under the Yell Pension Plan by reference to the BT Pension Scheme which will continue until 13 November 2009.
Under the terms of this enhancement, since 1 July 1996, the Chief Executive Officer has been granted an additional 71 days of pensionable service for each actual year of pensionable service in the BT Pension Scheme or the Yell Pension Plan.
The effect of the enhancement is that if he remains a member of the Yell Pension Plan until his normal retirement date, the Chief Executive Officers forecasted total pensionable service at age 60 will be 40 years.
The Chief Financial Officer is contractually entitled to a pension based on uncapped pensionable salary for each year of service under the Yell Pension Plan.
As he is subject to the earnings cap, the excess over the approved benefit conferred under the Chief Financial Officers contractual arrangement is currently being provided on an unfunded basis.
Further details of the pension benefits earned by executive directors can be found on page 37.
Other remuneration The executive directors also participate in the Sharesave.
The executive directors also receive a number of other benefits including life assurance, private health cover, long-term disability insurance, the provision of a car, telecommunications services, health club membership and an allowance for personal tax and financial advice.
In addition, the executive directors receive reimbursement from the Company for reasonable expenses incurred in the carrying out of their duties.
The cash value of the benefits received by the executive directors in the financial year is shown on page 37.
Service Contracts Executive directors The executive directors entered into service contracts which took effect from 15 July 2003.
The service contracts for both executive directors are for a rolling twelve month period, in line with the Companys policy on executive directors service contracts.
The key terms of the executive directors service contracts are as follows: Term Detail Notice period on termination by the Company or the director 12 calendar months Termination payments Payment if the notice period is served: Pro-rata bonus based on greater of on-target performance and projected performance determined by the Board Payment if employment is terminated by the Company without notice and without cause: 95% of annual salary, benefits, pension contributions and on target bonus plus all conditional awards of shares and share options vest immediately on termination 36 Yell Group plc REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive directors Non-executive directors each have a letter of appointment which sets out details of their appointments.
The initial period of appointments determined by the letters of appointment vary in length from one to three years with a notice period of three months if the appointment is terminated by the director or the Company.
As required by its Articles of Association, the Company also has a policy of periodic re-election of directors.
The following table shows the details of individual non-executive directors letters of appointment: Director Start date of current appointment Robert Scott 1 July 2003 Charles Carey 1 July 2003 John Coghlan 1 July 2003 Joachim Eberhardt 1 July 2003 Lyndon Lea 1 July 2003 Lord Powell of Bayswater 1 July 2003 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration The Company endeavours to pay non-executive directors fees that reflect a market competitive rate.
All the non-executive directors with the exception of Bob Scott receive fees for their services of 50,000 per annum.
Bob Scott receives fees for his services as a non-executive director and as the Companys Chairman of 150,000 per annum.
In addition, a further fee of 10,000 per annum is payable to each non-executive director for chairing committees and 5,000 per annum is payable for membership of committees.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys share plans and the Company does not make any benets available to them under other employee benefit arrangements or make any contributions to their personal pension plans.
Audited Information Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2004 The remuneration of the directors for the year ended 31 March 2004 was as follows: Performancea b Salary Fees related bonus Other benefits Share benefits Total 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS John Condron 485 550 485 550 27 47 997 1,147 John Davis 310 340 310 340 21 22 641 702 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Robert Scott 38 129 150 38 279 Charles Carey 38 57 150 38 207 John Coghlan 39 64 75 39 139 Joachim Eberhardt 38 63 75 38 138 c Lyndon Lea 45 45 Lord Powell of 44 50 75 44 125 Bayswater a Executive directors benets mainly comprise car allowance, life assurance, private health cover, long-term disability insurance, telecommunications services, health club membership and allowances for personal tax and financial advice.
b Under an arrangement pre-dating the IPO, non-executive directors subscribed for shares in Yell Group plc at the date of the IPO at a discount to market value.
105,263 ordinary shares were issued for 150,000 to each of Charles Carey and Robert Scott, 52,632 ordinary shares were issued for 75,000 to each of Joachim Eberhardt, John Coghlan, and Lord Powell.
Gains made on exercise of share options by John Condron and John Davis are detailed on page 37. c Lyndon Lea provided non-executive director services to the Company until 7 January 2004 via Hicks Muse where he is a partner.
His fees for the year to 7 January 2004 were therefore paid to Hicks Muse rather than to Mr Lea directly.
From 8 January 2004 Mr Leas fees have been paid to him directly.
37 Annual Report 2003 04 Retirement benefits Change Change Change Transfer Accrued Accrued in accrued Transfer Transfer in transfer in accrued value of benefit at benefit at benefit value at value at value benefit change 31 March 31 March during 31 March 31 March during the net of in accrued c c 2003 2004 the year 2003 2004 year inflation benefit 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 a John Condron 779 915 136 2,923 3,647 691 116 426 b John Davis 17 27 10 119 207 73 10 54 a John Condron is a member of Section 2 of the Yell Pension Plan and under that Section accrues a pension of 1 80th and cash of 3 80ths of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of Pensionable Service.
b John Davis is a member of both Sections 1 and 3 of the Yell Pension Plan and under each Section accrues a pension of 1 60th of his Final Pensionable Earnings up to the Earnings Cap for each year of Pensionable Service total accrual of 1 30th each year.
Mr Davis has an unfunded unapproved pension promise which increases his overall entitlement to 1 45th of his Pension Scheme Salary for each complete year of Pensionable Service and in proportion for a part year.
To determine the transfer value of the unapproved pension we have used the standard cash equivalent transfer basis adopted by the Yell Pension Plan.
Share options The information summarised in the table below shows the directors share options under the Yell Group Limited Senior Manager Incentive Plan, the UK Option Scheme and the Sharesave.
The Sharesave is an Inland Revenue approved share option plan which allows shares to be acquired at a discount.
The Yell Group Ltd Senior Manager Incentive Plan is unapproved and the UK Option Scheme has both an approved and unapproved section.
No other directors have share options under these, or any other, share option plans operated by the Company.
During the year the highest and lowest market prices were 340p and 275p respectively.
SMIP Yell Group Limited Senior Manager Incentive Plan.
Options were granted and became exercisable on admission of the Companys shares to the London Stock Exchange on 15 July 2003.
The options are not subject to performance conditions but a proportion of the underlying shares are subject to a sale restriction until 15 July 2004.
EXEC Yell Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted over shares with a value of three times salary will only be exercisable if the adjusted EPS over an initial three year period is at least equal to RPI 3% per annum at the end of the period.
If the target is not met it may be retested at the end of the fourth year.
Options granted over shares with a value of two times salary will only be exercisable if the Companys total shareholder return at the end of a three year period exceeds the growth in the total shareholder return of the companies making up the FTSE 100 as at the date of the IPO.
Options will be exercisable in full if the growth in the Companys total shareholder return would put the Company at the 25th position or higher taken from the top of the FTSE 100.
The proportion of options which may be exercised will be reduced on a straight-line basis to the 50th position of the FTSE 100, at which point 25% of the options may be exercised.
If the Companys total shareholder return at the end of the three year period would place the Company below the 50th position, no options will be exercisable.
SAYE Yell Group plc Sharesave Plan.
38 Yell Group plc REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors interests The directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests in shares in the Company are shown below: 31 March 31 March 2003 2004 number b number a John Condron 8,219,048 6,549,853 a John Davis 3,424,603 2,901,379 Robert Scott 105,263 Charles Carey 105,263 John Coghlan 52,632 Joachim Eberhardt 52,632 Lyndon Lea 200,000 Lord Powell of Bayswater 52,632 a On 9 March 2004, Mourant & Co Trustees Limited, as trustee for the Yell Employee benefit Trust, the Trust acquired in the market, at an average price of 3.387 per share, a total of 1,735,205 Ordinary shares in the Company the Shares.
The Shares will be held by the Trust until they are transferred to participants in the Companys Capital Accummulation Plan the Plan.
Neither John Condron nor John Davis is entitled to receive any of the Shares or be granted any benefit under the Plan.
The Trust is a discretionary trust and all employees including John Condron and John Davis are included in the class of potential beneciaries.
Therefore, John Condron and John Davis are deemed to be interested in the Shares whilst they are held by the Trust.
This interest will cease following distribution of the Shares to the participants in the Plan.
Accordingly, the Shares are not included in the table of directors interests above.
b On 15 July 2003, for each ordinary 0.01 share held, a further 1.7396823 ordinary 0.01 D shares were issued to the holders of ordinary shares.
The number for 31 March 2003 represents the total of such ordinary and D ordinary shares, for comparison purposes.
The ordinary and ordinary 0.01 D shares were then redesignated into the existing ordinary 0.01 shares on 15 July 2003.
There have been no changes in holdings from 31 March 2004 up to the date of this report.
By order of the Board Joachim Eberhardt Chairman Remuneration Committee 26 May 2004 Financial Information
