This process has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2004 Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness and up to 23 February 2005 and the directors can therefore confirm that Central to the Audit Committees work is the review and monitoring of they have reviewed the effectiveness in accordance with the internal the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness control requirements of the Combined Code throughout that period.
During the year the Audit Committee carried out a The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by formal audit service assessment including a review of audit plans, the the directors and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is qualifications, expertise, resources, effectiveness and independence designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has also carried out a business objectives.
It can provide reasonable but not absolute detailed performance evaluation and believes that it has satisfied the assurance against material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is requirements of the Combined Code and the Smith best practice appropriate, taking account of costs and benefits.
The Audit Committee has confirmed that during the year The key features of the Groups internal control system are it had formal and transparent arrangements for considering financial listed below.
reporting and internal control principles and maintaining an appropriate 1.
The Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director relationship with the external auditors.
and comprising senior executives, meets at least twice a year to review A key safeguard to ensure auditor objectivity and independence and analyse how business risks are being managed.
These reviews is the Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by assess the following categories of risk: its external auditors.
This policy is reviewed annually.
It prohibits the business Groups external auditors from carrying out certain additional services financial for the Group including bookkeeping, internal audit, valuations, compliance actuarial services and financial systems design and implementation.
operational and other including health, safety and environmental.
Services which the external auditors may be permitted to carry out Central to this process is a detailed written self-assessment of include assurance services such as reporting accountant work and risks by company and division, which is reviewed by the internal audit tax services.
The Committee is satisfied that the majority of the tax department.
Functional risk assessments are also carried out by the services supplied by Deloitte & Touche LLP are compliance-related responsible executive.
If significant control issues arise between and represent a small proportion of Group tax fees.
meetings, these can be brought to the attention of senior executives at As a matter of principle, the Groups policy is not to use the regularly scheduled meetings of the Executive Management Committee.
external auditors for acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where The outcome of the work of the Risk Committee is reported to the Audit the Group considers it appropriate or conflicts arise, suppliers other Committee, which in turn reviews the effectiveness of the Groups than the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
Only in exceptional system of internal control on behalf of the Board.
The Audit Committee and unusual circumstances will this include the external auditors.
receives a report at least twice a year from the Group Finance Director The Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve certain detailing the work undertaken by the Risk Committee.
Based on these permitted services, which may exceed set financial limits.
Non-audit reviews, the Board recommends action to be taken by the Group at fees paid or due to the external auditors are regularly reviewed by both divisional and company levels to mitigate identified risks and the Committee.
seize opportunities that may add value to the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently 2.
An organisation structure is in place at both head office and provided by its external auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP does not impair divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for operational, their independence or objectivity.
accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company secretarial and c Systems of Internal Control insurance functions.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of reviews Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for aligned to the risks existing in the Groups businesses of controls, risks reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
Management is and business processes.
The role of internal audit is defined in a Group accountable to the directors for monitoring this system and for providing Internal Audit Charter and this includes its terms of reference, the assurance to the directors that it has done so.
The system of internal standards which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and control is essentially an ongoing process embedded in the Groups its reporting processes.
The Audit Committee receives a report from businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant internal audit at least four times a year which includes opinions on the risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental and ethical adequacy and effectiveness of controls by site, a summary of key issues, risks.
The Group considers that it has adequate information to identify work schedules and details of any action required.
In accordance with and assess significant risks and opportunities affecting its long and recent revisions to the Combined Code, the Audit Committee regularly short-term value.
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit utilising outside specialists and self-assessment techniques.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 47 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 4.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies, financial specialists.
In addition to a formal annual review, the Board receives controls and reporting procedures applicable to all reporting units.
regular reports on HSE matters.
Senior managers performance and During 2004 this manual was reviewed and updated to ensure that related financial incentives are tied in part to their success against during 2005 Group accounting policies align with the latest International selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate governance each of the Groups reporting units.
developments and the views of BBAs major shareholders.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to achieved through regular meetings during the year between the Group management which measure actual performance against budget, Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and major shareholders, together with forecasts of sales, profits and operating cash for the next which are then reported to the Board as a whole.
The Board also three months and to the end of the year.
A monthly report is provided to receives formal written reports from its brokers regarding the views of the Board highlighting key issues and summarising the detailed its principal shareholders following its preliminary and interim results financial information provided by the operating units.
announcements and at other times as appropriate.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, shareholders were invited to meet with the Chairman and Senior authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects by the Independent Director to discuss concerns they might have regarding Group directors and by post-investment appraisals.
the Company's corporate governance practices.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency and were identified at that time or have been communicated subsequently.
commodity hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
All non-executive directors have been offered the opportunity 9.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups to attend meetings with major shareholders.
The Board considers senior executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, that its non-executive directors, including its Senior Independent capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and treasury Director, David Rough, have a good level of understanding of the matters.
This matrix is authorised by the Audit Committee on behalf of issues and concerns of major shareholders, as required by the revised the Board and is reviewed on an annual basis.
Compliance with the Combined Code.
authority matrix is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or managers and analysts takes place each year.
The directors seek to businesses are approved by the Board.
The Company maintains contact as 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures required with its principal shareholders about directors remuneration regarding the following: business ethics, business gifts and gratuities, in the same way as for other matters.
The Companys AGM is used as equal opportunities, competition law, legal policy, external an opportunity to communicate with private investors.
It is intended communications and share dealing.
A bi-annual review of compliance that notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at with such policies by Group companies is carried out and the results least 20 working days before the meeting.
Roberto Quarta, as communicated to the Risk Committee and the Board.
Senior executives Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee, John Roques as are also required to confirm annual compliance with certain policies.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Richard Stillwell as Chairman These Group policies are complemented by divisional and company-led of the Remuneration Committee will answer questions, as appropriate, initiatives, including community policies.
These policies were at the AGM.
The Senior Independent Director, David Rough will also be supplemented in 2004 by the introduction of a Disclosure of Unethical available.
Shareholders are given the opportunity of voting separately Conduct policy which includes a 24 hour hotline available to all on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect employees which is supported by a formal investigation protocol and of the AGM and makes available the voting figures for and against and regular reporting to the Audit Committee.
A Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details policies, standards and procedures which are applicable throughout Approved by the Board on 23 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: the Group.
Further details are set out on page 42 under Corporate Social Responsibility and on our website.
Annual self-assessments are carried out at company level against Group standards.
A monthly report is prepared and circulated to the Executive Management SMF Shaw Committee on environmental and safety matters within all Group Group Secretary companies from the internal Group HSE function and external BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 48 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This report covers the remuneration policy for directors and includes The main components of executive directors remuneration are set out below.
specific disclosures relating to directors emoluments, their shares and The Committee believes that the executive directors remuneration packages other interests.
This remuneration report is being put to shareholders contain a suitable balance of directly performance related remuneration at the forthcoming annual general meeting for an advisory vote.
which links both the short-term financial performance of the Group and the Throughout 2004 the Company complied with the provisions of long-term shareholder return with the executives total remuneration.
the July 2003 Combined Code the Code annexed to the Listing Rules a.
Salary and Service Contract of the UK Listing Authority, except in respect of the historical The policy of the Committee is to provide salaries that are positioned pensionability of bonuses and benefits in kind, which is referred to in between the median and upper quartile when compared to salary data.
This report includes information which is While salary is reviewed by reference to market conditions, financial and required to be audited and this information is stated as such in the individual performance, the Committee would not regard this element relevant table.
of remuneration as directly performance related.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE salary, Executive directors receive traditional benefits in kind, principally Although the Board considers itself ultimately responsible for both the a company car or car allowance and private medical insurance.
framework and the cost of executive remuneration, it has delegated The policy of the Committee is to make new executive director prime responsibility for executive remuneration to the Remuneration appointments with a rolling service agreement which can be Committee.
terminated by the Company on giving 12 months notice.
The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of the Board b.
Bonus consisting exclusively of independent non-executive directors, details Annual cash bonuses for executive directors and senior management of which are set out on page 45.
It is responsible for determining are based on financial performance and personal objectives which are executive directors remuneration and reviewing proposals in respect set annually.
Currently, approximately 75 per cent of the maximum of other senior executives.
The Committee also determines targets for bonus is based on financial objectives.
More details of the bonus performance related share schemes operated by the Company and arrangements are set out below.
oversees any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration c. Long-Term Incentives Committee are set out on page 45.
The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant element of Inbucon Consulting, an independent remuneration consulting executive directors remuneration should be linked to performance firm, is consulted by the Remuneration Committee and management in related long-term incentives.
The Companys schemes have been respect of executive remuneration and share schemes.
Inbucon developed to reflect market practice and provide long-term Consulting provides no other services to the Company other than the management focus and motivation.
The Committee has also calculation of total shareholder return for the 2004 Share Plan.
During recognised the need for flexibility in this area to allow them to respond the year management also consulted Mellon, an independent human to changing market practices and different geographic norms.
resource consulting firm, in respect of its executive bonus schemes.
As part of its strategy to align shareholders and directors In carrying out its responsibilities, the Remuneration Committee interests, the Remuneration Committee will expect all executive is independently advised by Sean OHare, Head of Executive directors to build and maintain a holding of shares with a value at least Compensation at KPMG LLP.
equal to their base salary.
The Committee also consults with the Chairman who is not a d. Pension Provision member of the Remuneration Committee, the Group Chief Executive Pension provision for the executive directors varies and reflects and the Group Secretary in connection with its work.
differing UK and US practice.
Further details are set out on page 55.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Company is reviewing the implications of the proposed The Groups remuneration policy is to ensure that executive directors changes to UK pension legislation.
The Remuneration Committee will remuneration properly reflects their duties and responsibilities and is be developing its policy in this area during 2005 and will include details sufficient to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior in next years report.
management collectively capable of delivering the goals of the 3.
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Company.
The Committee recognises the need to remain competitive in the different geographic areas in which the Company operates.
Salary and Service Contracts Furthermore, the Committee aims to ensure that incentive schemes Base salaries are reviewed annually by reference to comparator are in line with best practice and promote the interests of groups selected on the basis of comparable size, geographic spread shareholders.
Executive directors remuneration is reviewed at least and business focus.
Individual salary decisions take into account annually whilst the Committee reviews its remuneration policy on personal contribution, business performance and the level of pay an ongoing basis.
awards elsewhere in the Group.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Each executive director who served during the year has a 12 month Table 1 page 53 includes details of annual bonus payments made notice period under his contract of employment.
in respect of 2004. c. Share Scheme Incentives R V McGlone contract dated 21 February 1996 In April 2004, shareholders approved the BBA Group 2004 Long-Term A R Wood contract dated 13 February 2001 Incentive Plan which replaces the previous BBA Group Long-Term B Van Allen contract dated 1 June 2000 Incentive Plan and the BBA Group 1994 Executive Share Option R H McMillan contract dated 1 June 2001 Scheme.
Details of these plans are set out below.
In the event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee will, within BBA Group 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan legal constraints, determine the approach to be taken according to the The BBA Group 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2004 Plan allows circumstances of each individual case, taking account of the departing the awards of options, conditional shares and matching shares.
The directors obligation to mitigate his loss.
In certain circumstances, and maximum number of options which an executive may be granted in any except for termination for non-performance, the executive directors year is limited to three times basic salary, or four times basic salary if may receive compensation upon early termination of a contract which the Remuneration Committee determines that an executive will not could amount to up to one years remuneration based on basic salary, receive a conditional share award in that year.
Conditional awards of bonus, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period.
shares are limited to one times the executives basic salary or two Mr McGlone and Mr Van Allen are required to give 12 months times basic salary if the Remuneration Committee determines that the notice and the other executive directors 6 months notice of termination executive will not be granted options in that year.
For awards to be of their service agreements.
made in 2005, the maximum number of shares in respect of which an executive may be made a matching award will be limited to 50 per cent Table 1 page 53 sets out details of the executive directors salary and of the number of shares purchased by the executive using his or her non-executive directors fees.
Each executive may purchase shares to a value not exceeding his or her gross annual bonus, subject to a minimum of b.
Bonus 25 per cent of net amount.
The Plan rules also permit matching on Bonus payments made in respect of 2004 for Mr McGlone and Mr Wood a net to gross basis.
were calculated on the basis of the Groups adjusted earnings per share, The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the maximum Group free cash flow and the achievement of measurable personal award levels are not excessive and are in line with current market objectives.
Mr Van Allens and Mr McMillans bonuses reflect their practice.
When making awards, the Remuneration Committee will take operational responsibility for the Aviation Services and Materials prevailing remuneration practice into account.
Their bonus arrangements for 2004 Options granted in 2005 under the 2004 Plan will be subject to were based on the achievement of budgeted operating profit, return on the following performance conditions, which will be measured from the net operating assets, operating cashflow for the relevant division, financial year ending just prior to the grant over a three year period: together with Group adjusted earnings per share and the achievement of measurable personal objectives.
For all executive directors, appropriate Average EPS growth Proportion of options performance targets and personal objectives were approved by the above inflation exercisable Committee at the start of the financial year for which the bonus was 7% or more per annum 100% payable.
The performance measures were chosen by the Committee 3 to 7% per annum Pro rata between 33% and 100% because each measure was a factor over which the individual had a direct 3% per annum 33% impact and each of the measures are collectively good indicators of Less than 3% per annum Nil corporate performance that should link to long-term shareholder reward.
The bonus was expressed as a percentage of salary and the Options will lapse if performance conditions are not satisfied and there potential payout ranged from zero to a maximum of 65 per cent of salary.
In line with performance conditions under earlier In a year where budgeted financial targets are met this would typically Company share option schemes, the earnings per share calculation result in a payment of 27.5 per cent of basic salary.
Approximately will be verified by the external auditors.
75 per cent of the bonus is based on financial objectives, the remainder Conditional shares will vest and be released to executives at the on measurable personal objectives.
The Committee retains discretion end of a three year period if the Companys total shareholder return to reflect exceptional circumstances by varying bonuses.
Bonus against a comparator group of companies consisting of all of the FTSE payments for 2005 are intended to be calculated on a similar basis to 350 listed companies in the transport, chemicals and aerospace and 2004, except that for executive directors with operational responsibility defence sectors is met.
Awards made in 2005 will be subject to the return on net operating assets will be removed as one of the financial following performance conditions: elements so as to give greater clarity in the financial targets.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 50 Comparator Group 2001 TSR ranking in Proportion of shares vesting Aggregate Industries Electrocomponents Next comparator group Aggreko Excel Novar Upper quartile 100% Amersham First Choice Holidays Pace Micro Technology Associated British Ports First Group Peninsular & Oriental Diversified Median to upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Atkins WS FKI Pilkington Median 25% Avis Europe GKN Premier Farnell BAA GUS Rank Group Below Median Nil BBA Group Hammerson Regus BHP Billiton Hanson Rentokil Initial If median position is not achieved, the whole award will lapse and there BOC Group Hays Rexam Boots Group Hilton Group RMC Group will be no retesting.
In line with performance conditions under previous BPB IMI Rolls-Royce Group conditional awards, total shareholder return will be calculated by an British Airways Imperial Chemical Industries Scottish & Southern Energy independent remuneration consulting firm.
The vesting of matching British Energy International Power Scottish Power British Land Invensys Securicor awards is not dependent on performance conditions.
Brown N Group JJB Sports Serco Group The Committee believes that the two performance measures BTG Johnson Matthey Signet Group Bunzl Kingfisher Slough Estates chosen for its incentive schemes adjusted earnings per share growth Canary Wharf Group Land Securities Smith & Nephew and comparative total shareholder return each represent a Capita Group Liberty International Smith WH reasonable long-term indication of the financial success of the Carphone Warehouse Group Lonmin Smiths Group Centrica Marks & Spencer Group SSL International Company.
They are also measures that are acceptable to the majority Chelsfied Matalan Stagecoach Group of the investors in the Company.
It is the current intention of the Cobham Millenium & Copthorne Hotels Tomkins Committee that its schemes retain these measures.
Cookson Group Morgan Crucible Travis Perkins fide la Rue My Travel Group Viridian Group No awards were made under the 2004 Plan during the year.
Dixons Group National Express Wolseley Easyjet National Grid Transco BBA Group 1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan The BBA Group Long-Term Incentive Plan, approved by shareholders in 1997, was replaced by the 2004 Plan during 2004.
There are no outstanding awards under this Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Contingent awards of restricted shares were made with further awards of matched shares being made pro rata to investment shares acquired by participants using their annual bonus.
The interest in shares awarded could only vest if the Companys targeted total shareholder return measured over a period of three years was achieved.
Above that minimum, the interest would vest in whole or in part depending on the level of achievement of the performance conditions.
For awards made in 2001, the Companys TSR was measured against a comparator group of selected companies within the FTSE 350 with a market capitalisation of between approximately 600 million and 10 billion, excluding certain sectors.
In addition, adjusted earnings per share had to exceed the rate of inflation by 3 per cent per annum.
The vesting of restricted shares was nil below the median, 15 per cent at the median, 100 per cent at the upper quartile and 118 per cent at the top 20th percentile.
Vesting of matched shares is nil below the median, 15 per cent at the median and 100 per cent at the upper quartile.
Awards made in 2001 resulted in a nil vesting in March 2004 as the Companys TSR ranking was below the median at the end of the performance period.
As a result no restricted shares were released to the relevant directors.
The comparator group in respect of the 2001 award at the end of the vesting period is set out at the top of this page.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Share Option Schemes Performance Charts All executive options recently awarded by the Company have been The charts below show the Companys total shareholder return over made under the BBA Group 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, the last five financial years compared with the equivalent information which expired in April 2004.
All outstanding options granted under for the FTSE 350 Transport sector which the Committee considers to the scheme are subject to performance conditions.
be a suitable broad-based equity market index of which the Company Between 1997 and 2000, the executive directors did not receive is a constituent.
Graph 1 shows the annual change in total shareholder options under the Companys executive share option schemes.
return for the Company and the index, while Graph 2 shows the Executive directors were granted options under the scheme between cumulative change in total shareholder return from January 2000.
2001 and 2004 when shareholder approved amendments facilitated grants of a combination of options and awards under the 1997 LongANNUALISED TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: BBA GROUP vs TRANSPORT SECTOR Term Incentive Plan.
50 Under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, in any financial 40 30 year a participant could be granted options with an exercise price not 20 exceeding two times annual earnings.
Such options are only exercisable 10 if the growth in the Companys earnings per share, as adjusted, for any 00 0102 03 04 05 0 period of three consecutive years is at least 9 per cent and is greater -10 than the growth in inflation.
-20 -30 Super options granted under the 1994 executive share option plan -40 are only exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share, BBA FTSE 350 TRANSPORT as adjusted, for any period of five consecutive years is greater than the growth in earnings per share, as adjusted, achieved during the same five year period by at least three-quarters of those companies which constitute the FTSE 100 index at the end of the five year period.
No super CUMULATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: BBA GROUP vs TRANSPORT SECTOR 0 options have been granted since 1997 and the 2001 amendments to the 1994 scheme removed the facility to grant such options.
-10 Performance conditions in respect of options granted in 1999, -20 2000 and 2001 were not satisfied and did not become exercisable at the -30 end of their respective initial performance periods.
-40 The Committee selected earnings per share as the performance -50 measure for the share option scheme as it is accepted as being a -60 good indicator of long-term corporate performance.
Options have -70 00 01 02 03 04 05 an inherent share price performance measure, being the condition BBA FTSE 350 TRANSPORT that before any reward is given the share price must increase.
Executive directors may be eligible to participate in the BBA Group 1994 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all eligible UK employees.
Options are granted under three or five year SAYE contracts at a 20 per cent discount to the stock market price at the offer date.
The maximum overall employee contribution is 250 per month.
BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2004 52 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % Table 1 Emoluments and fees audited Basic salary allowances Other Benefits Annual Total Total and fees emoluments in kind bonus 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 000 000 R Quarta 158 1 159 147 R V McGlone 462 72 5 149 688 698 A R Wood 298 1 96 395 380 B Van Allen 270 97 13 91 471 486 R H McMillan 251 13 56 320 350 R M Phillips 30 30 28 D J S Roques 37 37 33 D Rough 34 34 28 R N Stillwell 37 37 33 I B Yoskowitz 5 5 28 Total 1,582 169 33 392 2,176 2,211 During the year Mr McGlone elected to receive a proportion of his entitlement under the FURBS arrangements as salary 71,831.
Special award agreed in November 2000 whilst Mr Van Allen was CEO of BBA Aviation North America under which a bonus of 96,917 was payable provided he remained in employment as at 1 October 2004.
To date of retirement 1 March 2004.
Table 2 Directors interests in share Ordinary 25p shares capital includes interests 1 Jan 2004 31 Dec 2004 held by a directors spouse Beneficial Beneficial R Quarta 38,020 38,020 R V McGlone 118,621 118,621 A R Wood 10,539 15,671 B Van Allen 20,574 20,574 R H McMillan R M Phillips 3,000 3,000 D J S Roques 13,000 13,000 D Rough 22,226 22,226 R N Stillwell 5,000 5,000 I B Yoskowitz 25,709 25,709 To date of retirement 1 March 2004 Table 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards audited Lapsed 1 Jan during Award Lapse 31 Dec Shares 2004 the year date date 2004 R V McGlone Restricted 244,506 244,506 07.03.01 07.03.04 A R Wood Restricted 122,778 122,778 07.03.01 07.03.04 B Van Allen Restricted 95,416 95,416 07.03.01 07.03.04 Notes 1.
The performance conditions in respect of the 2001 award of Restricted and Matched shares were not satisfied and no vesting occurred at the end of the three-year performance period.
The awards made to participants lapsed.
No awards were made during the year under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
No awards were made to Mr McMillan under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Company has accounted for awards in accordance with the provisions of UITF Abstract 17 employee share schemes.
An employee trust was established which held shares awarded under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
As at 31 December 2004, there were 2,137,111 shares at a market value of 6.1 million held in the trust.
BBA Group plc Ordinary 25p Shares: Mid-market price on 31 December 2004 was 285.75p.
Mid-market price for 2004 was in the range 247p to 291.5p.
Mr Wood exercised options under the savings related share option scheme on 16 June 2004 following the maturity of the savings contract.
The mid-market price of a BBA Group plc ordinary 25p share on 16 June 2004 was 253.5p.
Mr Wood retained his shares on exercise.
There were no changes in the directors options to acquire ordinary shares between 31 December 2004 and 23 February 2005.
Options granted under the 1994 executive share option plan are only exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of three consecutive years is at least 9 per cent and is greater than the growth in inflation.
Super options granted under the 1994 executive share option plan are only exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of five consecutive years is greater than the growth in earnings per share, as adjusted, achieved during the same five year period by at least three quarters of those companies which constitute the FTSE 100 index at the end of the five year period.
