28 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report All of our incentives are discretionary, geared towards success and payable only on the achievement of stretching performance measures.
Introduction The Committee is directly responsible share rights and share options are The focus of this report is on directors to shareholders and, as in previous preferred as longer-term incentives and senior colleagues remuneration.
It years, its chairman will be present to enable directors and senior staff sets out the Groups remuneration policy at the AGM to answer any questions to share in the Groups success and and also gives details of the salaries, from shareholders and offer himself to more effectively align the interests incentives, shares and pensions received for re-election.
of management with those of the by all the directors for the year ended shareholders.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the Company website, This policy has been consistently This report has been prepared in or on request from the Groups registered applied since flotation in 1996. accordance with the requirements of office at 58 Davies Street.
They are Whilst the Committee strives to the Companies Act 1985 as amended, consistent with the recommendations the Directors Remuneration Report of the Combined Code on Corporate harmonise remuneration throughout the Group, it recognises that this is not Regulations 2002 the Regulations Governance.
and associated legislation, together with always appropriate.
For example, the Remuneration Policy formulae used for the calculation of the Listing Rules.
Under the provisions The Groups remuneration policy of Part III Schedule 7A Companies Act bonus payments differ between the is based on the following principles: Company and its more recently acquired 1985, KPMG Audit Plc has audited the directors emoluments, pensions, share wholly owned subsidiary, Wembley the aim is to set base salaries London Limited.
At the Companys option and long-term incentive schemes at median levels but also taking sections of this Report.
head office, staff bonus payments are into account each individuals linked to growth in net asset value, which responsibilities, experience and This is the third year in which is considered to be the most appropriate performance: the Remuneration Report is put measure of success for a company in the to shareholders for approval at the property sector.
However, as Wembley bonuses and other incentive-based Annual General Meeting.
operates in the leisure industry, its staff rewards are intended to be positioned bonuses are linked to the achievement The Remuneration Committee towards the upper quartile and are of targets based on profitability which are considered to be stretching but Details of the Remuneration Committees believed to be a more relevant measure.
role and membership are set out in the achievable.
Whilst incentive based remuneration is discretionary it is subject Corporate Governance Report on pages In determining remuneration policy, the 24 to 27.
The Committee met five times to the achievement of predetermined Committees objective is to ensure the performance criteria and where this during the year.
Group continues to be able to attract is achieved it can form a material part and motivate individuals with the of the total remuneration package: and experience and skills required to operate 29 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report its businesses competitively and in Service Contracts WJT Plender the best interests of shareholders Neither the executive directors Dated 22 July 2002 unexpired and other stakeholders.
service contracts nor those of any other term of approximately one year.
members of staff none of which has No executive director plays any part J MacNaughton a notice period in excess of six months in the determination of his her own contain liquidated damages provisions Dated 22 December 2003 unexpired remuneration package and the fees term approximately two and a half years.
for compensation for loss of office on of the non-executive directors are set by early termination or change of control.
the executive directors to reflect the time Remuneration of Directors Any contract terminated at short notice, and Senior Staff commitment and levels of responsibility resulting in a right to compensation, expected of them.
The directors remuneration and that would not be subject to mitigation.
of senior staff defined in the Committees In remuneration matters, the Committee Details of the executive directors Terms of Reference as employees whose has the authority and funding to obtain remuneration package, including base service contracts independent advice.
During the year, salary, car allowance if any and employer it received advice from Deloitte & Touche NG Ellis pension contributions, is 100,000 LLP and Nabarro Nathanson regarding Dated 20 March 1996 rolling contract p. a. or above and the terms of their the proposed 2004 Unapproved Share subject to six months notice.
employment are reviewed at least Plan detailed below.
Nabarro Nathanson annually in relation to best practice and has also provided the Company with AR Wyatt benchmarked against relevant comparator Dated 15 July 1996 rolling contract advice in respect of corporate matters industry data, where available.
Additional subject to six months notice.
The audited base salary and benefits information on remuneration issues was JR Hamilton Stubber also obtained by the Committee from the of each director is set out on the Dated 8 September 2002 rolling following page.
Investment Property Databank IPD, contract subject to six months notice.
being the only property industry-wide In considering remuneration levels, benchmark, from Income Data Services, NSK Shattock the Committee makes reference to the various other salary and benefit surveys Dated 12 July 1995 rolling contract contribution each individual has made and industry comparisons.
The Group subject to six months notice.
to the Group and also to its performance also held informal discussions with as a whole, measured in terms of net comparator companies in the property RJ Worthington asset value per share, both in absolute and leisure sectors.
Dated 24 July 2001 rolling contract terms and relative to the property sector subject to six months notice.
Other Directorships or, in the case of the Wembley bonus As at 31 March 2004, the only calculation, by reference to the increase Details of the non-executive directors executive directors holding non-Group in profitability, as previously described.
letters of appointment: related directorships were James Hamilton Stubber, who is a director of a family The Group provides the following further MR Meech benefits for directors and senior staff: property trading company for which Dated 4 July 2000 renewed in July he receives no remuneration and Nicholas 2003 for a further three years.
private medical insurance: Shattock, who was a non-executive director of Hills Group for which he BS Thomas income protection insurance: and earned and retained fees at the rate Dated 9 February 2000 renewed in of 20,000 per annum.
February 2003 for a further three years.
Related party transactions DG Pangbourne There were no related party transactions Dated 24 August 2001 initial contract with directors in the year.
expires in August 2004, when it is anticipated it will be renewed for a further three years.
30 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report Discretionary Bonus Scheme Under this scheme executive directors Pensions The Group operates a discretionary are entitled to earn up to 100% and Defined contributions are made into bonus scheme which is designed to be senior staff up to 50% of base salary personal pension plans arranged by the a performance related incentive scheme in cash.
For executive directors and head to reward executive directors and all staff office staff, the employer contribution for Any entitlement above this level would be and provide motivation and identification the year to 31 March 2004 is at the rate with the success of the Group.
received in shares purchased by Trustees of 10% of base salary.
For staff employed of the Employee Benefit Trust and held for by Wembley London Limited the scheme In relation to head office, for the three years prior to release to the relevant inherited by the Company following its Committee to exercise its discretion employee or director.
The Committee acquisition in 2002 has been continued and recommend the payment of a bonus, also has the discretion to recommend under which employer contributions are the guidelines currently adopted by it are the payment of an additional bonus to made ranging from 4% to 6% of base that the Group must not only outperform a director or other member of staff for salary depending upon seniority and the average of the IPD index but also the exceptional performance over and length of service.
real rate of return year on year, must be in above the already high standard required.
excess of 10%, calculated by reference All executive directors and staff have to the increase in shareholders funds access to the advice of an Independent as adjusted for any capital variations Financial Advisor in relation to their and the annual dividend.
pensions, which is offered at the Groups expense.
Base salary and benefits of the directors Audited Base salary Termination Discretionary Fees Benefits Y e 2004 Y e 2003 Y e 2004 Y e 2003 payment bonus Total Total Pensions Pensions '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 Executive NG Ellis 125 69 6 200 161 AR Wyatt 420 217 45 682 550 42 37 NSK Shattock 250 159 26 435 336 25 21 RJ Worthington 125 55 19 199 130 13 10 J Hamilton Stubber 225 53 20 298 104 23 10 ME Riley 425 8 Resigned 31 July 2002 ES Dugdale 144 15 Resigned 7 October 2002 Non-executive BS Thomas 40 40 35 MR Meech 35 35 30 DG Pangbourne 55 55 30 WJT Plender 35 35 20 P Alexander 13 13 Appointed 22 July, resigned 28 November 2003 J MacNaughton Appointed 26 January 2004 Total year ended 2004 1,145 553 178 116 1,992 103 Total year ended 2003 1,104 299 306 115 141 1,965 101 Notes: 1 A gross salary payment of 4,000 was made to former director ES Dugdale in May 2003.
This was final pay for the period which he served as a director 2 The value of benefits includes the provision of a car allowance, private medical insurance, income protection, life assurance referred to on page 28 and travel and subsistence where applicable 3 Discretionary bonuses are based on the results of the previous financial year 4 Fees include payments of 35,000 2003: 30,000 made to BT Consulting and BT Consulting Inc Limited on behalf of Ms Thomas and 5,000 2003: 5,000 made in respect of her expenses.
31 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report Executive Directors Performance case of the awards made in 2003 to shareholder authority for specific Share Plan Audited Adrian Wyatt and Nicholas Shattock maximum dilution limits of 2.5% of Adopted at the 2003 Annual General will be at least until 2012.
The exercise of the issued share capital, with no single Meeting, the Committee believes the share awards under this Plan is subject to director being entitled to an award of Plan will assist in securing the long-term the director continuing to be employed at more than 1%.
services of key directors, with the award vesting and to the Company achieving an of share rights being conditional upon increase in net asset value plus dividends Details of share rights granted under the achievement of challenging corporate the Plan are set out below.
No amount paid of at least 10% per annum above performance targets and subject to lockthe retail price index and to the Company is payable on the exercise of these rights in arrangements for participants current and no rights were exercised during outperforming the average IPD return and future shareholdings, which in the over the same period.
This Plan received the year.
Share Options Audited inflation over the three years following Non-executive directors do not During the period the Company grant of the option.
For those options participate in any share option schemes.
continued to operate the 1996 Executive that have already vested these conditions Share Option Scheme, approved by the have been met.
The directors have In its annual review of executive directors and senior staff remuneration policy and Inland Revenue on 17 July 1996.
On confirmed they will not exercise their 28 February 2003, following an internal options that vest in future if such packages, the Committee considers the guidelines on executive remuneration reorganisation, its unapproved share option performance conditions were not met.
scheme was replaced by the Quintain Option awards are subject to a minimum issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI in December 2003 Services Limited 2003 Unapproved three year vesting period and on exercise Share Option Plan, which is not Inland directors are encouraged to hold shares including the joint statement issued by the ABI and the National Association Revenue approved.
for a further period after vesting, subject to the need to finance the costs of of Pension Funds NAPF on Best The Committee has decided that for Practice on Executive Contracts and acquisition and any tax liability.
it to exercise its discretion to grant any Capital Severance.
In relation to the share options under either scheme, the During the financial year a total of grant of options and awards and the Groups performance over the previous 805,479 options were granted, 122,894 design of share based incentive three years must exceed the average of options lapsed and 490,849 options schemes, the Committee is committed the rolling IPD index.
Whilst no formal were exercised at option prices of between to applying these guidelines, particularly performance conditions have historically 1.13 and 1.632.
Details of options regarding the setting of suitably been applied to the exercise of option granted to, and exercised by, the stretching performance criteria and the awards, it had been intended that executive directors are shown overleaf.
recommended dilution limit for all exercise should be subject to the growth Group schemes including all-employee in share price exceeding 7.5% net of schemes of 10%.
These were also the highest and lowest share prices during the year.
2 All share options expire at the end of the exercise period.
33 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report 2004 Unapproved Share Plan on 26 January 2004, but in such a Unapproved Share Option Plan which As referred to above, the Committee way that directors of the Company it replaces.
considers it important for executive are currently unable to participate and Your directors believe these proposals to directors and employees to participate awards may be satisfied only by the use in the Groups success through having of existing shares purchased from the be in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend an interest in the shares of the Company.
market, enabling the Plan to be adopted In the past, this has been achieved mainly without obtaining prior shareholder that the members vote with them in favour of the resolution.
through the medium of share options, approval.
However, it was always the under the 1996 Approved Executive Companys intention to obtain the The principal terms of the Plan may Share Option Scheme an Inland approval of its shareholders to an be summarised as follows: Revenue approved scheme and the extension of the Plan at the next available 1996 Executive Share Option No.
Accordingly, at this years Constitution Scheme an unapproved scheme.
The Annual General Meeting, the board seeks The Plan is constituted by rules latter was replicated in February 2003 the approval of the shareholders to the approved by the Committee and by the Quintain Services Limited 2003 adoption of the Plan in a form which adopted by the directors.
Unapproved Share Option Plan, would allow the participation of directors reflecting the internal reorganisation and also for awards to be satisfied from Eligibility which took place at that time.
The new issue shares or treasury shares.
Any employee or director of the Group Company also established the Share who is required to devote substantially A copy of the draft rules of the Plan will Incentive Plan in 2002, a scheme under the whole of his or her working time to which employees may acquire a limited be available for inspection from the date their duties for the Group will be eligible of dispatch of this circular at the offices equity interest in the Group in a taxto participate in the Plan.
However, the efficient way through the direct of Nabarro Nathanson, Lacon House, Committee will, in its absolute discretion, 84 Theobalds Road, London WC1X acquisition of shares.
8RW, on the Companys website at With recent changes in tax legislation www.
com and also for Making and constitution of awards and accounting treatment for employee at least 15 minutes prior to and during The Committee will grant a right to share incentives, the Committee, having the Annual General Meeting.
acquire shares in the Company through taken advice from specialist independent the Plan.
A right will be evidenced by professionals, has decided that share If the Plan is approved, the Committee a certificate executed as a deed by the may decide to use it to replace certain options with an exercise price equal to Company and will consist of a conditional the market value of the relevant shares awards under the 1996 Executive Share right to acquire a specified number Option No.
2 Scheme or the Quintain on the date of grant are no longer of ordinary shares subject to corporate the best mechanism for providing Services Limited 2003 Unapproved performance targets and continued Share Option Plan under neither of equity incentives, except where there employment and to payment of the are specific tax advantages as in the which is it intended to grant further nominal value of the relevant shares.
It has been used in this way case of Inland Revenue approved When a right is exercised see below, schemes.
To use shares more efficiently, already in relation to a limited category the appropriate number of shares or of participant which excludes directors and to minimise the dilution of members treasury shares in respect of which the shareholdings, it is better to make of the Company, who in April 2004 right is exercised are either transferred exchanged their options granted in June conditional awards over fewer shares or issued and allotted to the participant.
under which the participants pay 2003 under the Quintain Services Limited No consideration is payable for the 2003 Unapproved Share Option Plan for nothing, or at most nominal value, grant of a right.
It was therefore rights granted under the Plan.
proposed late in 2003 to establish a No right shall be granted unless the Rights under the Plan will only be new share incentive scheme, the 2004 Companys performance over the period granted if the Company has outperformed Unapproved Share Plan the Plan, to comprising the immediately preceding the average of the IPD Index in the three supersede the Quintain Services Limited three financial years of the Company years prior to grant and the vesting 2003 Unapproved Share Option Plan shall have exceeded the IPD Index over of rights granted under the Plan will which itself superseded the 1996 that period.
be subject to further stretching Executive Share Option No.
Rights will be personal to the participant and may not be transferred or assigned.
The level of award will be made by Although it was important to establish reference to the market value of the the Plan expeditiously, it was thought Timing relevant award at the date of grant inappropriate to trouble shareholders at In absence of exceptional using Black Scholes methodology that stage with a shareholder resolution circumstances, rights may only be and calculated along similar lines to approve the Plan, necessitating granted within 42 days immediately to the Quintain Services Limited 2003 an Extraordinary General Meeting.
following: Accordingly, the Plan was adopted 34 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report the adoption of the Plan: or of his right for a diversified right, the value Plan limits of which is determined by reference to No right may be granted to an employee the announcement of the Companys a fund selected by the participant but or director to the extent that the market interim or final financial results for subject to a right of veto by the Committee value of the shares in respect of which any period.
if it considers the selected fund to be the right relates, when added to the inappropriate.
The rationale for this market value of shares the subject of Rights may not be granted more than is to allow participants to spread their rights previously granted to the employee ten years after the date of adoption investments, e. g. into their pension fund.
or director in the same financial year of the Plan.
which have neither lapsed nor been Cessation of employment exercised or released, would exceed the Vesting of rights and If the participant ceases to be a director annual basic salary of the employee or performance criteria or employee of the Group through injury, director on the date the right is proposed Rights granted under the Plan will only be disability, ill health, redundancy, or to be granted.
exercisable if the performance conditions through the company that employs him are satisfied.
The Committee will determine ceasing to be a member or the Group No right may be granted under the the performance conditions appropriate then, provided that any performance Plan which would result in the aggregate to the rights at the date of grant and conditions have been satisfied, he may number of shares which have been these will be specified in each right exercise his rights within six months issued or remain issuable, or which are certificate.
If the treasury shares transferred or transferable, participant retires on or after normal in each case in respect of rights granted A right will not be exercisable unless the retirement age he may exercise his in the previous ten years under the Plan, specified performance conditions have rights, subject to the satisfaction of any exceeding 5% of the shares in issue been achieved and the participant is still performance conditions, at any time at the date of grant.
an employee of the Company at the end before the expiry of two years following of the relevant performance period.
If the participant ceases to be a director or employee for any other Awards made under the Plan will neither The initial awards under the Plan will be form part of base salary nor be eligible reason then he may exercise his rights, subject to a performance measure based to the extent they were validly exercisable, for pension contributions.
on the Companys real growth in net up to three months after the date of asset value NAV over periods of three, Variations of capital departure.
After this time they will lapse four and five years from the date of grant, The rights of a participant following unless the Committee, in exceptional with such awards only vesting when any rights issue or capitalisation issue circumstances, exercises its discretion performance conditions have been met.
or certain other variations of capital during such period of three months to The right will become exercisable at the will be adjusted in such manner as permit the participant to exercise the end of the relevant vesting period if the the Companys auditors consider fair rights, in which event the rights will Companys NAV growth matches or and reasonable.
become exercisable if not already from exceeds the increase in the retail prices the date of such determination and will index RPI over the corresponding Amendments remain exercisable until six months after period by an average of 10% per annum The Committee may make any such cessation.
Any rights not exercised compounded annually.
To the extent amendments to the rules of the Plan, during the above mentioned periods that the NAV targets are not met at the provided that amendments to the shall lapse at the end of the said periods.
end of the relevant vesting period, the advantage of participants may only right will lapse.
These are similar criteria be made with the sanction of the Change of control to those used in the Companys bonus Company in general meeting except If any person or company obtains scheme and the Executive Directors that shareholder approval is not required control of the Company as a result of a Performance Share Plan.
for minor amendments to obtain or general offer for the whole of the issued maintain favourable tax, exchange control share capital of the Company or pursuant The Committee will determine the or regulatory treatment for participants to a compromise or arrangement performance conditions to apply to or future participants or any company sanctioned by the Court, rights may subsequent grants of rights made under in the Group.
be exercised, broadly speaking, within six the Plan as are appropriate at the date months of the person obtaining control such rights are granted, but it is intended Termination of the Company or the Court sanctioning that such conditions would be similar in The Plan will terminate on the tenth the compromise or arrangement subject terms of difficulty of achievement and anniversary of the date of its adoption to the relevant performance condition length of performance period as the or on any such earlier date as the having been satisfied over the period initial awards referred to above.
Committee may at any time prior to that between the grant of the right and the date determine, but the rights of existing change of control.
Any rights not Diversification of rights participants will not be affected thereby.
so exercised will lapse at the end At any time following the third In the event of such termination, no further of that period.
anniversary of the date of grant of rights will be granted under the Plan.
a right and following achievement of the performance conditions, the Committee may, at its absolute discretion, allow a participant to exchange a proportion 35 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Remuneration Report Personal shareholding to no less than their annual base salary requirements for executive directors although this only need be built up over The Committee wishes strongly to a period of five years.
The Committee encourage the building up by executive will consider satisfaction of this guideline directors of a meaningful shareholding or satisfactory progress towards it as in the Company in accordance with ABI a material factor in determining whether guidelines.
It is considered that executive to grant awards under share incentive directors should retain shares in the schemes to executive directors and Company with a market value equal the extent of such awards.
Total shareholder return The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company for the period from 1 January 1999 to 31 March 2004, and then extended to 18 June 2004, compared with total shareholder return relating to the FTSE 350 Index and the FTSE Real Estate Index: 300 250 200 150 100 50 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Quintain Estates and Development PLC FTSE Real Estates FTSE All Shares By Order of the Board David Pangbourne Chairman of Remuneration Committee 18 June 2004
