BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Remuneration report This report is made by the Board on the recommendation of the Ben Mathews, Company Secretary, attends meetings as Secretary Remuneration Committee.
The first part of the report provides to the Committee.
His predecessor, Emma Nichol, attended details of BG Groups remuneration policy.
The second part meetings until November 2004. provides details of the remuneration, service contracts and share Frank Chapman, Chief Executive, Peter Duffy, Executive Vice interests of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2004.
President Human Resources, and Natarajan Sundar, Head of The report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf Performance and Reward, and his predecessor Cathy Aldwinckle by Elwyn Eilledge, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
until September 2004 attend meetings by invitation and provide A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Annual General advice and services to the Committee to enable it to make Meeting of the Company to be held on 4 May 2005 inviting them informed decisions.
No Director is present when his or her own to approve this report.
Our remuneration policy is designed to ensure that executives of The Committee also meets without management and receives the highest calibre are recruited and retained and that our strong information and independent executive remuneration advice from performance ethic is reinforced.
BG Group continues to look to external consultancy firms appointed by the Committee.
During a b b performance related incentives rather than base salaries for 2004, Kepler Associates and Towers Perrin provided advice to employees to achieve above average reward.
the Committee on market trends, long-term incentive schemes and a other remuneration issues.
In addition, Towers Perrin provided In accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985, as general compensation and benefits advice and information to inserted by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 BG Group management and was responsible for the administration the Regulations, the following sections of the report have been of some of the share schemes.
In December 2004, the Committee audited: Directors Remuneration: Directors Interests in Shares appointed Kepler Associates as its independent executive under the BG Group Long Term Incentive Scheme: Options: and remuneration advisers.
Towers Perrin continue to provide the table and notes in the Pensions section of the report.
The general advice and assistance to BG Group management on remaining sections are not subject to audit.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Other external advisers also provide support and advice in relation a b to executive remuneration to the Committee.
Herbert Smith The Committees principal responsibilities are: provides legal advice and services on share schemes as well as other legal services to the Group and to the trustees of the setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board a b Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme and Watson Wyatt for approval the Companys overall remuneration policy provides actuarial advice to the Committee, the Group and to the and strategy: trustees of the BG Pension Scheme and of the Ballylumford Power 51 setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration Pension Scheme as well as other general consultancy services to packages for Executive Directors and the Chairman the Group.
These advisers are appointed by management or the including terms and conditions of employment and any relevant trustees as appropriate.
changes to the packages: Remuneration policy reviewing the salary structure and terms, conditions and BG Group needs to be able to employ and retain international benefits of employment of other Group Executive employees of the highest calibre with the necessary skills, Committee members and the Company Secretary: and capabilities and experience to execute its business strategy and approving the rules, and launch, of any Company share, thereby deliver strong growth.
The catchment area for recruitment share option or cash based incentive scheme and the is increasingly outside the UK and the required talent is scarce.
grant, award, allocation or issue of shares, share options or The overriding objectives of our remuneration policy are: payments under such scheme.
to enable the recruitment and retention of this limited The full terms of reference of the Committee can be resource: and found on the BG Group website and copies are available on request.
to reinforce our strong performance ethic.
The central premise of the policy is that, while reward arrangements The Committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive should be market competitive, employees should look to Directors and meets on at least four occasions each year.
The performance related incentives rather than base salaries to earn members are: above average reward.
Performance related incentive schemes form a significant proportion of the total reward package for executives and are designed to align their interests with those of shareholders To 12 February 2004 and establish a clear link between pay and performance.
Elwyn Eilledge Chairman David Benson Peter Backhouse Keith Mackrell In defining BG Groups remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account advice received from external consultants and also Sir John Coles Lord Sharman best practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies, Paul Collins including the principles and guidelines on executive remuneration Dame Stella Rimington Baroness Hogg from 27 January 2005 a Kepler Associates, Towers Perrin, Herbert Smith and Watson Wyatt have given, and not withdrawn, their written consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the form and content in which they appear.
A copy of each consent letter is available for inspection at BG Group plc, 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT.
b Other than in the provision of the services outlined above, none of Kepler Associates, Towers Perrin, Herbert Smith or Watson Wyatt provides any services to the Group or has any connection with the Group.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Remuneration report continued issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI.
relative to the Companys comparator group, over the next three years.
These assumptions have not changed from last year.
Pension To implement our policy, we have a well-developed, Group-wide values can vary quite significantly from year to year and from performance management system and we operate three person to person and are shown separately on page 60.
The complementary performance related incentive schemes average proportion of remuneration excluding pension that for executives: is performance related is: the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS designed to focus for target performance 62%: executives on the business priorities of the financial year and to reinforce our individual and Company performance ethic: for stretch performance 81%.
the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS aims to motivate This is illustrated by the chart below.
a participants to maximise total shareholder return TSR as measured against a comparator group of international oil and COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION PACKAGE gas companies over a period of three years: and FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AVERAGE the Company Share Option Scheme CSOS aims to drive real as a % of total remuneration earnings growth over the long term.
The mechanism used for Targetperformance Stretch performance measuring this is the growth in the Groups earnings per share b EPS relative to the growth in the retail price index, excluding mortgage interest repayments RPIX.
38% 19% The varying performance periods and performance conditions of the three schemes combine and complement each other to enable 62% 81% the measurement and reward of both shortand long-term performance as well as absolute AIS, sustained CSOS and comparative LTIS financial performance.
The Committee reviews the remuneration policy on a regular basis and recommends changes as and when appropriate.
During the Performance related pay year, changes were made to the CSOS.
Changes were also made Non-performance related pay to the way that the Company operates the CSOS and the LTIS together.
Details of these changes can be found on pages 53 to 54.
Base salaries During 2005 the Company plans to continue its review of the Executive Directors salaries are reviewed each year with any 52 CSOS, in particular its use as the primary share-based incentive changes taking effect from 1 April.
This review takes into account vehicle for the broader employee population below senior individual performance and market competitiveness.
salary is derived from base salary only.
Components of remuneration In line with our remuneration policy, the Committee benchmarks The current remuneration package for Executive Directors Executive Directors salaries against a comparator group.
Given comprises performance related and non-performance related BG Groups international presence and position roughly in the components.
The performance related components are the middle of the FTSE 50, the Committee considered it appropriate incentive schemes referred to above and the non-performance to reference Executive Directors base salaries for the 2004 salary related components are base salary, taxable benefits and pension review against the median of the FTSE 50.
We intend to use the entitlements.
In addition, the Executive Directors are eligible to same comparator group for the 2005 review.
participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group have been taken Annual Incentive Scheme AIS into account by the Committee in determining the remuneration The Company operates a cash based annual incentive scheme, packages for Executive Directors and the Committee has also which provides an incentive opportunity in the range of 0% to followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined Code which 100% of base salary.
relates to the design of performance related remuneration.
At the start of the incentive year 1 January, based on the Companys The proportion of each Executive Directors total remuneration business priorities, the Committee sets the performance measures and that is performance related is significant even for target the Board sets challenging stretch and budget financial performance performance.
For stretch performance, the proportion of total targets.
Incentives at the higher end of the range are payable only for remuneration that is performance related is higher, as is the total demonstrably superior Company and individual performance.
During amount of remuneration payable.
the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards, the comparison between actual performance and the targets will be on In determining the relative importance of those elements of a consistent basis.
remuneration which are, and those which are not, performance related as required by the Regulations, we have made a number For the Executive Directors, the financial performance measures of assumptions about the Companys share price growth and TSR, for the 2004 incentive year were EPS and return on average capital a TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys BG Group reports its results.
For grants made on or after 21 July 2004, the Groups shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value published EPS is adjusted to take into account the volatility of both commodity of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.
See page 54 for further details.
b EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year excluding exceptional items by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year.
EPS is published quarterly when BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 a employed ROACE.
Both these measures were adjusted to take Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS into account the volatility of upstream prices and the US$ UK A limited number of employees are allocated Company shares exchange rate.
These measures will also apply for 2005.
This allocation marks the beginning of a three year performance was achieved in 2004 on both these measures.
The Companys TSR performance against that of a comparator group over the three year period will determine When determining actual incentive payments, the what proportion of the allocated shares will be transferred into Committee considers: the ownership of the employee.
The Committee considers that overall Group performance, including financial performance measuring performance against a comparator group of companies and health, safety, security and environmental performance: ensures that executives are rewarded based on BG Groups performance relative to the performance of the other companies Group performance relative to peers: and in the comparator group.
During 2004, the TSR performance was individual performance.
measured by the independent TSR monitoring service of Alithos Limited and reviewed by Kepler Associates.
For the 2004 incentive year, taking into account the stretch financial performance and the above factors, the Committee The LTIS comparator group for the 2002, 2003 and 2004 allocations decided that the Executive Directors should be awarded AIS comprises 21 international oil and gas companies including payments of 100% of base salary, representing overall stretch BG Group plc of which 12 are headquartered in the USA, three in b performance.
Payments in respect of the 2004 incentive year were the UK and six elsewhere in Europe.
This group has been chosen made in February 2005.
Payments under the AIS are non-pensionable.
because the Committee believes that it comprises our major business competitors in other words, those companies against Long-term incentives which BG Group is compared by shareholders.
Estimated Present Value EPV The other companies in the comparator group are as follows: EPV is a measure which describes the value, at the time of grant or allocation, of long-term incentives which may, or may not, pay out Amerada Hess El Paso Corporation Repsol YPF SA in the future.
Corporation This measure, which is based on generally accepted remuneration Anadarko Petroleum ENI SpA Royal Dutch practice, takes account of the performance conditions and the risk Corporation Petroleum Co. that grants and allocations may be forfeited.
This EPV is then used BP plc Exxon Mobil Shell Transport & to determine the appropriate levels of face value CSOS grants and Corporation Trading Co. plc LTIS allocations.
Burlington Kerr-McGee Statoil ASA 53 As agreed by shareholders at our Annual General Meeting in 2002, Resources Inc.
Corporation the Committee is able to make awards under both schemes, up to Chevron Texaco Marathon Oil Total SA a maximum combined EPV of 175% of base salary each year.
The Corporation Corporation actual maximum combined EPV granted during 2004 was 167%.
ConocoPhillips Norsk Hydro ASA Unocal Corporation Blend of CSOS and LTIS Duke Energy Occidental Petroleum Each year, the Committee decides on the appropriate blend of Corporation Corporation CSOS grants and LTIS allocations to be made to Executive Directors within the maximum combined EPV.
Awards will always be made under both schemes.
During 2004, the Committee reviewed this The Committee has set the following performance conditions for blend of CSOS grants and LTIS allocations.
For 2001, 2002 and 2003 the 2002, 2003 and 2004 allocations: the Committee restricted the mix such that not less than one-third and not more than two-thirds of the total combined EPV was BG Groups TSR position in delivered by either scheme.
To provide more flexibility in the comparator group % of allocated shares transferred future, the Committee considered it appropriate to modify the Top 100 restriction on the mix between LTIS and CSOS so that not less than Upper Quartile 75 20% and not more than 80% of the total combined EPV will be Median 30 delivered by either scheme.
The maximum combined EPV of 175% Below Median All allocated shares are forfeited of base salary has not changed.
When making the decision on the exact mix, the Committee takes into consideration a number of factors including cost, the Where performance is between Upper Quartile UQ and Top T, performance conditions considered to be key to BG Groups or between Median M and UQ, the percentage of shares to be strategy at the time of the allocation or grant and the need to transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.
remain within scheme dilution limits.
See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 148 a Average capital employed consists of total shareholders funds plus net borrowings averaged between the start and end of year.
ROACE represents profits before tax excluding exceptional items plus net interest payable on net borrowings as a percentage of average capital employed.
b A different comparator group was used for the 2001 allocation.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Remuneration report continued These performance conditions are illustrated by the graph below: achieved for all of the options to become exercisable.
At the end of year five, the options will be exercisable only to the extent that the LTIS performance conditions performance condition has been met.
% of allocated shares transferred As in 2003, the levels of grant made to individual employees in 100 2004 were differentiated based on each individuals performance to date and expectation of future contributions.
For the 2004 75 grant, the Committee set the following performance targets: EPS growth over RPIX over 3 years % of option that is exercisable 30 30% or greater 100 15% 50 M UQ T Less than 15% Option is forfeited Shares allocated under the 2000 LTIS scheme were transferred to eligible employees on 11 November 2004 when the one year A proportion of between half and all of the option will be retention period ended.
exercisable if the Company achieves EPS growth over three years The performance period for the 2001 allocation ended on of RPIX plus between 15% and 30%.
BG Groups final TSR for this period relative to These are the same as the targets which apply to the 2002 and the TSRs of companies in the relevant comparator group placed it 2003 grants and applied to the 2001 grant and are considered by in the upper quartile.
The Committee decided, in accordance with the Committee to be particularly demanding.
These performance the performance conditions for the 2001 allocation, that 100% of targets are illustrated by the graph below: the original allocation of shares had vested and, accordingly, these shares were put into trust on behalf of participating employees.
100 Subject to the rules of the LTIS, these shares will be transferred to those employees at the end of the retention period in November 2005.
There is no retention period for the 2002, 2003 and 2004 50 LTIS allocations.
There is no retest provision under the LTIS rules.
In the event 54 of a change of control, vesting of shares under the LTIS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to which the 15% 30% performance conditions had been met at the time.
% EPS growth over three years in excess of RPIX CSOS performance conditions Company Share Option Scheme CSOS % of option exercisable Approximately 1 600 employees are currently eligible to participate Over the three year performance period for the 2001 CSOS grant, in the CSOS, including UK payroll employees and overseas the Companys EPS growth above the growth in the RPIX exceeded employees above a certain level of seniority.
As a result, 100% of the shares under option granted to The Company grants an option over its shares to each eligible employees in November 2001 are exercisable prior to November employee and the option price is set at the fair market value at 2011.
For the 2000 grant, the performance achieved resulted in the time of the grant.
As described below, the CSOS measures 100% of the shares under option becoming exercisable prior to performance according to EPS growth relative to the growth in the November 2010.
Retail Price Index, excluding mortgage interest repayments RPIX.
In the event of a change of control, exercise of the option under The Committee considers that an EPS performance measure the CSOS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to ensures that executives receive rewards only when the Company which the performance condition had been satisfied at the time.
has achieved sustained earnings growth during the performance period.
In July 2004, the Committee decided to adjust the No CSOS options were exercised by Directors during the year.
calculation of EPS growth for future grants by using constant commodity prices and constant exchange rates.
The Committee All-Employee Share Schemes considers that these adjustments will strengthen the link between In order to encourage share ownership, the Company currently performance and reward by reducing sensitivity to external provides two all-employee share schemes for its UK employees, uncontrollable factors.
the Share Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Scheme.
During the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards, Share Incentive Plan SIP EPS growth figures will be calculated on a consistent basis.
The BG Group SIP is approved by the Inland Revenue.
There are To the extent that the performance target has been met three two parts to the SIP the Partnership Shares Plan and the Free years from the date of grant, the option may be exercised in Shares Plan.
whole or in part at any time up to the expiry of ten years from the date of grant.
a Partnership Shares Eligible employees are offered the opportunity to buy Company The Committee has decided to remove retests for grants made on shares from pre-tax earnings as part of a regular share purchase or after 21 July 2004.
For grants made in 2002 and 2003, fixed point plan.
Shares are currently purchased every six months using retesting is currently allowed in years four and five, but in this employees accumulated deductions and are placed in trust.
event EPS growth of RPIX plus 40% or 50% respectively must be BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 At 31 December 2004, 63% of eligible employees were participating gross salary and a credit of one years pensionable service less in this plan, contributing an average monthly payment of 107. any deductions the employer is required to make, which the Of those participating, 75% were contributing the maximum of Committee considers to be a genuine pre-estimate of loss.
Committee considers that these provisions assist with recruitment and retention and that their inclusion is therefore in the best b Free Shares interests of shareholders.
A Free Shares award of 904 shares, representing the value of the Other than change of control, the Executive Directors service 3 000 statutory limit, was made on 7 April 2004 to all eligible contracts do not contain provisions for compensation in the event employees in the UK based on the Groups performance during of early termination.
These shares will be held in trust for up to five years.
the Committee takes into account a variety of factors, including individual and Company performance, the obligation for the For 2004, the Committee may approve the award of Free Shares Director to mitigate his or her own loss for example, by gaining in the Company up to the statutory limit for each individual.
All new employment and the Directors age and length of service.
eligible employees will receive the same number of shares.
This Further details of the Executive Directors service contracts can number will be determined based on the Groups performance be found on page 57. during 2004.
Senior Executives below the Executive Directors Sharesave Scheme The Committee reviews and approves the individual remuneration The Company continued to operate the BG Group Sharesave packages for the Group Executive Committee members and the Scheme in 2004.
The scheme is approved by the Inland Revenue Company Secretary in accordance with the overriding objectives and enables eligible employees to acquire the Companys shares of our remuneration policy.
Our policy and practice with regard with the proceeds of a monthly savings contract.
The contract to the remuneration of employees below the Executive Directors period is three or five years.
At 31 December 2004, 78% of eligible is entirely consistent with that for the Executive Directors.
These employees were participating in the Sharesave Scheme, contributing senior executives all have a significant portion of their reward an average monthly payment of 200.
Of those participating, 62% package linked to performance.
They all qualify for AIS, CSOS were contributing the statutory maximum of 250 per month.
and LTIS, and their financial targets are the same as or cascaded from the targets for the Executive Directors.
Their individual Employee Profit Sharing Scheme performance is reviewed and their base salary increases, AIS This scheme ceased to operate at the end of 2000.
During 2004, payments, and CSOS and LTIS awards are subject to approval shares allocated to participants in respect of the 2000 scheme by the Committee each year.
were released and transferred into their names.
55 Non-Executive Directors Dilution The Board aims to recruit non-executive Directors of a high The ABI has published guidelines relating to the disclosure of the calibre with broad commercial, international or other relevant percentage of a companys issued share capital that can be issued experience.
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board to employees under share schemes.
In the event of all shares on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
Their outstanding as at 31 December 2004 under BG Groups CSOS appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to and Sharesave Schemes which involve the issue of new shares election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting becoming exercisable, the resulting issue of shares would AGM following their appointment.
They are generally represent less than 1.62% of the issued share capital as at that date.
reappointed for a second term of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
There is no notice period and no provision for Shareholding guidelines termination payments.
The terms of engagement of the nonThe Committee has adopted guidelines for Executive Directors, executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
Group Executive Committee members and certain other senior employees to encourage substantial long-term share ownership.
Non-executive Directors other than the Chairman are paid a These require that, over a period of five years from the introduction basic annual fee of 55 000.
Additional fees are also payable, for of the guidelines in 2002 or date of appointment, if later, example, for membership of, or chairing, a committee of the Board Executive Directors build up, and then retain, a holding of shares or acting as Deputy Chairman.
Fees are reviewed annually, taking with a value equivalent to 200% of base salary.
The required holding into account time commitment, competition for high quality for other members of the Group Executive Committee is 100% of non-executive Directors and market movements.
base salary and for certain other senior employees is 50% of base Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the salary.
The guidelines require that, in relation to the 2002 and later Companys share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
LTIS allocations, vested shares net of tax should be retained by the individual until the required shareholding level is reached.
Service contracts The Executive Directors service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Remuneration Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to manage the Company.
The Committee considers that a notice period of one year is appropriate.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control provisions.
Should the Directors employment be terminated within 12 months of a change of control, they are entitled to liquidated damages.
The amount of liquidated damages is equal to one years BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Remuneration report continued Chairman Historical TSR Performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding of BG Group plc shares Sir Robert Wilson was appointed as Chairman with effect from over the five year period ended 31 December 2004.
In line with the other non-executive Directors, Sir Roberts appointment is for an initial three year term and there is no notice period and no provision for payment in the event of 150 early termination.
Sir Robert Wilson is paid a fee of 500 000 per 120 annum, which is next subject to review in July 2005.
90 Performance graph 60 The graph on the right shows BG Groups TSR performance for the five year period ended 31 December 2004 calculated in accordance 30 with the Regulations against the performance of the FTSE 100.
We 0 have chosen the FTSE 100 because this is a recognised broad equity 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 market index of which the Company is a member.
BG Group based on spot values Source: Towers Perrin FTSE 100 based on spot values The following section of this report provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment and share interests of all the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2004.
b In line with the non-executive Directors other than Sir Richard Giordano, Sir Robert Wilson was paid a fee of 35 000 per annum from 1 January 2003 until 30 June 2003.
From 1 July 2003, this increased to 50 000 per annum until his appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2004. c Each non-executive Director, other than Sir Robert Wilson, was paid a fee of 50 000 per annum until 30 June 2004.
From 1 July 2004, this increased to 55 000 per annum together with a membership fee of 5 000 per committee, other than for the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees received an additional fee of 10 000 per annum until 30 June 2004.
From 1 July 2004, this increased to 15 000 per annum for chairing the Audit Committee and remained at 10 000 for chairing the Remuneration Committee.
d Bonus figures for 2003 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2003 incentive year which were made in February 2004.
Bonus figures for 2004 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2004 incentive year which were made in February 2005. e Salary figures for Executive Directors include Free Shares to the value of 2 998 received under the SIP in April 2003 and 2 997 in April 2004.
In 2005, Ashley Almanza, Frank Chapman and William Friedrich will be eligible to receive up to a further 3 000 worth of Free Shares under the SIP.
f Salary figures for Ashley Almanza for both 2003 and 2004 include a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
Frank Chapman had a cash allowance in lieu of a company car from October 2003 and the value of this is included in his salary figure for 2003 and in 2004. g William Friedrich, who is a US citizen, is covered by long-term care insurance if he returns to the USA.
The value of the taxable benefit for 2004 was 9 082.
Cover is being paid by ten instalments, the first of which was paid in 2002. h In 2004, Sir John Coles received a payment of 5 000 in respect of an overseas trip.
i Keith Mackrell is Deputy Chairman of the Company, for which he receives 70 000 per annum in addition to his fee as a non-executive Director.
j Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman and Director on 31 December 2003.
His contract of employment provided that, for the duration of his chairmanship, he was entitled to the use of a car and driver.
He was also entitled to accident and private medical insurance upon terms agreed by the Board of the Company and the Company paid reasonable fees incurred by his tax advisers.
Sir Richard gave notice of his resignation on 30 June 2003.
His employment terminated by agreement on 31 December 2003 and the Company paid him the sum of 250 000 in lieu of basic salary for the balance of his one year notice entitlement.
In addition, the Company paid Sir Richard the sum of 970 000, representing the cost of providing an office with full-time secretary and use of a car and driver in New York for a period of five years in accordance with his contract of employment.
The Company continues to pay reasonable fees incurred by his tax advisers and, as provided in his contract of employment, this benefit will continue for a period of two years following the cessation of his employment.
Sir Richard also continues to be entitled to private medical insurance and long-term care insurance.
The long-term care insurance is being paid by ten instalments.
k David Benson retired as a Director on 21 May 2004.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below.
Compensation payable Contract Unexpired Notice upon early date term period termination a Ashley Almanza 01 Aug 02 rolling 1yr 1yr n a Frank Chapman 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a William Friedrich 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a a Other than the change of control provisions, the Executive Directors service contracts do not contain provisions for compensation payable upon early termination.
Change of control As described on page 55, the Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control provisions.
For the purposes of these provisions, a change of control is deemed to occur if the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company: or if 50% or more of the voting rights of the Company or the right to appoint or remove the majority of the Board of the Company become vested in any individual or body or group of individuals or bodies acting in concert: or if all or substantially all of the business, assets and undertakings of the Company become owned by any person, firm or company other than a subsidiary or associated company.
A change of control is also deemed to occur if the whole of the issued capital of BG Energy Holdings Limited or a substantial part of the undertaking of that company including its subsidiaries is transferred to another company, unless that transferee company is a subsidiary of the Company, or a company ultimately owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the ultimate owners of the Company.
However, a change of control does not occur if and only if through a process of reconstruction the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the shareholders of the Company.
The Executive Directors service contracts provide that any payments made pursuant to these provisions will be made less any deductions the employer is required to make.
Any such payments shall be in full and final settlement of any claims the Executive Director may have against the employer or any associated company arising out of the termination of employment except for any personal injury claim, any claim in respect of accrued pension rights or statutory employment protection claims.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Date of letter Unexpired of appointment term 57 a Sir Robert Wilson 30 Jun 03 1yr 10mths b Peter Backhouse 5 Mar 04 2yrs 2mths Sir John Coles 15 Feb 03 1yr 2mths b Paul Collins 2 Mar 04 2yrs 2mths Elwyn Eilledge 17 Feb 03 1yr 2mths b Keith Mackrell 4 Mar 04 2mths Dame Stella Rimington 15 Feb 03 1yr 2mths b Lord Sharman 25 Feb 04 2yrs 2mths Former Director c David Benson 18 Feb 03 n a In addition, Baroness Hogg was appointed as a non-executive Director on 27 January 2005.
Her appointment will continue until the 2008 AGM, subject to her election by shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
The non-executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain any notice period or provision for compensation in the event of early termination of their appointment.
a Sir Robert Wilson was appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004.
His unexpired term is subject to re-election by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
b Peter Backhouse, Paul Collins and Lord Sharman were appointed for a further three year term, commencing on the date of the 2004 AGM.
Keith Mackrells appointment was for a term of one year from the date of the 2004 AGM.
c David Benson retired from the Board as a Director on 21 May 2004.
These shares were transferred to the Executive Directors on 11 November 2004, after the end of the retention period.
b As a result of the performance criteria measured in November 2004, 100% of the November 2001 notional allocation is now subject to the one year retention period.
These shares will be transferred to the Executive Directors on 22 November 2005, when the retention period ends.
c Dividends paid on shares held in trust may, at the discretion of the trustees, be reinvested in BG Group plc shares by the trustees and held on behalf of the Executive Directors until the normal release date of the respective allocations.
The market price at the dates of reinvestment during 2004 were as follows: 28 May 2004 3.32 and 10 September 2004 3.52. d The transfer of shares is dependent on the achievement of performance criteria at the end of a three year performance period.
In the case of awards made in 2000 and 2001, there is a retention period of one year following the end of that performance period.
No retention period applies to awards made in 2002, 2003 and 2004.
The performance conditions for the scheme are set out on pages 53 and 54. e The market price on 11 November 2004, the date of transfer, was 3.50.
The Directors also have a deemed beneficial interest in 2 083 430 shares as potential beneficiaries in the BG Group New Employees Share Trust.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES None of the Executive Directors hold options under the Executive Share Option Scheme and no grants have been made under that scheme since 1994.
OPTIONS The number of share options held by the Directors under the BG Group Sharesave Scheme was as follows: Options Options Earliest as at as at normal 1 Jan Exercised Granted Lapsed 31 Dec Exercise exercise Expiry 2004 in year in year in year 2004 price date date a Ashley Almanza 4 230 4 230 3 458 3 458 2.74 Nov 07 May 08 Frank Chapman 4 286 4 286 2.26 Nov 04 May 05 William Friedrich 7 368 7 368 2.29 Mar 06 Sep 06 a The market price on 8 April 2004, the date of exercise, was 3.45.
The total gain on exercise was 4 907.
The performance measure for the CSOS is set out on page 54.
The closing price of an ordinary share on 31 December 2004 was 3.54.
The range during the year was 3.80 high and 2.7375 low.
All market price figures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
ORDINARY SHARES The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the financial year were as follows: Beneficial interests in ordinary shares a As at As at 59 1 Jan 2004 31 Dec 2004 Sir Robert Wilson 32 000 70 000 Ashley Almanza 25 889 33 896 Frank Chapman 223 117 224549 b William Friedrich 245 776 316 673 Peter Backhouse 20 500 20 500 Sir John Coles 5 829 5 829 c Paul Collins 100 000 100 000 Elwyn Eilledge 9 443 9 443 Keith Mackrell 10 148 10 148 Dame Stella Rimington 3 751 3751 Lord Sharman 1 956 1 956 a Beneficial interests including shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group Employee Profit Sharing Scheme and the BG Group Share Incentive Plan.
b William Friedrich holds 77 740 ordinary shares in the form of 15 548 American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
Each ADR represents five ordinary shares.
c Paul Collins holding is in the form of 20 000 ADRs.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Remuneration report continued On 28 February 2005, Baroness Hogg notified the Company that she has a beneficial interest in 5 904 ordinary shares of the Company.
There have been no other changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings between 1 January 2005 and 7 March 2005.
As of 7 March 2005, the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company represent less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
PENSIONS Frank Chapman, William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza were members of the BG Pension Scheme throughout the year.
The benefits provided for them under the BG Pension Scheme are subject to the earnings cap, which is a restriction on the amount of pay that can be used to calculate pensions payable from a UK tax approved pension scheme.
Consequently, retirement benefits including contingent death benefits that are not covered by the BG Pension Scheme are provided by the Company under an unapproved arrangement, the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme.
Provision has been made in respect of the additional obligations for these post-retirement benefits.
The arrangements for all the Executive Directors have not changed during the year.
They provide an accrual of benefits designed to target a pension equivalent to two-thirds of their final 12 months salary on retirement from BG Group at age 60, inclusive of retained benefits.
As for all members of the BG Pension Scheme, if the Company consents to retirement, no actuarial reduction is applied to pensions payable from age 55, provided 10 years service has been completed with the Group which includes pensionable service transferred from previous employment.
Pensions in payment are increased in line with retail price inflation.
An adult dependants pension is payable on death in service, equal to two-thirds of that payable to the pension scheme member based on potential service to retirement age.
On death in retirement, an adult dependants pension is payable equal to two-thirds of the members pension prior to exchanging any of it for a cash lump sum.
A new pensions taxation regime comes into force from April 2006 and the Company is reviewing the effect that this will have on its current arrangements.
Directors pension provisions were as follows: Increase in accrued Total Directors annual pension accrued contributions in year to annual in year to 31 Dec 2004 pension at 31 Dec 2004 Age at 000 pa 31 Dec 2004 Retirement 000 31 Dec 2004 a b 000 pa age Ashley Almanza 12 41 21 20 75 60 60 Frank Chapman 15 51 52 45 307 60 William Friedrich 15 55 45 38 279 60 a Actual increase b Increase net of price inflation Transfer value of Transfer value of Increase in transfer accrued pension as accrued pension as value over the year less at 31 Dec 2003 c at 31 Dec 2004 c Directors own contributions 000 000 000 AshleyAlmanza 468693213 Frank Chapman 3 487 4 433 931 William Friedrich 3 749 4 803 1 039 c The transfer values shown at the end of 2003 and 2004 represent the value of each Executive Directors accrued pension based on total service completed to the relevant date.
The accrued pensions are the amounts that would have been paid if the Executive Director had left service at the relevant date.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 issued by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, it is Company policy to allow each of them to accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another company, the fees for which would be retained by the individual Director.
By order of the Board Elwyn Eilledge Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2005 Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading Berkshire RG6 1PT Registered in England & Wales No.
