Directors Remuneration Report For the Year Ended 31 December 2004 This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A Remuneration Policy of the Companies Act 1985, which sets out the statutory The Boards remuneration policy remains to attract and retain high requirements for disclosure on directors remuneration and calibre executives, with individual rewards and incentives being the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.
aligned with the performance of the Group and with the interests of the shareholders.
Remuneration for executive directors is Remuneration Committee intended to reward both individual and company performance Role measured against performance criteria that are relevant and The Remuneration Committee Committee is responsible for realistic but also challenging, so that good performance is determining the pay and benets and contractual arrangements encouraged.
Therefore, remuneration arrangements will for the Chairman, executive directors and the Group Secretary, continue to focus on incentive plans that encourage delivery and for overseeing the Groups Share Schemes.
The Committee of operating plans and shareholder value.
also recommends and monitors the structure and levels of remuneration for senior managers throughout the Group.
In Also, under Committee guidelines, each executive director is fullling its role, the Committee develops and recommends to the required to build up over a period of five years and retain, whilst Board remuneration strategies that drive performance and reward a director, a minimum holding of shares in the Company that performance appropriately.
It operates under the delegated equivalent to his or her annual basic salary.
authority of the Board and its Terms of Reference are available For 2005 and beyond, annual salary will continue to be set at to view on the Groups website www.
levels not normally exceeding market median, whilst bonuses It is committed to principles of accountability and transparency and long term incentive plans will reect market upper quartile to ensure that remuneration arrangements demonstrate a clear competitive levels and be based on achieving targets.
link between reward and performance.
In its work, the Committee Proposed Changes to Long Term Incentives from 2005 considers fully the principles and provisions of the Combined Code Shareholder approval will be sought for the following proposed on Corporate Governance.
changes to the bonus and long term incentive arrangements for Membership executive directors.
The Committee comprises the following non-executive directors: Proposed Structure Mr M P S Barton Target annual bonus level will be 75% of salary, capped at Committee Chairman and senior independent a maximum of 150% of salary.
A bonus will be payable on non-executive director achievement of corporate and individual performance targets and at the discretion of the Committee.
There will be a requirement Mr M J Allen to take at least 25% of the bonus in the form of shares, deferred The Hon.
D Brougham for 3 years, for any individual who has not yet met the shareholding guideline.
Mr R M McTighe The share-matching element of the Deferred Bonus Scheme, Mrs M Salmon from 1 December 2004 which carries an absolute maximum benefit of 300% of salary, Miss F A Cairncross and Mr E J Watts were members of the will be replaced with a long-term incentive plan.
The new plan Committee until 1 December 2004. will provide for a maximum annual award of 200% of salary, but the annual award will normally be over shares to the value The Group Secretary, Mr T S Lloyd, acted as secretary to the of 125% of annual salary.
Vesting of the award will be subject Committee throughout 2004, and provided professional assistance to performance conditions.
More detail of the new plan is set to the Committee on governance issues.
out under Long Term Incentive Schemes on page 30.
Meetings Existing Structure The directors attendance at Committee meetings held during their Target annual bonus level is 60% of salary with a maximum period of membership and the number of meetings held during potential bonus level of 200% of salary.
A bonus will be payable 2004 is set out on page 38.
The Chairman, Mr J R Windeler, the on achievement of corporate and individual performance targets Group Chief Executive, Mr R A Pym, and the Director of Human and at the discretion of the Committee.
25% of the bonus must Resources, Ms F Rodford, are invited to attend the Committee be deferred into shares and each executive director has an meetings, except when the Committee discusses matters relating entitlement to defer up to 100% of the bonus.
Any bonus that is deferred may be matched by the Company Advisers depending on the Companys relative Total Shareholder Return The Committee used the services of Towers Perrin during the performance against a group of its retail banking peers.
The year to provide general remuneration advice and comparator maximum match available, for upper quartile achievement information, and Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer against this group, is 300% of the deferred amount.
to advise specically on pension related issues.
With the agreement of the Committee, the Companys external auditor Deloitte It is intended to continue the policy of granting options on an & Touche LLP continues to provide specialist advice on the annual basis, with a typical total exercise price of 150% of annual Groups Share Schemes.
Mercer also act as actuaries and salary.
Such options are only exercisable if the percentage growth advisers to the Groups pension scheme and advise the in earnings per share EPS exceeds the increase in the Retail Company on matters relating to its operation.
Price Index RPI by at least 9% over a three-year period.
The Committee consults with the Chairman and Group Chief The facility of retesting the performance condition in the fourth Executive, as appropriate, and is also supported by Ms F Rodford, or fifth year will cease.
More detail on the options is set out the Director of Human Resources.
28 Alliance & Leicester Remuneration Report Performance Graph For 2005 and beyond, it is proposed that the requirement to take at least one quarter of the annual bonus in deferred shares will continue The performance graph below shows the Companys performance for any executive director who has not yet met the requirement in comparison with the FTSE 100 Index over the five years ended 31 December 2004.
The FTSE Index was chosen as it is a broad to hold shares in the Company, equivalent to his or her basic salary, but there will be no match of deferred shares by the Company.
equity market index consisting of companies of similar complexity and size to the Company.
The rights to deferred shares cannot normally be exercised for three years and lapse if not exercised within seven years.
Deferred shares TSR Performance: are not awarded within two years of an individuals 60th birthday.
Alliance & Leicester v FTSE 100, 01.01.2000 to 31.12.2004 Bonuses are discretionary and are non-pensionable.
150 TSR Total Shareholder Return, i. e. movement There are share schemes for executive directors designed to align in share price plus the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders.
130 reinvested dividends Alliance & Leicester plc Share Options FTSE 100 110 Each executive director is eligible for the grant of options under the Alliance & Leicester Approved and Unapproved Company 90 Share Option Schemes.
The price at which shares can be acquired on exercise of options is the market value of the shares on the day prior to the date of grant.
Accordingly, the share price has to rise 70 above the price at which the option is granted before an executive director can benefit.
50 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 The aggregate value of new shares, for which options to subscribe may be granted to each executive director in any year, cannot normally exceed a maximum total annual award of two times Remuneration for Executive Directors basic salary, with a power for the Committee to increase this The main components of the remuneration package for executive up to four times basic salary if it considers that this is warranted directors are: in exceptional circumstances.
Basic Salary The value of shares subject to option grants has typically been Basic salary for executive directors takes into account the role, up to one and a half times basic salary two times for new responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
appointments, with the grants being made in two tranches This is normally reviewed annually unless responsibilities change.
following the final and interim results.
Options cannot normally Salary levels are set against background information from be exercised for three years from the date of grant.
The independent advisers on salary levels for similar positions amongst performance condition applied to grants is that options are a specic comparator group of financial organisations and with exercisable if the percentage growth in EPS exceeds the increase due regard to general salary trends within companies in the FTSE in the RPI by at least 9% over that three year period grants, 100 Index, with individual salaries being then placed at a level that prior to 2002, have used a percentage between 6% and 9%.
reects the personal contribution and experience of each executive The Committee reviews this condition before each new grant director.
Details of salaries payable for 2004 are set out on page 31. paying due regard to market practice.
The Committee considers Annual Bonus this performance condition to be suitable and appropriate At the discretion of the Committee, executive directors are eligible as a means of focusing executive directors on generating to receive an annual performance bonus.
earnings growth and accords with market practice.
No options are awarded within two years of an individuals 60th birthday.
For 2004, bonuses were contingent on achievement of one-year performance targets set by the Committee.
These comprise a mix Options normally vest after three years subject to attainment of corporate targets revenue growth, cost reduction, pre-tax profit of the relevant performance conditions.
Provisions previously and growth in EPS and individual personal performance targets.
existed for the retesting of performance after year 4 and year The target annual bonus was 60% of salary with a maximum 5, calculated from the base grant year and based on percentage achievable bonus of 200%.
growth in EPS exceeding the increase in RPI by at least 12% year 4 or 15% year 5.
No re-testing of performance will take place For 2005, bonuses will again be contingent on achievement of for grants made in 2005 and thereafter.
Options granted prior to performance targets set by the Committee.
These will combine 2002 are subject to performance conditions that may be measured corporate pre-tax profit and return on equity and individual over any three-year period, within the term of the option.
The bonus for on target performance will be 75% of salary, with a maximum of 150% of salary for Under the rules of the share option schemes, options are exceptional performance.
exercisable prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant where an option holder ceases to be employed by the Company In order to encourage executive directors to build up a significant by reason of death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, personal stake in the Company, they have been required to receive retirement or transfer of the employing company outside the one quarter of their annual bonus in the form of a deferred shares Group or at the discretion of the Committee in any other option award which the Company will match, under the 2004 circumstances.
Also, in these circumstances, any performance bonus arrangements, if related performance criteria are achieved conditions attaching to the exercise of the options cease to apply.
see below under Long Term Incentive Scheme.
Under the 2004 bonus arrangements, executive directors were able to voluntarily Long Term Incentive Scheme defer up to 100% of their annual bonus to a maximum of 100% Deferred Bonus Scheme of salary for this purpose.
Under the Alliance & Leicester Deferred Bonus Scheme, applicable Annual Report & Accounts 2004 29 Directors Remuneration Report continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2004 for 2004 and previous years but proposed to be replaced for 2005 In the event of a change of control of the Group taking place, the and thereafter, the Company may match an award of deferred Remuneration Committee, in its absolute discretion, will determine shares on the basis of up to three matched shares for each deferred the extent to which an award may vest, having regard to the share awarded.
The maximum matched award is given for upper length of time that it has been held and the extent to which the quartile performance in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR performance targets have been satisfied.
measured relative to a peer group of retail banks.
TSR measures If an individual leaves the Group, an unvested award will normally the change in value of a share and reinvested income over the lapse.
However, in exceptional circumstances for example, as period of measurement.
The constituents of the peer group, a result of retirement the rules of the Plan allow awards to vest excluding the Company, are: early at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Barclays Bank plc Bradford & Bingley plc The shares required in connection with the Plan will be sourced HBOS plc Lloyds TSB Group plc from market purchase or, subject to the usual dilution limits, Northern Rock plc The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc new issue or treasury shares.
These banks were chosen because they are all in the financial None of these benets will be pensionable.
services sector and are broadly comparable in the range of activities undertaken.
Awards only begin to vest when median Employee Share Schemes performance relative to the peer group is achieved, with linear Executive directors may also participate in the Companys existing progression from one matching share at median performance Employee Share Schemes, including the Savings Related Share up to three matching shares for upper quartile performance.
Option Scheme and the Companys Share Incentive Plan, on The rights to matching shares cannot normally be exercised for the same basis as all other employees.
There are no performance three years, except in the circumstances set out below, and lapse conditions attached to these schemes.
if not exercised within seven years.
TSR is considered by the Service Contracts Committee to be a suitable measure for this type of scheme, Executive directors have service contracts that continue until as it provides clear links with the creation of shareholder value.
terminated by twelve months notice but which in any event Further details are set out on page 34. terminate on their 60th birthday.
Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, options may be exercised The contractual provisions state that, if the employment prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant where the of an executive director is terminated by the Company for executive director ceases to be employed by reason of death, any reason other than due cause without twelve months injury, ill-health, disability, retirement or at the discretion of the notice being given, the director is entitled to receive payment Trustees to the Scheme based on recommendations of the of twelve months basic salary and pension benets.
In addition, Committee in any other circumstances.
Performance conditions the Committee, having regard to the individual directors apply unless waived by the Committee and are normally subject performance for the period worked, may in its absolute to a three-year performance period, without re-testing.
discretion, award a cash bonus in respect of the period worked.
Performance Share Plan Life insurance and medical insurance cover will be maintained From 2005, it is proposed that the Deferred Bonus Scheme will for twelve months from the termination date.
No such payments be replaced by a new Performance Share Plan Plan, under of salary and pension benets, on termination by the Company, which the maximum annual award will normally be shares will exceed a payment based on the number of months from to the value of 125% of salary, with the Committee retaining the date of termination of employment to the executive discretionary exibility to adjust this level up or down, having directors normal retirement date.
There is no provision for regard to the performance of the business and the individual.
receipt of additional compensation in the event of a change Any adjustment is likely to be in the range of plus or minus 25% of control.
of salary with an absolute maximum annual award of 200% The executive directors may terminate their contracts of of annual salary.
The performance period will be 3 years with employment at any time by giving six months prior notice.
The performance test will be in 2 parts: Pensions The vesting of 50% of the award will depend on the Executive directors are members of the Dened benefit Section performance of the Companys TSR relative to a peer group of the Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme, which has a normal of retail banks initially consisting of the following: retirement age of 60.
Allied Irish Banks plc Bank of Ireland Group The main features of the pension promise for executive directors, Barclays Bank plc Bradford & Bingley plc based on the standard terms of the Scheme, are: HBOS plc HSBC plc Lloyds TSB Group plc Northern Rock plc a Pensions from age 60 of 1 60th of basic salary averaged Standard Chartered plc The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc over the last twelve months prior to retirement for each year of pensionable service.
30% of the award will be payable at median performance and maximum vesting will be for achieving upper quartile performance, b A cash benefit on death in service of 4x annual rate of basic with straight line interpolation between these points.
The vesting of the other 50% of the award will depend on the c Pensions payable in the event of ill-health.
Companys adjusted EPS growth relative to ination over each d Pensions for dependants on a members death are generally performance period.
Vesting will begin when the adjusted EPS equal to half the members prospective retirement pension at growth equals RPI 3% over the performance period and the 60 on death in service, or half the members pension award will fully vest at a growth of RPI 8% over the entitlement on death in retirement.
performance period, with straight line interpolation between these points.
Member contributions are 5% of basic salary.
30 Alliance & Leicester Remuneration Report The following directors have special arrangements: Non-executive directors who are in full-time employment with a third party employer may elect to pay the whole or part of their a Mr Pym and Mr Bennett are entitled to a pension of 2 3rd of fees to it.
Payments in respect of Mr Stones fees were made to their final pensionable salary on retirement at age 60 inclusive his service company, and in respect of Mrs J V Barker are made of retirement benets from service at other organisations.
b Mr Pym is not required to contribute.
Mr Bennett contributes There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon 15% of the Earnings Cap.
early termination of an appointment.
The non-executive directors There is an unfunded, unapproved pension arrangement to are not eligible for share options.
increase the pension and lump sum life assurance benefit to Details of appointment periods appear below: the level promised, where, because of Inland Revenue limitations Date of current including those resulting from the Earnings Cap, these cannot appointment be paid in total from the Scheme.
Such arrangements apply to or reappointment Expiry Date Notice Period Mr Pym and Mr Bennett.
J R Windeler 1 June 2002 1 June 2005 None M J Allen 1 January 2005 1 January 2007 None On retirement from service an executive director may, with the M P S Barton 13 May 2003 13 May 2005 None consent of the employer, draw his accrued pension from the The Hon D Brougham 8 May 2003 8 May 2005 None Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme at any time after his 50th R M McTighe 1 June 2003 1 June 2005 None birthday subject to a reduction of 3% for each year by which E J Watts 8 May 2003 8 May 2005 None retirement precedes his 60th birthday.
Mrs J V Barker 1 January 2004 1 January 2006 None Mrs M Salmon 1 July 2004 1 July 2006 None Pensions in payment are subject to contractual increases each which may follow earlier renewals April in line with the annual percentage rise in the RPI over the previous calendar year, subject to a maximum of 5%.
Audited Information Directors Remuneration There are no discretionary practices that are taken into account Year ended 31 December 2004 in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
The Committee is reviewing the impact of the Pension Salaries Cash Deferred Other Total Total Fees Bonus Bonus i Benefits 2004 2003 Simplication regime that is due to come into effect from 000 000 000 000 000 000 April 2006 and will complete the review during 2005.
Executive Directors Other Benefits R A Pym 565 200 228 34 1,027 996 R LBanks 2901464923 508 516 Executive directors are eligible for a range of benets, which D JBennett 353144 48 10 555 597 include the provision of a company car, payment of car operating C SRhodes 325130 43 2 500 523 expenses including fuel, concessionary mortgage facilities, life Subtotal 1,533 620 368 69 2,590 2,632 assurance and membership of a private medical insurance scheme.
Other Directorships Chairman The Group is supportive of executive directors who wish to take J R Windeler 387 7 394 374 one non-executive directorship with a publicly quoted company Non-Executive Directors in order to broaden their experience.
They are entitled to retain M J Allen 52 2 54 50 any fees they may receive.
Mr R A Pym was appointed J V Barker 52 52 a non-executive director of Halfords plc on 17 May 2004.
F A Cairncross to 31.12.04 52 52 50 Remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors R MMcTighe 52 52 45 The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee MSalmon 26 26 and that of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board from 01.07.04 as a whole, both in the light of recommendations by the Group ii P J Stone 46 46 10 Chief Executive, based on comparator information, and within to 30.9.
04 the limits specified in the Articles of Association of the Company.
E JWatts 52 2 54 45 No non-executive director has an employment contract with the Subtotal 914 13 927 757 Company.
On joining the Board, non-executive directors are issued Total 2,447 620 368 82 3,517 3,389 with an appointment letter.
Notes: New non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period i Maximum aggregate market value at date of grant of deferred share options of two years, which may be renewed for one or more terms recommended by the Remuneration Committee to the Trustees of the Alliance of two years.
An example of a non-executive directors letter & Leicester Share Ownership Trust for award in February 2005 in accordance of appointment can be found on the Groups web site with the deferred bonus arrangements described on page 29 to 30.
options over these shares become exercisable after 3 years, if the director is still employed by the Company or at the discretion of the Trustees, if he Mr Windeler enjoys the benefit of non-exclusive use leaves the Group earlier.
More details can be found on page 29 to 30. of a chauffeured car for business purposes.
ii Mr Stones fees were paid to his company and include VAT.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to build up their shareholding to 5,000 shares.
No options have been, or will be, granted to any non-executive directors in their capacity as non-executive directors of the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Directors Remuneration Report continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2004 Pension Entitlements Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Director J R Windeler R L Banks D J Bennett R A Pym C S Rhodes The beneficial interests of directors at the year-end in shares in Alliance & Leicester plc were: Age attained at 31.12.04 61 53 42 55 41 Fully Paid Shares of 50p each Normal retirement age 60 60 60 60 60 As at 1.1.
Directors contributions payable during year In addition to the beneficial interests in shares shown as at 31 December 2004, to 31.12.04 C 14,500 15,188 15,625 Mr R L Banks, Mr D J Bennett, Mr R A Pym and Mr C S Rhodes were each allocated 89 shares in the capital of the Company by the Share Incentive Plan 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Trustee on 28 January 2005.
There were no other changes in the beneficial Cash equivalent transfer interests of the Directors in Company shares between 31 December 2004 and value at 31.12.03 A 517 909 277 2,269 446 12 February 2005.
Cash equivalent transfer value at 31.12.04 B 566 1,154 432 3,303 683 Change in transfer value over year to 31.12.04 net of member contributions B-A-C 49 230 140 1,034 221 Details of terms and conditions associated with the above pensions are shown on pages 30 and 31.
On 31 December 2004 the market price of ordinary shares in Alliance & Leicester plc was 9.12p and the range during 2004 was 7.955p to 9.155p.
No options have expired unexercised during 2004.
Bonus Awards The following table shows the directors interests in deferred share options awarded under the deferred bonus scheme but does not include those subject to award in February 2005 as described on page 31.
Value of Market Value Bonus award at date of grant No.
# For the 2000 to 2003 bonus years when a maximum of up to 3 matching shares for each share may be awarded TSR performance is measured against the TSR performance of a single comparator group of retail banks see page 30.
C S Rhodes deferred and matching shares were awarded prior to his appointment as a Director of the Company.
Only one matching share, which is not subject to a performance condition, may be awarded for each deferred share.
Long Term Incentive Scheme The following table shows the directors interests in matched share options awarded under the deferred bonus scheme but does not include those subject to award in February 2005 as described on page 31.
These gures represent the maximum potential award.
These options remain unexercised at 31 December 2004.
The market value of shares on date of grant was 6.63p.
The market value on the date of options vesting was 8.81p, representing an aggregate gain of 89,801 for Mr R A Pym, an aggregate gain of 58,566 for Mr R L Banks and an aggregate gain of 48,801 for Mr D J Bennett.
The exercise price for the matched share options is nil.
There were no variations in terms and conditions of the Scheme during the year.
The market value of shares awarded on 3 March 2004 was 8.60p.
On behalf of the Board M P S Barton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2005 34 Alliance & Leicester
