Aviva plc 2004 Directors remuneration report This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Companys Remuneration policy directors and senior executives, outlines the various elements of their Executive directors remuneration and discloses the amounts of remuneration paid to The Companys remuneration policy seeks to provide remuneration the directors in 2004.
The report also contains details of the packages appropriate for each particular market in which the Company remuneration review undertaken during the year and explains the operates which will attract and retain high calibre employees and changes to the remuneration packages which are proposed from 2005. encourage and reward superior performance in a manner consistent Shareholders will be invited to approve this report at the Annual with the interests of shareholders.
The policy seeks to ensure that General Meeting to be held on 26 April 2005. senior executives are rewarded fairly for their individual and collective contributions to the Companys performance and is designed to provide The Remuneration Committee an appropriate balance between the delivery of the annual business The Remuneration Committee comprises the following independent plan and the long-term profitable growth of the Company.
non-executive directors appointed by the Board: Against this broad policy, the Committee sets the content of the senior George Paul Chairman executives total remuneration package by reference to a variety of Wim Dik factors, including market practices for companies of similar size, type Richard Goeltz and standing.
It also considers the current economic and prevailing Elizabeth Vallance operating conditions within both the Group and the financial services Andr Villeneuve industry generally as well as the skills and management capabilities All members of the Committee served throughout the year other than which the Group must secure in order to attain its strategic objectives Richard Goeltz who was appointed to the Committee in May 2004. and notes the level of remuneration required to secure these skills.
The Committee met on six occasions in 2004 and the members The Boards philosophy is that the senior executives own interests attendance record is set out on page 47.
The Group Company Secretary should be aligned with those of the Companys shareholders.
acts as the secretary to the Committee.
It therefore believes that, whilst paying a competitive basic salary, a The Group Chief Executive is normally invited to attend the meetings of substantial proportion of the targeted total remuneration package the Committee, except when his own remuneration is being discussed, should be closely linked to the performance of the business and as is the Group Human Resources Director.
delivered in the form of shares.
The Committee considers all aspects of the Companys policy governing No changes were made to the remuneration policy and packages during the remuneration paid to the the Groups senior executive population the year other than for those executives who were members of the which comprises the executive directors and the most senior members Aviva Staff Pension Scheme on a non-contributory basis.
A requirement of management, totalling approximately 40 executives and makes to contribute was introduced from 1 April 2004 at a level of 2.5% pa of recommendations to the Board on the remuneration policy, strategy and gross pensionable salaries.
This will rise to 5% pa from April 2005. framework for this group of employees.
The remuneration policy is Chairman and non-executive directors reviewed by the Committee on a regular basis to ensure that it remains It is the Companys policy to set the fees paid to its Chairman and appropriate within the market and for the achievement of its objectives.
non-executive directors at the median level for international companies Within the scope of the policy, the Committee determines the level of of similar size and complexity.
Non-executive directors receive a basic remuneration paid to each of the executive directors.
The Committee annual fee in respect of their Board and Board committee duties, with a also reviews and sets the fee payable to the Chairman as well as further fee being paid to those directors other than the Chairman and exercises, on behalf of the Board, discretion in relation to the operation Deputy Chairman who have the additional responsibility of chairing of the Groups various share schemes and incentive plans.
A copy of the meetings of Board committees.
Fees are reviewed regularly and are Committees terms of reference is available from the Group Company set by the Board to attract individuals with the broad range of skills Secretary and can be viewed on the Companys website.
and experience appropriate for a major international company.
Mike Pemberton, the Group Human Resources Director, has provided In determining the level of fees paid to the non-executive directors material assistance to the Committee during the year advising on the Board considers a recommendation from the executive directors market trends, practices and appropriate levels of remuneration.
who take into account their duties and responsibilities, the time Deloitte & Touche, which has provided actuarial and accounting services commitment required in preparing for and attending meetings, and to the Group during the year, advised the Committee on the calculation the amounts paid by competitors and similar-sized companies.
of total shareholder return for the purposes of the long-term incentive Other than the Chairman who receives a car allowance, the Chairman plans.
In addition, the Committee has taken into account the views and non-executive directors receive no benets in addition to their fees of Pehr Gyllenhammar, Chairman, and Richard Harvey, Group Chief nor do they participate in any incentive or performance plans.
Executive, when assessing the performance of the executive directors.
The basic fee payable to each non-executive director during the year  PwC advised the Committee on the was 42,000 pa with an additional 25,000 pa paid to the chairman of implications of the international accounting standards on the the Audit Committee.
The fee paid to the Chairman is 300,000 pa accounting treatment of the share plans.
PwC is the auditor of and the fee paid to the Deputy Chairman which includes acting as Delta Lloyd, the Groups subsidiary company in the Netherlands and the chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as the senior also advised the Company on a wide range of non-audit accounting independent non-executive director is 160,000 pa. No changes were issues during the year.
made to these fees during the year.
In respect of the remuneration review detailed on page 56, the The Companys articles of association provide that the total aggregate Company was supported by KPMG LLP which provided other material remuneration paid to directors shall be determined by the Board services to the Group during the year.
New Bridge Street Consultants within the limits set by shareholders.
In recognition of the growing were appointed by the Committee to provide an independent opinion accountabilities and time commitments required of non-executive on the recommendations arising from the review.
New Bridge Street directors of major companies, the market level of fees has increased Consultants have provided no other services to the Group during over recent years.
To be able to continue to pay competitive fees and the year.
53 Directors remuneration report Aviva plc 2004 Directors remuneration report continued attract high calibre directors a proposal will be put to shareholders at The performance targets comprise numerous relevant measures, the forthcoming Annual General Meeting that the limit on the including Group and business unit operating profits, combined aggregate remuneration which can be paid to directors be increased operating ratios, new business contribution, and the actual performance from 1 million pa to 1.5 million pa. Executive directors receive no against these is aggregated to determine the bonus levels paid.
remuneration for serving as directors.
The targets vary between participants depending upon their particular responsibilities and spheres of inuence.
Remuneration package The remuneration package for the Groups senior executives which A fundamental part of the annual bonus plan is the requirement that a applied during the year is set out below and it is proposed that a stated proportion of any cash bonus awarded under the plan be taken number of changes be made to the packages for 2005.
These changes in the form of shares through the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Executive and the reason for proposing them are described on page 56 under the directors were required to defer 50%, and could elect to defer up to heading Remuneration Review.
100%, of any cash bonuses to be awarded to them under the annual cash bonus plan.
In respect of bonuses deferred, participants were During the year the remuneration package comprised the granted an award of shares of equal value to the amount of cash bonus following elements: deferred and this was matched on a one for one basis with a further A basic salary: award of shares.
The shares granted under the plan vest automatically after three years.
In addition, at vesting, participants received shares to An annual bonus plan to encourage executives to meet annual represent the notional dividends paid on the award shares during the targets relating to business, and personal, performance: deferral period.
A deferred bonus plan linked to the annual bonus plan to If a participant leaves service during the vesting period for reasons of encourage executives to take all of their bonus in the form of shares ill-health, retirement or redundancy, the matching shares are released in and to retain them for a period of three years: full at the end of the vesting period.
In other cases, the matching shares A long-term incentive plan to align executives longer term interests normally lapse.
with those of shareholders: The Committee considered the suggestion of certain institutional A dened benefit pension entitlement: investors that the vesting of matching awards should be subject to the attainment of performance conditions.
The award of matching shares Other benets comprising a car allowance and private can only be made in relation to bonuses actually earned, ie the medical insurance.
performance conditions attaching to the annual bonus plan must have The balance between these elements is set such that, for directors been met.
The plan makes it compulsory for participants to defer 50% achieving Target performance, basic salary represents approximately of their bonus into shares and encourages participants to invest the 40% of the potential total remuneration package, with the annual whole of their bonus into shares, thereby strengthening further the bonus deferred bonus plan representing 35% and the long-term alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
At Stretch performance, basic pay represents believed that the imposition of additional performance conditions would approximately 28% of the potential total remuneration package, be detrimental to achieving such extended shareholdings.
As a result of with the annual bonus deferred bonus plan representing 36% and benchmarking the Companys remuneration package, the Committee the long-term incentive plan also representing about 36%.
Stretch was aware that the maximum amount which a participant could earn performance broadly represents the achievement of aggregate business under the Companys annual cash bonus plan, and hence defer, being results at 115% or more of the business plan targets set for the year.
50% of basic salary, was at the bottom decile of the market range.
Taking the above into account, the Committee was satisfied that the Basic salaries absence of performance conditions was reasonable.
However, the In determining the level of basic salaries, the Committee gathers data continuation of this practice was given particular consideration in the from a number of independent sources concerning the level of salaries remuneration review and it is proposed to amend the Plan as described paid to senior executives performing comparable functions within the in the remuneration review below.
50 largest listed companies in the UK, with an additional focus on leading UK and European financial services companies.
In addition to Long-term incentives market data the Committee also takes into account the executives The Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan is a discretionary share plan.
performance as well as the level of salaries, and salary increases, for It is the Committees policy to make an annual award of shares to employees generally.
The Companys policy is to set basic salaries for executive directors with a value equal to 100% of their basic salary competent performance at the median level with further progression as at 31 December of the previous year.
All awards are made subject to the achievement of stretching Cash bonuses performance conditions which contain two elements.
The first element Senior executives participate in a discretionary annual bonus plan that compares the Total Shareholder Return TSR produced by the Company provides for the payment of cash bonuses.
For executive directors the over a three-year performance period with the TSR of companies in a bonus for Target performance is 35% of basic salary and for chosen comparator group 70% of award.
The second element of the achieving Stretch performance a payment of up to 50% could be performance condition measures the Return on Capital Employed made.
Of the potential payment, 70% is dependent upon financial ROCE within the Company over the performance period against a targets and the remaining 30% is based upon the directors attainment target return 30% of award.
The Committee believes that this of personal objectives including measures of customer service and combination is an appropriate way of incentivising executives since it employee satisfaction.
Once the Groups business plan has been takes into account both the comparative returns to shareholders and the approved by the Board, the Committee meets to ensure that the targets Companys underlying performance.
set under the annual bonus plan against the various key performance The achievement of median TSR performance within the comparator indicators are consistent with the business plan, and also to determine group triggers the vesting of 20% of the shares, which rises to 70% if what levels of performance would constitute Target and Stretch the Companys performance is in the upper decile of the comparator performance for the various key performance indicators.
The comparator group for the TSR part of the plan comprises 19 European financial services companies, namely Abbey prior to 54 Aviva plc 2004 15 November 2004, AEGON, Allianz, AXA, Barclays, CNP Assurances, Dilution Ergo, Fortis, HBOS, HSBC, ING, Legal & General, Lloyds TSB, Prudential, The Company monitors the awards of shares made under the various Royal Bank of Scotland, Royal & Sun Alliance, Skandia, Swiss Life and all-employee and discretionary share plans which it operates in relation Zurich.
The awards vest after three years, but only to the extent that the to their effect on dilution limits.
The relevant percentages in respect of performance conditions are satisfied.
the rolling 5 and 10 years tests established by the Association of British Insurers were 1.2% and 2.8% respectively based on the issued share The other 30% of the award vests if the Company achieves a given capital at 31 December 2004. return in excess of ination on the ROCE over the performance period.
Awards under this performance condition will begin to vest if the Between March 1998 and March 2003 it was the Companys practice to cumulative ROCE over the performance period is 24% in excess of buy shares in the market at the time of grant, through employee trusts the rate of ination, with the full 30% vesting if the ROCE is 30%, in order to meet its liability for shares awarded under the incentive or higher.
Details of the shares held in the employee trusts are set out in note 30 d on page 97.
At 31 December 2004 there were 5,894,264 If the performance targets have not been met at all at the end of the shares held in the trusts which, in the Committees opinion, remain performance period they will be retested at the end of five years, the adequate to cover the number of shares considered likely to vest in ROCE performance condition being adjusted accordingly, ie the relation to awards granted in the said period.
Since March 2003 it has cumulative ROCE would need to be at least 40% in excess of the rate been the Companys practice to meet its obligations in respect of shares of ination over the extended performance period for any awards under awarded under the all-employee share plans and incentive plans that part of the plan to vest.
The Committee is conscious that certain through the issue of new shares at the time the awards vest.
institutions are not in favour of performance conditions being retested.
From a benchmarking exercise the Committee noted that the Major changes to accounting policies and practices including the Companys performance conditions ie upper decile TSR and ROCE change to international accounting standards in 2005 and the adoption exceeding 30% in excess of ination over the performance period are of European Embedded Value principles referred to elsewhere in these very demanding compared with such plans generally.
The Committee Report and Accounts will impact a number of the key performance believes that it is important to strike a balance between setting targets and performance measures used in connection with the annual challenging performance conditions and retaining the motivational bonus plan and long-term incentive plans.
During the transition period, incentive which is the fundamental purpose of the Plan.
No retesting the Committee will satisfy itself that the evaluation of actual takes place if any part of the performance condition has been met at performance against the performance conditions set makes appropriate the end of the three-year performance period.
However, the practice of allowance for the changes to the accounting basis.
retesting was given particular consideration in the remuneration review Pension arrangements and it is proposed that the Plan be amended as described in the The remuneration package for senior executives in the UK includes remuneration review below.
Company contributions into the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme the Whether or not the performance conditions have been met is Scheme.
All executive directors are members of the dened benefit determined by the Committee.
The rules of the Plan require the section of the Scheme.
Committee to request an independent consultant to determine the Under the Scheme, executive directors have a normal retirement age of relevant TSR positions.
In respect of the ROCE calculation, the 60 and accrue pensions at a rate of either one thirtieth Richard Harvey, Committee requests that the Groups auditor expresses a formal Philip Scott and Patrick Snowball or one forty-fifth Andrew Moss of opinion on the basis of the calculation used.
their final pensionable salary for each year of service since they became Performance graph a senior executive, subject to a maximum pension of two-thirds of their The following graph compares the TSR performance of the Company final pensionable salary.
No pension benets are accrued on bonuses over the past five years with the TSR of the FTSE100 Return Index which or other benets.
The Scheme provides a lump sum death-in-service has been chosen because it is a recognised broad equity market index of benefit of four times the members basic salary at the date of death which the Company is a member.
The graph also includes the median and a spouses pension equal to two-thirds of a members actual or TSR of the companies in the comparator group which is included as this prospective pension.
Post-retirement, pensions are reviewed annually is the group with which performance is measured for the purposes of and increases are guaranteed at a rate equivalent to the annual increase the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan.
in the Retail Prices Index up to a maximum of 10% pa.
Prior to 1 April 2004 membership of the Scheme for the majority of Five year total shareholder return comparison members of the dened benefit section was on a non-contributory 120 basis.
However from that date, all members of the Scheme, including the executive directors, who were not already contributing were 110 required to pay 2.5% pa of their total gross pensionable salary to 100 the Scheme.
The level of contribution will increase to 5% pa from 1 April 2005.
The benets paid from the Scheme are subject to 90 Inland Revenue limits.
There is in place an unfunded pension top-up arrangement to ensure that senior executives receive the benets 80 Aviva promised by the Scheme notwithstanding an Inland Revenue limit Comparator Group Median relating to their level of earnings which, in some cases, caps the amount 70 FTSE 100 Return Index of pension that can be paid from a tax-approved scheme.
Where this 60 limit applies the benets which cannot be paid from the Scheme are provided from the unfunded arrangement.
Richard Harvey and Andrew 50 Moss are affected by this limit and therefore will, at retirement, receive some of their pension benets from the unfunded arrangement.
Dec 1999 Dec 2000 Dec 2001 Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Other benets In addition to the benets described above, senior executives are entitled to the benefit of a company car allowance and private medical insurance.
55 Directors remuneration report Aviva plc 2004 Directors remuneration report continued The Company operates a number of Inland Revenue approved Non-executive appointments all-employee share plans in the UK.
Senior executives are entitled to The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have letters participate in these plans on the same basis as other eligible employees.
of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
These include the Free Share element of the Aviva All-Employee Share Such appointments are generally for three years and may be renewed Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under this plan, eligible employees can receive by mutual consent.
These appointments can be terminated at any time up to a maximum of 3,000 pa in the form of shares from the profits of by either party, without the payment of compensation, upon giving the Company, free of tax, subject to a retention period.
The Partnership one months written notice.
element of the AESOP allows participants to invest up to 125 per The dates of the appointments reappointments for the current directors month out of their gross salary in the Companys shares.
The Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme allows eligible Date of last Date appointment appointment terminates employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a discount of up to 20% to their market value at the date of grant.
In order to Pehr Gyllenhammar 31 May 2004 AGM 2006 exercise these options, participants must have saved the consideration Guillermo fide la Dehesa 30 May 2003 30 May 2006 through either a three, five or seven year approved savings contract, subject to a maximum savings limit of 250 per month.
Wim Dik 7 Dec 2002 7 Dec 2005 Richard Goeltz 3 May 2004 3 May 2007 Service contracts George Paul 30 May 2003 30 May 2006 Service contracts agreed with each executive director incorporate their Carole Piwnica 8 May 2003 8 May 2006 terms and conditions of employment.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch 14 January 2005 14 January 2008 Executive directors have rolling service contracts which can be terminated Derek Stevens 31 May 2004 31 May 2005 by the Company giving 12 months notice and by the director giving six Elizabeth Vallance 30 May 2003 30 May 2006 months notice.
In respect of the early termination of a service contract Andr Villeneuve 31 May 2004 31 May 2005 by the Company, other than on the grounds of dismissal for cause, the Russell Walls 3 May 2004 3 May 2007 Company would, depending upon the circumstances, either seek to It is the Boards intention that George Paul and Elizabeth Vallance will retire from the Board make a payment in respect of damages, less an amount for appropriate on or before 31 December 2005. mitigation, or would invoke a provision in the contract allowing it to be The Company may terminate these appointments at any time without the payment terminated by the Company making a payment of one years basic salary of compensation.
For senior executives who joined the Company after November 2003 the Company introduced service contracts which meet Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for recommended corporate governance practice, including a specic inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal hours requirement for employees to mitigate their losses and the phasing of of business.
termination payments over the notice period.
Andrew Moss joined the Remuneration review Company after that date and therefore his service contract contains Process these provisions.
The current remuneration policy and packages were adopted in 2000 Under the Companys discretionary redundancy arrangements, which upon the merger of CGU and Norwich Union and the share-based apply to UK based employees, an executive director may, depending on incentive plans were approved by shareholders at the Companys 2001 his length of service, receive an ex-gratia payment of up to one years Annual General Meeting.
basic salary should he leave employment on the grounds of redundancy.
During the year the Committee undertook a comprehensive review of In any event the maximum severance payment receivable by an the remuneration policy and packages described above with the executive director on termination of his contract is two times his basic purpose of ensuring that they continue to attract, motivate and retain salary.
No special arrangements would apply should there be a change high calibre employees by encouraging and rewarding superior in the control of the Company.
performance fairly in a manner which is aligned with shareholders It is the Companys practice to notify the market of the terms offered to interests.
The Committee has been advised by Management with the executive directors upon their appointment.
support of KPMG LLP and the Committee sought its own independent review of the proposals from New Bridge Street Consultants.
Directors service contracts The review process involved: Compensation payable Contract Unexpired Notice upon early Challenging the Companys remuneration philosophy, policy and date term period termination practices to ensure that the remuneration framework continued to support the overall business strategy and was aligned with Richard Harvey 1 June 2000 Rolling 1 year None shareholders interests and the Companys culture and values: 1 year Analysing competitive market practice and assessing the Companys Andrew Moss 10 May 2004 Rolling 1 year None position relative to corporate governance best practices: 1 year Seeking views on the Companys remuneration objectives from senior Philip Scott 1 June 2000 Rolling 1 year None executives at various levels within the Company and non-executive 1 year directors in their respective capacities as senior business leaders Patrick Snowball 1 June 2000 Rolling 1 year None managing teams, individuals who would be affected by any changes 1 year and as the stewards of the Company: Philip Twyman 1 June 2000 Rolling 1 year None Developing a revised remuneration package, which aligns the issues 1 year arising from the above with the interests of shareholders: Mr Twyman retired from service and from the Board on 31 March 2004 upon reaching his normal retirement date.
56 Aviva plc 2004 Seeking an independent opinion on the proposals: The key performance targets will be more selective and focused for the measurement of Target performance and Stretch.
Stretch Discussing the proposals with institutional investor bodies including performance will be measured against those key performance targets the Association of British Insurers, the National Association of Pension which inuence share price performance, and will equate to 120% Funds Research Recommendations and Electronic Voting Limited and currently 115% of Target level on those measures where such Pensions Investment Research Consultants Limited: and quantication is appropriate.
The minimum level of bonus will be paid Consulting with the Companys 20 largest shareholders and when performance reaches 90% of Target.
Key performance targets reassessing, challenging and amending the proposals in the light of will include financial, customer and employee measures.
the views expressed at the various stages throughout this process.
Given current market practice the bonus potential for directors Shareholders will have an opportunity to approve the proposals through will be 75% of salary at Target and 150% of salary at Stretch the submission of this Remuneration Report and the resolutions performance.
As historically the majority of directors have elected to concerning the adoption of new share-based incentive plans at the defer their bonuses, the bonus at Target performance effectively Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
If approved the new increases by 5%.
The higher potential at Stretch performance will remuneration structure will become effective for the 2005 financial year.
require, as stated above, a higher level of outperformance against the Groups business plan.
Following the remuneration review, the Committee concluded that some aspects of the current remuneration policy were no longer in line One-third of the bonus will be paid in cash when the bonus is awarded with corporate governance good practice, most notably the lack of and two-thirds will be automatically deferred into Aviva shares, which performance conditions relating to the matching shares awarded will vest after three years, provided that the director is still in service with under the Deferred Bonus Plan and the retesting of the performance the Company.
If voluntary resignation occurs prior to the end of the year conditions under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The review also in which the shares are granted all would be forfeited.
If resignation concluded that although Aviva is the largest insurer in the UK and the takes effect in the following year 50% of the shares would be forfeited, fifth largest in the world the competitiveness of the total remuneration with 25% being forfeited if resignation takes effect in the third year.
package was found to be signicantly behind that of other leading All the shares would be forfeited if a director was dismissed for cause financial services, and FTSE50, companies of a similar size and during the vesting period.
There will be no matching shares.
complexity, principally due to the modest incentive potential of the In future the remuneration report will comment on performance current package.
The Committee concluded that any further upside against the key performance targets in the prior year and the resultant potential should be linked to the achievement of stretching performance bonuses awarded.
targets in order to encourage superior performance.
Long-term incentive plan Proposed changes In considering the long-term incentive plan the Committee was mindful Based on the review the Committee decided that major structural of the need for the levels of award to be competitive and motivating, changes to its current policy and package were not necessary as they and also of the intention to require directors to build up and retain a were largely operating as intended.
However, it is proposed to make a personal shareholding in the Company.
number of renements in line with investor guidelines and to realign the balance between xed and variable pay and make a more focussed and Currently, directors are eligible to receive an award of shares under the selective use of key performance targets in order to assess performance.
Companys long-term incentive plan equivalent to 100% of their base salary at the preceding year end.
Basic salary There are no proposed changes to the Companys policy on basic salary The Committee identied a need to position the directors long-term levels nor indeed to any element of xed remuneration.
These will incentive awards at a more competitive and motivational level, hence it continue to be set around the median level against pay data for proposes to increase the typical award to 175% of salary for the Group companies in the FTSE50.
Basic salaries will generally be reviewed Chief Executive and to 150% of salary for the other executive directors.
annually and when approving any increases the Committee will Vesting of the awards will continue to be measured on both a continue to take into account the performance of the individual and the comparative basis ie TSR relative to a comparator group 50% of the Company, relevant market data and practice for comparable jobs and award and an absolute basis being the ROCE 50% of the award.
the pay rises proposed for the majority of employees.
Salary progression The comparator group to be used for the TSR measure will remain the will remain dependent upon personal performance, with progress major financial institutions in Europe but with a closer match to those above the general level of increases requiring superior performance.
companies which are competitors in that they trade with similar It is not anticipated that there will be any changes in basic salary levels products in the same geographic markets.
As a result the new of the executive directors as a result of introducing the new reward comparator group will comprise, Aegon, Allianz, AXA, Fortis, Friends structure.
Provident, Generali, HBOS, ING, Legal & General, Lloyds TSB, Prudential, Royal Bank of Scotland, Royal & Sun Alliance and Zurich, making a total Annual and deferred bonuses of 14 companies.
Vesting of the awards under the TSR measure will be As stated above executive directors currently have a target annual bonus subject to an underpin to ensure that the financial performance of the opportunity of 35% of their basic salary subject to a maximum of 50%.
Company over the performance period has been sufciently robust to Under the current arrangement 50% of any bonus awarded must be warrant such vesting.
deferred into Aviva shares and executives are encouraged to voluntarily defer all or part of the balance.
Any bonus deferred is matched on a Vesting against the TSR performance measures will be on the one for one basis giving effective bonus levels of 70% at Target following basis: on plan and 100% at Stretch outperformance.
At present the Position of Aviva in the comparator group Percentage of shares in the award that will vest deferred and matched shares vest provided the executive director is Below Median 0% still in employment with the Company after three years.
Median 15% The proposed changes bring the Plan into line with investor guidelines Median to Upper Quintile 15% 50% straight-line and enhance the linkage between performance and reward through Upper Quintile 50% a more selective focus on key performance targets whilst providing the opportunity for higher bonus at more stretching levels of outperformance.
57 Directors remuneration report Aviva plc 2004 Directors remuneration report continued The targets for the ROCE element of the performance condition will be Executive pensions set in the context of the Groups three-year business plan, the trading As a consequence of the major changes to pension scheme regulations conditions and shareholder expectations at the time of each award.
from 1 April 2006 known as pensions simplication including the ROCE targets will be fully disclosed in the Directors remuneration report introduction of a lifetime allowance, the Committee is reviewing the for the year.
Details of the three-year ROCE targets for the 2005 award provision of pensions for its senior executives in order to provide more will be disclosed in the Remuneration Report 2006.
At threshold exibility around their personal circumstances.
However, the overall performance 15% of the award will vest moving to 50% of the award cost to the Company of any alternative pension arrangements will not at higher levels of performance.
Awards granted under the long-term exceed the costs of providing pensions under the current arrangements.
incentive plan which do not vest at the end of the performance period Executive Share Option Plan will lapse there will be no retesting.
In order to maintain maximum exibility regarding its reward structure Further details of the new Annual Bonus Plan and Long-Term Incentive the Company is taking the opportunity to renew its current executive Plan are set out in the Notice for the Annual General Meeting.
However, under its proposed remuneration arrangements as outlined above, it has no present intention to include Total remuneration grants of options under this plan as part of its remuneration structure.
The effect of the proposed renements outlined above would be that at In any event no senior executive would receive an award under the target performance executive directors total potential remuneration Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan in respect would be positioned at broadly median compared with the Companys of the same financial year.
comparators with cognisance being given to size and complexity of the Company.
Adoption of new accounting standards, dilution and expected value Service contracts The Committee has calculated the effect that the adoption of New contracts in line with current corporate governance best practice international accounting standards will have on the Groups profit and were introduced for all new senior executives from November 2003. loss charges for the executive share plans and has estimated that The main difference between the new contracts and the subsisting they will reduce the current profit and loss charge by approximately contracts is that the former provide for mitigation and the phasing of 1 million.
It is not envisaged that there will be any issues with dilution payments for compensation upon leaving service.
The Committee has as a result of introducing the proposed reward structure.
The expected decided to introduce the new contract to all its senior executives as value of the proposed remuneration packages has been calculated part of the introduction of the revised remuneration package.
Share ownership requirements At present there are no formal share ownership requirements relating to the executive directors.
As part of the revised remuneration package the Group Chief Executive and the executive directors will be required to build a shareholding equivalent to 1.75 times annual salary and 1.5 times annual salary respectively, over a five-year period.
Directors remuneration in 2004 This section of the report which has been subject to audit sets out the remuneration paid to the directors during the year to 31 December 2004.
The remuneration payable in respect of 2004 to directors who held ofce for any part of the financial year, including amounts paid to them as directors of subsidiary undertakings, was as follows: Basic salary fees Bonuses Benets Total 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Pehr Gyllenhammar 300 288 20 21 320 309 Executive directors Richard Harvey 752 718 355 312 96 67 1,203 1,097 Andrew Moss 283 200 10 493 Philip Scott 491 459 223 183 35 43 749 685 Patrick Snowball 456 420 218 212 21 21 695 653 Philip Twyman 117 466 52 192 13 53 182 711 Non-executive directors Anna Catalano 14 27 14 27 Guillermo fide la Dehesa 67 64 67 64 Wim Dik 42 40 42 40 Richard Goeltz 28 28 George Paul 160 160 160 160 Carole Piwnica 42 27 42 27 Derek Stevens 77 70 77 70 Elizabeth Vallance 42 40 42 40 Andr Villeneuve 42 40 42 40 Russell Walls 28 28 Total emoluments of directors 2,941 2,819 1,048 899 195 205 4,184 3,923 From date of appointment: Richard Goeltz and Russell Walls 3 May 2004 and Andrew Moss 10 May 2004.
To date of ceasing to be a director: Philip Twyman 31 March 2004 and Anna Catalano 27 April 2004.
Bonuses include amounts earned in respect of 2004 performance under the Annual Bonus Plan including amounts deferred under the Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan, and where appropriate, the value of shares granted under the free share part of the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan.
In calculating the level of bonus under the Annual Bonus Plan 70% is based on key financial targets and 30% is based on personal targets.
The constitution of the financial targets varies between directors.
For example, in respect of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director the financial targets are those relating to the Group, whereas for the other executive directors bonuses are based partly on the Groups performance and partly on financial targets relating to the business units for which the directors have responsibility.
Key performance targets are measured in order to determine the financial bonuses for all the executive directors.
The 2004 key financial targets for the Group included new business contribution, operating profit, combined operating ratio COR, total expenses and the return on capital.
Overall performance against these key performance targets in 2004 was better than the targets set.
In addition to the financial targets the directors were set individual personal targets.
All the executive directors received the benefit of private medical insurance and, along with the Chairman, a car allowance.
The above disclosure also includes, in respect of Richard Harvey and Philip Twyman, charges relating to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the life assurance and spouses benets for these directors which, had they died during the year, could not have been paid by the pension scheme as a result of the earnings cap and which would therefore have been met by the Company.
The benefit disclosed for Pehr Gyllenhammar refers to a car allowance.
The fee for George Paul reects his duties as deputy chairman, chairman of the Remuneration Committee and acting as the senior independent non-executive director.
The fee for Derek Stevens includes an additional amount for serving as the chairman of the Boards Audit Committee and of the trustee of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
The fee for Guillermo fide la Dehesa includes an amount for serving as the non-executive chairman of the Groups operations in Spain.
No non-executive director accrued retirement benets during the year.
No compensation payment for loss of ofce was made to any director, or former director, during the year.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985 the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2004 was 4.2 million 2003: 5.1 million.
During the year cash bonuses were paid to Tony Wyand and Mike Biggs of 190,835 and 187,978 respectively under the Annual Bonus Plan in respect of their performance in 2003.
Tony Wyand agreed to serve as a consultant following his retirement from service and joined the Boards of the Groups operations in Spain, Italy and France.
Under this arrangement a fee of 126,000 was paid to Mr Wyand in 2004.
During the year shares granted to certain former executive directors under the Companys incentive plans vested.
Details of these awards were fully disclosed in the year of grant.
No executive director served on the Board of an external company in a personal capacity during the year for which he was remunerated.
Pension benets During the year, each of the executive directors accumulated pension benets under the dened benets section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, the Groups pension scheme for its UK employees.
Transfer value Increase in of previous Pension Increase in pension column at Transfer value Transfer value Increase of Age at accumulated pension 2004 31 December of pension of pension transfer value 31 December 2004 2004 net of ination 2004 2004 2003 2004 2004 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Richard Harvey 54 501 49 35 479 6,900 5,613 1,287 Andrew Moss 46 6 6 6 53 53 53 Philip Scott 50 312 40 32 378 3,715 2,624 1,091 Patrick Snowball 54 191 33 28 396 2,702 1,979 723 Philip Twyman 60 120 5 4 84 2,322 2,306 16 Disclosed for each director is the Pension accumulated 2004, being is the difference between these values.
The transfer values disclosed the amount of pension to which the directors would have been entitled represent an obligation on the pension fund where funded or the had they left service at 31 December 2004.
The Increase in pension Company where unfunded they are not sums paid, or due, to the columns relate to the difference between the accumulated pensions at director.
the end of 2003 and 2004 on both gross, and net, of ination basis.
No former directors received any increase in retirement benets in excess Also disclosed is the transfer value of the accumulated pensions at of the amount to which they were entitled on the later of the date 31 December 2003 and 2004.
The increase of transfer value 2004 when the benets first became payable or 31 March 1997.
59 Directors remuneration report Aviva plc 2004 Directors remuneration report continued Incentive plans Details of the directors who held executive ofce for any part of the financial year, and hold or held options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company or hold or held awards over shares in the Company, pursuant to the Companys share-based incentive plans, are set out below.
Current plans period when 24% of the options would become exercisable, rising to Savings related options are options granted under the Inland Revenue- 30% if the ROCE exceeded 30% over the same period.
At the end of approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme.
Options are the performance period relating to the options granted in 2000, the normally exercisable during the six months period following the end of Company was ranked 12th out of the 20 companies in the comparator the relevant three, five or seven year savings contract.
Accordingly none of the options became exercisable based on the TSR part of the Plan but 11% of the Closed plans options became exercisable under the ROCE condition.
The options Executive options are those granted to former CGU directors under the which vested are exercisable at 960p per share.
CGNU Executive Share Option Scheme, or predecessor schemes.
Options are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of their Bonus Plan options are the options granted in 1999 and 2000 under date of grant.
No options have been granted to executive directors under the CGU Deferred Bonus Plan.
Participants who deferred their annual the executive share option scheme since 2000.
Options granted after cash bonus and instead received an award of shares also received a 1997 are only exercisable if certain performance conditions have been matching award over an equivalent number of options.
For any options to become exercisable under the TSR condition the which are not subject to performance conditions, are normally Companys TSR, when compared with the TSR of a comparator group of exercisable between the third and tenth anniversary of their grant.
European financial services companies see page 54, would need to at The mid-market price of an ordinary share in the Company on least match median performance when 20% of the options become 31 December 2004 was 628.0 pence, and the mid-market prices during exercisable.
At upper decile performance 70% of the options would the year ranged from 484.5 pence to 631.5 pence.
Between median and upper quartile the number of options becoming exercisable is determined on a straight-line basis.
Exercise of options For any options to vest under the ROCE condition, the Companys ROCE On 25 February 2004 Philip Twyman exercised the executive options would have to exceed 24% above RPI over the three-year performance which were granted to him in 1996, making a gain of 8,367.
Andrew Moss as at 10 May 2004, the date of his appointment: Philip Twyman as at 31 March 2004, the date of ceasing to be a director.
Due to the proximity of Philip Twymans retirement age to the date of the 2004 grant he was not eligible under the rules of the Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan to participate in respect of the deferral of his bonus for 2003.
An award over phantom options was granted in March 2004 specically to facilitate a commitment made to him by the Company.
As a consequence, on 26 March 2004, Philip Twyman deferred the whole of his 2003 bonus and received 36,367 shadow units which the Company matched with a further grant of 36,367 shadow units.
Upon vesting in March 2007 a cash award will be paid based on the market value of 72,734 shares at that time.
61 Directors remuneration report Aviva plc 2004 Directors remuneration report continued The Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the The Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2001 Annual General Meeting and awards are made on an annual 2001 Annual General Meeting.
The awards disclosed include those basis.
Awards are subject to the attainment of performance conditions made in lieu of some or all of the cash bonus earned and deferred over a three-year performance period as described on page 54.
The under the Companys Annual Bonus Plan in 2004, and also the three-year performance condition relating to the awards granted in May matching awards granted on a one for one basis.
The awards are not 2001 fell due for testing during the year.
For any awards to vest under subject to performance conditions and vest on the third anniversary of the TSR condition the Companys TSR, when compared with the TSR of their grant.
a comparator group of European financial services companies see page The Aviva Share Plan was established in May 2004 specically to 54, would need to at least match median performance when 20% of facilitate the recruitment of Andrew Moss.
The awards made under the the awards become exercisable.
At upper decile performance 70% of Plan compensate Andrew Moss for the value of long-term incentive the awards would vest.
Between median and upper quartile the number awards granted to him by his previous employer and which lapsed of awards vesting is determined on a straight-line basis.
For any awards when he resigned to join Aviva.
Andrew Moss is the only participant in to vest under the ROCE condition, the Companys ROCE would have to the Plan.
On 10 May 2004, the date Andrew Moss joined the Company, exceed 24% in excess of RPI over the three-year performance period 103,846 shares with a market value of 540,000 which were in the when 24% of the awards would vest, rising to 30% if the ROCE Aviva Employee Trust were allocated to him.
On 31 October 2004 exceeded 30% over the same period.
At the end of the performance 67,307 of the shares vested, 23,077 will vest on 31 December 2005 period relating to the awards granted in 2001, the Company was and the balance of 13,462 will vest on 31 December 2006.
The vesting ranked twelfth out of the 20 companies in the comparator group and of these shares is not subject to any performance conditions.
Accordingly none of the awards vested based on the TSR part of the Plan but 21.7% of the awards vested under the ROCE condition.
The 78.3% of the awards which did not vest lapsed.
Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company is shown below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various all-employee and executive share schemes.
Details of the options and long-term incentive awards are shown on pages 60 and 61 and as described above.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and include shares purchased by them under the partnership element of the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP, which are currently held in trust.
Deferred Bonus Plan Awards relates to an entitlement to shares arising through the Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan.
Half of the number of the shares disclosed relate to shares which have been granted as a result of the directors deferring some, or all, of their annual cash bonuses and therefore represent a directors investment in the Company.
The remaining 50% are shares granted on a one for one matching basis.
Upon vesting the participants receive additional shares representing the dividends paid on the shares during the deferral period.
Long Term Incentive Awards are awards granted under the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan which only vest if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the Save As You Earn share scheme.
Aviva Share Plan relates to shares held under the Plan referred to above in which only Andrew Moss participates.
The following changes to directors interests during the period 1 January Lord Sharman of Redlynch was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2005 to 8 March 2005 have been reported to the Company.
At the time of his appointment, and at 8 March 2005, he had no to shares acquired each month under the partnership element of interest in any shares of the Company.
the AESOP: This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 8 March 2005.
Number of shares Richard Harvey 40 Philip Scott 40 Patrick Snowball 40 George Paul Chairman, Remuneration Committee 62
