Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 31 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration For the year ended 31 December 2004 Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations and also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The report describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration and, in accordance with the Regulations, a resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the annual general meeting of the company in May 2005.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the companys members on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee Since F Dees appointment on 30 June 2004 the Remuneration Committee has comprised the three independent non-executive directors, D A Haxby, N N Broadhurst and F Dee.
D A Haxby was chairman and N N Broadhurst was a member of the Committee throughout 2004 and B Cottingham was a member until 30 June 2004.
None of the Committee members has any personal financial interest in the company other than as a shareholder, nor have they any day to day involvement in the running of the business or conicts of interests arising from cross-directorships.
The purpose of the Committee is to determine the remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman and to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for specified senior managers below Board level.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC as its remuneration consultants.
NBSC has no other connection with the company.
NBSC advises the Committee directly on matters within the Committees terms of reference on which the Committee chooses to consult NBSC.
NBSC may also advise the company generally on aspects of executive and employee remuneration, typically on the implementation and ongoing operation of executive remuneration schemes.
NBSC advises a sub-committee of the Board from time to time on the remuneration of the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Treasury & Risk Director are consulted by the Committee but are not permitted to participate in any discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Remuneration Policy Executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of the high calibre necessary to maintain the groups strong growth and profit performance and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance measurement of the executive directors and the determination of their annual remuneration packages are undertaken by the Committee.
There are four main elements of the remuneration packages of executive directors: l Basic salary and benets: l Annual bonus: l Long-term incentives: and l Pension and life assurance arrangements.
32 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration The companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors should be performancerelated.
As described below, each of the executive directors may participate in both an annual bonus scheme and long-term incentive arrangements.
The Committee has recently undertaken an extensive review of the policy underpinning the structure of the remuneration packages of the executive directors for 2005.
This has led to changes in the policy for setting basic salaries, alterations to the structure of the annual bonus scheme and the proposed adoption of a new Long-Term Incentive Plan to replace the Restricted Share Scheme which expired in 2004.
These changes are described under the appropriate headings below.
When determining remuneration levels for the executive directors, consideration is given to pay levels elsewhere in the group.
Fees paid to the Chairman of the Board are determined by the Remuneration Committee in consultation with the Chief Executive.
Fees paid to non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by a sub-committee of the Board comprising the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
Basic Salary and Benets The basic salary for executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, prior to the beginning of each year, taking into account the responsibilities and performance of the individual director and having regard to relevant market comparisons from independent sources based on objective research conducted by NBSC.
The policy for 2004 was to provide basic salaries in the range of median to upper quartile, with the potential for upper quartile earnings when justied by corporate and individual performance.
However, as a result of the recent review, the Committee became aware that all the executive directors basic salaries were in fact below median.
In any event the policy for 2005 has now been amended to provide basic salaries at the median.
The median has been determined by reference to basic salary levels in a group of approximately 50 companies which were drawn from all sectors and had a similar market capitalisation to that of the company but excluded any companies that operated remuneration arrangements which the Committee believed did not reect typical practice.
Following the Committees review in late 2004 based on the new median basic salary policy, the Board agreed the following changes to the annual salaries of the executive directors with effect from 1 January 2005: 1 January 1 January 2005 2004 000 000 S P Mahon 500 470 M W G Collins 265 230 J J Corr 265 230 I S Cummine 325 305 The higher percentage increases to the basic salaries of M W G Collins and J J Corr were necessary to bring their salaries nearer to the median level for similar roles in the comparator group of companies and to take account of their specic financial expertise which is critical to the groups business.
In making these recommendations to the Board, the Committee also took account of the outstanding performance of the group over a number of years, including 2004.
In addition to basic salary, the executive directors receive certain benets in kind, being a car, fuel provision, private medical insurance and permanent health insurance.
