Remuneration Report The directors have prepared this report, in Policy on Directors Fees accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to The Nomination Committees policy is that the the Companies Act 1985.
An ordinary resolution for remuneration of non-executive directors should the approval of this report will be put to the reflect the experience of the board as a whole, be members at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts that are similar in size, have a similar capital The law requires your companys auditors to audit structure and have a similar investment objective.
It certain of the disclosures provided.
Where is intended that this policy will continue for the year disclosures have been audited, they are indicated as ended January 2005 and subsequent years.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on pages 22 and 23.
The fees for the non-executive directors are determined within the limits set out in the Remuneration Committee companys articles of association.
The directors are The company has five non-executive directors.
The not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share Nomination Committee fulfils the function of a options, long term incentive schemes or other Remuneration Committee.
Directors and officers liability insurance is Committee has appointed the company secretary, held by the company in respect of the directors.
This Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, to provide insurance is not a benefit in kind nor does it form comparative and other information when the part of the directors remuneration.
directors consider the level of directors fees.
A review of the level of directors fees was carried out during Directors Service Contracts the period.
It was agreed to increase the chairmans It is the boards policy that none of the directors has and directors fees to 16,500 and 11,000 per a service contract.
The terms of their appointment annum respectively effective 1 February 2003. provide that each director shall retire and be subject to re-election at the first annual general meeting after their appointment, and at least every three years after that.
The terms also provide that a director may be removed without notice and that compensation will not be due on leaving office.
Your Companys Performance The graph opposite compares the total return Total cumulative NAV return of the company since January 1999 figures rebased to 100 assuming all dividends are reinvested to ordinary !
shareholders with the total shareholder return on a - notional investment in the FTSE All-Share Index.
"$ This index was chosen for comparison purposes, as %&"" !"
it is the benchmark used for investment performance & $ measurement purposes and a widely used indicator !
PAGE 20 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
