Directors remuneration report The directors remuneration report covers all directors, both executive which was prepared by the company secretary on behalf of and non-executive, and is set out on pages 116-125. the board.
It is divided into two parts.
Executive directors remuneration is in The report has been approved by the board and signed on its the first part, which was prepared by the remuneration committee.
behalf by the company secretary.
This report is subject to the Non-executive directors remuneration is in the second part, approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting AGM.
Part 1 Executive directors remuneration Dear Shareholder 2004 was a good year.
Company results, as explained elsewhere, were excellent and the remuneration committees priority on relating pay to performance is reflected in the annual bonus payments commensurate with this high level of achievement.
These and all other aspects of the executive directors remuneration during the year are set out in detail in the committees report that follows.
The committee also undertook a comprehensive and independent review of remuneration policy for the executive directors during 2004, prior to seeking your approval for the renewal of the long-term incentive plan at this years AGM resolution 23.
As part of this review, we commissioned significant and wide-ranging academic research and sought the views of major shareholders in an effort to consider the fundamental bases underlying our remuneration policies and practices.
The depth and extensive nature of this review have meant that our policy and practices are underpinned by a strong set of principles, which guide the committees deliberations.
Full details of these are set out in the report.
Measures of performance lie at the heart of any performance-based system and we have, with extensive advice and considerable time, examined different approaches.
While there is no perfect measure, we believe the selected quantitative and qualitative measures are the most appropriate for BP.
Given the inherent imperfections of any measure of performance, we also see the use of our judgement as an integral part of the process.
We recognize that our relationship with you is built on trust, and we are clear that it is important for us to be transparent in our explanations to you of how we have reached decisions and exercised our discretion.
We have an excellent team of world-class executive directors leading the company.
The remuneration decisions we have taken for 2004 appropriately reflect the high level of performance achieved during the year.
The policy we have set out for the future should continue to align their remuneration with shareholders interests as well as to engage them in pursuing long-term shareholder value.
Sir Robin Nicholson Dr D S Julius Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chairman elect, Remuneration Committee 7 February 2005 The remuneration committee retiring at the 2005 AGM and Dr Julius will become the committee Tasks The committees tasks are: chairman.
Each member is now subject to annual re-election as a To determine on behalf of the board the terms of engagement director of the company.
The board considers all committee members and remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive to be independent see page 111.
They have no personal financial directors and to report on those to the shareholders.
interest, other than as shareholders, in the committees decisions.
To determine on behalf of the board matters of policy over which The committee met seven times in the period under review.
There the company has authority relating to the establishment or operation was a full attendance record, except that Sir Ian Prosser and Mr Knight of the companys pension scheme of which the executive directors were each unable to attend one meeting.
Mr Sutherland, as chairman are members.
of the board, has attended all committee meetings.
To nominate on behalf of the board any trustees or directors of The committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual corporate trustees of such scheme.
report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the To monitor the policies being applied by the group chief executive outcome of the vote at the AGM on the remuneration report, and in remunerating senior executives other than executive directors.
the views of shareholders will be taken into account by the committee in its future decisions.
The committee values its dialogue with major Constitution and operation The committee members are all nonshareholders on remuneration matters.
Sir Robin Nicholson chairman, Mr Davis, Dr Julius, Mr Knight and Sir Ian Prosser were members of the committee Advice Advice is provided to the committee by the company throughout the year, with Sir Tom McKillop and Mr Bryan joining them secretarys office, which is independent of executive management in November 2004.
Sir Robin Nicholson and Mr Knight will both be and reports to the chairman of the board.
Mr Aronson, an independent 116 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 consultant, is the committees secretary and special adviser.
The majority of the remuneration shall be linked to the achievement Advice was also received from Mr Jackson company secretary of demanding performance targets that are independently set and and Mrs Martin senior counsel, company secretarys office.
reflect the creation of long-term shareholder value.
The committee also appoints external professional advisers to Assessment of performance shall be quantitative and qualitative provide specialist advice and services on particular remuneration and shall include exercise of informed judgement by the matters.
The independence of advice is subject to annual review.
remuneration committee within a framework that takes account In 2004, the committee consulted three independent academics, of sector characteristics and is approved by shareholders.
Michael Jensen, professor emeritus of Harvard Business School, and The committee shall be proactive in obtaining an understanding professors Sir Andrew Likierman and James Dow, both of London of shareholder preferences.
Business School, in connection with its fundamental review of Remuneration policy and practices shall be as transparent as remuneration policy.
possible both for participants and shareholders.
The committee appointed Towers Perrin as its principal external adviser during 2004.
Towers Perrin also provided limited ad hoc Key policy decisions The committee then reviewed the existing remuneration and benefits advice to parts of the group, mainly remuneration policies and plans against these principles and made comprising pensions advice in Canada, as well as providing some the following key policy decisions: market information on pay structures.
The committee also appointed The overall quantum of remuneration and the general balance Kepler Associates to advise on performance measurement.
Kepler between short-term and long-term elements are to be maintained.
Associates also provided performance data and limited ad hoc advice Salary levels will continue to be reviewed regularly by reference on performance measurement to the group.
to those in Europe-based top global companies and the US oil Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer and Martin Moore, QC, have and gas sector applying the committees judgement.
provided legal advice on specific matters to the committee.
The long-term incentives framework of the existing Executive Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer also provided some legal advice, Directors Incentive Plan EDIP remains sound, although some principally overseas, to subsidiaries in the group.
changes to policy and application are now appropriate.
Specific Ernst & Young, in their capacity as auditors, reviewed the shareholder approval is being sought for renewal of the EDIP calculations in respect of financial-based targets that form the for a further five years.
basis of the performance-related pay for the executive directors.
The share element of the EDIP will provide the long-term They also provided audit, audit-related and taxation services to performance-based component of the executive directors the group.
There is no current intention to make Lord Browne group chief executive was consulted on matters further share options grants.
relating to the other executive directors who report to him and, The majority of the value previously attributed to share options together with Dr Allen group chief of staff, on matters relating is to be redistributed to the share element, with the remainder to the performance of the company.
Neither was present when going to the annual bonus.
matters affecting his own remuneration were considered.
The measure of long-term performance for the share element will be relative total shareholder return TSR compared with the Policy on executive directors remuneration other oil majors over three-year periods, with underlying relative A key priority for the committee in 2004 has been its comprehensive performance also being assessed by the committee.
and independent review of all elements of remuneration policy for A proportion of the share element for the current group chief executive directors prior to seeking specific shareholder approval executive will be based on long-term personal leadership for renewal of the Executive Directors Incentive Plan, which expires measures.
This wide-ranging review sought to address the fundamental To simplify the operation of the EDIP and increase transparency, bases of the remuneration policies and plans for the executive the share element will use performance shares rather than the directors.
It involved significant academic research as well as current performance units and multiples.
seeking the views of plan participants, major shareholders and The performance shares will accrue dividends during the professional advisers.
The committee focused on seeking to ensure performance period.
that, in determining remuneration policy, there is a clear link between The current shareholding requirement for executive directors the companys purpose, the business plans and executive reward.
is to be maintained at 5 x the directors base salary, to ensure As part of its review, the committee developed the following key alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
principles to guide its policy: The current pension approach based on national policies is to Policy for the remuneration of executive directors shall be be maintained.
determined and regularly reviewed independently of executive The wider scene, including pay and employment conditions management and will set the tone for the remuneration of other elsewhere in the group, will be taken into account, especially senior executives.
when determining annual salary increases.
The remuneration structure shall support and reflect BPs stated purpose to maximize long-term shareholder value.
Elements of remuneration The executive directors total remuneration The remuneration structure shall reflect a just system of rewards will continue to consist of salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, for the participants.
This reward structure will be regularly The overall quantum of all potential remuneration components reviewed by the committee to ensure that it is achieving its objectives.
shall be determined by the exercise of informed judgement of In 2005, over three-quarters of executive directors potential direct the independent remuneration committee, taking into account remuneration will again be performance-related see illustrative chart the success of BP and the competitive global market.
117 Directors remuneration report In assessing the final outcome of the individual bonuses each year, the committee will also carefully review the underlying performance of the group in the context of the five-year group business plan, as well On-target remuneration elements as looking at competitor results, analysts reports and the views from Base salary the chairmen of other BP board committees.
All the calculations are Performance-related annual bonus reviewed by the auditors.
Performance-related share element Long-term incentives Long-term incentives will continue to be provided under the EDIP.
It will continue to have within its framework three elements: a share element, a share option element and a cash This chart reflects on-target values for annual bonus and share element.
The committee does not currently intend to use either the share option or cash elements but, in exceptional circumstances, may do so.
Salary The committee expects to review salaries in 2005.
In doing Each executive director participates in the EDIP.
The committees so, the committee considers both Europe-based top global companies policy, subject to unforeseen circumstances, is that this should and the US oil and gas sector: each of these groups is defined and continue until the EDIP expires or is renewed in 2010. analysed by the committees independent external remuneration The committees policy continues to be that each executive director advisers.
The committee then assesses the market information should hold shares equivalent in value to 5 x the directors base salary and advice and applies its judgement in setting the salary levels.
within five years of being appointed an executive director.
This policy is reflected in the terms of the EDIP, as shares awarded under the Annual bonus Each executive director is eligible to participate in an share element will only be released at the end of the three-year annual performance-based bonus scheme.
The committee reviews retention period as described below if the minimum shareholding and sets bonus targets and levels of eligibility annually.
For 2005, the target level will be increased from 100% to 120% of base salary except for Lord Browne, for whom, as group chief 1.
Share element The committee may make conditional share executive, it is considered appropriate to increase his target from awards performance shares to executive directors, which will 110% to 130%.
These increases reflect part of the value previously only vest to the extent that a demanding performance condition attributed to the share option element of their remuneration packages.
imposed by the committee is met at the end of a three-year In normal circumstances, the maximum payment level for substantially performance period.
As explained above, for 2005 and future exceeding targets will continue to be 150% 165% for the group chief years, the committee currently intends that the share element alone executive of base salary.
In exceptional circumstances, outstanding will provide the long-term performance-based component of the performance may be recognized by bonus payments moderately in executive directors package, and award levels have been adjusted excess of the 150% and 165% levels at the discretion of the to reflect this.
Similarly, bonuses may be reduced where Share element awards have been made in 2001 to 2004 inclusive the committee considers that this is warranted and, in exceptional using performance units that may convert into ordinary shares at a circumstances, bonuses can be reduced to zero.
ratio of up to two shares for each performance unit full details of The committee recognizes that it is responsible to shareholders which are set out on page 123.
To simplify the operation of the plan to use its discretion in a reasonable and informed manner in the best and increase transparency, the award of performance shares will, interests of the company and that it has a corresponding duty to be for 2005 and future years, replace performance units.
Vesting of accountable and transparent as to the manner in which it exercises performance shares will be at a maximum ratio of one-for-one.
The committee will explain any significant exercise of This change will not increase the value of the award levels or discretion in the subsequent directors remuneration report.
make performance conditions easier to achieve.
The key aim of the revised annual bonus is to ensure that it is The maximum number of performance shares that may be closely tied to the annual business plan and that it reflects short-term awarded to an executive director in any one year will be determined deliverables towards the creation of long-term shareholder value.
at the discretion of the remuneration committee and will not normally Executive directors annual bonus awards for 2005 will be based on exceed 5.5 x base salary and, in the case of the group chief executive, a mix of demanding financial targets, based on the companys annual 7.5 x base salary.
plan and leadership objectives established at the beginning of the year, In addition to the performance condition described below, in accordance with the following weightings: the committee will have an overriding discretion, in exceptional 50% financial measures from the annual plan principally on circumstances, to reduce the number of shares which vest or cash flow.
to provide that no shares vest.
30% annual strategic metrics and milestones taken from the The shares which vest will normally be subject to a compulsory five-year group business plan.
There is a wide range of measures, retention period determined by the committee, which will not normally including those relating to people, safety, environment, technology be less than three years.
This gives executive directors a six-year and organization, as well as operational actions and business incentive structure, and is designed to ensure that their interests are development.
aligned with those of shareholders.
Where shares est under awards 20% individual performance against leadership objectives and made in 2005 and future years, the executive director will receive living the values of the group which incorporates BPs code additional shares representing the value of reinvested dividends of conduct.
118 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Timeline for 2005-2007 EDIP share element by determining an average vesting level for the companies affected by the clustering.
Performance period Retention period In line with its policy on transparency, the committee will explain any adjustment to the relative TSR ranking in the next directors remuneration report following the vesting.
Award Vesting Release The committee may amend the performance conditions if events occur that would make the amended conDition a fairer measure of 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 performance and provided that any amended condition is no easier to satisfy.
For share element awards in 2005, the performance condition For 2005, all executive directors will receive performance share will relate to BPs total shareholder return TSR performance against awards on the above basis, over a maximum number of shares set by the other oil majors ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and ChevronTexaco reference to 5.5 x base salary.
For awards under the share element in over a three-year period.
TSR is calculated by taking the share price future years, the committee may continue with the same performance performance of a company over the period, assuming dividends condition, or may impose a different condition which it considers to be to be reinvested in the companys shares.
All share prices will be no less demanding.
averaged over the three months before the beginning and end of As group chief executive, Lord Browne is eligible for performance the performance period and will be measured in US dollars.
At the share awards of up to 7.5 x base salary.
The committee has end of the performance period, the TSR performance of each of determined that, while the largest part of this should relate to the companies will be ranked to establish the relative total return the TSR measure described above, it is appropriate that a specific to shareholders over the period.
Shares under the award will vest part up to 2 x base salary should be based on long-term leadership as to 100%, 70% and 35% if BP achieves first, second or third place measures.
These will focus on sustaining BPs financial, strategic respectively: no shares will vest if BP achieves fourth or fifth place.
and organizational health and will include, but not be limited to, Extensive research was independently commissioned by the maintenance of BPs performance culture and the continued committee into alternative measures of business performance.
After development of BPs business strategy, executive talent and internal careful review of the studies, the committee is satisfied that relative organization.
As with the TSR part of his award, this part will be TSR is the most appropriate measure of performance for BPs longmeasured over three-year performance periods.
term incentives for executive directors as it best reflects the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Relative performance of the peer group Share element awards made in previous years is particularly key in order to minimize the influence of sector-specific For outstanding awards of performance units made under the plans effects, including oil price.
for the periods 2002-2004, 2003-2005 and 2004-2006, the existing The committee is convinced that this comparator group, while performance conditions will apply for the three-year performance small, has the distinct advantage of being very clearly comprised periods in each of the plans.
The primary measure is BPs shareholder of BPs global competitors.
Consultation with major shareholders return against the market SHRAM, which accounts for nearly twoconfirmed that this is the group already used by most of them, as thirds of the potential total award, the remainder being assessed on well as by management, in assessing BPs comparative performance.
BPs relative return on average capital employed ROACE and earnings The committee will have the discretion to amend this peer group in per share growth EPS.
appropriate circumstances, for example, in the case of any significant BPs SHRAM is measured against the companies in the FTSE consolidations in the industry.
Companies within the index are weighted The committee is mindful of the possibility that a simple ranking according to their market capitalization at the beginning of each system may in some circumstances give rise to distorted results in three-year period in order to give greatest emphasis to oil majors.
view of the broad similarity of the oil majors underlying businesses, BPs ROACE and EPS growth are measured against ExxonMobil, the small size of the comparator group and inherent imperfections Shell, Total and ChevronTexaco.
All calculations are reviewed by the in measurement.
To counter this, the committee will have the ability auditors to ensure that they meet an independent objective standard.
to exercise discretion in a reasonable and informed manner to adjust The relative position of the company within the comparator group upwards or downwards the vesting level derived from the ranking determines the number of shares awarded per performance unit, if it considers that the ranking does not fairly reflect BPs underlying subject to a maximum of two shares per unit.
business performance relative to the comparator group.
The exercise of this discretion would be made after a broad analysis 2.
Share option element The share option element of the EDIP of the underlying health of BPs business relative to competitors, as permits options to be granted to executive directors at an exercise shown by a range of other measures including, but not limited to, price no lower than the market value of a share at the date the return on average capital employed, earnings per share growth, option is granted.
The committee does not currently intend to use reserves replacement and cash flow.
This will enable a more this element.
comprehensive review of long-term performance, with the aims of tempering anomalies created by relying solely on a formula-based 3.
Cash element The cash element allows the committee to grant approach and ensuring that the objectives of the plan are met.
This element was not used during It is anticipated that the need to use discretion is most likely to the first five years of the EDIP and the committee would only do arise where the TSR performance of some companies is clustered, so in special circumstances.
so that a relatively small difference in TSR performance would produce a major difference in vesting levels.
In these circumstances, Pensions Executive directors are eligible to participate in the the committee will have power to adjust the vesting level, normally appropriate pension schemes applying in their home countries.
119 Directors remuneration report UK directors UK directors are members of the regular BP Pension Service contracts Scheme.
Scheme members core benefits are non-contributory.
Director Contract date Current salary They include a pension accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year Lord Browne 11 November 1993 1,415,600 of service, subject to a maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary: Dr D C Allen 29 January 2003 420,000 I C Conn 22 July 2004 400,000 and a dependants benefit of two-thirds of the members pension.
Dr B E Grote 7 August 2000 $900,000 Bonuses are not pensionable for UK directors.
The scheme pension Dr A B Hayward 29 January 2003 420,000 is not integrated with state pension benefits.
J A Manzoni 29 January 2003 420,000 Normal retirement age is 60, but scheme members who have 30 Director leaving the board in 2004 or more years pensionable service at age 55 can elect to retire early R L Olver 31 December 1997 without an actuarial reduction being applied to their pension.
In accordance with the companys past practice for executive directors who retire from BP on or after age 55 having accrued at The committees policy is for service contracts to expire at normal least 30 years service, Lord Browne remains eligible for consideration retirement date and have a notice period of one year.
All contracts for a payment from the company of an ex-gratia lump-sum comply with this.
superannuation payment equal to one years base salary following The service contracts of Dr Allen, Dr Hayward, Mr Manzoni and his retirement.
All matters relating to such superannuation payments Mr Conn may also be terminated by the company at any time with are considered by the remuneration committee.
Any such payment immediate effect on payment in lieu of notice equivalent to one years would be additional to his pension entitlements referred to above.
salary or the amount of salary that would have been paid if the contract No other executive director is eligible for consideration for a had terminated on the expiry of the remainder of the notice period.
superannuation payment on retirement, as the remuneration Dr Grotes service contract is with BP Exploration Alaska Inc. committee decided in 1996 that appointees to the board after He is seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement dated that time should cease to be eligible for consideration for such 7 August 2000 that had an unexpired term of three years at a payment.
The secondment may be terminated by one The UK government has announced important proposals on pensions, months notice by either party and terminates automatically on the the impact of which will be reviewed further by the committee in 2005 termination of Dr Grotes service contract.
in conjunction with studies being carried out by the company into the There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early wider effects of the new legislation for employees.
The intention is that termination of the above contracts.
In the event of early termination the approach to the new legislation should be consistent for directors under any of the above contracts by the company other than for and other employees.
The committee will report further on the outcome cause or under a specific termination payment provision, the relevant of these studies in the next remuneration report.
directors then current salary and benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the company.
US director Dr Grote as a US director participates in the US BP Since January 2003, the committee has included a provision in Retirement Accumulation Plan US plan, which features a cash new service contracts to allow for severance payments to be phased, balance formula.
The current design of the US plan became effective where appropriate to do so.
It will also consider mitigation to reduce on 1 July 2000. compensation to a departing director, where appropriate to do so.
Consistent with US tax regulations, pension benefits are provided through a combination of tax-qualified and non-qualified benefit Historical TSR performance restoration plans, as applicable.
This graph is included to meet a legislative requirement and shows The Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefit supplemental the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in BP p. l. c. plan is a non-qualified top-up arrangement that became effective ordinary shares over five years relative to the FTSE 100 and to the on 1 January 2002 for US employees above a specified salary level.
FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
These are considered to be the most The benefit formula is 1.3% of final average earnings, which relevant broad equity market indices for this purpose and the company comprise base salary and bonus in accordance with standard US is a constituent of both indices.
practice as specified under the qualified arrangement multiplied by years of service, with an offset for benefits payable under all other 160 BP qualified and non-qualified pension arrangements.
This benefit is 150 unfunded and therefore paid from corporate assets.
140 Dr Grote is an eligible participant under the supplemental plan, 130 and his pension accrual for 2004 includes the total amount that 120 may become payable under all plans.
110 100 Other benefits 90 Benefits and other share schemes: Executive directors are eligible 80 to participate in regular employee benefit plans and in all-employee 70 share schemes and savings plans applying in their home countries.
60 Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Resettlement allowance: Expatriates may receive a resettlement allowance for a limited period.
Annual bonus is shown in the year it was earned.
a Gross award of shares based on a performance assessment by the remuneration committee and on the other terms of the plan.
Sufficient shares are sold to pay for tax applicable.
Remaining shares are held in trust for current directors until 2008, when they are released to the individual.
b Based on closing price of BP shares on 3 February 2005 5.34 per share $60.49 per ADS.
c Based on average market price on date of award 4.13 per share $47.96 per ADS.
d Performance units granted under the 2004-2006 share element of the EDIP are converted to shares at the end of the performance period.
Maximum of two shares per performance unit.
e Options granted in February 2004 have a grant price of 4.22 per share.
Dr Grote holds options over ADSs: the above numbers reflect calculated equivalents.
f Reflects remuneration received by Mr Conn since appointment as executive director on 1 July 2004. g Includes resettlement allowance for Dr Grote of $175,000, which expired in 2003. h Mr Manzoni also received compensation of 50,000 in 2004 relating to expatriate costs prior to his appointment as an executive director.
i Amounts for Mr Olver reflect the period until his retirement on 1 July 2004. received by the three executive directors appointed in February 2003 since that time.
Dr Grotes salary was increased in the context of the comparative 2004 actual remuneration elements market information by approximately 15% with effect from 1 July 2004 Base salary to reflect his expanded senior role following the retirement of Mr Olver.
Performance-related annual bonus Performance-related long-term incentives Annual bonus Fifty per cent of the annual bonus awards for 2004 is include a share element and share options based on a mix of financial targets primarily cash from operations and 50% is based on long-run metrics and wide-ranging milestones that drive performance improvement and measure the continuing delivery of strategy including production and sales levels, efficiency, cost management, business development, project delivery and technology This chart reflects the average mix of total remuneration received by progress.
All the targets were established at the beginning of the year executive directors in 2004 and includes actual salary, bonus and share by the remuneration committee.
2004 was an extremely good year.
element award as well as a Black Scholes value of options granted.
The group met or exceeded its annual plan in all material respects.
The primary financial target, cash from operations, was exceeded.
All the Salary Following a review of appropriate comparator groups of key metrics and milestones were delivered, along with some notable Europe-based top global companies and the US oil and gas sector, successes in relation to Russia and exploration in Egypt and the Gulf base salaries for Lord Browne, Dr Allen, Dr Hayward and Mr Manzoni of Mexico.
Assessment of all the results, including those on people, were increased by 5% per annum with effect from 1 July 2004. safety, environment and organization, resulted in awards of 150% of On his appointment to the board in 2004, Mr Conns salary was salary for the executive directors.
The committee determined that, given determined by reference to the same comparator groups.
the year's excellent performance, it was appropriate that Lord Browne In deciding upon these new salary levels the committee applied receive 165% of salary, reflecting his higher bonus target level.
All its judgement, taking into account the modest market movements calculations have been reviewed by the auditors.
During 2004, the highest market prices were 5.56 and $62.10 respectively, and the lowest market prices were 4.13 and $46.65 respectively.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2000 as described on pages 118-119.
The grants were made taking into consideration thE ranking of the companys TSR against the TSR of the FTSE Global 100 group of companies over the three-year period prior to the grant.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
SAR Stock Appreciation Rights under BP America Inc. Share Appreciation Plan.
In keeping with the US market practice, none of the options under the BPA and SAR is subject to performance conditions because they were granted under American plans to the relevant individuals.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share option scheme.
These options are not subject to performance conditions because this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to the relevant individuals prior to their appointments as directors and are not subject to performance conditions.
a Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
b On appointment to the board of BP p. l. c. on 1 July 2004. c On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 1 July 2004. d Remaining options after deduction of those that lapsed on retirement.
122 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Share element of EDIP and Long Term Performance Plans LTPPs growth.
BPs three-year SHRAM was measured against the companies Under the share element of the EDIP and the Long Term Performance in the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
Companies within the index Plans, performance units were granted at the beginning of the threeare weighted according to their market capitalization at the beginning year period and converted into an award of shares at the end of the of each three-year period in order to give greatest emphasis to oil period, depending on performance.
There is a maximum of two shares majors.
BPs ROACE and EPS were measured against ExxonMobil, per performance unit.
For 2005 and future years, a different grant Shell, Total and ChevronTexaco.
Based on a performance assessment mechanism will apply as described on page 118. of 75 points out of 200 0 for SHRAM, 50 for ROACE and 25 for EPS For the 2002-2004 share element of the EDIP and the LTPPs, BPs growth, the committee expects to make awards of shares to executive performance was assessed in terms of SHRAM, ROACE and EPS directors as highlighted in the 2002-2004 lines of the table below.
They are not required to relinquish these rights, which were granted prior to their appointments as executive directors.
All other units were granted under the EDIP as explained on pages 118-119.
BPs performance is assessed against the oil sector.
For 1998-2000, BPs SHRAM was measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and ChevronTexaco.
For 2001-2003, BPs SHRAM, ROACE and EPS growth were measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ChevronTexaco, ENI and Repsol.
For 2004-2006, BPs SHRAM is measured against companies in the All World Oil & Gas Index and BPs ROACE and EPS growth against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and ChevronTexaco.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
b Represents number of performance units, each having a maximum potential of two shares depending on performance.
c Represents awards of shares made or expected to be made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan.
d Dr Hayward and Mr Manzoni elected to defer to 2005 the determination of whether LTPP awards should be made for the 1999-2001 performance period.
As this period ended prior to their appointment as directors, the expected awards are not included in the table.
e On appointment to the board of BP p. l. c. on 1 July 2004. f On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 1 July 2004. g Dr Buchanan elected to defer to 2004 the determination of whether an award should be made for the 1998-2000 period.
123 Directors remuneration report Pensions Accrued Additional pension Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of B-A less a a Service at pension entitlement earned during the year accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by thousand 31 Dec 2004 at 31 Dec 2004 ended 31 Dec 2004 at 31 Dec 2003 A at 31 Dec 2004 B the director in 2004 Lord Browne UK 38 years 944 45 13,921 15,189 1,268 Dr D C Allen UK 26 years 183 15 2,089 2,264 175 IC Conn UK 19 years 127 35 849 1,217 368 Dr B E Grote US 25 years $465 $94 $4,814 $5,529 $715 Dr A B Hayward UK 23 years 188 18 1,967 2,255 288 J A Manzoni UK 21 years 149 14 1,395 1,595 200 Director leaving the board in 2004 b RL Olver UK 31 years 390 6,271 9,098 2,827 a Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
b Mr Olver retired on 1 July 2004 and elected to take a lump sum of 905,194 in lieu of part of his entitlement.
The figures in the table include the allowance for this lump sum.
Past directors Mr Chases consultancy to BP in relation to the TNK-BP transaction Following his retirement from BP p. l. c. Mr Olver was appointed on ended in May 2004 and he left the board of TNK-BP Limited in March 1 July 2004 as a consultant to BP in relation to its activities in Russia.
Under the consultancy agreement, he received $250,000 in He had previously been appointed as a BP-nominated director of 2004 and as a director, deputy chairman and chairman of the audit TNK-BP Limited, a joint venture company owned 50% by BP, committee of TNK-BP Limited he received $30,000 in fees from effective 20 April 2004.
Under the consultancy agreement, he that company.
received 150,000 in fees in 2004 and, as a director, deputy chairman Long-term awards for both former directors of BP p. l. c. are and chairman of the audit committee of the joint venture company, in accordance with scheme rules and are outlined in the table on he received $90,000 in fees from TNK-BP Limited.
Non-executive directors should be encouraged to establish Part 2 Non-executive directors remuneration a holding in BP shares broadly related to one years base fee, to be held directly or indirectly in a manner compatible with Policy on non-executive directors remuneration their personal investment activities, and any applicable legal The board sets the level of remuneration for all non-executive directors and regulatory requirements.
within the limit approved from time to time by shareholders.
In line with BPs governance policies, by the remuneration of the chairman is Elements of remuneration set by the board rather than by the remuneration committee, since the Non-executive directors pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly, performance of the chairman is a matter for the board as a whole with increments for positions of additional responsibility, reflecting rather than any one committee.
additional workload and consequent potential liability.
For all nonThe board has adopted the following policies to guide its current executive directors, except the chairman, a fixed sum allowance and future decision-making with regard to non-executive directors is paid for transatlantic travel undertaken for the purpose of remuneration.
attending a board or board committee meeting.
In addition, nonWithin the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, executive directors receive reimbursement of reasonable travel remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and and related business expenses.
No share or share option awards retain world-class non-executive talent.
are made to any non-executive director in respect of service on Remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the board and the board.
should be proportional to their contribution towards the interests of the company.
Letters of appointment Remuneration practice should be consistent with recognized Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which recognize best-practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the Remuneration should be in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
All directors stand for re-election Non-executive directors should not receive share options from at each annual general meeting.
124 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Non-executive directors annual fee structure Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan The fees paid to non-executive directors are set by the board within the Non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation were allocated limit set by shareholders in accordance with the Articles.
Shareholders restricted stock in the Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted approved an increase to this limit at the 2004 AGM.
All fees are fixed Stock Plan by way of remuneration for their service on the board of and paid in pounds sterling.
Fees payable to non-executive directors Amoco Corporation prior to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, were last adjusted during 2002. interests in Amoco shares in the plan were converted into interests in BP ADSs.
Under the terms of the plan, the restricted stock will vest thousand upon the retirement of the non-executive director having reached age a Chairman 390 70 or upon earlier retirement at the discretion of the board.
Since the b Deputy chairman 85 merger, no further entitlements have accrued to any director under the Board member 65 plan.
These residual interests require disclosure under the directors Committee chairmanship fee 15 remuneration report regulations 2002 as interests in a long-term c Transatlantic attendance allowance 5 incentive scheme.
a The chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or transatlantic Interest in BP ADSs Date on attendance allowance but has the use of a fully maintained office for company at 1 January 2004 and which director a b business and a chauffeured car.
31 December 2004 reaches age 70 b The deputy chairman receives a 20,000 increment on top of the standard J H Bryan 5,546 5 October 2006 board fee.
In addition, he is eligible for committee chairmanship fees and the transatlantic attendance allowance.
The deputy chairman is currently chairman E B Davis, Jr 4,490 5 August 2014 of the audit committee.
Dr W E Massey 3,346 5 April 2008 c This allowance is payable to non-executive directors undertaking transatlantic M H Wilson 3,170 4 November 2007 travel for the purpose of attending a board meeting or board committee meeting.
Director leaving the board in 2004 c Long-term incentives residual FA Maljers 2,906 12 August 2003 The table in the right-hand column sets out the residual entitlements a No awards were granted and no awards lapsed during the year.
b of non-executive directors who were formerly non-executive directors For the purposes of the regulations, the date on which the director retires from the board at or after the age of 70 is the end of the qualifying period.
of Amoco Corporation under the Amoco Non-Employee Directors If the director retires prior to this date, the board may waive the restrictions.
c Mr Maljers retired from the board on 15 April 2004 and, in accordance with the terms of the plan, his awards vested on that date when the BP ADS closing price was $54.16 without payment by him.
These awards over BP ADSs derived from awards over Amoco shares granted between 26 April 1994 and 28 April 1998.
The awards were granted over Amoco stock prior to the merger but their notional weighted average market Information subject to audit value at the date of grant applying the subsequent merger ratio of 0.66167 of a BP ADS for every Amoco share was $27.87 per BP ADS.
Remuneration of non-executive directors thousand Superannuation gratuities Current directors 2004 2003 In accordance with the companys long-standing practice, nonJ H Bryan 100 95 executive directors who retire from the board after at least six years a A Burgmans 53 n a service are, at the time of their retirement, eligible for consideration E B Davis, Jr 105 90 for a superannuation gratuity.
The board is authorized to make such Dr D S Julius 75 80 payments under the companys Articles.
The amount of the payment C F Knight 90 95 is determined at the boards discretion having regard to the directors b Sir Tom McKillop 38 n a period of service as a director and other relevant factors.
Dr W E Massey 115 110 In 2002, the board revised its policy with respect to such payments c H M P Miles 75 80 so that: i non-executive directors appointed to the board after 1 July d Sir Robin Nicholson 90 95 2002 would not be eligible for consideration for such a payment: and Sir Ian Prosser 110 115 ii while non-executive directors in service at 1 July 2002 would remain P D Sutherland 390 390 eligible for consideration for a payment, service after that date would M H Wilson 95 95 not be taken into account by the board in considering the amount of Director leaving the board in 2004 any such payment.
e F A Maljers 16 80 The board made no superannuation gratuity payments during a the year.
Appointed on 5 February 2004. b Appointed on 1 July 2004. c Also received 600 in 2003 for serving as a director of BP Pension Trustees Limited.
These fees are no longer payable to BP non-executive directors.
This directors remuneration report was approved by the board d Also received 20,000 each year for serving as the boards representative and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary, on the BP technology advisory council.
e Retired at AGM on 15 April 2004. on 7 February 2005.
