Directors remuneration report Terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee the LTIP.
This new Long Term Incentive Plan the 2004 LTIP The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, was approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting as approved by the Board, embody the purpose of the Committee in May 2004.
Further details of the remuneration policy and how it is as ensuring that the Companys executive directors and senior executives currently applied to the various aspects of remuneration is provided are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual in the relevant sections below.
contributions to the Groups overall performance having due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the financial and commercial With regard to external pay survey data, the Committee reviews each health of the Group.
year, prior to the annual review of base pay in January, information on remuneration and benefit levels based on an external survey conducted Membership on its behalf by Monks Partnership.
The Committee seeks to maintain, All members of the Committee, who are identified on pages 22 wherever possible, a consistent and appropriate basis for comparison and 23 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, year-on-year in terms of the survey methodology and, in particular, the are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired use of comparator groups on which the survey is based.
There are three by Mr C A Banks.
Members of the Committee do not have any personal comparator groups that the Committee uses.
These are related to sales, financial interest other than as shareholders in matters decided by profit before tax and market capitalisation.
In each case the comparator the Committee, nor do they have any potential conflict of interest arising group consists of 20 non-financial UK based companies that have from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the substantial operations overseas.
10 of the companies in each comparator Groups business.
The Committee meets at least three times during group are the next highest and 10 are the next lowest compared the year and at other times as may be required.
While the Chairman to Bunzl.
The results from each of the comparator groups are blended of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, is not a member of the Committee, by Monks Partnership to provide an overall assessed market position he normally attends meetings except when the Committee is considering as at 1 January of the year of the review.
Neither Monks Partnership nor matters concerning himself.
The Director of Group Human Resources New Bridge Street Consultants provide specific recommendations to the acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Committee on remuneration or benefit levels for the executive directors.
The Committee does, however, review survey information provided Audit by them in the light of its established remuneration policy before making The directors remuneration in 2004 and the details of the directors its decisions.
All decisions of the Committee were implemented in full.
interests in the Companys ordinary shares disclosed on pages 31 to 36 have been audited by the Companys independent external auditor.
Base pay The base pay of each executive director is set to reflect the size and scope Remuneration policy of that directors responsibilities undertaken on behalf of the Board, the level The Companys current remuneration policy for 2004 and beyond is of overall performance achieved and experience in the post.
As stated designed to help ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the above, it is benchmarked against comparator companies and the actual executive directors by providing fair reward for the responsibilities they pay level is set after taking account of performance, relevant external survey undertake and the performance they achieve on behalf of shareholders.
data and the general movement of base pay within the Group.
In this context, the Committees policy is to set the overall remuneration package at a competitive level and in a form that permits significant Annual bonus plan additional remuneration to be earned for high performance over The executive directors participate in an annual bonus plan intended a sustained period.
This is normally achieved by benchmarking base to support the Companys overall remuneration policy.
The bonus plan pay against comparator companies and a range of factors, including for each executive director contains meaningful targets that seek to performance see below, and by providing, in addition, short and long focus attention on one or two key measures of short to medium term term incentives geared to performance.
In 2004, the target for the annual bonus for Mr A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams was linked to the Groups achievement In assessing the balance of performance related and non-performance of earnings per share after certain specified adjustments eps.
related elements of remuneration, base pay and benefits are treated as Detailed terms of the plan were determined by the Committee and non-performance related, whereas annual bonus including awards under provided for a bonus to be awarded if the Group achieved, in 2004, the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme the DASBS and long term a threshold eps level.
No bonus was to be awarded for eps achievement incentives are treated as performance related.
For this purpose, share below the threshold level.
The bonus plan provided for an increase in options and performance shares are valued at an appropriate proportion the bonus award pro rata for eps achievement above the threshold up of their face value on grant or award.
On this basis, the Committee to a target level of eps and for above target achievement.
Half of this sets the remuneration package such that about half the total target annual bonus is normally paid in cash to a maximum level of 65% of remuneration package is derived from the performance related elements.
annual base pay and the balance but with the total aggregate amount capped at 100% of base pay is deferred under the rules of the DASBS, Both the overall competitiveness of the remuneration package and the details of which are set out below.
balance between performance and non-performance related elements are kept under regular review in the light of market practice and the needs For Mr P G Lorenzini, Mr C P Sander, Mr M J Harper and Mr P L Larmon, of the Company.
The Committee commissions reports and receives their bonus plans for 2004 were based on the profit and return on average advice on directors remuneration from independent remuneration and capital employed achieved in the businesses for which they are directly benefits consultants, namely Monks Partnership and New Bridge Street responsible.
Mr P L Larmon also has a portion of his bonus based Consultants, who may from time to time also provide other services on personal targets.
Mr P G Lorenzinis bonus is paid entirely in cash to the Company on remuneration and benefit matters that are not the to a maximum of 70% of annual base pay pro-rated to take account subject of review by the Committee.
New Bridge Street Consultants of his retirement on 31 July 2004.
For Mr C P Sander, Mr M J Harper advised the Committee regarding the structure of a new executive long and Mr P L Larmon half of the annual bonus is normally paid in cash term incentive scheme to replace the 1994 Executive Share Option to a maximum level of 60% of annual base pay and the balance Scheme the 1994 Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan but with the total aggregate amount capped at 90% of base pay 30 Bunzl plc is deferred under the rules of the DASBS.
Bonus awards are to the executive provided normally that the executive has remained not pensionable.
in the employment of the Group throughout that period or until their normal retirement date.
The DASBS forms a part of the annual bonus Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including the executive directors plan so as to provide, in total, an annual bonus opportunity linked to the with the exception of Mr P G Lorenzini, receive the deferred element overall performance of the Group, with a significant portion of any bonus of their annual bonus as an award of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares award held in shares for a three year period.
The Committee believes this are purchased in the market and deposited with the Bunzl Group General supports the overall remuneration policy and contributes to the alignment Employee Benefit Trust the Trust until 1 March in the third year after the of executives and shareholders interests.
year in which the award is made, following which they are transferred Details of the awards conditionally made and any shares transferred to the executive directors during 2004 under the DASBS and the outstanding awards at 31 December 2004 are shown in the table below.
Shares held at Shares awarded Shares transferred Shares held at 1 January 2004 during 2004 during 2004 31 December 2004 A J Habgood 104,764 57,994 162,758 D M Williams 56,862 30,930 87,792 C P Sander 48,666 25,805 74,471 M J Harper 29,010 16,222 45,232 P L Larmon 24,582 7,571 10,590 21,563 Notes a All awards of shares are made in respect of bonus performance in the previous year.
b The market value of the shares at the date of transfer to Mr P L Larmon in 2004 was 47,231.
The Committee also reviews and authorises the outline structure respect of new issue shares.
Mr P G Lorenzini did not participate in any of annual bonus plans for other senior executives within the Group.
These plans are based on performance targets relevant to individual businesses or areas of responsibility and are compatible with the The 2004 LTIP is divided into two parts.
Part A allows the Board to grant principles of the bonus plans approved for the executive directors.
Annual grants may not exceed an amount equal to three times base salary.
In normal circumstances options granted are Share based incentives exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions The Committee believes that the long term performance of the Group as referred to below, not earlier than three years and not later than is an important consideration for shareholders and that share based 10 years after the date of grant.
Share options granted to date have incentives are an important part of helping to align the interests a performance condition attached based on the Companys eps growth of shareholders and those employed by the Group.
The Committee adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying welcomes the fact that each of the long-standing executive directors financial performance and goodwill amortisation relative to UK inflation currently has a meaningful holding of Bunzl shares.
During the year a formal over three years.
The performance conditions for options granted operate share ownership guideline was introduced under which executive directors on the following sliding scale: will be expected to retain a shareholding worth at least equal to their basic Face value of salaries.
A period of three years will be allowed for executives who are annual share promoted from within the Company to achieve this shareholding with options grant Total margin an additional two years permitted in the case of external appointments.
as a proportion over UK inflation of salary after 3 years The Group operates the 2004 LTIP under which the executive directors and other senior executives in the Group may be granted share options First 150% of salary 9% or awards in respect of performance shares.
Participation in the 2004 Next 75% of salary 12% LTIP is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee reviews Next 75% of salary 19% biannually the level of grant, taking account of each executives performance and job responsibilities.
No further options will be granted The performance condition is tested after three years, with no provision under the 1994 Scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme No.
Accordingly, to the extent the performance condition has not the No.
2 Scheme or the previous LTIP, all of which are now closed been met after three financial years, the relevant share options will lapse.
with the exception of any outstanding options or awards.
There are The Committee can set different performance conditions from those no outstanding options under the No.
Options were granted described above for future options, provided that the new conditions are and performance shares awarded to the UK executive directors in March no less challenging.
Similarly the Committee can adjust the performance or May and October 2004 in respect of market purchased shares some conditions of existing options to take account of technical changes, for of which are held through the Trust.
Options and performance shares example changes in accounting standards or in the event of a rights issue.
granted and awarded to Mr P L Larmon in the same period were in The amended condition will be no less challenging as a result of the change.
31 Bunzl plc Directors remuneration report continued The table below shows the number of share options held at 31 December 2004 by executive directors under the executive share options schemes.
b The exercise price of executive share options is the market price prevailing at or immediately prior to the date of grant of the option.
c The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 December 2004 was 434.5p and the range during 2004 was 405p to 486p.
2 Scheme did not have performance conditions.
The performance condition for options granted under the 1994 Scheme is that they may not be exercised unless the growth in eps over a period of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in the UK retail price index over the same period by at least 6%.
e All options held at 31 December 2004 are under the 1994 Scheme, except for the most recent grant which was made under the 2004 LTIP.
32 Bunzl plc The UK based executive directors may also participate in a Sharesave at a discount of up to 20% to the market price prevailing on the day Scheme which is approved by the Inland Revenue and is open to all immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
UK employees who have completed at least one year of continuous Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they service.
It is linked to a contract for monthly savings of up to 250 have been granted.
The following table sets out the number of share per month over a period of either three or five years.
Under the options held under the Sharesave Scheme by the UK based Sharesave Scheme options are granted to participating employees executive directors.
b The current Sharesave Scheme was approved by shareholders in 2001.
Mr C P Sander still participates in the previous Sharesave Scheme approved by shareholders in 1991.
US based executive directors may participate in the Bunzl Employee A performance share award will vest in full only if the Companys TSR Stock Purchase Plan US.
This Plan provides an opportunity for performance is ranked at upper quartile or above within the Peer employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the form Group and the following vesting schedule will apply: of American Depositary Receipts ADRs at a 15% discount to the Proportion of performance market price, up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration TSR share award exercisable or $25,000 worth of ADRs, whichever is lower.
The purchase of the ADRs is funded by after-tax payroll deductions from the employee Below median 0 with the employing company contributing the 15% discount.
Median 25% Median to upper quartile 25% 100% Based on the authority obtained at the 2001 Annual General Meeting, pro rata, on a straight line basis the Company introduced the International Sharesave Plan during Upper quartile or above 100% 2002.
This operates on a similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme 2001 except that options are normally exercisable three years after The performance condition will be tested after three years and they have been granted.
None of the executive directors are eligible there is no provision for retesting.
Accordingly, to the extent the to participate in this Plan.
performance condition has not been met after three years, the relevant performance share awards will lapse.
As with the share Part B of the 2004 LTIP allows the Board to award performance shares option grants, the Committee reviews the performance condition which is a conditional right to receive shares in the Company for each time performance share awards are made in order to ensure no or nominal consideration.
Annual awards may not exceed an amount that they remain challenging and may impose different conditions equal to two times base salary.
A performance share award will normally on performance share awards made in subsequent years provided vest i. e. become exercisable on the third anniversary of its grant to the that any new conditions are no less challenging.
extent that the applicable performance condition has been satisfied and will remain capable of being exercised for the three year period following the date on which it vests.
The extent to which performance share awards vest will be subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a three year period relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies the Peer Group.
The process for identifying the Peer Group is the same as that used for identifying the comparator group for the setting of base pay as described under Remuneration policy on page 30.
The companies currently within the Peer Group for any awards to be made in 2005 are: Alliance Unichem Exel Rentokil Initial Allied Domecq FKI Reuters Amec GKN Rexam BAE Hanson RMC BG Group ICI Rolls-Royce Group BOC Group IMI Sage Group BPB Inchcape Scottish & Newcastle British Airways Johnson Matthey Signet Group Cable & Wireless LogicaCMG Smith & Nephew Compass Group Novar Smiths Group Cookson Group Pearson Tate & Lyle Corus Group Reckitt Benckiser Tomkins EMI Group Reed Elsevier Xstrata 33 Bunzl plc Directors remuneration report continued The table below shows the number of performance share awards allocated at 31 December 2004 to the executive directors under the LTIP and 2004 LTIP, all for no consideration.
Awards Awards shares shares Awards held at vested shares 1 January Conditional during 2004 held 2004 shares or since at or date of awarded date of 31 December appointment during 2004 appointment 2004 A J Habgood 228,750 228,750 D M Williams 89,000 93,750 93,750 C P Sander 100,000 60,000 160,000 M J Harper 60,000 60,000 P L Larmon 60,000 60,000 Notes a The award of 89,000 shares, which vested at the end of 2000, was exercised by Mr D M Williams on 17 November 2004 giving a total market value on exercise of 398,557. b The award held by Mr C P Sander of 100,000 shares had vested by the date of his appointment but remains subject to continued employment.
The award is exercisable from 1 March 2005 until 20 November 2010. c All awards made in 2004 were under the 2004 LTIP.
Any shares required to fulfil entitlements under the share based the primary Social Security benefit, with a normal retirement age incentive schemes in respect of options and awards over market of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at $140,000.
purchased shares will be provided by the Trust.
Mr A J Habgood, The US Plan also provides for certain benefits in the event of death Mr D M Williams, Mr C P Sander, Mr M J Harper and Mr P L Larmon or disability.
On closure of the US Plan to new entrants all existing are deemed by virtue of the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in all participating employees had the choice to continue in the existing the shares held by the Trust, which at 31 December 2004 amounted scheme or freeze their benefit and join a defined contribution plan, to 8,937,650 ordinary shares, because they are potential beneficiaries the Retirement Saving Benefit the RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are under the Trust together with all other directors and employees of the fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
These interests do not reflect the awards actually made to them The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5%, which individually through the Trust that are summarised above.
Because of the cap on pensionable salary under the US Plan and the RSB, the pensions of senior US The Companys TSR over the last five years compared to that of the executives are limited and arrangements have been made to provide FTSE Support Services Sector is shown in the graph on page 4 of certain executives with supplementary pensions through a Senior the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Mr P G Lorenzinis SERA provides for a lifetime pension of $370,000 per annum, payable upon Retirement benefits retirement.
Mr P L Larmons SERA provides for a lifetime pension As stated in the Accounting Policies section of the financial statements of $100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
and elaborated upon in Note 22, the Group utilises both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes throughout the world.
Executive directors service contracts All principal defined benefit schemes are now closed to new entrants It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally employed who are now offered a defined contribution arrangement.
on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For the UK executive directors, In the UK the Group has historically operated as its main contributory the only circumstance in which there is predetermined compensation for scheme for senior executives the Bunzl Senior Pension Scheme BSPS.
termination of these contracts is where there is a change of control BSPS provides for members contributions currently at the rate of the Company.
Mr P L Larmons contract provides that on termination of 9% of pensionable salary which is basic salary with the Group by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of being responsible for the balance of the cost of providing the benefit 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any as determined from time to time by the consulting actuaries to BSPS.
There are no provisions for any of the directors for Subject to Inland Revenue limits, BSPS members are eligible for a predetermined compensation in excess of one years remuneration pension which accrues at a maximum rate of 3% per annum up to two and benefits in kind.
The date of each service contract is noted in the thirds of pensionable salary, with a normal retirement age of 60 years.
BSPS also provides for payment of certain benefits in the event of death or disability.
The current UK executive directors may choose to be Date of members of BSPS or to opt for a private pension scheme.
In the event service that a director opts for a private pension scheme the Company also contract contributes to lump sum life assurance cover equivalent to that provided A J Habgood 16 January 1996 under BSPS.
Because of the cap on pensionable salary introduced in the D M Williams 16 January 1996 Finance Act 1989, the amount of direct contribution by the Company C P Sander 19 January 2005 to pension schemes for some of the UK executive directors is limited and M J Harper 19 January 2005 arrangements have therefore been made to provide the executive directors P L Larmon 1 January 2005 with an allowance which permits them to make provision, of their choice, in respect of that part of their salary which exceeds the cap.
Mr P G Lorenzini retired from the Company on 31 July 2004.
In the US the main scheme for employees is the non-contributory Bunzl USA, Inc Retirement Plan the US Plan.
Subject to IRS limits, members of the US Plan earn a lifetime pension which accrues at a rate of 1.67% per annum, up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less 34 Bunzl plc Other principal benefits for executive directors eligible for pension scheme membership or other employee benefits and In common with many senior executives in the Group, the executive do not participate in any of the Groups bonus, share option or long term directors are eligible for certain benefits which include the provision incentive plans.
The non-executive directors pay is reviewed annually, of a company car and payment of its operating expenses including fuel, based on external market survey data, and is determined by the Board.
or a cash allowance in lieu thereof, in line with prevailing Group policies, and, in the case of Mr A J Habgood, Mr D M Williams, Mr C P Sander With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors and Mr M J Harper private medical plan coverage under the Companys may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other prevailing UK healthcare plan.
Mr P L Larmon participates and companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Mr A J Habgood Mr P G Lorenzini participated until his retirement in welfare benefit plans served as a non-executive director of SVG Capital plc throughout 2004 made available to all US employees of the Group covering life insurance, and retained the fees paid for this service of 30,500.
In addition medical, dental and disability cover.
Mr A J Habgood served as a non-executive director of Marks and Spencer Group plc from 15 July 2004 and retained the fees paid for this Non-executive directors service of 23,138.
Mr D M Williams served as a non-executive director The non-executive directors are paid an annual fee for their services of George Wimpey Plc throughout 2004 and retained the fees paid for plus a daily fee for attending meetings of the Board.
In addition, this service of 38,750. where relevant, they are paid a fee for chairing a Board Committee.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts, are not Directors remuneration The following table gives details of each directors remuneration for the year.
All obligations will cease on 31 July 2007. c The remuneration of Mr C P Sander relates to the period from 21 July 2004 the date of his appointment to the Board to 31 December 2004.
The remuneration of Mr M J Harper and Mr P L Larmon relates to the period from 8 December 2004 the date of their appointment to the Board to 31 December 2004.
The remuneration of Mr S G Williams relates to the period from 1 January 2004 until 31 August 2004, the date of his retirement from the Board.
The remuneration for Dr U Wolters relates to the period from 1 July 2004 the date of his appointment to the Board to 31 December 2004. d Benefits incorporate all taxable benefits arising from employment by the Company and principally relate to the provision of a company car or cash allowance in lieu thereof.
e The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including, in the case of the executive directors, the cash element of the bonus which is paid in the year following that in which it is earned.
The deferred element of the bonus is conditionally allocated as shares as described on page 30 and is not included in the table above.
Shares relating to the 2003 bonus were allocated in 2004 as shown in the table on page 31 and for the 2004 bonus will be allocated in 2005. f The fees paid in respect of Mr S G Williams services were paid to his employer, Unilever PLC, and not to Mr S G Williams personally.
g As Mr A J Habgood is not a member of the Company pension scheme, the Company normally makes a direct pension contribution, at Mr A J Habgoods direction, to a personal pension scheme in his name.
The values of the pension benefits for the other executive directors are shown in the following table and are not included in the directors remuneration table above.
In addition the Company paid all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to a SERA for the US executive directors.
For Mr P G Lorenzini in 2004 in the seven months prior to his retirement this amounted to 150,123 2003: 183,170 and for Mr P L Larmon in the period since his appointment in December 2004 this amounted to 3,309.
35 Bunzl plc Directors remuneration report continued Change in Transfer value of transfer value of Transfer value of Accrued benefits Accrued benefits accrued benefits accrued benefits accrued benefits at 31.12.03 at 31.12.04 at 31.12.03 during the year, at 31.12.04 or date of or date of or date of after deducting or date of appointment retirement appointment contributions made retirement whichever whichever whichever by the director whichever is the later is the earlier is the later during the year is the earlier D M Williams 36,383 40,545 631,327 143,532 783,971 P G Lorenzini 24,237 22,765 226,169 422 225,747 C P Sander 25,542 26,730 214,115 48,717 266,928 M J Harper 114,849 116,219 1,364,446 47,674 1,413,706 P L Larmon 13,607 13,607 57,978 307 58,285 Excluding SERA entitlements Notes a Of the additional benefits accrued since 1 January 2004 or date of appointment, whichever is the later, the increases attributable to factors other than inflation were 3,034 for Mr D M Williams, 835 for Mr C P Sander and 1,150 for Mr M J Harper.
b Accrued benefits are the annual amount that would be paid on retirement at the normal retirement age based on service to 31 December 2004 other than for Mr P G Lorenzini who retired on 31 July 2004. c The above figures do not take account of any Additional Voluntary Contributions that all members of BSPS have the option to make.
d The transfer values of accrued benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation and, in the case of Mr D M Williams, Mr C P Sander and Mr M J Harper, are net of their contributions.
e Mr P L Larmons benefits under the US Plan are frozen as he is now a member of the RSB.
No contributions have been made into these Plans since his appointment to the Board.
f In addition Mr P G Lorenzini participated until retirement and Mr P L Larmon participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2004 such contributions amounted to 4,945 2003: 5,488 in the case of Mr P G Lorenzini.
For Mr P L Larmon no contributions have been made between his appointment date on 8 December 2004 and 31 December 2004.
