The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Remuneration Report This report is submitted in accordance with the Directors Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover is held by the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 for the year ended Company.
The Companys performance is measured against the FTSE 100 Index as this is the most appropriate in respect of its asset The Board allocation and is the Companys benchmark.
An explanation of the The Board of Directors is composed solely of non-executive Companys performance is given in the Chairmans Statement and Directors and the determination of the Directors fees is a matter the Investment Managers Review.
dealt with by the whole Board.
The Board has not been provided with advice or services by any person to assist it to make its The remaining disclosures on directors remuneration have been remuneration decisions, although the Directors carry out reviews audited as required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies from time to time of the fees paid to the directors of other Act 1985. investment trusts.
Remuneration In the year to 31 January 2004 Directors were paid at the rate of Policy on Directors Remuneration 11,000 with the Chairman of the Audit Committee receiving an Directors meet at least six times a year.
The audit committee extra 3,000 per annum and the Chairman of the Board receiving meets twice each year and the other Board Committees meet at 15,000 per annum.
The policy is to review these rates from time least once a year.
to time, but reviews will not necessarily result in a change to the rates.
The last review resulting in an increase for Directors was in Directors offer themselves for retirement at least once every three 2002: the Chairmans fees were not increased at that time.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
The Increasingly, since then and most particularly in the past year, the Companys policy is for the Directors to be remunerated in the role of non-executive directors has become more onerous, form of fees, payable quarterly in arrears.
There are no long term involving greater time commitment and a higher degree of incentive schemes, bonuses, pension benefits, share options or responsibility against a more demanding regulatory environment.
other benefits and fees are not related to the individual directors The Company has conducted its own research into fees paid performance, nor to the performance of the Board as a whole.
within the investment trust industry and the its peer group, and with the weight of evidence supporting an increase, it intends, The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate fees with effect from 1 June 2004, to raise the Directors fees to payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 100,000 per 12,000 each, with the Chairman of the Audit Committee annum.
Subject to this overall limit, it is the Boards policy to receiving an extra 3,000, and the Chairmans fees to 20,000, to determine the level of Directors fees having regard to the level of reflect market levels in the Companys investment trust sector and fees payable to non-executive directors in the investment trust the increased volume of work of investment trust directors.
industry generally, the role that individual Directors fulfil, and the time committed to the Companys affairs.
The Board believes that Directors emoluments levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract and retain nonThe payments receivable during the year and in the previous year executive directors to oversee the Company.
