Corporate governance report continued 5 Report on the remuneration committee Full details of the composition and work of the remuneration committee are contained on page 53 in paragraph 2 of the directors remuneration report.
6 Report on the executive committee 6.1 Throughout 2004 this committee consisted of John Harnett, Chris Johnstone and David Swann under the chairmanship of Robin Ashton.
6.2 The committee normally meets at least once a week, and more frequently as required, and deals with matters relating to the running of the group, other than those matters reserved to the board and those specifically assigned to the other committees.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
7 Report on the risk advisory committee 7.1 From 1 January to 24 June 2004 this committee consisted of Robin Ashton, John Maxwell, Graham Pimlott and Ray Miles under the chairmanship of Charles Gregson.
On 24 June 2004 Ray Miles became Chairman of this committee.
7.2 The committee met three times in 2004.
7.3 Its function is to keep under review the effectiveness of the groups system of non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls and risk management and to report to the board on its work.
It also keeps the group risk register under review.
8 Board and committee attendance 8.1 The table in paragraph 8.2 below shows the attendance at the meetings of the board and committees.
Attendance at meetings by directors, other than members, is not shown.
8.2 Board and committee attendance in 2004 Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk advisory Board committee committee committee committee Total number of meetings in 2004 74533 Jon van Kuffeler 7 3 Robin Ashton 7 3 3 John Harnett 7 Chris Johnstone 7 David Swann 7 Charles Gregson 6 2 3 2 3 John Maxwell 74533 Ray Miles 74432 Graham Pimlott 74532 Ceased to be a member on 31 July 2004.
9 Accountability The board presents the companys position and prospects in as clear a way as possible, both by means of the annual report and accounts and in circulars and reports to shareholders.
These documents are posted on the companys website.
Announcements made by the company to the London Stock Exchange are also posted on the companys website.
10 Internal control 10.1 The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control.
Any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives.
10.2 The key elements of the internal control system which have been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control are set out in paragraphs 10.2.
1 In December each year the board approves detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
A detailed review takes place at the half-year.
Actual performance against budgets is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
2 The audit committee keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls in conjunction with the internal auditors and reports to the board regularly.
An annual programme of work which targets and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by the internal auditors.
The operation of internal financial controls is monitored by regular management reviews, including a procedure by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 51 Corporate governance report continued 10 Internal control continued 10.2.
3 The risk advisory committee considers the nature and extent of the risks facing the group, keeps them under review, reviews the framework to mitigate such risks, and notifies the board of changes in the status and control of risks.
It reports to the board on a regular basis.
In addition, the risk advisory group consisting of the executive directors, the director of group accounting and the Company Secretary formally reviews internal risk assessments from each division twice a year and directs reviews of internal controls and particular areas of risk.
It reports to the risk advisory committee.
4 The board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with its corporate policies and subsidiaries are obliged to certify compliance on an annual basis.
10.3 The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups framework of internal controls during 2004.
11 Relations with shareholders 11.1 The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the Chief Executive and the other executive directors and shareholders, and ensuring that the views of the shareholders are made known to the board.
An investor relations report is considered by the board three times a year and an independent review of shareholder views was commissioned and presented to the board in December 2004.
11.2 The company encourages private investors to attend the AGM.
The chairmen of the board committees are available to answer questions from shareholders at the AGM and there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
11.3 At the 2004 AGM details of proxy votes cast on each resolution were made available to shareholders and other interested parties.
11.4 At the 2004 AGM the company proposed separate resolutions on substantially separate issues and will continue to do so.
It is the companys policy to give shareholders in excess of 20 working days notice of the AGM.
11.5 The company has established the Provident Financial Company Nominee Scheme to enable shareholders to take advantage of a low-cost telephone dealing service through the CREST electronic settlement system.
Members of this scheme receive all documents sent to shareholders and may attend, speak and vote at the AGM.
12 Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts 12.1 The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the independent auditors report on page 92, is made to distinguish for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
12.2 The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the groups profit or loss and cash flows for the financial year.
The accounts should be prepared on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to do so.
The directors consider that in preparing the accounts on pages 62 to 91 the group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
12.3 The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the company and the group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and of the group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
12.4 The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the company and of the group, and to prevent and detect material fraud and other irregularities.
12.5 This document the Annual Report & Accounts 2004 together with the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2004 will be published on the companys website in addition to the normal paper versions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Provident Financial website is the responsibility of the directors and the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters.
12.6 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
13 Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The company complied with all the provisions in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout 2004.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 52 Directors remuneration report 1 Introduction This is the directors remuneration report of Provident Financial plc the company for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 which has been prepared pursuant to and in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
In accordance with the Regulations, a resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the annual general meeting of the company to be held on 24 May 2005.
2 The remuneration committee 2.1 From 1 January to 31 July 2004 the remuneration committee the committee consisted of Charles Gregson, Ray Miles and Graham Pimlott under the chairmanship of John Maxwell.
Charles Gregson ceased to be a member of the committee on 31 July 2004.
2.2 The committee met five times during the year.
2.3 Pursuant to its terms of reference, the committee considers the framework of executive remuneration and makes recommendations to the board.
It determines the specific remuneration packages and conditions of service of the Chairman, the executive directors and the Company Secretary, including their service agreements.
It also monitors the level and structure of the remuneration of the most senior management below board level within the group.
No director is involved in determining his own remuneration.
2.4 The Chairman and the Chief Executive each have the right to attend and speak but not vote at meetings of the committee other than when their own remuneration or any matter relating to them is being considered in which case they absent themselves from the meeting.
In 2004 the committee consulted with the Chairman, John van Kuffeler, about the proposals for the Chief Executives remuneration and with the Chief Executive, Robin Ashton, about the proposals for the other executive directors.
The Company Secretary, Rosamond Marshall Smith, is secretary to the committee and attended the meetings of the committee in 2004: as a solicitor she provided legal and technical support to the committee.
2.5 The committee has appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP as remuneration consultant.
This consultant is independent and does not provide any other services to the group.
The committee has also been advised by Slaughter and May which is the groups city solicitor and has advised the group on other legal matters during the year.
In all cases the advisers were instructed by the secretary on behalf of the committee.
3 Statement of the companys policy on directors remuneration Remuneration policy 3.1 The remuneration policy applied by the committee is based on the need to attract, reward, motivate and retain executive directors in a manner consistent with the long-term accumulation of value for shareholders.
The committee is also conscious of the need to avoid paying more than is reasonable for this purpose.
3.2 The executive directors remuneration consists of a basic salary, an annual cash bonus subject to performance conditions and other benefits.
The directors participate in pension schemes.
Additionally they may participate in executive share option schemes and a performance share plan which necessitates the waiver of part of the annual cash bonus, both of which are subject to performance conditions, and an employee savings-related share option scheme which is not subject to performance conditions.
The remuneration policy is designed to ensure that a significant proportion of the executive directors remuneration is linked to performance, through the operation of the annual cash bonus and the executive share incentive schemes.
3.3 The committee reviews the executive directors remuneration annually.
Following the appointment of two new directors to the board in 2001 and the appointment of a new Chief Executive, the policy was to set the executive directors basic salaries in the lower quartile to median range at that time.
Following a two-year period of successful trading and a remuneration review in 2003, the committee decided to move salaries, in stages over two years, towards the median level, subject to satisfactory performance.
In December 2004 the committee confirmed this policy.
3.4 The fees for the non-executive directors, other than the Chairman, are fixed by the board and are designed both to recognise the responsibilities of non-executive directors and to attract individuals with the necessary skills and experience to contribute to the future growth of the group.
Their business expenses are reimbursed by the company.
Full details of their fees for 2004 with 2003 comparative figures are set out in the table of directors remuneration on page 55 in paragraph 4 below.
3.5 It is currently envisaged that the existing policy on directors remuneration will continue for subsequent financial years but it will be reviewed again in December 2005.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 53 Directors remuneration report continued 3 Statement of the companys policy on directors remuneration continued Cash bonus 3.6 An annual cash bonus is payable, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The bonus is calculated as a percentage of salary.
The purpose of the bonus scheme is to provide a meaningful incentive for executive directors which is clearly focused on improving the groups performance and aligns, so far as is practicable, shareholder and executive director interests.
Executive directors are eligible for annual cash bonuses by reference to the growth in the companys audited earnings per share as defined in the bonus scheme over the previous financial year and the achievement of agreed personal objectives.
The total bonus payable cannot exceed 100% of salary.
In exceptional circumstances the committee may make such adjustments to the calculation of earnings per share as it considers fair and reasonable.
Bonuses do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Share options 3.7 The company currently operates two senior executive share option schemes the schemes.
Further details are set out in paragraphs 3.7.
1 The Provident Financial plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1995 is an Inland Revenue approved scheme.
The aggregate exercise prices of the options held by an executive under this scheme must not exceed 30,000.
The Provident Financial plc Unapproved Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 is not approved by the Inland Revenue.
The aggregate exercise prices of the options granted to an executive annually under both schemes must not exceed two times his salary.
2 Both schemes have performance targets which have to be met before any options can be exercised.
3 For options granted prior to 2002 the performance condition is that over a three-year period the real growth in earnings per share as defined must average 3% a year after making appropriate adjustments for inflation.
4 For options granted in 2002 and thereafter the following performance conditions apply: a where the option is granted over shares with an aggregate exercise price of up to one times the directors salary, the real growth in earnings per share after adjusting for inflation must average 3% a year over a fixed three-year period this period may be extended to four or five years : b to the extent that the option is granted over shares with an aggregate exercise price in excess of one times the directors salary, the condition is 4% rather than 3% real growth in earnings per share.
5 A performance condition based on earnings per share has been used in both executive schemes since their establishment in 1995 and 1996.
It is considered that this aligns, so far as is practicable, the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
The performance conditions were amended in 2002 pursuant to the approval of the company in general meeting but retained earnings per share as their basis, reflecting the alignment of the interests of the directors and those of the shareholders.
The performance conditions permit limited retesting by reference to a fixed base.
The committee is conscious of the fact that since 2002 there has been a change in attitude by institutions towards even limited retesting: but, since the current executive schemes expire in April 2005, the committee considers it appropriate to make no change on the basis that retesting is not expected to form part of any new executive schemes.
The committee is currently considering the design of an equity incentive scheme to replace the current executive schemes.
6 The grant of options under the schemes to executive directors and senior managers is normally considered once in each year after the announcement of the companys results in accordance with a formula determined by reference to salary.
7 No executive options have been granted at a discount.
3.8 The executive directors together with other eligible group employees may participate in the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003.
Participants save a fixed sum each month for three or five years and may use these funds to purchase shares after three, five or seven years.
The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% below the market value of the shares at the date directors and employees are invited to participate in the scheme.
Up to 250 can be saved each month.
This scheme does not contain performance conditions as it is an Inland Revenue approved scheme designed for employees at all levels.
Performance share plan 3.9 The Provident Financial Performance Share Plan the performance share plan entitles executive directors who waive up to 50% of their annual cash bonus and, from March 2005, other eligible employees who waive up to 50% or 30% depending on their level of seniority of their annual cash bonus, to be considered for participation.
Participants receive a basic award of shares of up to the value of the waived bonus, together with a matching award of an equivalent amount which is subject to a performance condition.
For awards granted in 2003 and 2004 the matching award will vest only if the companys average annual growth in earnings per share as defined is equal to or greater than RPI plus 3% over a period of three consecutive financial years, the first of which is the financial year starting immediately before the grant date of the matching award.
For awards granted in 2005 the matching award will vest only if the companys average annual growth in earnings per share is equal to or greater than RPI plus 3% over a period of five consecutive years, the first of which is the financial year starting immediately before the grant date of the matching award.
The performance conditions were selected by the committee after consideration of other possible types of condition.
The committee took the view that the use of this earnings per share target aligned, so far as is practicable, the interests of the directors with those of the shareholders.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 54 Directors remuneration report continued 3 Statement of the companys policy on directors remuneration continued Other benefits 3.10 The executive directors are provided with company cars and fuel or a cash alternative, long-term disability cover under the companys insured permanent health policy and medical cover for them and their immediate families.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Shareholding policy 3.11 The company has a share retention policy for executive directors which encourages them to build up a shareholding from shares acquired under the senior executive share option schemes referred to in paragraph 3.7 above and the performance share plan referred to in paragraph 3.9 above, provided that gains have been made on options and matching awards have vested under the performance share plan.
Over a five-year period commencing on 1 May 2002 a director should, in this way, aim to acquire a shareholding with a market value which is equal to or in excess of the amount of his annual salary.
The committee reviews the shareholdings of the executive directors in the light of this policy once a year.
Service agreements 3.12 The current policy is for executive directors service agreements to provide for both the company and the director to give one years notice.
No director has a service agreement containing a liquidated damages clause on termination: in the event of the termination of an agreement, particularly for poor performance, it is the current policy to seek full mitigation of loss by the director concerned and to ensure that any payment made is the minimum which is commensurate with the companys legal obligations.
Where possible, the company would seek to make any payment in instalments and subject to appropriate conditions.
Other directorships 3.13 The company will normally permit an executive director to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fee from that appointment.
However, any proposed appointment will require the approval of the board.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the board would not permit an executive director to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
None of the executive directors currently holds a non-executive directorship.
Detailed information 3.14 Full details of salaries, bonus earnings and other benefits for 2004 with 2003 comparative figures for the executive directors are set out in the table of directors remuneration in paragraph 4 below.
Full details of share options are set out in the table on pages 56 and 57 in paragraph 5 below.
Full details of awards under the performance share plan are set out in the table on page 58 in paragraph 6 below.
4 Directors remuneration The aggregate directors emoluments during the year amounted to 2,508,000 2003 2,045,000 analysed as follows: 2004 2003 Salary Bonus Benefits Fees Total Total Directors name 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman John van Kuffeler 130 33 163 162 Executive directors Robin Ashton 437 233 35 705 583 John Harnett 307 185 43 535 424 Chris Johnstone 277 152 30 459 376 David Swann 277 166 43 486 385 1,298 736 151 2,185 1,768 Non-executive directors Charles Gregson 40 40 36 John Maxwell 40 40 44 Ray Miles 40 40 Graham Pimlott 40 40 20 160 160 100 Total 1,428 736 184 160 2,508 2,030 the figure of 2,045,000 includes 15,000 payable to a director who retired in 2003.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 55 Directors remuneration report continued 5 Share option schemes 5.1 Directors share options at 31 December 2004 are shown in the table in paragraph 5.10 below.
5.2 The performance conditions which apply to the exercise of executive share options are as set out in paragraphs 5.2.
1 Performance condition A referred to in the table below applies to options granted prior to 2002.
Over a three-year period the real growth in the companys earnings per share must average 3% a year after making appropriate adjustments for inflation.
2 Performance condition B referred to in the table below applies to options granted in 2002, 2003 and 2004.
Where the option is granted over shares with an aggregate exercise price of up to one times the directors salary, the performance condition is that, over a fixed three-year period, the real growth in earnings per share after adjusting for inflation must average 3% a year if the condition is not satisfied after the three years the period will be extended to four years and then, if the condition is still not satisfied, to five years, whereupon if the condition is still not satisfied, the option will lapse.
For options granted in excess of one times the directors salary, the condition is 4% rather than 3% real growth in earnings per share.
5.3 The aggregate notional gain representing the difference between the exercise price and the market price of the shares at the date of exercise made by all the directors on the exercise of share options during 2004 amounted to 502,240 2003 94,275.
5.4 The companys highest paid director in 2004 was Robin Ashton, whose emoluments amounted to 705,000 2003 Robin Ashton 583,000 and whose notional gain representing the difference between the exercise price and the market price of the shares at the date of exercise on the exercise of share options amounted to 157,502 2003 Robin Ashton nil.
5.5 The mid-market closing price of the companys shares on 31 December 2004 was 672p and the range during 2004 was 547.5p to 771.5p.
5.6 No consideration is payable on the grant of an option.
5.7 None of the options held by the directors lapsed during the year.
However, on 2 March 2004 John van Kuffeler surrendered options over 85,147 shares for nil consideration.
Details of the options surrendered are set out in paragraph 5.10 below.
It is not envisaged that the company will grant any further executive options to John van Kuffeler.
5.8 There were no changes in directors share options between 31 December 2004 and 20 March 2005.
5.9 None of the directors has notified the company of an interest in any other shares, transactions or arrangements which requires disclosure.
There are no performance conditions attaching to the basic award.
6.3 The dividends payable on the basic and matching award shares are paid to the directors.
The gross amounts received by each director in 2004 were Robin Ashton 3,814: John Harnett 8,748: Chris Johnstone 7,781 and David Swann 7,802.
These figures have been included in the benefits column in the table of directors remuneration on page 55 in paragraph 4 above.
6.4 No awards vested during the year.
6.5 There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of plan interests during the year.
7 Pensions and life assurance 7.1 There are three directors 2003 three for whom retirement benefits are accruing under the Provident Financial Senior Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme the senior pension scheme, and two directors 2003 two for whom retirement benefits are accruing under defined contribution schemes.
7.2 John van Kuffeler and John Harnett each have a defined contribution personal pension arrangement and each is also a member of the Provident Financial Supplemental Pension Scheme which was established for employees whose benefits from tax-approved schemes are restricted by the earnings cap.
Life assurance benefit up to the level of the earnings cap is provided by the senior pension scheme: additional death in service benefit is provided by the Provident Financial Unapproved Funded Death Benefits Scheme.
7.3 For John van Kuffeler the company contributes 23% of his salary to his pension arrangements.
The contributions are invested to produce benefits at his normal retirement date at age 60 or on death.
He is also eligible for a lump sum death benefit of four times salary at date of death.
Provision of these benefits is through personal pension policies, the Provident Financial Supplemental Pension Scheme and the Provident Financial Unapproved Funded Death Benefits Scheme.
The companys contributions in respect of John van Kuffeler during 2004 including the cost of the life insurance amounted to 30,580 2003 30,634.
7.4 For John Harnett, the position is identical to that specified in paragraph 7.3 for John van Kuffeler, except that the company contributes 30% of his basic salary to his pension arrangements increased from 20% on 1 April 2004.
The companys contributions in respect of John Harnett during 2004 including the cost of the life insurance amounted to 87,098 2003 55,042.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Accounts 2004 58
