qxd 13 3 05 12:12 pm Page 27 This directors report has been approved by the board and signed attainment of demanding performance objectives, both short on its behalf by: and long-term.
In agreeing the level of base salaries and the annual performance bonus scheme, the committee takes into consideration the potential maximum remuneration that executives could receive.
The committee reviews the packages and varies individual elements when appropriate from year to year.
To recognise performance against agreed objectives, the committee has put in place an annual bonus scheme for executive directors similar to that applying to other senior executives in Grant Dawson the group.
Annual bonuses for executive directors are only paid General Counsel and Company Secretary on the achievement of demanding individual, business and 24 February 2005 corporate objectives.
Under both the executive share option scheme ESOS and the Registered office: long term incentive scheme LTIS the current practice is to make Millstream conditional awards each year up to a maximum of 200% and 75% Maidenhead Road of base salary respectively.
These schemes are designed to align Windsor the interests of executive directors and other senior executives Berkshire SL4 5GD with the longer term interests of shareholders by rewarding them Company registered in England and Wales No.
3033654 for delivering increased shareholder value.
As a matter of policy, all executive directors and those senior executives immediately below board level are expected to retain a minimum shareholding in the company at least equal in value to the executives base salary.
Remuneration report Executive directors also participate in a contributory, final salary pension scheme details of which are given on page 33.
Composition and role of the remuneration committee The committee believes that these arrangements, which are The boards remuneration committee comprises the independent further explained below, are important in providing a potential non-executive directors and is chaired by Patricia Mann.
Helen remuneration package that will attract, retain and continue Alexander and Paul Walsh were members of the committee to motivate executive directors and other senior executives throughout 2004.
Mary Francis and Paul Rayner became members in a marketplace that is challenging and competitive in both of the committee when they joined the board.
Roger Carr was a commercial and human resource terms.
It is intended that the member until he became chairman of the company in May 2004 current remuneration policy, of which the ESOS and LTIS and Sir Michael Perry and Robert Tobin were members until they elements have been approved by shareholders, will continue stepped down from the board.
The committee makes recommendations to the board, In 2004, the total compensation of the executive within formal terms of reference, on the policy and framework directors, detailed on page 30, consisted of components of executive remuneration and its cost to the company.
The in the following proportions: committee is also responsible for the implementation of remuneration policy and determining specific remuneration Relative proportions of the components of executive directors remuneration: 2004 packages for each of the executive directors.
It has access to advice provided by the group head of reward Mike New, the group human resources director Anne Minto, the general counsel 100 and company secretary Grant Dawson, the chief executive 80 Sir Roy Gardner and external consultants.
During 2004, the 60 committee consulted, but did not formally appoint, Towers Perrin and Mercers, who provided written reports on executive 40 compensation to assist in the formulation of the committees 20 recommendations.
Towers Perrin also provided advice to the 0 group on retirement benefits and non-executive directors fees Phil Mark Sir Roy Roger Bentley Clare Gardner Wood during the year.
This report, which will be submitted to the forthcoming AGM for approval, explains how the company has applied the principles Fixed components in the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance that relate Salary Benefits Pension to directors remuneration during the period.
No director is Variable components involved in the determination of, or votes on any matter relating Performance Bonus ESOS LTIS to, his or her own remuneration.
Framework and policy on executive directors remuneration Note: Salary and benefits are the actual amounts received during 2004: pension is the increase in actual transfer value for 2004 over the notional The groups remuneration policy is designed to provide transfer value for 2003 i. e. adjusted as explained in note iii on page 33 less, competitive reward for its executive directors and other senior in respect of Phil Bentley, a transfer in from a previous employer explained executives, taking into account the companys performance, the in note vi, less the directors contributions during 2004: performance bonus markets in which the group operates and pay and conditions is that payable in respect of 2004: and ESOS and LTIS are the estimated value of the awards made in 2004 based on a Black Scholes model, provided elsewhere in the group.
that all performance conditions are met in full at the end of the relevant In constructing the remuneration packages, the committee performance periods.
aims to achieve a balance between fixed and variable compensation for each director.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of the remuneration package depends on the Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 27 CT001 p23-p34 vAW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:12 pm Page 28 Remuneration report continued The total emoluments of the executive directors are disclosed In respect of each grant of options, the committee has determined on page 30.
The total emoluments of the six senior executives that, for the option to be exercisable in full, EPS growth must immediately below board level for 2004, calculated on the same exceed RPI growth by 18 percentage points or more over the basis as those of the executive directors, fell into the following bands: three-year performance period.
No part of the option grant will be exercisable if EPS growth fails to exceed RPI growth by at least 9 percentage points over the performance period.
of senior executives proportion of the option grant exercisable by the executive will increase on a sliding scale between 40% and 100% if EPS growth 800-900 1 exceeds RPI growth by between 9 and 18 percentage points over 700-800 the performance period.
600-700 1 Options granted from 2001 to March 2004 under the ESOS 500-600 3 permitted the companys EPS to be measured annually for a 400-500 1 further two years from the date of grant of the options, with the performance conditions increasing proportionately.
Having reviewed market practice regarding the retesting of performance measures, the committee removed this element in respect of all option grants from September 2004.
The committee continues Note: Two of the senior executives served for only eleven months of the year.
to believe that, in relation to the ESOS, EPS growth in excess of RPI growth is the most appropriate measure for determining the Components of remuneration increase in value delivered to shareholders by the companys Base salary executive directors and other senior executives.
The committee The committee seeks to establish a base salary for each executive reviews the appropriateness of the performance measure and the director and other senior executives determined by individual specific targets set when considering each new grant of options.
performance and having regard to market salary levels for similar During 2005, it will consider the impact on EPS of the change positions in comparable companies derived from independent in reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards, sources.
Base salaries are reviewed annually.
Base salary is the some uncertainties of which are currently unresolved, in order only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
to determine whether EPS will remain the most appropriate and consistent performance measure for this scheme.
Annual performance bonus In March 2004, options were granted to each executive At the beginning of each year, the committee reviews the bonus director equal to 200% of his base salary and, at the same or scheme to ensure that it remains competitive in the marketplace, lower rates, to certain other senior executives.
Details of options continues to incentivise the executive directors and other senior granted to executive directors are shown on page 32.
It is the executives and aligns their interests with those of shareholders.
companys intention that new shares be issued, subject to For 2004, the maximum bonus payable to executive directors, institutional guidelines, to satisfy the exercise of options granted should every single element of every objective be achieved in full, under the ESOS.
In 2004, 50% of the maximum bonus achievable related to financial performance targets, 25% to Long term incentive scheme LTIS customer and employee satisfaction and 25% to personal Allocations of shares are made annually to executive directors performance.
For executive directors with specific business and other senior executives under the LTIS.
These awards are responsibilities, the scheme is structured to reflect the subject to challenging performance conditions based on the performance of their business as well as that of the group.
For companys total shareholder return TSR relative to the returns 2004, no bonus at all is payable to an individual whose agreed of a comparator group.
This ensures that the executives are not minimum personal targets were not met.
The maximum bonus rewarded unless the company has outperformed its peers in payable to other senior executives, assuming all objectives are creating shareholder value.
The committee has determined that, achieved in full, reduces on a sliding scale normally from 80% to for the purpose of the LTIS, the most appropriate comparator group zero, with the three categories of target in the same proportions for the company is the companies comprising the FTSE 100 at the as for the executive directors.
start of the relevant performance period the LTIS comparator For 2005, the committee has changed the bonus structure so group.
The committee reviews the appropriateness of the that 65% of the maximum achievable bonus relates to financial performance measure and the specific target set when considering performance targets, 25% to customer and employee satisfaction each new allocation of shares under the LTIS.
To reflect this increased Allocations made prior to May 2001 were subject to a emphasis on financial performance, a bonus will now be forfeited performance period of either three or four years at the only if overall performance is deemed to be unsatisfactory.
participants choice, followed by a retention period of two years.
Changes to these arrangements were approved at the 2001 AGM.
Executive share option scheme ESOS Allocations made from May 2001 are released to the participant If and to the extent that performance conditions are satisfied, under normal circumstances after the three-year performance options granted under the ESOS become exercisable three years period, provided, and to the extent that, the performance after the date of grant and remain so until the tenth anniversary of conditions have been met.
However, prior to the release of share grant.
Performance conditions are based on the extent to which allocations, the committee reviews whether the extent to which growth in the companys earnings per share EPS growth exceeds the performance condition has been achieved is a genuine growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI growth over a three-year reflection of the companys financial performance.
EPS is calculated as fully diluted earnings the extent of satisfaction of the performance condition, the per share adjusted for exceptional items and goodwill committee uses data provided by Alithos Ltd. amortisation.
The committee believes that this method of The actual number of shares released to the participant calculating EPS provides an objective, independent and verifiable depends on the companys TSR over the performance period measure of the companys performance.
relative to the LTIS comparator group.
The maximum annual 28 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc
