AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report 60 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Remuneration Report At the Annual General Meeting AGM on These included certain surveys prepared The cost and value of the components of 28 April 2005, a resolution will be proposed for the Company by Towers Perrin.
During the remuneration package are considered to approve the Directors Remuneration 2004, Towers Perrin also provided global as a whole and are designed: Report.
share plan administration services to the Company and consultancy services to the To ensure a proper balance of fixed Remuneration Committee Companys US business.
and variable performance-related The members of the Remuneration components, linked to short and Committee are Sir Peter Bonfield Chairman In July 2004, Ms Carol Arrowsmith of longer term objectives.
of the Committee, John Buchanan, Erna Deloitte & Touche was appointed by the To reflect market competitiveness Mller and Joe Jimenez.
Mr Jimenez was Remuneration Committee to provide it with taking account of the total value appointed as a member of the independent advice on all matters being of all of the benefit components.
Remuneration Committee with effect from considered by it.
During 2004, Deloitte & the end of the AGM on 29 April 2004.
They Touche also provided taxation advice and Throughout 2004, the principal components are all Non-Executive Directors.
The Board other non-audit services to the Company.
contained in the total remuneration considers them all to be independent.
package, for employees as a whole, were: Overall remuneration policy and The remit of the Remuneration Committee purpose Annual salary based on conditions is, primarily, to recommend for decision by The Company is committed to maintaining in the relevant geographic market, with the Board the fundamental remuneration a dynamic performance culture in which the provision to recognise, in addition, policy for the Company and to ensure the every employee champions the growth the value of individuals sustained proper operation of all plans for employees of shareholder value, is clear about the personal performance, resulting from involving the Companys shares.
More Companys objectives, knows how their their ability and experience.
particularly, it makes specific proposals work impacts on those objectives and that Annual bonus a lump sum payment in respect of the remuneration packages they will benefit from achieving high levels related to the targeted achievement of individual Executive Directors and of performance.
of corporate, functional and individual the Companys most senior executives.
goals, measured over a year and A copy of the Remuneration Committees The Board has confirmed that the contained within a specific plan.
remit is available on the Companys Companys overall remuneration policy The corporate goals are derived from website: astrazeneca.
and purpose is: the annual financial targets set by the Board and take into account external The Remuneration Committee met six times To attract and retain people of the expectations of performance.
Each meeting was attended quality necessary to sustain the functional goals are agreed by the by all of its members except that John Company as one of the best Remuneration Committee at the start Buchanan was unable to attend the pharmaceutical companies in the world.
of, and are monitored throughout, September meeting and Joe Jimenez was To motivate them to achieve the level the year.
unable to attend the December meeting of performance necessary to create Longer term incentive for selected due to other commitments.
At the invitation sustained growth in shareholder value.
groups, a longer term incentive targeted of the Remuneration Committee, the at the achievement of strategic Chairman of the Board, a Non-Executive In order to achieve this, remuneration policy objectives with close alignment to the Director, attended all of its meetings in 2004 and practice is designed: interests of shareholders.
except for those held in September and Pension arrangements which are December.
To closely align individual and team appropriate to the relevant national reward with business performance market.
At the request of the Remuneration at each level.
Other benefits such as holidays and Committee, Sir Tom McKillop, Chief To encourage employees to perform sickness benefit which are costExecutive, Tony Bloxham, Executive to their fullest capacity.
effective and compatible with the Vice-President, Human Resources and To encourage employees to align their relevant national welfare arrangements.
Peter Brown, Vice-President, Global interests with those of shareholders.
Share participation various plans Compensation and Benefits, as well as the To support managers responsibility to provide the opportunity for employees Secretary of the Remuneration Committee, achieve business performance through to take a personal stake in the Graeme Musker, attended all of its meetings people and for them to recognise Companys wealth creation as in 2004, except when their own remuneration superior performance, in the short shareholders.
They provided advice and longer term.
and services which materially assisted the To be as locally focused and flexible The way in which these elements are Remuneration Committee during the year.
In as is practicable and beneficial.
combined and applied varies depending, doing so, Mr Brown drew on various sources To be competitive and cost-effective for example, on market need and practice of data concerning directors and executives in each of the relevant employment in various countries.
salaries, bonus levels and other incentives markets.
including general pharmaceutical industry To be as internally consistent as is In 2004, for each Executive Director, the reports and surveys, as well as surveys practicable and beneficial taking due individual components were: specifically carried out for the Company.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report Form 20-F Information 2004 61 Annual salary the actual salary for Longer term incentive Executive age 62 plus a capital sum of four each of the Executive Directors is Directors are also rewarded for times pensionable pay.
Pensions determined by the Remuneration improvement in the share price in payment are increased annually Committee on behalf of the Board and performance of the Company over in line with inflation, as measured established in sterling.
These salaries a period of years by the grant of share by the UK Retail Prices Index, up reflect the experience and sustained options.
The grant of options under to a maximum of 5%.
performance of the individuals to the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan whom they apply, as judged annually is determined by the Remuneration In respect of UK Executive Directors by the Remuneration Committee, taking Committee, as are the performance whose pensionable earnings are account also of market competitiveness targets that will apply and whether they capped by the earnings limit and the level of increases applicable to will apply to the grant and or exercise imposed by the Finance Act 1989, all other employees.
of options this is described in more unapproved defined contribution detail below.
Short term bonus: Currently, only the Chief Financial Pension arrangements the table on Officer is affected by this limit.
The Chief Executive was eligible for page 66 gives details of the changes The Company has agreed to pay an annual bonus related solely to in the value of the Executive Directors annually 50% of base salary in the achievement of the targeted accrued pensions during 2004: excess of the statutory earnings cap performance of earnings per share.
for the pension and associated tax The bonus payable was on a scale of UK Executive Directors pension liability, with the intention of 0-100% of salary and 50% of salary arrangements the Chief Executive providing equivalence of benefits was payable for the achievement of is a member of the Companys main with non-capped UK Executive target performance.
This was derived UK defined benefit pension plan.
If this does not provide from the financial targets set by the The normal pension age under this equivalence, the Company has Board and took into account external plan is 62.
However, a members agreed to make up the difference.
The accrued pension is available from The benefits derived from bonus was not pensionable.
In the age 60 without any actuarial equivalence are shown in the table light of the disappointing setbacks reduction.
In addition the accrued on page 66 as if the scheme were with Exanta and Iressa in 2004, the pension is available, unreduced, a defined benefit arrangement.
Remuneration Committee and Sir from age 57 if the Company The Company contribution in 2004 Tom McKillop agreed a reduction consents to a request for early in respect of the pension element in his bonus.
It was agreed that his retirement and from age 50 if the was 124,000 $225,000.
bonus for 2004 should be reduced retirement is at the Companys to a sum equivalent to 50% of the request.
Other customary benefits such as a car bonus he received in respect of and health benefits are also made available 2003.
This amounts to 430,000 On death in retirement, the accrued through participation in the Companys $782,000.
The Remuneration pension is guaranteed payable for flexible benefits arrangements, which Committee was also mindful in the first five years of retirement and extend to the vast majority of the setting the bonus for 2004 that then reduces to two-thirds of this Companys UK and Swedish employees.
all employees, including Sir Tom amount should there be a surviving McKillop, who had an interest spouse or other dependant.
Any Measurement of performance in shares throughout 2004, had member may choose higher or Each year, as referred to above, both short seen the value of their shares lower levels of survivors pensions term and longer term objectives are agreed fall significantly during the year, in at retirement, subject to Inland with the Board and regularly monitored in common with other shareholders.
Revenue limits, in return for an respect of both individual business functions adjustment to their own pension of and integrated corporate strategy in the The Chief Financial Officer was equivalent actuarial value.
Performance eligible for an annual bonus related are also payable to dependant against these objectives determines to the achievement of both the children.
In the event of a senior functional bonuses and, separately, whether targeted performance of earnings employee becoming incapacitated, or not share options will be granted.
per share and the achievement of then a pension is payable performance measures relevant to immediately as if such person had In respect of bonuses in 2004, relevant his particular area of responsibility.
reached normal retirement age factors included financial results ahead The bonus payable was on a scale subject to a maximum of 10 years of expectations and excellent progress in of 0-100% of salary and 50% of additional service, based on current key areas.
Earnings per share increased by salary was payable for the pensionable salary.
In the event 18%: global sales increased by 9% overall achievement of target business of death prior to retirement, and by 30% in key growth products all at performance.
80% of the bonus dependants are entitled to a constant exchange rates, with particularly related to the achievement of the pension of two-thirds of the pension strong performance in emerging markets.
earnings per share target and 20% that would have been earned had In Research, all targets for new compounds to the other performance measures.
such person remained in service to were exceeded: in Development, good The bonus was not pensionable.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report 62 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Remuneration Report continued progress was made in the restructuring $519 million : good progress was made take place in five years, taking account of of the clinical and regulatory function: with cost control initiatives and other the view of the Companys shareholders in Operations, there was excellent efficiency initiatives resulting in significant and the needs of the business at that time.
performance in customer satisfaction, savings in the area of purchasing and more This review took place during 2004. supply chain management and financial effective working practices and clinical control.
Bonus outcomes reflected the productivity in R&D.
Further positive steps The Remuneration Committee reviewed its variety of functional performance in the were taken with regard to issues in the basic philosophy and confirmed that in context of overall business success and areas of corporate responsibility, seeking to achieve sustained growth in the disappointments in the year.
governance and access to medicines.
shareholder value it would demand the highest level of performance from all AstraZeneca Share Option Plan The Remuneration Committee also sought employees with the Company conducting The AstraZeneca Share Option Plan and received assurances that all individuals itself in a fair and moderate way, maintaining was approved at the AGM in 2000 following proposed for a grant of options had been the highest standards of social responsibility prior consultation with major shareholders.
confirmed as performing in a manner that and corporate governance.
In order to Its design took account of the overall justified a grant to them.
It was noted that achieve this, it must attract and retain competitiveness of the Companys there was some variation in the level of Executive Directors and other senior remuneration arrangements for senior grants being proposed between individuals, executives of the highest quality, competing executives and US employees in the to reflect differing levels of performance.
for them in the global employment market context of the Companys peers in the and providing appropriate rewards directly pharmaceutical industry.
The dilutive effect of the proposed grants linked to top performance.
of options on the Companys issued share The Remuneration Committee must on capital was also considered by the In the last five years, the Company has every occasion, before agreeing the grant Remuneration Committee, in accordance honoured its promise regarding shareholder of options to Executive Directors and with the commitment, given that the dilution.
Grants of options under the others, be satisfied that the most recent percentage of the issued share capital AstraZeneca Share Option Plan worldwide and also the underlying performance of which could be allocated under all of the have amounted to 2.71% plus 0.45% the Company justifies the grant: in addition Companys employee share plans over a under the old Zeneca 1994 Executive Share it must be satisfied that the necessary period of ten years should be under 10%: Option Scheme.
Dilution under other share performance has been achieved by this commitment is applied by the plans has been 0.36%.
Remuneration Committee in practice as a limit, on average, of under 1% per annum.
During this time, the Company has In agreeing grants of options in 2004 The Remuneration Committee concluded intensified its action to align reward directly which occurred before the disappointing that a grant of options to those plan with performance.
For example, the events relating to Exanta and Iressa, participants and individual Executive business performance report has been the Remuneration Committee took into Directors proposed for a grant was developed as described above.
This account, the fact that the Company, appropriate given the level of performance contains the short and long term strategic when compared with its peer group of achieved.
For the grants of options in 2004 objectives agreed annually with the Board international pharmaceutical companies, to members of the Senior Executive Team, and cascaded down throughout the was ranked first in terms of both relative the Remuneration Committee requested Company: these are monitored quarterly share price and total shareholder return that a condition be included to the effect and determine both short term bonus and over the three year period January 2001 that if an event occurred which caused long term awards.
In addition, the reward to January 2004: in 2003, the loss of $2.6 material reputational damage to the of employees at all levels has become billion in sales to generic competition was Company such that it was not appropriate increasingly differentiated based on their compensated for by strong growth in the for the options to vest and become individual performance.
sales of newer products, with the sales of exercisable, then the Remuneration those newer products representing 44% Committee could make a determination In the review, the Remuneration Committee of total sales in 2003: strong sales growth to that effect.
confirmed that the reward package of at constant exchange rates in 2003 for Executive Directors should be primarily Nexium up 62% to $3.3 billion, Seroquel Review of executive remuneration benchmarked against major UK based up 27% to $1.5 billion, Symbicort up 61% In 2000, the Company volunteered a companies with global operations similar to $549 million and Arimidex up 46% to commitment that a review of practice would to those of AstraZeneca, as opposed to Details of Executive Directors service contracts at 31 December 2004 Unexpired term at Executive Director Date of service contract 31 December 2004 Notice period Sir Tom McKillop 11.01.96 One year One year Jonathan Symonds 20.05.98 One year One year AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report Form 20-F Information 2004 63 alignment with the global industry practice.
A requirement for executives to hold the contractual notice period.
For current However, in appropriately balancing the shares equivalent to one-times salary, Executive Directors, it is the Companys total package towards the delivery of award and to retain the net number of shares expectation that any such liability would be for demonstrable performance, bonuses acquired under the AstraZeneca Share calculated on the basis of one years base and incentives should provide for upper Option Plan for at least six months after salary, target bonus and other benefits.
quartile opportunity for upper quartile the option is exercised.
The Companys policy in the event of the performance.
termination of an Executive Directors Subject to a shareholder vote at the service contract is to avoid any liability to During 2004, the Remuneration Committee AGM, the introduction of a new the Executive Director in excess of his or her sought the views of major shareholders.
performance share plan based on the contractual entitlement and aim to ensure As it is five years since the last major review, Companys total shareholder return that any liability is mitigated to the fullest the Committee identified that the relative to a global industry peer group.
competitive market place in major UK This test would be underpinned by the companies had developed and shareholder requirement of the Remuneration Arrangements for Hkan Mogren and expectations had also changed.
The Committee to satisfy itself that any total ke Stavling Remuneration Committee has taken the shareholder return rewarded was a Hkan Mogren, formerly Executive Deputy views of shareholders into account in genuine reflection of the Companys Chairman, ceased to be an Executive formulating proposals which focus upon underlying performance and it would Director and employee of the Company and performance-related pay and strengthened explain its reasoning in the subsequent became Non-Executive Deputy Chairman the links to measures which are aligned to Directors Remuneration Report.
Dr Mogrens the creation of shareholder value.
These remuneration arrangements as a result of proposals, primarily for the Senior Executive The Board and the Remuneration this change were considered and approved Team, are closely aligned to current best Committee believe that bringing bonus by the Remuneration Committee in 2003, practice and include: and long term incentive opportunities based on existing contracts and practice, closer to the market, subject to demanding and were fully disclosed in the Directors' An increase in the annual bonus performance conditions, will appropriately Remuneration Report for 2003.
Under opportunity linked to a broader rebalance the proportion of reward so these arrangements, Dr Mogren received assessment of performance together that variable performance-related pay is compensation from the Company which with a requirement for the Senior dominant and will significantly improve was paid on a monthly basis until the end Executive Team to defer a portion of the Companys ability to attract and retain of August 2004.
The sum received by their bonus earned into shares for a executives of the quality necessary to lead Dr Mogren in respect of this compensation period of three years.
As a result of the AstraZeneca in the future.
in 2004 is included in the disclosure of most recent consultation, the basis of Directors' emoluments on page 65. determining the annual bonus for the Executive Directors service contracts Senior Executive Team will be changed.
The service contracts of the current Executive ke Stavling, formerly an Executive In the past, the whole of the bonus of Directors provide for a notice period of one Director, left the Company at the end the Chief Executive and 80% of those of year.
For new Executive Directors, the Board of January 2003.
Mr Stavlings leaving the others was determined by reference would aim to negotiate a one year notice arrangements were considered and to earnings per share.
In exceptional circumstances, the approved by the Remuneration will be determined by earnings per initial notice period may be for longer than Committee in 2002, based on existing share, 25% by measures relating to one year.
In those circumstances, the Board contracts and practice, and were fully the individuals particular area of would explain to shareholders the reasons disclosed in the Directors' Remuneration responsibility and 25% by a balance why it believed a longer notice period was Report for 2003.
Under these of qualitative and quantitative measures necessary and it would be the Boards arrangements, Mr Stavling is receiving which address the quality of business intention that it should be reduced to one compensation from the Company which performance.
At the time of the AGM is being paid on a monthly basis until the Committee would reserve the right to on 28 April 2005, the unexpired term of end of January 2005.
The amount of this modify the bonus outcome if it believed Executive Directors service contracts will compensation is equivalent to two years' it did not reflect the underlying be a maximum of one year.
The details of base annual salary.
Mr Stavling was performance of the business.
the Executive Directors individual service entitled to a notice period of two years contracts are set out in the table on page 62. under his service contract at the time The introduction of performance In the event of the termination of an Executive he left the Company.
The sum received conditions on exercise of options Directors service contract, depending upon by Mr Stavling in respect of this granted under the AstraZeneca Share the circumstances, the Company may be compensation in 2004 is included in the Option Plan with no re-test facility, liable to provide compensation to the disclosure of Directors' emoluments on in order to bring our policy in line with Executive Director equivalent to the benefits page 65. best practice.
which he or she would have received during AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report 64 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Remuneration Report continued Position of the Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Symonds, Chief Financial Officer, Directors emoluments in 2004 None of the Non-Executive Directors has a served as a Non-Executive Director of The Directors emoluments in 2004 are service contract.
They are not eligible for QinetiQ Group plc until 30 June 2004. disclosed on pages 65 to 66. performance-related bonuses or the grant He was appointed as a Non-Executive of share options.
No pension contributions Director of Diageo plc on 1 May 2004.
Directors interests in shares are made on their behalf.
The fees payable In respect of each position, he retained the Details of the Directors interests in the to the Non-Executive Directors are set by fees paid to him for his services.
In 2004, Companys Ordinary Shares are disclosed a committee of the Board comprising the the total amount of such fees paid to him on pages 67 to 68.
in respect of these services was 55,500.
Mr Symonds also receives and retains Audit External appointments and retention fees of 15,000 per annum for his position The Directors emoluments in 2004 and of fees as a member of the UK Accounting the details of the Directors interests in the With the specific approval of the Board in Standards Board.
Companys Ordinary Shares disclosed each case, Executive Directors may accept on pages 65 to 68 have been audited by external appointments as non-executive the Companys external auditor.
directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Sir Tom McKillop, Chief Executive, served as a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Group plc until 31 December 2004.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of BP p. l. c. on 1 July 2004.
In respect of each position, he retained the fees paid to him for his services.
In 2004, the total amount of such fees paid to him in respect of these services was 90,000.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report Form 20-F Information 2004 65 Directors emoluments in 2004 The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions, paid to or accrued for all Directors and officers of the Company for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2004 was 10 million $17 million.
Remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in sterling and US dollars.
All salaries, fees and bonuses for Directors are established in sterling.
As described fully in the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2003 and noted on page 63 of the Directors Remuneration Report for 2004, compensation payments to Hkan Mogren and ke Stavling were 450,000 $818,000 and 435,000 $791,000, respectively and are included within Other in the above tables.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report 66 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors emoluments in 2004 continued The remuneration of Directors is or was in the case of former Directors with minor exceptions established in sterling and has been converted into US dollars in the second table on page 65 at the average exchange rate for the year in question.
These rates were: GBP USD 2002 0.67 2003 0.62 2004 0.55 Some Directors and officers were also granted options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares under the Companys share option plans.
Details of share options granted to, and exercised by, Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on exercised options in the year are given on page 68.
No Director or officer has a family relationship with any other Director or officer.
Pensions Pensions are payable to Directors in sterling.
For ease of understanding, the whole table has been presented in both sterling and dollars using the exchange rates for 2004 set out above.
Executive Directors Pension Arrangements Sir Tom McKillop Jonathan Symonds Sir Tom McKillop Jonathan Symonds per annum 000 000 $000 $000 Defined Benefit Arrangements 1.
Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation 18 7 33 13 3.
Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 9 2 16 4 4.
Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 11 20 5.
Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 812 291 1,477 530 9 10 9 10 10.
Pensionable service years 35 12 24 12 35 12 24 12 Transactions with Directors There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2004 or 2003.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report Form 20-F Information 2004 67 Graph showing total shareholder return The UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the inclusion in the Directors Remuneration Report of a graph showing total shareholder return TSR over a five year period in respect of a holding of the Companys shares, plotted against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity market index is calculated.
This illustrates the Companys TSR performance against the broad equity market index selected.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph which is set out below, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index.
Graph showing total shareholder return 1 January 2000 31 December 2004 AstraZeneca FTSE100 140 120 100 80 60 Jan 00 Jan 01 Jan 02 Jan 03 Jan 04 Dec 04 Source: Thomson Financial Datastream Directors interests in shares The interests at 31 December 2004 or on date of retirement of the persons who on that date were Directors including the interests of their families in shares and debentures of AstraZeneca PLC are shown below, all of which were beneficial except as otherwise stated.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Interest in Interest in Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares at 1 Jan 2004 Net shares at 31 Dec 2004 or appointment acquired or resignation date disposed date Louis Schweitzer 4,000 4,000 Percy Barnevik 50,000 50,000 Hkan Mogren 62,164 62,164 Sir Tom McKillop 77,835 77,835 Jonathan Symonds 10,929 10,929 Sir Peter Bonfield 500 500 John Buchanan 500 500 Jane Henney 500 500 Michele Hooper 500 500 Joe Jimenez 500 500 Erna Mller 2,718 2,718 Dame Bridget Ogilvie 500 500 Marcus Wallenberg 74,504 3,622 70,882 Former Directors Karl von der Heyden 20,000 20,000 No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the outstanding shares of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights to other shareholders.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Directors Remuneration Report 68 Form 20-F Information 2004 Directors Remuneration Report continued The interests of Directors and former Directors in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares of the Company, which include options granted under the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, together with options granted and exercised during the year, are included in the following table: Exercise Market price No.
First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which periods there are shorter exercise periods.
In addition to the above, the following Directors or former Directors held options under the Astra Shareholder Value Incentive Plan which were converted into options over AstraZeneca shares on completion of the merger based on an exchange ratio of 0.5045 AstraZeneca options for each Astra option held.
No further options have been or will be granted under the scheme: Astra SVIP Options Exercise Market price No.
of shares price at date of First date Last date under option per share exercise exercisable exercisable Hkan Mogren At 1 Jan 2004 16,288 429.38SEK 06.04.99 23.01.06 market price above option price market price below option price 16,288 429.38SEK 06.04.99 23.01.06 At 31 Dec 2004 16,288 429.38SEK 06.04.99 23.01.06 market price above option price market price below option price 16,288 429.38SEK 06.04.99 23.01.06 Exercise prices are weighted averages.
The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year amounted to $nil 2003 $0.5 million, 2002 $0.4 million and the gains made by the highest paid Director were $nil 2003 $470,000, 2002 $nil.
The market price of shares trading on the London Stock Exchange at 31 December 2004 was 1889 pence and the range during 2004 was 1863 pence to 2749 pence.
The market price of shares trading on the Stockholm Stock Exchange at 31 December 2004 was 241.50 SEK and the range during 2004 was 237.50 SEK to 374.00 SEK.
The Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares.
On behalf of the Board G H R Musker Group Secretary and Solicitor 27 January 2005
