C11742 Unlvr AR eng 071-089. qxd 9 3 05 2:05 AM Page 71 Remuneration report Introduction and Letter to shareholders Introduction This report of the Remuneration Committee sets out Unilevers in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States.
It also sets out full In particular it takes into account: details of the remuneration payable to the Directors for the year 2004.
The Dutch Corporate Governance Code: The Combined Code of the United Kingdom issued in 1998, as The Report is divided into the following sections: revised in 2003 the Combined Code appended to the United Kingdom Listing Rules: Letter to shareholders from the members of the Remuneration The requirements of the United Kingdom Directors Committee Remuneration Report Regulations 2002: and Details of the members of the Committee together with their The SECs requirements for Form 20-F and the New York Stock tasks and responsibilities Exchange listing rules.
Policy regarding Executive Directors remuneration Commentary on Executive Directors remuneration payable for Directors are members of the Boards of both NV and PLC and 2004 they receive remuneration from both companies.
The information Details of the service contracts relating to Executive Directors shown in this report covers the total remuneration receivable Tables of Executive Directors remuneration for 2004 and their from both NV and PLC.
Unilever share interests Information regarding Non-Executive Directors including details The report has been approved by the Boards and it has been of remuneration and Unilever share interests signed on their behalf by the Joint Secretaries of Unilever.
It will be presented to shareholders at the Annual General Meetings to The report has been prepared in accordance with the be held on 10 May 2005 NV and 11 May 2005 PLC.
requirements of legislation and corporate governance codes Letter to shareholders Dear Shareholder, vesting.
Full details of this proposal are included in the notices to shareholders regarding the 2005 Annual General Meetings.
The year 2004 has been a year of change.
Changes are also proposed for 2005 regarding the annual bonus payable to Executive Directors revisions to the performance In May the Advisory Directors were formally appointed as Noncriteria as well as an increase in the bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors of NV and PLC.
During the year there were also other changes to the Boards of The Committee also reviewed the pension arrangements for NV and PLC.
Charles Strauss, our US-based Executive Director, Executive Directors.
As a result it has been decided that the retired in May and Niall FitzGerald, the Chairman of PLC, retired current policy of including a proportion of the annual bonus of at the end of September.
Mr FitzGerald was succeeded by Patrick up to 20% of base pay as part of pensionable earnings would be Cescau who was previously our Foods Director.
In May 2004 Kees abandoned with immediate effect for new Executive Directors.
van der Graaf was appointed as an Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to linking a major 2004 was also the final year of Unilevers Path to Growth strategy part of the Executive Directors pay to clearly dened levels of and we are now entering a new challenging phase leading up performance.
We are focused on achieving business goals and to 2010. on rewarding outstanding performance accordingly.
In view of these changes the Remuneration Committee decided For 2004 the business results were disappointing and consequently to initiate an in-depth review of the remuneration package for the bonuses paid to the Executive Directors for that year were low.
This involved a detailed benchmarking of the package against comparable companies based in the UK and We strive to ensure that the remuneration package for Executive Continental Europe.
The result of this exercise showed that the Directors continues to deliver the best possible value for value of the current package is broadly in line with the market.
However, the study also showed that part of the share-based elements of the package required amendment in order to bring them in line with developing market trends and to reinforce the Unilever plans leading up to 2010.
As a result of this study we are proposing to shareholders the introduction of a new Performance Bertrand Collomb Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Share Plan in 2005 which will replace the existing executive share David Simon option plans and which will have performance conditions on Jeroen van der Veer Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 71
