C11742 Unlvr AR eng 071-089. qxd 9 3 05 2:06 AM Page 75 Remuneration report Policy continued Other benets allowances Base salary Executive Directors enjoy similar benets to many other The average of salary increases for Executive Directors for 2004 employees of the Unilever Group.
These include subsidised was 4.7% compared with the year 2003. medical insurance, the use of company cars or cash in lieu and assistance with relocation costs when moving from one country This increase was a result of the yearly benchmarking exercise to another.
They also receive an allowance to cover small out-ofwhereby the salary payable to Unilevers Executive Directors was pocket expenses not covered by the reimbursement of their compared with that payable to Directors of other major business entertaining expenses.
international companies based in Europe.
This benchmarking excluded companies in the financial sector in order to ensure that In addition, certain UK-based Executive Directors receive an the outcome of the study was not distorted.
The increase also allowance to compensate for the loss in their net income due took into account the personal performance of the individual in to the fact that some of their remuneration is paid in the question together with the overall performance of the business.
Annual performance bonus Future developments Corporate and personal targets were set by the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee keeps the remuneration policy for Committee for 2004 as follows: Executive Directors under review in the light of company and market developments.
Currently there are proposals to make the Corporate: these were based on a combination of a the following changes to the remuneration package: increase in earnings per share BEIA at current exchange rates and b the sales growth of the leading brands.
The maximum Proposals will be made to shareholders to replace the existing bonus in respect of these Corporate targets is 80% of executive share option plans with a new Global Performance base salary.
If the proposals are accepted by shareholders no Personal: these were based on agreed key objectives relative further grants will be made to Executive Directors under the to the Executive Directors specic responsibilities.
Up to 20% executive share option plans apart from the final grants of of base salary can be earned in respect of these targets.
premium options to be made in 2005.
Instead, from 2005 onwards, grants will be made under the new Global At the end of 2004 the Committee measured the results against Performance Share Plan.
These awards will vest three years the targets set and agreed that bonuses should be payable to from grant but will be subject to performance conditions on Executive Directors averaging approximately 11% of base salaries vesting.
Full details of this new plan are contained in the in respect of that year.
notices to shareholders regarding the 2005 Annual General Meetings.
Long-term incentive arrangements The Executive Directors pension arrangements are currently Share Matching Plan under review.
In particular the Committee has decided that the Two awards vested in 2004.
These awards were originally current policy of including a proportion of the annual bonus of made on a conditional basis in 1999 with a vesting period of up to 20% of base salary as part of pensionable earnings five years and in 2001 with a vesting period of three years.
should be abandoned, with immediate effect, for new TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan Executive Directors.
The conditional award made in 2001 vested in May 2004.
This The performance criteria relating to the annual bonus is being award was based on the TSR performance of Unilever when revised in order to align the Executive Directors targets to the ranked against its dened peer group of 20 comparator business plans leading up to 2010.
For 2005 it is proposed that companies for the three-year performance period ended 31 the new corporate targets be based on a combination of the December 2003.
Unilever was ranked position 6 out of the peer Trading Contribution TC and Underlying Sales Growth USG group of companies for this period which resulted in a 100% of the Group.
It is also proposed that the bonus opportunity for vesting of the award.
the Group Chief Executive be set at a maximum of 150% of The conditional award made in 2002 was based on the TSR base salary from 2005 onwards.
performance of Unilever for the three-year period ended 31 December 2004.
For this period Unilever was ranked 13 out of Commentary on Executive Directors Remuneration its peer group of companies and therefore there will be no payable for 2004 vesting of this award in March 2005.
Executive Share Options The tables on pages 77 to 85 give details of the specic elements The grants of share options made in 2004 were based on the of the Executive Directors remuneration package for 2004. earnings per share growth BEIA for 2003 compared with 2002.
However, the following additional comments may be helpful in This resulted in a level of grant for 2004 equivalent to 100% of understanding the various tables.
the normal allocation of options.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 75
