C11742 Unlvr AR eng 071-089. qxd 9 3 05 2:07 AM Page 78 Remuneration report Details Executive Directors continued Remuneration for individual Executive Directors The following table gives details of the total remuneration including long-term incentives received by each Executive Director.
For convenience the amounts are shown both in euros and [in brackets] in pounds sterling.
It also includes the annual bonus both the cash element and the bonus paid in shares payable in March 2005 relating to the performance year 2004.
The value of the matching shares conditionally awarded in 2005 in respect of the performance year 2004 is not included as these form part of the long-term incentives and the value will be reported when they vest in 2008.
2 Other income includes the gains realised in 2004 following the exercise of share options granted in earlier years.
It also includes the value of the matching shares vested in 2004, which were originally awarded in 1999 and 2001 together with the value of the TSR LTIP shares vested in 2004 which were originally awarded in 2001.
This latter award was based on the TSR performance of Unilever for the three-year rolling period ended 31 December 2003.
Unilever was ranked number 6 out of 21 for this period.
The gains marked thus were not cashed-in by the Executive Director shown.
Instead, the gains were either wholly retained in the form of shares in NV and PLC or the net amounts after payment of tax were retained in the form of shares in NV and PLC.
For further details please refer to the information on share matching on page 79, on the TSR LTIP scheme on page 80 and on share options on page 81.
3 Allowances include the following payments: a allowances in lieu of company car payable to Messrs Cescau, Dadiseth, Markham and FitzGerald b entertaining allowance payable to all European based Executive Directors c blind trust fees payable in respect of Mr Burgmans d financial planning assistance payable to Mr Strauss e allowances payable to Messrs FitzGerald and Dadiseth to compensate for the loss of net income suffered by them because part of their remuneration was paid in the Netherlands All allowances are taxable in the country of residence of the Executive Director concerned apart from the entertaining allowance which is currently tax free.
Other payments include a compensation payment of 1 806 150 [1 224 750] payable to Mr FitzGerald following the cessation of his directorship see footnote 10.
4 Includes the value of the following benets in kind: a company-provided accommodation situated away from their home location to be used in lieu of hotels by Messrs Burgmans, Cescau, FitzGerald, Butler, van Heemstra, Markham and Strauss b company-provided accommodation for Mr Dadiseth while he is based in the UK: this is provided on a temporary basis for use while he is working away from his home country India c company cars provided to Messrs Burgmans, Cescau, Butler, Dadiseth, van der Graaf, van Heemstra, Markham and Strauss d subsidised private medical insurance provided for all Executive Directors e relocation assistance see footnote 8 All such benets in kind are taxable in the country of residence of the Executive Director concerned apart from the value of residential accommodation provided for Netherlands based Executive Directors which is tax-free in the Netherlands.
78 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
