C11742 Unlvr AR eng 071-089. qxd 9 3 05 2:05 AM Page 72 Remuneration report Remuneration Committee and Policy Remuneration Committee Where Group performance meets the overall business plan, the variable elements of the remuneration package, such as the Tasks and responsibilities annual bonus and the expected value of long-term incentive The Committee is responsible for making proposals to the Boards payments, can account for about 60% of the total package on the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
60% of the combined sum of base salary, annual bonus and responsible for setting individual remuneration packages for long-term incentive payments, but excluding pension provision.
Executive Directors and for monitoring and approving all shareHowever, outstanding Group results can increase the variable based incentive arrangements.
The Committee meets at least elements to around 75% of the total package.
If the Group three times a year and, during 2004, it met on six occasions.
results were below target, the variable elements would reduce Apart from one meeting, every member was present at signicantly.
Closely linking the package to key performance measures Structure ensures that the Executive Directors remuneration is aligned The Committee members are all independent Non-Executive effectively with shareholders interests.
This is consistent with the Directors, chosen for their broad experience and international remuneration policy for senior executives below board level, who outlook.
During 2004 the members were: also have a significant performance-related element of pay within their remuneration package.
Bertrand Collomb Chairman of the Committee Lord Simon of Highbury Executive Directors are required to build up a significant personal Jeroen van der Veer shareholding in Unilever.
Within five years of appointment, they are expected to hold shares worth 150% of their annual base Advice and assistance salary.
This reinforces the link between the executives and other The Committee does not formally retain remuneration shareholders.
It seeks professional advice from external advisers as and when required.
During 2004, the Committee sought On a limited basis Unilever Executive Directors serve as nonadvice from Towers Perrin an independent rm of human executives on the Boards of other companies.
Unilever requires resources specialists on market data, remuneration trends and that all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships performance-related pay.
Towers Perrin also provides general are paid directly to Unilever.
consultancy advice to Unilever group companies on employee rewards, pension, communications and other human Reward structure resource matters.
The Executive Directors total remuneration package consists of: The Committee is supplied with information by Jan van der Bijl, Base salary: who is also Joint Secretary of Unilever.
Annual performance bonus: Long-term incentives: The Chairmen of NV and PLC are invited to attend Committee Pension provision: and meetings to provide their own insights to the Committee on Other benets and allowances.
business objectives and the individual performance of their direct reports.
Naturally, the Chairmen do not attend when their own The Committee regularly reviews the reward structure to ensure remuneration is being discussed.
that it meets its objectives.
Remuneration policy Executive Directors Base salary Each Executive Director receives a base salary which is xed in Main principles the currency appropriate to the country in which the individual Unilevers objective is to attract world-class executives who can is based.
drive the business forward and achieve the highest results for shareholders.
This is essential to the successful leadership and Market reference points are agreed each year depending on effective management of Unilever as a major global company.
where the individual is based eg.
the Netherlands, the UK or To meet this objective the Committee follows three key principles, the US.
Based on those market reference points a personal validated by shareholders: salary level is set for each Executive Director to take effect from 1 January of the year concerned.
The reward policy is benchmarked regularly against arrangements for comparable companies in Europe.
This When granting pay rises, the Committee looks at a range of ensures that Executive Directors remuneration levels remain factors including individual and company performance.
Committee also uses independent expert advice to compare A comparison is made with the remuneration arrangements for Unilevers remuneration for executives of this calibre with that other senior executives within Unilever.
paid by other major international companies in Europe.
The Committee links a significant proportion of the Executive Directors total remuneration to a number of key measures of company performance.
72 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 071-089. qxd 9 3 05 2:05 AM Page 73 Remuneration report Policy continued Annual performance bonus The Committee considers that there is no need for further The annual performance bonus aims to focus the Executive performance conditions on the vesting of the matching shares Directors on the business priorities for the coming financial year, because the number of shares is directly linked to the annual in accordance with Unilevers annual plan.
Currently the bonus bonus which is itself subject to demanding performance can range between 0% and 100% of base salary.
Moreover, during the three-year vesting period the the maximum level is payable only in the case of exceptional share price of NV and PLC will be inuenced by the performance performance.
of the companies which, in turn, will affect the ultimate value of the matching shares on vesting.
To receive a bonus Executive Directors must achieve demanding corporate and personal targets set by the Committee at the TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan beginning of each year.
Under this plan conditional rights over shares in NV and PLC are awarded annually to Executive Directors.
The corporate targets for 2004 are described in more detail on page 75 and were a combination of the increase in earnings per The current level of conditional annual awards is as follows: share BEIA and the growth in sales of the leading brands.
These targets, which were linked to the Path to Growth strategy, are Chairmen: Shares in NV and PLC to the combined value currently being reviewed by the Committee and it is proposed of 800 000: that they will be replaced in 2005 with new targets aligned to the European-based Executive Directors: Shares in NV and PLC to business plans leading up to 2010. the combined value of 500 000: and US-based Executive Director: Shares in NV and PLC to the At the end of each financial year, the Committee measures the combined value of 400 000. results against the targets set.
The conditional awards vest three years after date of grant but The bonus is then calculated and is payable in March following the number of shares to vest is dependent on Unilevers Total the end of the financial year in question.
Part of the bonus 25% Shareholder Return TSR when compared with the TSR results of is delivered to the Executive Directors in the form of shares in NV a dened peer group of 20 comparator companies over a threeand PLC.
The Executive Directors are then awarded, on a year performance cycle.
No shares will vest if Unilever is ranked at conditional basis, an equivalent number of matching shares.
less than position 11 of the TSR ranking table over the three-year These latter shares form part of the long-term incentive period.
Between 25% and 200% will vest if Unilever is ranked in arrangements described below.
the top half of the table as shown below: Vested award Long-term incentive arrangements % of original conditional The long-term incentive arrangements for Executive Directors TSR peer group ranking award that will vest consist of three main elements: 12th to 21st 0% 10th or 11th 25% Share Matching Plan linked to the annual bonus 8th or 9th 50% TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan 5th to 7th 100% Share options, which includes: 3rd or 4th 150% 1st or 2nd 200% Executive Option Plans All-Employee Share Plans The current peer group of comparator companies is as follows: Share Matching Plan linked to the annual bonus As noted above, the Executive Directors receive 25% of the Altria Group Kao annual bonus in the form of NV and PLC shares, known as bonus Avon Lion shares.
The company then awards an equivalent number of Beiersdorf LOral matching shares, which will vest three years after the award Cadbury Schweppes Nestl provided that: Clorox Orkla Coca-Cola Pepsico The original number of bonus shares has been retained for that Colgate Procter & Gamble three-year period: and Danone Reckitt Benckiser The Executive Director has not resigned or been dismissed.
Gillette Sara Lee Heinz Shiseido The three-year vesting period for the matching shares is in line with international practice and the Committee considers that it is an important retention tool for key executives.
Furthermore the Using the TSR peer group ranking as a performance indicator necessity to hold the bonus shares for a minimum period of three demonstrates a clear link between the reward provided to years supports, as far as possible, the shareholding requirements Executive Directors, and the investment growth enjoyed by our set out on page 72 and ensures that the interests of Executive shareholders in comparison with that enjoyed by investors in the Directors are aligned with those of other shareholders.
dened peer group of companies.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 73 C11742 Unlvr AR eng 071-089. qxd 9 3 05 2:05 AM Page 74 Remuneration report Policy continued Share options Following grant, the options are not subject to any further Executive Directors may participate in the following share option performance conditions on exercise.
The Executive Option Plans plans.
extend to Unilever executives throughout the world and in many countries it is not common practice to have performance Executive Option Plans conditions on the exercise of options.
The Committee therefore All-Employee Share Plans takes the view that the underlying financial performance of the Group, which in turn affects the growth in share price between Executive Option Plans grant and exercise of an option, is sufficient.
The Remuneration Committee has proposed that this component of the remuneration package be replaced in 2005 by a new The minimum price payable for each share, on the exercise of the Global Performance Share Plan.
Full details of this new Plan are options, is not less than the market price of the shares as at the contained in the Notices to Shareholders regarding the 2005 date of grant.
Normally, an option granted under the Executive AGMs.
If the proposal is approved by shareholders no further Plans may not be exercised earlier than three years from the date grants will be made to Executive Directors under the existing of grant.
It cannot be exercised any later than ten years from the Executive Share Option Plans apart from the final grants of date of grant.
premium options to be made in 2005.
Instead, grants will be made under the new Global Performance Share Plan from Premium options 2005 onwards.
For options granted between 1997 and 2000, rights to further options known as premium options arise five years after the For the sake of completeness the following section gives full date of the original option grant.
These premium options amount details of the existing Executive Share Option Plans.
to 20% of the original number of options granted provided that: Under these Plans, Executive Directors are granted options over During the relevant five-year period, options under the normal shares in NV and PLC.
The Committee has established an annual annual arrangements have been granted to the Executive benchmark for each Executive Directors grant level.
This is known Directors in question: and as the normal allocation see below : The Executive Director has not exercised the original options granted five years previously or, if he has, he retains all profit Normal allocation of the exercise in the form of shares.
NV options PLC options Chairmen 12 000 80 000 This incentive of premium options was discontinued in 2001, as US-based Executive Director 12 000 80 000 part of the changes in the remuneration package of the Executive European-based Executive Directors 7 500 50 000 Directors, approved by shareholders at that time.
No further rights to premium options arise on grants made under the NV and PLC plans from 2001 onwards.
The annual grants will only be made if the following performance conditions are met: All-Employee Share Plans Executive Directors are able to participate in the UK Employee Firstly, the earnings per share BEIA over the preceding three ShareSave Plan, the UK Share Incentive Plan ShareBuy and the financial years must have cumulatively risen by at least 6% Netherlands Employee Option Plan.
The US-based Executive more than the rate of ination within the UK and the Director is able to participate in the North American Employee eurozone when measured at current rates of exchange.
These arrangements are known as AllSecondly and subject to the first condition being met, the Employee plans.
actual grant a percentage of the normal allocation is determined by reference to the growth in earnings per share Details of all the plans are shown in note 30 on pages 138 BEIA at current rates of exchange for the preceding financial to 147. year, as shown below: EPS BEIA growth over ination Actual grant Executive Directors pensions achieved in preceding as percentage of Executive Directors are provided with a dened benefit final salary financial year normal allocation pension, which is consistent with the pension provision for all Ination less than 4% 0% Unilever Netherlands and UK employees.
This arrangement Ination 4% 50% provides Executive Directors with a pension from NV or PLC as Ination 5% 75% appropriate of a maximum of two-thirds of final pensionable pay Ination 6% 100% if they retire at age 60 or later, after deduction of pensions from Ination 7% 125% other sources.
Ination 8% 150% Final pensionable pay includes the average annual performance As part of the Path to Growth strategy, the Committee regarded bonuses paid in the last three years, up to a maximum of 20% earnings per share BEIA growth at current rates of exchange as of base pay.
This is similar to the current Group practice for longan appropriate measure of the Groups underlying financial serving senior executives.
The Committee, however, has recently performance.
The Committees view was that less than 4% reviewed this arrangement and has decided to abandon the growth after ination was below standard and, at that level, no pensionability of bonuses for new Executive Directors.
Real EPS BEIA growth above 6%, however, represented above-target performance.
The table on page 83 gives details of the Executive Directors pension values.
74 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
