Directors remuneration report Remuneration Committee and advisers The policy is designed to ensure that a significant proportion The Remuneration Committee has received advice from of the total remuneration is dependent upon performance and Linklaters and Mercer Human Resource Consulting in respect aligns the interests of executives and shareholders.
This is of the proposed Performance Share Plan.
In addition, general achieved through a combination of fixed and variable payments, remuneration information has been provided by Towers Perrin.
benefits and share option plans.
Other Directors and employees of the Company who were Basic salary and benefits invited to attend some or all of the Committee meetings during In seeking to ensure that the basic salary and benefits for each the year and who provided material advice or services to the Executive Director are appropriate and competitive, relevant Committee were: external market data, as well as pay and conditions in the Group generally, are taken into consideration.
The Chairman makes Ron Sandler Chairman recommendations to the Committee in respect of the two other Mike Norris Chief Executive Executive Directors based upon this information, together with Alan Pottinger Group Company Secretary an assessment of their individual performance against specific Tim Way Group HR Director financial and non-financial goals, and the performance of the Phil Hulme Non-Executive Director Group as a whole.
Cliff Preddy, as Committee Chairman, is Peter Ogden Non-Executive Director responsible for an equivalent process in respect of Ron Sandlers remuneration.
The Committee takes into account comparative practice in both the European technology sector and FTSE mid-250 companies.
Performance-related bonus scheme Mike Norris and Tony Conophy participate in annual Remuneration policy performance-related bonus schemes that are linked to The Committee makes recommendations and determines the overall performance of the Group and the achievement remuneration policy on the Boards behalf.
No Director is of personal objectives agreed with them for the year by the involved in deciding his own remuneration.
In implementing Chairman, and approved by the Committee.
Performance its policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the conditions are relevant, challenging and designed to enhance Principles of the Code with regard to Directors remuneration, shareholder value.
For 2004, the maximum levels of bonus and is satisfied that it has complied with best practice were 50% of base salary and Mike Norris earned 73,100 provisions in this matter.
In particular, the following objectives 2003: 157,700 and Tony Conophy 54,000 2003: 91,000. have been addressed: Following a review by the Remuneration Committee, the maximum levels of bonus for 2005 will be 75% of base salary.
to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully: Share options to reward Executive Directors through remuneration The Executive Directors are awarded executive share options arrangements that are competitive but not excessive: under the Companys share option schemes.
Since 1998, these to provide Executive Directors with an incentive for the awards have ordinarily been subject to certain performance development and performance of the Group in the best conditions that are challenging and designed to produce interests of shareholders: significant and sustained improvements in the Groups underlying to ensure that a significant proportion of Executive Directors financial performance.
The details of the various performance remuneration is structured such that rewards are linked to conditions relating to grants are set out in the table of Directors corporate and individual performance.
interests in share options on page 31.
Should the conditions not be met, options will lapse.
The actual award is dependent upon The Board as a whole determines fees for Non-Executive individual performance assessed against agreed personal targets Directors that reflect the time commitment and responsibilities and grants are normally limited to a maximum of 1.25 times an of their roles.
The Committee is responsible for determining the individuals base salary.
Adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS appropriate policy for rewarding the Groups Executive Directors has been chosen as a performance measure on the basis that and senior management.
this is a widely used and transparent yardstick.
Adjusted EPS in relation to share options, is calculated on a pre-exceptional, The various elements of Executive Directors Remuneration post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, fully diluted basis.
during 2004, are shown below: Element: Fixed basic salary Performance based bonus Share options Maximum Award: 50% of base salary 125% of base salary Purpose: Reflects competitive salary Rewards the delivery Directly linked to the achievement of significant levels and takes account of Group operational and sustained improvements in the of personal contribution performance and Companys financial performance and performance achievement of and to the creation of value through personal objectives increased share price Performance Standard: Individual contribution Specific individual targets EPS growth approved by the Remuneration Committee each year Note: The Chairman is ineligible for a bonus award.
28 Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 During 2004, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the The Remuneration Committee has chosen an EPS-based effectiveness of the Companys incentive arrangements and is performance target because it believes that there are not intending to introduce a new performance share plan PSP sufficient comparable organisations to create a meaningful scheme in 2005, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual total shareholder return TSR comparator group.
In addition, General Meeting in April 2005.
This new plan will operate as it believes that an EPS-based target will create a more the main long-term incentive scheme for senior employees in effective incentive for participants, given the lower volatility place of the existing executive option schemes.
In appropriate of the Companys EPS performance when compared to the circumstances, grants of options under the current executive Companys relative TSR.
option schemes may still be considered, particularly in those countries where there are associated tax advantages, such The maximum value of shares that can be awarded under the as France.
plan to an employee in a financial year is 1 times base salary.
This limit can be exceeded in exceptional circumstances up The Remuneration Committee believes that the PSP scheme to an absolute maximum of 2 times base salary.
It is intended will generate improved motivation for senior employees to that awards for the Executive Directors will be in the range of contribute to growth and profitability, and better align the 0.75 to 1 times base salary.
Companys incentive arrangements with shareholders interests.
Pension For 2005, the PSP plan performance target will be based on Past and present Executive Directors are entitled to participate the Companys annual adjusted EPS growth in relation to the in the Computacenter Pension Scheme, a defined contribution retail price index RPI and measured over a three-year period.
salary sacrifice scheme available to all employees under which No shares subject to awards will vest if cumulative annual a maximum annual Company contribution of 3,500 per growth is less than RPI plus 3%.
One quarter of the shares will employee is payable.
The maximum Company contribution vest at RPI plus 3%.
Awards will vest in full if the Companys is automatically reviewed each July in line with the average cumulative annual growth is at or above RPI plus 7.5%.
If the increase in national earnings.
The scheme also allows Companys EPS growth over the period is between 3% and employees to make additional salary sacrifices, which the 7.5% above RPI, awards will vest on a straight line basis.
Company may contribute to the scheme on their behalf.
The There will be no retesting of the performance target.
amounts of such salary sacrifices are shown as Company contributions in excess of the 3,500 limit in the table of Directors emoluments.
Mike Norris, Tony Conophy and Peter Ogden participate in the scheme.
Directors contracts Unexpired term Contract letter months of appointment as at Notice period Director start date Expiry date 14 March 2005 months Executive: Ron Sandler 15.03.2001 n a see below 12 Mike Norris 23.04.1998 n a none specified 12 Tony Conophy 23.04.1998 n a none specified 12 Non-Executive: Nick Cosh 08.01.2002 2005 AGM 1 12 Phil Hulme 09.05.2003 2006 AGM 14 12 Ghislain Lescuyer 19.01.2004 2007 AGM 26 12 Peter Ogden 09.05.2003 2006 AGM 14 12 Cliff Preddy 08.01.2002 2005 AGM 1 12 Ron Sandlers service contract automatically terminates on his 65th birthday, on 5 March 2017.
Calculated as at 14 March 2005 and assuming that future AGMs will be held in May each year with the exception of the 2005 AGM which will be held in April and assumes re-election where required to retire at earlier AGMs in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
All Executive Directors have a rolling 12 month service contract The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with with the Company, which is subject to 12 months notice by the Company.
They each operate under a letter of appointment either the Company or the Director.
that sets out their terms, duties and responsibilities.
NonExecutive Directors are appointed for an initial term which runs No contractual arrangements are in place that guarantee to the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting to be held additional payments upon termination of employment by following the third anniversary of appointment and may be the Company.
All service contracts provide for summary renewed at that point for a further three-year term.
termination in the event of gross misconduct.
All Directors must offer themselves for re-election by shareholders in general meeting at least every three years.
Computacenter plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors remuneration report continued Performance graph The performance of the Company over the last five financial years in relation to other relevant UK-quoted shares is shown in the performance graph below.
Computacenters shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and the Committee has selected the FTSE Software & Computer Services share index as the comparator against which to assess Total Shareholder Return performance.
Total Shareholder Return performance Computacenter versus FTSE Software & Computer Services sector 100 80 60 40 20 0 Key Computacenter TSR Sector Index rebased to 100 at 01 01 00.
The Directors remuneration and Directors interests in share options tables below, and their associated notes, are subject to audit.
Cliff Preddy receives an annual fee of 5,000 for his services as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Notes: 1 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998.
2 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Services Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme.
3 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme, which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Computacenter Group.
4 Exercisable on the condition that the average annual compound growth in the Computacenter Groups fully diluted earnings per share, compared to the base year of 2000, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively.
5 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average compound growth in the Computacenter Groups fully diluted earnings per share, compared to the base year of 2000, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2003, 2004 or 2005 respectively.
6 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a pre-exceptional, post-investment in the Biomni joint venture fully diluted basis compared to the base year of 2001, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2004, 2005 or 2006 respectively.
7 Exercisable on the condition that the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a pre-exceptional, post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, fully diluted basis compared to the base year of 2001, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2004, 2005 or 2006 respectively.
8 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a pre-exceptional, post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, fully diluted basis compared to the base year of 2002, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2005, 2006 or 2007 respectively.
10 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a pre-exceptional, post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, fully diluted basis compared to the base year of 2003, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three four or five year periods up to and including 2006, 2007 or 2008 respectively.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2004 was 291.0p.
The highest price during the year was 500.5p and the lowest was 253.0p.
AJ Pottinger Secretary 14 March 2005 Computacenter plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
