Report of the Remuneration Committee Introduction The Companys policy is that a substantial This report has been prepared in accordance proportion of the remuneration of the executive with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The directors should be performance-related.
The payment report also meets the relevant requirements of the of both cash bonuses and the vesting of share Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and incentives are subject to meeting performance describes how the Board has applied the Principles of conditions established by the Committee at the Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
beginning of each financial year reflecting what, at As required by the Companies Act, a resolution to that time, the Committee considers to be demanding approve the report will be proposed at the Annual targets.
These targets are set taking appropriate General Meeting of the Company at which the account of the challenging and rapidly evolving financial statements will be approved.
market in which the Group operates, and the The Act requires the auditors to report expectations of the investment community on the to the Companys members on certain parts of the Companys potential future performance.
Report of the Remuneration Committee and to state For 2005, the Company intends to introduce a whether in their opinion those parts of the report have new share award plan enabling performance-related been properly prepared in accordance with the share awards to be made to employees including Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been executive directors and senior management.
divided into separate sections for audited and More details are contained in the Chairmans letter unaudited information.
accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting for 2005.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee Basic salary The Company has a Remuneration Committee An executive directors basic salary is reviewed which, with the exception of the role of the chairman by the Committee prior to the beginning of each see page 21, is constituted in accordance with the year and when an individual changes position or recommendations of the Combined Code.
When making a determination as to the information on the Committees members and its appropriate remuneration, the Committee considers activities are set out on page 21. remuneration practices within the Group as a whole None of the members of the Committee has any and where considered relevant, consults objective personal financial interest other than as shareholders, research on companies within the Groups peers.
conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships With the exception of Mr Hodgson, who is paid in or day-to-day involvement in running the business of US Dollars, the executive directors are paid in the Group.
The Committee makes recommendations Pounds Sterling.
to the Board concerning the remuneration of directors, including the Chairman and other senior management Benefits-in-kind within the Group.
No director plays a part in any The executive directors receive certain benefitsdiscussion about their own remuneration.
in-kind, comprising private medical insurance, life In determining the remuneration policies and assurance of four times basic salary, and personal levels for the year, the Committee consulted Mr John accident insurance and subsistence expenses.
Hodgson Chief Executive Officer about its proposals.
Professional advice prior to the flotation was provided Cash bonus plan by Deloitte & Touche LLP, who, following flotation The Committee is responsible for determining were replaced by  LLP who on what basis to incentivise employees, including were appointed by the Committee.
executive directors, through a cash bonus plan.
The Committee establishes against defined targets the Remuneration policy for the executive directors minimum and subsequent thresholds at which a Executive remuneration packages are designed bonus will be payable and the maximum potential in order to attract, motivate and retain employees of award.
In setting appropriate bonus thresholds and the high calibre required by the Group in order to targets, the Committee may refer to the objective achieve its objectives, to meet the needs of our research on a comparator group as noted above and customers and enhance value to our shareholders.
ensures that the targets set are suitably demanding.
There are five main elements of the remuneration The Committee seeks to apply performance conditions package for executive directors and senior which are aligned with the interests of shareholders.
management, which include medium and long For 2004, the targets were set after considering term incentives comprising basic annual salary, the Companys budgeted operating profit and analyst benefits-in-kind, a money purchase pension, a consensus projections $15.3 million at the time of cash bonus plan and participation in the Companys the Companys flotation.
This budget was agreed share incentive plans.
based upon objectives which were considered to be appropriate and stretching against the background of an operating loss of $2.4 million in 2003.
30 Changing the way the world connects Targets were set that required operating profit to The rules of the CSOP do not allow for options to reach $13 million for the minimum award of 10% of be granted at a discount to the Companys share price basic salary rising to $20 million for the maximum at the date of grant.
For each of the directors The Companys policy is to grant options to an award of 50% of basic salary was made in February executive directors at the discretion of the Committee 2005.
The maximum bonus for 2005 is also 50% of taking into account individual performance.
Targets for the bonus plan for 2005 are made in 2005, it is expected that awards will be up to based on operating profits for the year ending a maximum of 50% of basic salary.
Pursuant to the 31 December 2005. rules of the CSOP, the Committee also reserves to its discretion the right to grant awards at a higher Share options proportion of basic salary and which, in exceptional The Company has four share option plans, circumstances only, could be up to 400% of basic intended to facilitate the motivation and retention of salary.
Stretching EPS targets will be imposed.
Two of the plans were established prior to The Company also operates an Inland Revenue the Companys flotation, the Founders Share Option approved SAYE Share Option Scheme for eligible Plan and the Global Share Option Plan.
Whilst not all employees under which options may be granted at a the awards under these plans have fully vested, the discount of up to 20% of market value.
Executive schemes are closed for the purpose of any new awards, directors are eligible to participate in the SAYE Share and neither scheme was used during 2004 for grants Option scheme.
No significant amendments are proposed to be Following approval at the Annual General made to the terms and conditions of any entitlement Meeting, held on 18 February 2004, the Company of a director under these share option plans.
For the established a new share option scheme called the year to 31 December 2004, the Company did not CSR plc Share Option Scheme CSOP.
The reason operate any long-term incentive plans other than for the new scheme was to incentivise the executive the share option schemes described above.
directors and employees whilst aligning their interests more closely with those of the Companys shareholders Performance Share Awards following the Companys flotation.
The Committee has Subject to the proposed new share award responsibility for supervising the CSOP and the grant plan being approved at the forthcoming Annual of options in accordance with its rules.
General Meeting, the Committee intends to make During 2004 the Company made two categories awards to executive directors and senior management of awards under the CSOP.
The first at the time of the of share awards subject to stretching targets based on Companys flotation in March 2004 was made to all Total Shareholder Return, TSR as explained in eligible employees, excluding executive directors.
more detail in the Chairmans letter accompanying Shares allocated under this grant will vest in February the notice of the Annual General Meeting.
The award does not have any performance that the TSR performance meets the conditions of conditions.
vesting, the Committee will, prior to vesting, consider A separate allocation to selected eligible the underlying financial performance of the Company employees, including executive directors, was also and whether in light of this performance, vesting made in 2004 under the CSOP.
Options granted may should be permitted.
The Committee will in a year in be exercised between three and ten years after the which an award vests, report to shareholders on the date of grant, subject to the Company satisfying underlying financial performance which had been predetermined performance conditions.
The considered when approving vesting.
These awards are performance criterion requires the Company to satisfy intended to reward strong relative performance, whilst Earnings Per Share EPS targets at the end of a three share options will continue to reward absolute year period.
In keeping with the share option plan, For performance-related allocations made the Committee will reserve the right to grant awards at under the CSOP during the financial year to a proportion of basic salary which, in exceptional 31 December 2004, the Company is required to circumstances only, could be up to 200%.
The total meet certain EPS targets at 31 December 2006.
At an levels of grant of options and performance share EPS of $0.17 per share, 10% of the allocation would awards will not be excessive.
Thereafter additional increments of 10% of the As described in the Chairmans letter allocation shall vest on a straight line basis up to an accompanying the Notice of the Annual General EPS of $0.26 per share when the maximum of 100% Meeting, shareholder approval is to be sought at the of the allocation would vest.
At the time of the Annual General Meeting to introduce a single 10% Companys flotation in March 2004, achieving the in 10 years dilution limit on post-flotation grants maximum award required a growth in EPS of 766% under all of the Companys share plans, including over 2003 or $0.23 per share, from $0.03 per share the proposed new share award plan.
The performance criterion, which applies to Pension arrangements all participants, including executive directors, was Three of the executive directors are members chosen to ensure that the vesting of benefits was of the Cambridge Silicon Radio Retirement Benefits aligned to improved financial performance of the Scheme the Pension Plan which is an Inland Company, from which shareholders would also Revenue approved money purchase defined benefit.
The maximum level of awards allocated to contribution scheme operated for eligible employees executive directors was over shares up to a maximum in the United Kingdom.
Mr Hodgson is not a member value equivalent to 120% of basic salary.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 31 Report of the Contributions are determined as a percentage of Non-executive directors the employees gross basic salary.
Details of the actual All non-executive directors have specific Remuneration Committee contributions made by the Group to the Pension Plan terms of engagement provided in formal letters of continued on behalf of the executive directors are set out in the appointment and their remuneration is determined table on page 33.
Normal retirement age is 65 for all by the Board within the limits set by the Articles of employees.
No other element of the directors Association and based on independent surveys of fees remuneration is pensionable.
paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
Under Inland Revenue rules, to the extent With the exception of Mr Shone, the non-executive that a directors benefits from a company scheme directors are appointed for a fixed three year term, are restricted by limits set by the Inland Revenue, subject to re-appointment by the shareholders.
payments may be made to funded unapproved Mr Shone entered into a new letter of engagement retirement benefit schemes.
There are no such at the time of the Companys flotation providing for arrangements in place for the directors of a twelve month appointment which terminates on the Company.
This amended the terms of Mr Shones services for the Company including the basis Performance graph of remuneration to a fixed annual fee.
The basic fee The graph below shows the Companys paid to each non-executive director for the year to performance, measured by total shareholder return, 31 December 2004 was 27,000.
An additional fee compared with the performance of the FTSE Techmark of 3,000 is paid for chairmanship of a committee.
The FTSE Techmark 100 index has been With effect from 7 October 2004, Mr Tucker was selected for this comparison because it is a broad appointed as the Senior Independent Director, in equity index of which CSR plc is a constituent respect of which he received pro-rata payments on an company.
The graph covers the period since the annualised fee of 3,000.
Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Non-executive directors do not receive any bonus and since flotation have not participated in Directors contracts awards under the Companys share schemes and are It is the Companys policy that executive not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
directors should have contracts of an indefinite term.
Mr Ron Mackintosh and Mr John Scarisbrick who are All the executive directors have contracts which are proposed for election at the forthcoming Annual subject to one years notice by the Company and six General Meeting, being non-executive directors, do months notice from the executive.
Mr James Collier not have a service contract.
and Mr Glenn Collinson who are proposed for reName of director Date of letter of appointment Duration of appointment election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting J W Whybrow 17 December 2003 3 years each have service contracts which provide for a notice D Tucker 23 January 2004 3 years period by the Company of one year.
M L Shone 31 March 2004 1 year The details of the directors service contracts and R Mackintosh 16 March 2004 3 years notice period under their respective contracts are J Scarisbrick 16 June 2004 3 years summarised in the table below: Mr Whybrows term of appointment commenced on 2 March 2004, being the date of the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange.
Name of director Date of service contract Period of notice Issue of shares to Non-executive directors J D Y Collier 25 February 2004 1 year Conditional on admission to the London G Collinson 25 February 2004 1 year Stock Exchange, at the time of their appointments, J S Hodgson 25 February 2004 1 year Mr Whybrow and Mr Tucker were offered the P G G Goodridge 25 February 2004 1 year opportunity to purchase shares in the Company.
In the event of termination, a director would Mr Whybrow was allotted 100,000 shares and be entitled to a payment not exceeding one years Mr Tucker was allotted 60,000 shares based on the basic salary.
In an appropriate case, the Company then most recent funding round price of $1.67 per would have regard to the departing directors duty share.
At that time, the fair value of the Companys to mitigate loss.
ordinary shares was deemed to be 2 per share.
In accordance with applicable accounting standards, a charge on the notional gain by each director of Total shareholder return $210,603 and $128,402 respectively was CSR plc FTSE Techmark 100 index recognised in the profit and loss account.
200% 180% Outside appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept 160% appointments outside the Company provided that 140% the Chairmans permission is sought prior to accepting 120% the appointment and that fees are accounted for to the 100% Company.
No executive director currently has an 80% appointment outside the Company.
The salary and fees for other directors were paid in Pounds Sterling, but denominated in US Dollars for reporting purposes, consistent with the accounting policies of the Company.
Total fees of $10,182 2003 $46,101 were paid to third parties in respect of the services of A Arts, H Hauser, L Garrett and S Paterson as indicated in the table above.
Mr Goodridge was paid a discretionary bonus in connection with the Companys successful listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Aggregate directors remuneration The aggregate directors remuneration were as follows: 2004 2003 $$ Emoluments 1,928,854 1,087,231 Gains on exercise of share options 1,686,400 3,945,155 1 Notional gains from the issue of shares at less than fair value 339,005 Money purchase pension contributions 87,106 69,454 Total 4,041,364 5,101,840 1 See further explanation on page 32 Directors pension entitlements Contributions paid by the Group in respect of the directors during the year were as follows: 2004 2003 $$ J D Y Collier 31,634 26,591 G Collinson 27,799 19,943 P G G Goodridge 25,808 761 Dr P L ODonovan 1,865 22,159 Total 87,106 69,454 Resigned 30 January 2004.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 33 Report of the Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed on page 33 do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire Remuneration Committee ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors.
No consideration was paid for the award of an option.
i : Vesting of option 20% on anniversary of grant, then 5% each subsequent calendar quarter end 31 March, 30 June, 30 September, 31 December for 16 quarters.
ii : Vesting of option 25% on anniversary of grant, then 6.25% each subsequent calendar quarter end 31 March, 30 June, 30 September, 31 December for 12 quarters.
iii : Vesting of option 5% each calendar quarter end 31 March, 30 June, 30 September, 31 December for 20 quarters.
iv : These share options were granted under a specific agreement with Mr Shone with vesting being subject to achieving the following performance criteria: a There is a takeover or listing which places a value on the whole of the Company of at least $100 million before 8 April 2006: or b Before 8 April 2004, the turnover of the Group reaches at least $75 million in any 12 month period and: i the profit after tax is at least 10% of turnover in that 12 month period: or ii the profit before tax is at least 20% of turnover in that 12 month period.
Turnover and profit are determined by reference to the management accounts for the relevant 12 month period.
These criteria were met in March 2004, following the listing of the Company on the London Stock Exchange.
v : Option numbers and exercise prices are adjusted to reflect changes to the share capital structure as outlined in note 19 to the financial statements.
vi : Resigned 30 January 2004. vii : Options granted to Directors under the CSOP scheme in 2004 vest after 3 years and have certain performance criteria attached.
The options vest in proportions from 10% 100% dependent upon the EPS achieved by the Company.
For the year ended 31 December 2006, the target EPS is in the range $0.17 to $0.26.
Thereafter the option may be exercised for the rest of its ten year life without further test.
viii : Options granted under the SAYE scheme vest after 3 years and must be exercised within 6 months of vesting date.
ix : In accordance with the terms at the time of grant, in the event the Company is acquired and Mr Goodridges appointment is terminated, Mr Goodridge is entitled to early vesting of the options.
x : On 18 March 2005, Mr John Hodgson exercised 150,000 options under the Global Share Option Plan.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of directors on 24 March 2005 and signed on its behalf by: J W Whybrow 24 March 2005 34 Changing the way the world connects Financial statements 36 Statement of directors responsibilities 37 Report of the Auditors 38 Consolidated profit and loss account 39 Consolidated balance sheet 41 Consolidated cashflow statement 42 Notes to the financial statements 62 Five year summary 63 Share and corporate information 64 Glossary of industry terms IBC CSRs offices CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 35
