39 remuneration report The Remuneration Committee presents its Remuneration Report, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 November 2004.
Introduction All the members of the Remuneration Bridge Street Consultants in relation to the This report has been prepared in Committee are considered by the Chairmans salary.
New Bridge Street accordance with the Directors' Company to be independent nonConsultants were appointed by the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. executives, with the exception of Dillie Remuneration Committee.
The firm of The report also meets the relevant Malherbe.
The Boards explanation for  also provides requirements of the Listing Rules of the Dillie Malherbes appointment to the the Group with internal audit services.
The Financial Services Authority and describes Committee is set out in the Corporate firm of New Bridge Street Consultants how the Board has applied the Principles Governance Report.
All the members of does not provide any other services to the of Good Governance relating to Directors' the Committee are free from conflicts of Group.
Details of the relationships with remuneration.
As required by the interest in considering matters relating to  and New Bridge Regulations, a resolution to approve the remuneration of executives.
The Street Consultants are available on the report will be proposed at the Annual Committee met six times during the period Companys website www.
General Meeting of the Company at which under review.
A table showing attendance the financial statements will be approved.
at committee meetings is available on The Group Executive Human Resources The Regulations require the auditors to page 34. and the Chief Executive Officer provide report to the Company's members on information on current remuneration and certain parts of the Directors' A copy of the full terms of reference for performance of directors and senior Remuneration Report and to state the Committee is available on the management, and are available to the whether in their opinion those parts of the Companys website www.
Committee to answer any questions that report have been properly prepared in may arise.
The Committee consults with accordance with the Companies Act 1985 The remuneration of non-executive the Group Executive Human Resources as amended by the Regulations.
The directors is a matter for the executive and the Chief Executive Officer on the report has therefore been divided into members of the Board.
No director or Committees proposals for remuneration.
separate sections for audited and manager is involved in any decisions as to The Chief Financial Officer has been unaudited information.
his or her own remuneration.
involved in the design of the new long term incentive schemes to assist the Unaudited Information During the period under review the Remuneration Committee in ensuring the The Remuneration Committee Committee took independent advice from affordability of the schemes to the Group.
The Remuneration Committee members  in relation to the for the period under review were as market practice on executive The Company Secretarys office provides follows: compensation to help it achieve its assistance and advice to the objectives.
In particular, Remuneration Committee with respect to Rory Scott Chairman  assisted in the governance, the operation of the Share Dillie Malherbe appointed 15 September design of the new long term incentive Option Scheme and regulatory 2004 schemes to be proposed to shareholders compliance and has utilised Routledge Robert Mansfield resigned 17 November at an Extraordinary General Meeting to be Modise Moss Morris and Linklaters to 2003 held on 2 December 2004. provide legal services.
Gordon Waddelll appointed 15 September  were appointed 2004 by the Committee and the Executives Dorian Wharton-Hood resigned 15 together.
The Remuneration Committee September 2004 also obtained comparative data from New ANNUAL REPORT 2004 40 remuneration report Statement of policy on directors targets shall relate to performance subject to the approval of these schemes remuneration against a peer group of companies.
by shareholders at an EGM to be held on The Committee aims to provide Targets under the SARS shall relate to 2 December 2004.
All grants under these remuneration packages that meet the the normalised earnings per share of schemes, including grants to executive needs of a global IT services business.
directors, will be approved by the A business of this nature depends on the Remuneration Committee.
attraction, retention and motivation of high The policy relating to each component of calibre executives who can be entrusted remuneration is summarised below: The proposed performance criterion for with growing and enhancing the value of the LTIP is Total Shareholder Return the Group.
Base salary TSR over a three year period compared The base salary of the executive directors to the TSR of a Peer Group of at least 16 In formulating the policy for the year is subject to annual review and is set with members.
Vesting will commence if the ending 30 September 2005 and reference to external market data, relating TSR ranks at the median TSR of the Peer subsequent years the Remuneration to similar companies based in South Africa Group in respect of executive directors Committee has considered the following and the UK and taking into account the not more than 30% of the LTIP awards principles: primary location of the directors granted may vest at this point.
Consideration is given to the will progress linearly, as the rank of the All remuneration arrangements will be size, market sector, business complexity TSR increases, until 100% vesting when designed to support the Groups and international reach of the comparator the TSR has upper quartile ranking.
business strategy in line with best companies.
Individual performance and practice standards.
changes in responsibilities resulting from The proposed criterion for the SARS is Setting levels of total reward that will be the restructuring of the management of the cumulative normalised earnings per share competitive within the relevant market Group, are also taken into consideration.
over a three year performance period.
Vesting will commence at a threshold At an on-target level, the proportion of Annual bonus plan level, and progress linearly until full executive remuneration that is Each of the executive directors is entitled vesting occurs at a target level.
performance linked will be not less than to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
45% of total remuneration, including For the financial year 2005, the Further details of these proposed new awards under any long term incentive performance criteria in respect of the schemes can be found in the circular to schemes valued at expected value bonus payable is determined by Group shareholders calling the EGM, dated 9 being fair value as defined under IFRS financial performance targets related to November 2004.
A copy of this circular 2 Share-Based Payment issued by the earnings per share or net income before can also be found on our website International Accounting Standards interest and tax, together with an amount www.
Market and non-market related to the achievement of personal key conditions will be taken into performance indicators as set in Details of options granted under the consideration when determining such a accordance with the Groups performance previous share option scheme are given value.
In addition to the on pages 76 to 78.
Subject to the approval by shareholders above criteria no performance bonus is of the new long term incentive payable to directors unless the Group as a Pensions and other benefits arrangements, the expected value of whole achieves profitability at a level Pensions and other benefits such as life combined grants under the proposed determined by the Committee.
The upper insurance benefits for executive directors Share Appreciation Rights Scheme limit for the annual bonus plan for directors reflect the practice in the countries in SARS and Long Term Incentive Plan is 100% of their basic salary.
which they are primarily resident.
The LTIP shall not exceed one times base executive directors each receive life pay per individual.
Long term incentives insurance benefit, disability insurance Targets under the long term incentive As stated above, it is intended that all benefit and medical cover.
The cost to the schemes shall be challenging and are executive directors shall be eligible to Group is shown in the table on page 42. intended to be self-liquidating.
LTIP participate in the new LTIP and SARS, DIMENSION DATA 41 remuneration report Contributions are also made for the executive directors in the Groups Effective Date Unexpired provident fund, which is a defined of Contract Term contribution pension scheme, in the amounts as set out on page 42.
Jeremy Ord 1 January 2003 Indefinite Brett Dawson 1 March 2004 Indefinite Non-executive directors fees David Sherriffs 1 March 2004 Indefinite The executive directors determine the Steve Joubert 1 January 2003 Indefinite remuneration of the non-executive Patrick Quarmby 1 January 2003 Indefinite directors annually.
The fees were reviewed but not increased in the year.
Consideration is given to fees payable to Following Jeremy Ords change in role, the non-executive directors for comparable Remuneration Committee has reviewed companies.
Additional fees are paid to the terms of his service with the Group committee members and chairmen of and accordingly his remuneration will be Board committees to take account of the adjusted with effect from 1 October 2004. additional work involved.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in Malcolm Rutherford resigned as an the Companys Share Option Scheme and executive director on 1 March 2004, and will not be eligible to participate in the he resigned from the Board on 11 May proposed long term incentive schemes.
He had not entered into a new service contract and was entitled to Service contracts receive a payment equal to 12 months All executive directors have identical salary US$400,000 plus his on-target service contracts.
In terms of the revised and new contracts were entered severance arrangement agreed by the into during the financial year.
All executive Remuneration Committee, a payment directors contracts are rolling contracts, equal to 12 months salary shall be paid in and contain a three month notice period.
equal monthly instalments, commencing 1 On termination, except by reason of June 2004, and that the bonus payable cause or illness, death, injury or shall be pro-rated, reducing the amount of retirement, the executive director will be bonus payable to US$200,000.
entitled to payments equal to 12 months' base salary plus a pro-rata portion of the All of the non-executive directors now director's bonus if all conditions and operate under revised letters of performance criteria applicable to the appointment which contain a one month bonus have been proportionately achieved notice provision and are for a three year as determined by the Remuneration duration.
There are no compensation Committee.
Both such amounts will be provisions for early termination of nonpayable in equal amounts over the 12 executive director appointments.
This is subject to the directors obligation to External appointments mitigate such costs by seeking alternative Executive directors are permitted to employment and the Company being accept external appointments subject to entitled to deduct from the amounts Board approval.
Executive directors are payable, all remuneration and fees not permitted to retain fees paid to them in received pursuant to such alternative relation to external appointments.
For the financial year 2004, the Remuneration Committee has received assessments of the performance of each executive director relative to the achievement of a minimum of 18 out of 25 on personal key performance indicators as set in accordance with the Group performance management system and the achievement of the annual business targets which were set on Group earnings per share for Jeremy Ord and Group profit before interest and tax for Brett Dawson, David Sherriffs and Patrick Quarmby and Group profit before interest and tax and solutions gross margin for Steve Joubert.
Following these assessments, the directors will receive the bonus amount as set out under Directors Remuneration 2003 Bonus: nil.
For the options granted on 21 November 2002 and 11 December 2003 to be exercisable each of the executive directors had to satisfy personal and business performance criteria.
The personal performance criteria related to the personal key performance indicators set according to the Groups performance management system.
Payment was dependent on 100% achievement of the business criteria and a minimum of 18 out of 25 score on the personal key performance criteria.
The business performance criteria for Jeremy Ord was Group earnings per share, for Brett Dawson, Patrick Quarmby, Dave Sherriffs and Malcolm Rutherford was Group profit before interest and tax and for Steve Joubert was Group profit before interest and tax and gross margin on solutions.
The Companys share price at 30 September 2004 was 31.25 UK pence and 361 SA cents.
The high and low market prices of the Companys shares during the year are shown below.
Further details of share prices are shown on page 50.
Sterling SA rand High 48.75 UK pence 633 SA cents Low 24.75 UK pence 295 SA cents Directors interests in ordinary shares Details of the Directors beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings in the Company are shown below.
Other than the shareholdings listed above, the Directors hold no interests in other Group companies.
DIMENSION DATA 45 remuneration report Long term performance In line with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the graph below shows Dimension Datas total shareholder return between listing on the London Stock Exchange on 19 July 2000 and 30 September 2004, together with a comparator index.
Total shareholder return 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 30 Sep 00 30 Sep 01 30 Sep 02 30 Sep 03 30 Sep 04 Dimension Data Holdings FTSE Software & Computer Services Index This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2004, of 100 invested in Dimension Data Holdings plc on 31 July 2000 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Software and Computer Services Index.
The other values plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
This index was chosen as the Company has been a constituent since listing.
By order of the Board RM Scott Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 November 2004 ANNUAL REPORT 2004
