Remuneration report For the year ended 31 March 2004 Remuneration Committee The full terms of reference of the Committee can be made The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee available on request to the Company Secretary and are set the approval of the remuneration and employment terms of out on the Companys website at www.
the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
Attendance at meetings and advisers The Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors, During the year, the Committee continued to use New Bridge all of whom are considered to be independent, and its Street Consultants LLP as its adviser.
This firm has provided membership during the year was as follows: material advice to the Committee to assist it in developing and monitoring policies for remunerating senior employees Committee Chairman throughout the Group, including providing advice in Sir Dominic Cadbury, Non-executive Deputy Chairman connection with the operation of the long-term incentive plan.
and senior independent Non-executive Director until his The major areas for advice were Executive Directors retirement on 28 February 2004. remuneration, determining competitive levels and forms of John Gildersleeve, Non-executive Deputy Chairman pay for Executive Directors and senior executives, reviewing and senior independent Non-executive Director since his proposals for incentive arrangements for that group, appointment on 28 February 2004. reviewing all share-based and long-term incentive plans and advising the Committee of developments and best practices Committee Members for remuneration and applicable corporate governance Harald Einsmann Non-executive Director.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has not, Peter Georgescu Non-executive Director.
during the year, provided any other services to the Group.
David Londoner Non-executive Director since his appointment on 13 May 2003.
The Committee schedules three meetings during each year Kathleen ODonovan Non-executive Director.
but also holds additional meetings as and when material matters arise for discussion.
During the last financial year, In addition, Sly Bailey joined the Committee on 2 April 2004 the Committee met on five occasions.
following her appointment as a Non-executive Director on that day.
No non-Committee members are entitled to attend meetings of the Committee as of right although the Executive Chairman Terms of reference the Chairman, the Human Resources executive charged The key terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: with supporting the Committee Les Kelley as Group Human Resources Director until 31 December 2003 and Carol to provide the policy framework for the remuneration of Separovich as Vice President, Rewards Management from Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other 1 January 2004 together with the Company Secretary and senior executive and operational management currently Group General Counsel in his capacity as Committee approximately 100 individuals in total : Secretary are generally invited to attend so as to assist and advise the Committee on matters under consideration.
subject to the policy framework and the Code, to review Other executives may be invited to attend in respect of in detail and approve all aspects of the terms and specific issues where their guidance may be of assistance conditions of employment of each Executive Director to the Committee.
In this regard, during the last financial year and the Company Secretary, including their incentive the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EMI Music CEO arrangements, pension rights and any compensation EMI Music attended a meeting and provided material payments: assistance and advice with regard to his division.
None of these attendees participated in any discussion relating to his to review and approve the base salaries of the most senior or her own remuneration.
direct-line reports to the Executive Directors, together with their remuneration packages, incentive arrangements, In monitoring the level and mix of remuneration packages, pension rights and any compensation payments: the Committee has access to a number of music and general industry remuneration surveys, covering both local and to determine targets for any performance-related international data.
The Committee takes into account factors incentive arrangements operated by the Company: such as the nature, size, complexity and international profile of the surveyed companies relative to EMI: it also seeks such to ensure the effective administration of any other longspecific advice from the external consultants as it considers term or share-based remuneration arrangements for appropriate.
employees: Policy statement on Directors remuneration to ensure that regulations and codes on the disclosure of remuneration are adhered to by the Group: and, Background The Committee recognises that, as a major UK-listed to review major changes in Group employee benefit company, EMI should comply with the highest standards structures.
of corporate governance and, wherever it is appropriate to do so having regard to the wider interests of shareholders, The Committee is also authorised, where necessary, to obtain UK remuneration best practices.
Accordingly, the Committee external independent professional advice.
periodically reviews the Groups remuneration practices against such standards and practices while recognising that 29 Remuneration report continued the achievement of success in the highly competitive arrangements which would secure his commitment until at worldwide music market depends critically upon the Groups least March 2009.
The Committee also took advantage of the ability to compete for the management talent necessary to review of Mr Levys remuneration arrangements to meet the secure, develop and promote recording artists, composers concerns of certain institutional investors with regard to the and songwriters.
The Groups remuneration policies, enhancement in Mr Levys contract on a change of control therefore, will continue to reflect the need to attract, retain and where compensation for dismissal was increased from one motivate top-calibre international management in the context years remuneration to two.
This enhancement has therefore of remuneration levels and practices in the international music been removed from his service contract.
and entertainment industry, many of which are set in the US, the indigenous repertoire of which, in the year ended 31 The Board and the Committee remain committed to the March 2004, amounted to 48.6% of worldwide record sales.
principles underlying the original package, namely a belowmarket base salary, with a high proportion of the total earning The Groups remuneration policies also recognise that the opportunity being  and only paying music publishing and recorded music businesses operate bonuses where stretching performance criteria have been in distinct marketplaces.
The level and form of remuneration satisfied.
However, it was essential to balance meeting these will continue to be tailored to the different marketplaces in objectives on the one hand against, on the other hand, which the Group competes and to recognise the importance allowing Mr Levys actual remuneration to fall to a level which of creative talent to the overall success of the Group.
was significantly below that of the market.
The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors have Against this background the Committee developed a new been designed to help them attain, and encourage them to remuneration package for Mr Levy, as follows: retain, long-term interests in EMIs shares, and thereby align their interests with those of shareholders.
Performancebase salary was increased to 1.0m pa the Committee related elements, in the form of annual bonuses and shareunderstands that this remains the lowest salary in the based long-term incentives, represent a significant industry for the chairman and CEO of a global recorded proportion of remuneration, typically providing at least music business: 50% of the total annual remuneration opportunity for the achievement of stretching performance targets.
the annual bonus opportunity was increased from two times salary to three times salary, by adding to the Overview operating margin criterion a further potential one times The Group revised certain aspects of its remuneration salary opportunity by reference to turnover relative to the policies during 2003, notably the introduction of the recorded music market with nothing payable for belowExecutive Share Incentive Plan ESIP and revisions to market levels of turnover growth and increasing on a certain Executive Directors service contracts to bring them sliding scale : into line with developments in best practice.
The Committee considers it appropriate to apply the same policies in 2004 as originally contemplated when the ESIP was and, therefore, has made no changes to the general policy introduced, Mr Levy will not receive any share awards reported in last years Annual Report.
under that scheme until May 2006.
It is envisaged that he will then participate on a comparable basis to other New remuneration arrangements for Alain Levy Executive Directors, with any awards being on the same Following consultation with major shareholders, the service terms in terms of performance criteria, etc but with contract of Alain Levy, CEO EMI Music, has been amended awards based on a higher multiple of salary.
It is currently as from 1 April 2004.
The revised arrangements, which will be intended that Mr Levy would receive annual grants of reflected for the first time in the 2005 Annual Report, are options over shares worth three times base salary and designed to secure Mr Levys services for EMI for the next awards of performance shares worth one and a half times five years.
salary each year compared with, currently, two times salary and one times salary, respectively, for the Chairman Under Alain Levys leadership, EMIs recorded music and for the CFO.
business has performed exceptionally well relative to its competitors, reflecting not only his general abilities as a The Committee confirms that no repricing or adjustment music executive, but also his particular skills in managing of any historic option grants has occurred or is proposed: such a business in adverse market conditions.
However, nor have any changes to Mr Levys pension or benefit despite the relative outperformance of EMIs recorded music arrangements been made.
The new package involves two business, and particularly in light of the competition in the other changes from the previous contract: as referred to industry for executives of his calibre, the total package agreed above, the enhancement on a change of control from 12 to for Mr Levy when he joined EMI in 2001 has not proved to be 24 months has been removed and, should Mr Levy wish to competitive.
The Committee considers the retention and resign, the notice required from him has been increased from effective incentivisation of Mr Levy to be of the utmost six to 12 months.
importance to the Company and its shareholders: and the Companys discussions with major institutional shareholders Both the Committee and the Board believe that these indicate that they share this view.
changes are necessary in the context of adverse conditions in the recorded music market and are in the best interests In this context, the Committee wished to reconfirm Mr Levys of EMI and its shareholders.
commitment until March 2006, and also to structure new 30 Base salary Performance criteria are tailored to individual positions and, The Group believes pay should be closely linked to subject to the Committees discretion, within the limits performance.
described above, to ensure that bonuses are appropriate in all the circumstances, are determined as follows: Base salary levels are determined by the Committee having regard to the experience and performance of the individual for the Chairman and the CFO, bonuses are linked executive, the performance of the Group as a whole over the to the attainment of stretching pre-set financial targets preceding year, data regarding external salary levels for for the Group, with an element depending on performance comparable positions, internal relativities and wage inflation against personal objectives: elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee seeks to ensure that base salaries are generally set no higher than the median for the annual bonus for the CEO EMI Music Publishing the music industry.
is based on pre-set targets relating to the divisions economic profit ie taking into account the value of the Recognising the requirements of good corporate governance investment in the business from year to year, reflecting and a desire to constrain fixed costs to the advantage of all EMI Music Publishings objective of achieving sustained shareholders, base salaries for certain operating executives, profit growth while providing an adequate return on most notably and even after the revisions to his invested assets: and, arrangements for the CEO EMI Music, have been kept below industry market levels.
In these instances, in order to deliver the annual bonus for the CEO EMI Music was based competitive overall levels of pay, the balance of the overall on the division achieving stretching pre-set operating remuneration is weighted more significantly towards longprofit margin targets.
From 1 April 2004, two thirds of term incentives than is the case with EMIs major competitors.
his opportunity continues to be measured on this basis with the other third determined by the divisions sales The base salaries of each of the Executive Directors on performance relative to the recorded music market.
31 March 2004 were as follows: Given the current uncertainty within the worldwide recorded music market, the Committee believes that it E L Nicoli 700,400pa is important to control the cost structure of the recorded M N Bandier US$3,092,266 pa music business to ensure that costs can be supported A M J I Levy 700,400 pa by the repertoire as it develops.
It therefore considers R C Faxon US$789,000 pa that operating margin should be the primary focus for the present, with a further incentive to drive sales Salaries are revised annually with any increases generally outperformance.
The Committee considers that this taking effect on 1 April, for Mr Levy and Mr Bandier, and 1 July mix of targets is the most appropriate and robust manner for Mr Nicoli and Mr Faxon.
Each Executive Director received of incentivising Mr Levy to deliver, and rewarding him an increase of approximately 3% in 2003 which was consistent for achieving, consistently superior performance for the with the overall increase for other executives and staff.
Annual bonus The Committees policy is not to pay transaction-related Except in the case of the CEO EMI Music, no changes have bonuses.
Details of the bonuses achieved during the year been made to the annual bonus arrangements which remain by individual Executive Directors are set out on page 37. in line with general industry practice.
Long-term incentive arrangements The Chairmans and CFOs annual bonus opportunity at Of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the CFO target and maximum performance remains at 50% and participate in the ESIP.
Under the terms of the ESIP, regular 100%, respectively, of base salary.
Similarly, the annual bonus annual awards of both share options and performance shares opportunity of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of are made, with awards vesting after a fixed three-year period EMI Music Publishing CEO EMI Music Publishing at target subject to the achievement of demanding pre-vesting and maximum performance remains at 50% and 80%, performance conditions.
The Committee determined that, for the first award made under The CEO EMI Music was entitled, under his service agreement, the ESIP in 2003, options over shares worth two times base to a maximum annual cash bonus in respect of the year ended salary should be awarded, together with an award of 31 March 2004 of up to 200% of base salary.
As part of the performance shares worth one times base salary.
However, amendment of the terms of his service agreement referred the mix of options and performance shares may vary from year to on pages 30 and 31, his annual bonus opportunity has to year.
In accordance with the terms of his service contract, increased to 300% of base salary in respect of the current the CFOs annual incentive awards will be not less than the and subsequent financial years.
equivalent of grants of options over 250,000 shares currently 1.3 times base salary.
This policy was implemented by the These bonus opportunities are paid in cash following the Committee throughout the last financial year and the Committee approval of the accounts for the relevant year.
Since 2003, intends to continue to apply it in the current financial year.
Executive Directors have no longer had the opportunity to defer receipt of their bonuses for a period in return for One third of the number of share options granted may be a matching share award.
exercised if adjusted ie normalised earnings per share EPS growth, over the three years following grant with 31 Remuneration report continued no retesting opportunities, exceeds an average of retail The Committee also confirms that the Company has at all price index RPI plus 3% pa: two thirds of the number of times complied with the share dilution limits as previously share options granted may be exercised if normalised EPS agreed with shareholders.
growth exceeds an average of RPI plus 5% pa: and all share options granted may be exercised if normalised EPS growth As reported in the 2003 Annual Report, the CEO EMI Music exceeds an average of RPI plus 7% pa. To the extent that the Publishing and the CEO EMI Music had one-off, long-term targets have not been fully satisfied, options will lapse.
incentive arrangements covering, in Mr Bandiers case, the period from April 2001 to 31 March 2006 and, in Mr Levys Performance share awards will vest by reference to the case, the period from October 2001 to 31 March 2006 which Companys relative total shareholder return TSR are summarised in footnotes b, c and e on page 39 and performance over a fixed three-year period with no retesting footnote e on page 40, respectively.
It was concluded that opportunities.
TSR is a measure of the return to a shareholder neither of them should participate in the ESIP for the duration in terms of share price appreciation, assuming reinvestment of these one-off arrangements.
As part of the amendment of any dividends over a fixed period.
25% of the shares which took effect from 1 April 2004, Mr Levys service subject to an award will vest if the Companys TSR, relative contract was revised to include participation in the ESIP for to the companies in the FTSE Mid-250 Index excluding the period from 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2009. investment trusts, as at the date of grant, is at least at the median of that group.
This will increase, on a straight-line All UK-based Executive Directors are entitled to participate basis, to full vesting if the Companys TSR is at least at the in the Group-wide ShareSave Scheme on the same terms as upper quintile ie within the highest 20% of that group.
Shareholder consent is Both the starting and ending TSR of the Company and each being sought at the 2004 AGM for the renewal of the current company in the comparator group will be assessed using ShareSave Scheme which has reached the end of its 10-year three-month average figures.
In addition to satisfying the life and also to introduce another tax-sponsored allTSR performance condition, awards will only vest to the employee plan, the Share Incentive Plan.
The operation of extent that the Committee considers that the Companys these plans will be at the discretion of the Committee, TSR performance reflects the underlying performance of although Executive Directors will be eligible to participate on the Company over the period.
the same basis as other staff.
The EPS and TSR targets, which were selected following Details of the awards granted to Executive Directors under extensive discussions with the Companys leading the ESIP and ShareSave Scheme are contained in the section institutional shareholders and which received the support on Current Long-term Incentive Schemes on page 38.
Details of an overwhelming majority of those shareholders, are of share options and other share awards granted in previous considered to be both demanding and stretching over the years in accordance with the schemes then applying and the medium term in light of the prevailing business climate.
performance criteria attaching to those grants are contained in the section on Closed Long-term Incentive Schemes on The EPS growth targets were chosen because profit growth pages 39 and 40. as measured through EPS is currently a key objective within the Group and is considered to be the most appropriate Benefits in kind measure of financial performance.
Benefits and perquisites are based on general industry practice and typically include a car or car allowance together The FTSE Mid-250 Index was chosen as the TSR comparator with life assurance, retirement, disability and healthcare group as there are no similarly sized independently quoted plans.
Further details are set out on page 37. music companies to provide a more bespoke comparator group and, therefore, it was felt appropriate to compare the Pension arrangements performance of EMI with the constituents of the FTSE Mid-250 For UK-based Executive Directors, other than for the CFO Index on the basis that, from an investor perspective, whose pension arrangements are summarised below, the shareholders have the choice of investing in EMI as compared policy is to provide pension benefits through a final salary with other UK-quoted companies of a similar size.
If the arrangement with an accrual rate of 1 30th.
Where Company becomes a constituent of the FTSE 100, the possible, this is achieved through the Groups Inland constituents of that index would be used for subsequent grants.
An unapproved scheme is utilised to provide benefits In all the circumstances, the Committee considers these two on salaries above the Inland Revenue-imposed earnings measures, taken together, to be the most appropriate method cap, with the level of contribution being set by reference of assessing the success of EMI over the medium term and, to an actuarial assessment of the value of a 1 30th accordingly, considers them to be appropriate performance arrangement.
Benefits are based on base salaries only conditions.
The EPS measure is fully diluted EPS adjusted to take account of For the US-based CEO EMI Music Publishing, the Groups exceptional items and excluding amortisation.
EMIs performance retirement plan contributions are made with respect to against the EPS and TSR targets will be monitored by the both salary and annual bonus, consistent with normal Committee, which will assess the extent to which the targets practice in the US and the Groups benefit arrangements have been achieved.
The EPS calculations will be verified by for all US employees.
the Companys external auditor while the TSR calculations will be undertaken by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
32 For the CFO, who is a US citizen, retirement plan In the case of gross misconduct or other circumstances contributions are made in respect of his base salary only.
justifying summary dismissal, the Company may terminate their service contracts without payment of compensation.
Directors service contracts Termination by the Company in other circumstances, without The Code recommends that notice or contract periods the required notice being given, entitles the departing should be set at one year or less.
It is the Groups policy executive to lump-sum compensation, calculated on: to achieve that, where possible.
his then base annual salary currently 700,400 pa in the The Committee endorses the principle of mitigation of loss case of Mr Nicoli and US$789,000 pa in the case of Mr on early termination of a service contract and recognises the Faxon for one year: plus, advantage of service contracts including an explicit calculation of compensation payable upon early termination, the value of retirement benefits and either the continued other than for misconduct or in other circumstances justifying enjoyment of, or the value of, benefits in kind provided summary termination.
The Committees policy is that such to him for one year the accrued value of such retirement compensation should generally be calculated by reference contributions and the benefits in kind would have been to base salary, annual bonus at target level and other benefits, 437,524 in the case of Mr Nicoli and US$502,789 the including pension contributions, for the notice period or case of Mr Faxon had they been dismissed on 31 March unexpired term of the service contract.
The contract should 2004 : plus, also include an explicit obligation to mitigate and to offset earnings from alternative employment undertaken during the a sum in respect of his annual bonus opportunity, being notice period or unexpired term of the contract against all or the amount equal to his target-level annual bonus part of the compensation payment.
However, the Committee opportunity currently 50% multiplied by his base salary is conscious that: for the period from, in the case of Mr Nicoli, the date of his departure to the end of the contractual notice period and, EMI remains as the only independently owned and in the case of Mr Faxon, the commencement of the quoted music major in the world and has been the subject financial year in which he departed to the end of the of takeover speculation for many years.
To be able to contractual notice period.
compete for talent, it has, therefore, been necessary to provide an additional degree of protection for Executive Mr Nicolis entitlement to such compensation is subject to Directors in certain cases.
both a duty to mitigate and, also, offset for any earnings which he derives from other employment during the unworked part Fixed-term contracts of three or more years are the norm of the notice period for which he has been compensated.
for senior executives in the global entertainment industry and such agreements often include no or only a limited In the light of competitive music industry practice, and in obligation to mitigate.
recognition of Mr Faxons agreement, when he was promoted to CFO, to reduce his basic contract term from two years to Employment contracts for music executives are often one year, there is no obligation on him to mitigate, or to offset closely negotiated, with the executive represented by against the compensation payment, any earnings from experienced industry attorneys.
alternative employment during the year following termination.
However, the Companys obligation to continue to provide In the light of such factors, the Committee considers that it insurance benefits will cease to the extent that similar benefits is in the best interests of EMI and its shareholders to retain are provided by another employer following termination.
the flexibility to compete for top executive talent, where necessary, through the ability to offer contract terms in excess CEO EMI Music Alain Levy of one year.
However, as an alternative, the Committee may Mr Levys service contract, which commenced on 15 October agree compensation payments calculated without mitigation 2001 and was amended as of 1 April 2004, allows the in order to limit contract terms or notice periods to one year.
Company to terminate his employment at any time without notice.
If termination is for cause, no compensation is Chairman and CFO Eric Nicoli and Roger Faxon payable.
If termination is without cause, or Mr Levy terminates Mr Nicolis service contract, dated 11 April 2003, is terminable the agreement for good reason for example, breach by EMI, by the Company on one years notice.
Mr Faxons contract, he is entitled to a severance payment based on one years dated as of 1 April 2003, allows EMI to terminate the contract pay, calculated using: at any time without notice with a specified severance payment calculated on the same basis as if he were entitled his then base annual salary currently 1.0m pa : plus, to one years notice.
Previously, the effective notice period for both Mr Nicoli and Mr Faxon would increase to two years the value of retirement benefits and either the value of, following a change of control.
However, in recognition of the or the continued enjoyment of, other benefits in kind views of institutional shareholders, they agreed, without provided to him the value of such retirement accrual and compensation, to reduce their effective notice period the benefits in kind would have been 346,747 had he following a change of control so that, by 31 March 2004, been dismissed on 31 March 2004 : plus, it became the standard one year in all circumstances.
33 Remuneration report continued the average annual bonus earned by him over the last The provision in Mr Bandiers contract regarding two years three financial years or the period since he joined the compensation on termination was discussed with both the Company, if less 597,244 in respect of years ended Association of British Insurers and the National Association on or before 31 March 2004. of Pension Funds, as well as certain major shareholders.
At the time of his appointment, Mr Levy accepted a basic Non-executive Directors contract term of one year, which is significantly less than Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Groups competitive music industry practice, as well as a base salary bonus scheme or long-term incentive plans and are not and potential cash bonus at levels lower than those for eligible for membership of any of the Groups pension plans.
equivalent positions in other major record companies.
Their fees are payable wholly in cash.
In recognition of this, there is no obligation on Mr Levy to mitigate or to offset against the compensation payment any Following the publication of the revised Code, the Board earnings from alternative employment following termination.
reviewed the responsibilities of the Non-executive Directors It was considered inappropriate to seek to renegotiate this and, with effect from 1 January 2004, increased annual fees aspect of Mr Levys contract following the issue of the latest to 50,000 per annum from 36,000, reflecting the Association of British Insurers guidelines in this regard.
significant time commitment and strategic contribution of the However, with effect from 1 April 2004, Mr Levy is no longer Non-executive Directors and their increased responsibilities.
entitled to any enhancement on a change of control.
In future, fees will be reviewed every two years.
John Gildersleeve, the Deputy Chairman and senior independent CEO EMI Music Publishing Martin Bandier Non-executive Director, receives an additional 40,000 per Mr Bandiers service contract, dated as of 1 April 2001, annum, reflecting his larger role and his chairmanship of the is with a Group subsidiary in the US and is governed by New Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The contract allows the employing company ODonovan receives an additional 10,000 per annum for to terminate his employment at any time without notice.
No other additional fees are If termination is for cause, no compensation is payable.
payable for membership of Committees or otherwise.
If termination is without cause, or Mr Bandier terminates the contract for good reason, he is entitled to compensation based The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment on two years salary and benefits.
The Committee considers from the Company which are available for inspection at the that these terms for Mr Bandier are appropriate in view of Companys registered office or on request and which can competitive practice in the US, where he is resident and where be viewed on the Companys website at www.
EMI Music Publishing is headquartered, and the fact that the Each Non-executive Director is appointed for a specified term service contract is intended to secure his services until age 65. of an initial period to the next AGM after appointment and, Additionally, following a change of control of the Company, Mr subject to election at that Meeting, for a further period ending Bandier is entitled to terminate his service contract after a oneat the third AGM held thereafter.
Subsequent re-election is year transitional period and to receive a compensation subject to endorsement by the Board and the approval of payment as described below.
Mr Bandiers contract also shareholders.
Each Non-executive Directors date of provides for its automatic expiry on 31 March 2006. appointment as a Director and his or her most recent date of Where compensation is payable in respect of termination re-election at an AGM is shown below: of Mr Bandiers service contract, it is specified to be the aggregate of: Date of appointment as a Date of Date of his then base annual salary currently US$3,191,219 Non-executive letter of last election or Director appointment re-election at AGM for two years: plus, J Gildersleeve 28.2.
04 continuation for two years or for one year if termination S Bailey 2.4.
04 occurs after 1 April 2005 of medical and dental benefits H Einsmann 18.5.
02 and retirement plan contributions the accrued value of P A Georgescu 1.9.
03 such retirement contributions and medical and dental D J Londoner 13.5.
03 benefits for the year ended 31 March 2004 would have K A ODonovan 21.11.97 1.10.03 20.7.
01 been US$1,908,653 if his employment had been terminated on that date : plus, Their appointments may be terminated at any time without an amount equal to his target-level annual bonus compensation in the event that they are not elected or reopportunity currently 50% of base salary for two years.
elected by shareholders or otherwise in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
On termination, a NonWhile, reflecting competitive music industry practice, there executive Director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid is no specific obligation on Mr Bandier to mitigate, the Directors fees, but not to any other compensation.
continuation of salary and bonus for 12 months after termination is subject to offset in respect of salary and bonus earned by Mr Bandier from a subsequent employer in the 12 months following termination: and the continuation of benefits is also offset to the extent of similar benefits provided by the subsequent employer.
34 Name of Fees received Total shareholder return performance graphs Company Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 companies are required to include a graph indicating Executive Directors: their TSR ie share price growth assuming reinvestment of E L Nicoli HMV Group plc until 2 February 2004 95,320 any dividends performance over the last five years relative The Tussauds Group Ltd 50,418 to a recognised equity index.
In the absence of a suitable M N Bandier National Music Publishers Association 910 index of true comparators, the Committee has elected to A M J I Levy Schroder Ventures 14,200 show EMIs performance related to the FTSE Mid-250 Index R C Faxon which is consistent with the approach adopted last year: the FTSE Mid-250 Index was the comparator group for the TSR performance condition for last years awards under the ESIP, Share ownership guidelines and will continue to be so for this and subsequent years The Committee has adopted a formal policy that requires unless the Company re-enters the FTSE 100.
Executive Directors to hold shares in EMI worth at least two times their respective salaries.
Executive Directors are Total shareholder return required to build up this shareholding by retaining shares Source: Thompson Financial with a value of at least 25% of the after-tax gain arising on Value the maturity of any long-term incentive awards.
180 160 Payments to former Directors during the financial period 140 No payments were made to former Directors during the year.
120 100 Pensions 80 The UK-based Executive Directors are executive members 60 of the UK EMI Group Pension Fund, which provides them, 40 1 on normal retirement at age 60, with a pension of 60th of 20 the earnings cap see below for each year of membership.
03 Members contribute 4% of the cap.
On death, there is a spouses pension of two thirds of the members pension EMI Group plc FTSE Mid-250 Index ignoring the impact of any exchange of pension for a lump This graph looks at the value, by the end of March 2004, of sum on retirement, plus child allowances if applicable.
100 invested in EMI Group plc on 31 March 1999 compared An early retirement pension may be paid on leaving but the 1 with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Mid-250 Index.
The pension is reduced by 3% for each month that pension other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year starts earlier than age 60.
Subject to the Companys the ends.
Given the volatile nature of the relevant indices and also Committees in the case of Executive Directors consent, that, as at 31 March 2004, the Company was the 89th largest the reduction applied may be less.
UK company by market capitalisation, the Committee also considers it helpful to include the equivalent graph showing the Transfer values are calculated on a basis that assumes Companys TSR relative to the FTSE 100 over the same period.
the pension would be drawn at the earliest date where no reduction would apply and with allowance for future pension Total shareholder return increases both before and after pension commences to Source: Thompson Financial reflect the past practice of granting increases greater than Value those guaranteed.
180 160 Up to age 65, the whole of a pension in payment is 140 guaranteed to increase by LPI the lower of the previous 120 years increase in the RPI and 5%.
After age 65, the pension 100 in excess of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension or GMP that 80 part of the pension which replaces the State Second Pension 60 is guaranteed to increase by LPI, while that part of the GMP 40 which built up since 6 April 1988 is guaranteed to increase 20 by the lower of the previous years increase in the RPI and 3%.
04 The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 March 2004 EMI Group plc FTSE 100 Index of each Executive Directors accrued deferred pension at that date as well as the movement in that transfer value over the Policy on outside appointments period.
The transfer values are liabilities of the EMI Group The Executive Directors are permitted to take external Pension Fund and reflect both the age of the Executive Director appointments as non-executive directors but usually only and his length of service and membership of the Fund.
one such appointment may be by another publicly quoted company.
The remuneration from such appointments is retained by the Director and the table below sets out such amounts for the year ended 31 March 2004.
All appointments must be approved by the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to any scope for conflicts of interest.
35 Remuneration report continued Increase in Increase in accured Directors tranfer value pension during contributions over the year a b Age at Accrued pension the year net of Transfer value of accrued pension during net of Directors a 31.3.
03 the year contributions Years pa pa pa pa Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 53 8,112 6,345 1,589 122,117 78,192 3,960 39,965 A M J I Levy 57 3,987 2,295 1,627 74,275 38,238 3,960 32,077 a The accrued pensions are the amounts which would be paid if the Director left service at the relevant date.
b The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The earnings cap as defined in the Finance Act 1989 Executive Directors affected by the cap and the after-tax limits salary for pension purposes to 102,000 from 6 April value of contributions, expressed as a percentage of base 2004 2003: 99,000.
The Company, therefore, makes salary in excess of the cap, which the Company paid to the contributions to a separate defined contribution plan that defined contribution plan in respect of them, were: provides additional benefits to those affected by the cap.
E L Nicoli 33.42% A M J I Levy 30.00% Contributions in the year to 31 March 2004 a FURBS Tax compensation Total Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 199,434 138,590 338,024 A M J I Levy 180,420 125,377 305,797 a Funded unapproved retirement benefits scheme These contributions are set at levels which, based on actuarial The table below sets out the contributions made to US money advice, are likely to deliver comparable benefits to the capped purchase pension arrangements in respect of the other two final salary element.
Contributions by Group Contributions by Director Total % US$ % US$ US$ Executive Directors: a a M N Bandier 33.4% of pay 1,833,436 13% of pay 714,593 2,548,029 R C Faxon 50% of base salary 437,608 13.8% of base salary 108,184 545,792 a Consistent with US practice, pay for this purpose includes the value of annual cash bonuses.
There were no retirement benefits paid to former Directors Payments to third parties for making the Directors in excess of those to which they became entitled when such services available benefits first became payable to such former Directors.
No payments have been made to third parties for making any Directors services available to the Company.
Compensation to former Directors not previously reported As required by the Directors Remuneration Report There were no compensation payments made to former Regulations, only those items from the Pensions heading Directors that have not been previously reported.
on page 35 to page 40 inclusive have been subject to audit.
By Order of the Board John Gildersleeve Deputy Chairman 21 May 2004 36 Remuneration details a Annual remuneration Base Compensation 2004 2003 salary for loss Incentive Total Total b or fees of employment Expenses Benefits remuneration in year in year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 695.3 99.5 583.7 1,378.5 1,078.4 M N Bandier 1,819.0 44.2 1,455.2 3,318.4 3,530.8 A M J I Levy 700.4 40.9 854.5 1,595.8 1,202.5 R C Faxon 460.7 38.3 386.7 885.7 782.2 Non-executive Directors: J Gildersleeve appointed 28.2.
03 35.4 35.4 K A ODonovan 46.5 46.5 39.5 Former Non-executive Directors: Sir Dominic Cadbury retired 28.2.
04 60.0 60.0 57.1 Total 2004 3,899.6 222.9 3,280.1 7,402.6 c Total 2003 3,930.4 338.2 2,475.0 6,743.6 a Excludes retirement contributions see table on page 36 and the value of share awards ceasing to be contingent, as reported in the table shown below.
b The nature of the non-cash benefits provided to the Executive Directors is as follows: E L Nicoli: - provision of a Company car plus use of a Company pool car and driver: - private healthcare: and, - personal accident insurance.
M N Bandier: - car allowance of US$36,000 pa: and, - participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance.
A M J I Levy: - use of a Company pool car and driver: - private healthcare: and, - personal accident insurance.
R C Faxon: - car allowance of US$25,000 pa: - participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance: and, - health club memberships in both New York and London.
c The aggregate emoluments of the Directors were 7,402,600 2003: 6,804,600 which includes 61,000 paid to Directors who resigned in the years ended 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2003.
Remuneration from prior-year share awards ceasing to be contingent 2004 2003 a a Awards Total value Awards Total value No.
of shares 000 Executive Directors: E L Nicoli b b M N Bandier 165,625 459.6 165,625 147.8 A M J I Levy R C Faxon 103,803 288.1 44,436 39.7 Total 269,428 747.7 210,061 187.5 a The value is based on the share price on the date that awards ceased to be contingent.
b Whilst in certain circumstances these restricted share awards may lapse or be released before the vesting date, a proportion of their value is included in reported remuneration each year to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which these shares are earned.
37 Remuneration report continued Directors interests abc Directors interests all beneficial in the Companys Ordinary Shares of 14p each As at 1.4.
03 or date of appointment Non-contingent Directly held As at 31.3.
04 if later d share awards shares Total shares held Total shares held Executive Directors: e E L Nicoli 133,982 69,410 203,392 203,168 M N Bandier 379,760 379,760 379,760 A M J I Levy 775,000 775,000 775,000 f R C Faxon 276,664 82,806 359,470 332,655 g Non-executive Directors: J Gildersleeve 1,254 1,254 1,254 H Einsmann 114,800 114,800 1,800 P A Georgescu 100,000 100,000 100,000 D J Londoner 10,000 10,000 10,000 K A ODonovan 2,000 2,000 2,000 a The Companys Register of Directors Interests is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. b No Director had any interest in either shares or debentures of any subsidiary of the Company.
c As potential beneficiaries under the EMI Group General Employee Benefit Trust EBT, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the entire shareholding of the EBT which at 31 March 2004 amounted to 4,082,771 shares.
d Non-contingent share awards shown in this column are also included as incentive awards in the table on page 39. e On 28 May 2004, Mr Nicolis interests in the Companys shares increased by 16 shares on the reinvestment of dividends and tax credits received in respect of shares held by him through EMI Corporate Personal Equity Plans.
There have been no other changes in Directors interests since 31 March 2004. f The total of directly held shares does not include the post-tax amount of a performance share award of 103,803 shares that vested during the year, as the shares could not be delivered to Mr Faxon until after the end of the close period for Directors share dealings on 26 May 2004. g Mrs Bailey, who became a Non-executive Director on 2 April 2004, did not hold any shares in the Company as at 23 May 2004.
Current long-term incentive schemes Directors outstanding performance share awards under the Executive Share Incentive Plan Date of Earliest normal Lapse As at Vested Awarded Lapsed As at award vesting date date 1.4.
07 375,255 375,255 Total 375,255 375,255 Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of performance share awards, namely based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR, compared to FTSE Mid-250 companies, excluding investment trusts, over a fixed three-year period.
Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the Executive Share Incentive Plan Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at granted exercise date date price 1.4.
13 119.250p 750,511 750,511 Total 750,511 750,511 Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of grants of share options, namely based on the Companys earnings per share EPS growth over a fixed three-year period.
Directors outstanding options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the ShareSave Scheme Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at granted exercise date date price 1.4.
09 96p 16,588 16,588 Total 7,488 16,588 7,488 16,588 ShareSave options are normally exercisable for a six-month period following completion of savings to either a three-year or a five-year ShareSave contract and are not subject to additional performance conditions.
38 Closed long-term incentive schemes Directors outstanding share awards under long-term incentive plans As at 1.4.
03 During year Date of Matching As at a b c award Incentive Performance Restricted awards Vested Lapsed 31.3.
02 112,628 112,628 Total 276,664 123,321 0 0 103,803 19,518 276,664 a Incentive share awards are not contingent on future performance and or are no longer subject to forfeiture.
Such awards, made under the now closed Senior Executive Incentive Plan, are subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if deferred for three years from the date of the award or an additional 2:3 matching award if deferred for six years from the date of the award.
The total of the eventual award depends on the achievement of Group or business unit performance against profit targets set by the Remuneration Committee by the end of a performance period that terminates on 31 March in the third year after the date of the award.
For awards made prior to 1998, performance is further reassessed in each of the following three years before the award lapses.
The eventual award is subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if vesting is deferred for a further three years from the vesting date.
In certain circumstances, for example upon a change of control of EMI, awards could be released before the normal vesting date.
For Mr Nicoli, Mr Bandier and Mr Faxon, release of awards made up to 31 March 2001 is subject to a further performance requirement that EMIs TSR must have at least equalled the median of those companies that comprised the FTSE 100 at the start of the three-year performance cycle.
Mr Nicoli has a performance share award granted on 15 June 2001 which will vest on a sliding scale against three-year compound growth in earnings of between 6.1% and 22.5%.
Mr Faxon participated in a performance share award granted on 15 June 2001 based on EMI Music Publishing's performance, which required the same rates of compound growth but related to EMI Music Publishing's economic profit.
In 2001, in place of overlapping annual share awards based on three-year performance cycles, Mr Bandier was granted a one-time performance share award on 28 September 2001 which requires 2% pa growth in the music publishing division's economic profit for the entire performance period to 31 March 2006, at which level one sixth of the shares accrue, with maximum payout at 7% pa growth with straight-line vesting between these two points.
c Mr Bandiers restricted share award will vest no earlier than 31 March 2006.
The award was in lieu of additional base salary and is not, therefore, subject to performance requirements.
The aim of the award was to bring Mr Bandiers basic annual remuneration into line with competitive practice in the US, where he is based, whilst aligning his interests more closely with those of the shareholders and providing him with a strong incentive to remain with the Group.
No further awards of this nature are envisaged.
A proportion of this award is included in remuneration each year so as to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which the shares are earned.
d Lapsed as of 31 March 2004. e With the exception of Mr Bandiers awards, on termination of employment in certain circumstances, for example, as a result of death, disability, sale of the relevant business unit, normal retirement, or termination without cause, and if the performance criteria are on target for achievement, a proportion of the awards may become exercisable prior to normal vesting.
If the performance criteria are not on target for achievement, the whole award lapses if it has not reached its normal vesting date.
Upon a change of control, all awards vest, or can be exchanged for an equivalent value of awards in the acquiring entity, with identical terms to the original awards.
Mr Bandiers outstanding share awards would vest, in whole or in part, if he was dismissed other than for cause or following a change of control of EMI.
Both his performance share and restricted share awards will lapse if, prior to the vesting date of 31 March 2006, Mr Bandier resigns voluntarily or his employment agreement is terminated by EMI for cause.
However, if Mr Bandiers employment is terminated without cause by EMI, he will receive the proportion of his restricted share award which he would have earned had he remained in employment for a further two years.
Under these same circumstances, he would also receive a proportion of his performance share awards pro rated to the date of termination, subject to the achievement of the relevant performance criteria.
In the event of a change of control of EMI, all the restricted share award would vest together with a proportion of the performance share award pro rated to the date of the change of control together with an additional 625,000 shares up to the maximum award of 1.25m shares on the earlier of one year after the date of the change of control or the termination of his employment without cause.
f The whole award vested as of 31 March 2004, when the closing mid-market share price was 277.5p.
39 Remuneration report continued ab Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each Earliest normal Date exercise Lapse Exercise Exercised Granted Lapsed cd granted date date price As at 1.4.
03 in year in year in year As at 31.3.
Therefore, the total gain made on the exercise of share options was nil 2003: nil.
The closing mid-market share price on 31 March 2004 was 277.5p.
The range of closing mid-market share prices during the year was 91.25p and 278.25p.
b All of the options were granted for nil consideration.
c Executive Directors share options are normally exercisable during the period commencing no earlier than three years and ending no later than 10 years from the date granted.
d Share options were granted to Executive Directors in previous years in accordance with the relevant Executive Share Option Scheme rules and market practice at the time.
The table above sets out information on the current Executive Directors grants of such share options.
The performance criteria relating to these grants are as follows: For the period from 25 August 1995 to 9 December 1999, the criterion was that the Companys TSR over the relevant calculation period compared to the TSR of the companies in the FTSE 100 at 1 April prior to the date of grant is at least equal to the median of that group.
TSR is the percentage growth of the share price, assuming reinvestment of any dividends paid, over the calculation period.
The initial calculation period commences on 1 April immediately preceding the date of grant and ends on 31 March three years later and, thereafter, calculations are made at each quarter end for the preceding three-year period until the performance criterion is met or the option lapses.
For the period from 10 December 1999 to 8 July 2003 excluding Mr Levys grants see footnote e below, the criterion was that the increase in the Groups adjusted, fully diluted EPS over a three-year period following the date of grant should exceed an average of the UK retail price index RPI plus a rate ranging between 2% and 3% pa.
The Committee chose the relevant performance criteria as they were considered to be challenging, to align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders and in accordance with the then existing market practice.
e On appointment, Mr Levy was granted options over 10m shares at prices between 300p and 700p.
Since appointment, Mr Levy has been granted additional options over a further 10m shares which represent his entitlement to options in respect of the five financial years up to and including, but ending on, 31 March 2006.
The exercise prices for these options will only be determined when the interim results for the respective financial years have been announced, using a five-day average share price.
Exercise of all the options is generally conditional on the Companys adjusted diluted EPS growing by at least an average of RPI plus 2.5% pa over the period from 31 March 2002 to the 31 March following the relevant vesting date with retesting throughout the options life.
The terms of Mr Levys contract prescribe the impact of a cessation of employment or a change of control of EMI on the share options granted under his contract.
If Mr Levys appointment were terminated by EMI without cause or by Mr Levy with good reason as defined in the contract, the options over 10m shares granted on 15 October 2001 would vest and could be exercised without regard to the performance conditions.
If Mr Levys appointment is terminated in the circumstances described in the preceding paragraph, the options granted on 2 January and 19 December 2002 for which the prices have been determined by the date of termination, as set out in the table above, will vest and may be exercised without regard to the performance conditions: all other options would lapse.
The exercise of options vested under the preceding paragraph must be undertaken within 12 months of the date of termination.
On a change of control of EMI, Mr Levys options will be treated as if his employment had been terminated by EMI without cause with the result that they may be exercised without regard to performance conditions, but the exercise period will be limited to six months.
A termination resulting from Mr Levys death or disability will be treated in the same manner as a termination by the Company without cause.
