co. uk 41 REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION AND COMPLIANCE Performance based remuneration comprises an annual cash bonus In preparing this Remuneration Report to shareholders, the Board has and a long term incentive plan.
The chart illustrates the mix of followed the requirements of Section 1 of the 2003 Combined Code remuneration assuming target levels of annual performance and the on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and the Directors annualised expected value of long term incentive provision.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations contained The Company encourages and facilitates its Executive Directors to take in schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Pursuant to the Regulations, on Non Executive positions with other listed public limited companies, this Report is being put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General provided that such positions are held within the requirements of the Meeting to be held on 14 April 2005.
The vote will have advisory status Combined Code.
Executive Directors are permitted by the Company in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages to retain their earnings from such positions.
Peter Johnson is an and will not, therefore, be specic to individual levels of remuneration.
independent Non Executive Director of DS Smith Plc where he also THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE chaired the Audit Committee until December 2004: he received fees Current members: Michael Blackburn Committee Chair, David Williams amounting to 43,359 during 2004.
Andrew Carr-Locke is an and Christine Cross.
The Committee, consisting of three independent independent Non Executive Director of AWG Plc and received fees Non Executive Directors, met on nine occasions during the year and amounting to 32,083 during 2004. there were no absences.
BASE SALARY CONSULTANTS The salaries of Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the External advice is sought where appropriate and the Remuneration Remuneration Committee which takes into account the Committee has appointed the consulting rm Towers Perrin as its responsibilities, experience, market competitiveness and performance advisor and to provide it with market data and assistance on executive in each position.
To ascertain market competitive levels, Towers Perrin compensation, including the Companys share schemes.
Towers Perrin carried out a comprehensive benchmarking exercise which included do not provide any other services to the Company outside other housebuilders in the UK and US as appropriate and other remuneration matters.
External legal advice is also sought, where FTSE 100 FTSE 250 companies with a similar turnover and or market appropriate, from Slaughter and May.
capitalisation, and advised the Committee on market salary levels in respect of each position.
Peter Johnson and Andrew Carr-Locke were The following people provided material advice, services or assistance to awarded pay increases of 5% and 3.5% respectively with effect from the Committee, except in relation to their own specic remuneration: 1 January 2005.
Having regard to uncertainties in the housing market John Robinson Chairman at the time of the award and those anticipated going into 2005, Messrs Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive Johnson and Carr-Locke each formally elected to waive their salary Anna Edgeworth Group HR Director increases for the time being.
Should market conditions or performance James Jordan Group Company Secretary make it appropriate during 2005, then following liaison with the Chairman of the Board and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, POLICY each may elect to accept the increase and this will be reported on in The Company is committed to fostering a performance culture to next years Remuneration Report.
All other aspects of their remuneration, increase shareholder value and to establish George Wimpey as a including pension, have continued as though the pay increases were leading housebuilder in its competitive markets.
In line with these implemented with effect from 1 January 2005. aims, the Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors at a level designed to attract, motivate and BONUS SCHEMES retain high calibre executives, and to deliver high rewards only on UK attainment of demonstrably sustained superior corporate The UK based Executive Directors participate in an annual cash based performance.
This is achieved through a combination of salary, an short term incentive scheme.
This rewards current performance on the annual performance bonus, share-based long term incentives and achievement of stretching financial performance targets which are set pension provision.
The Committee also sets the remuneration for the annually by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to prior year Group Company Secretary.
In addition, and in compliance with the performance and the annual budget approved by the Board.
The bonus Combined Code, the Committee monitors and makes recommendations scheme for Peter Johnson and Andrew Carr-Locke is based on achieving on remuneration matters in relation to designated senior management Group profit before tax targets.
Peter Redfern participates in a similar in the UK and US at the tier below Board level.
scheme except that it is based on the achievement by George Wimpey UK of targets relating to profit before interest and tax 90% and customer It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee that a significant satisfaction 10%.
Following the review of peer group practices carried proportion of each Executive Directors total compensation is delivered out by the Committee in conjunction with Towers Perrin in 2002, each through performance related pay.
In xing base salary it is also the Directors target annual bonus for 2005 will remain, as it was for 2004, policy of the Remuneration Committee to reward its Executive at 40% of salary, with a maximum bonus payable of 100%.
Directors at a level set around the median, having regard to levels of remuneration within other housebuilders and for other FTSE 100 FTSE US 250 companies with a similar turnover and or market capitalisation.
Stewart Cline is a member of an annual cash bonus scheme which is specically tailored and linked to the performance and growth of Morrison Homes.
In line with the outcome of the independent review PROPORTION OF FIXED TO PERFORMANCE BASED REMUNERATION conducted by the Remuneration Committee in 2002 on the structure CEO and levels of bonus to be applied in the US, the maximum bonus that can be paid under the scheme to Stewart Cline for 2005, is the same as UK BASED DIRECTORS it was for 2004, namely, 200% of his base salary.
The scheme is based on a number of targets which are set by the Remuneration Committee on US BASED DIRECTOR an annual basis relating to return on capital 47.5%, operating margin 47.5%, customer satisfaction 5% and growth in operating profit.
2004 bonuses were calculated on a percentage of full year's base salary 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% as at 1 January 2004.
For Peter Redfern this percentage was 64% and SALARY ANNUAL BONUS AND LONG TERM INCENTIVES for Peter Johnson and Andrew Carr-Locke it was 90.7%.
Stewart Cline's bonus was based on a calculation of 200% of his US dollar base salary.
Bonus payments are not pensionable for any of the Executive Directors.
The chart above shows the proportion of xed to performance based remuneration.
Fixed remuneration comprises annual salary.
REMUNERATION REPORT GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 42 LONG TERM INCENTIVES options under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Details of past The George Wimpey Long Term Incentive Plan awards to Executive Directors under this Scheme are disclosed in the The Company believes that the George Wimpey Long Term Incentive table on page 45.
Plan George Wimpey LTIP, approved by shareholders at the 2002 Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan Annual General Meeting, effectively aligns both the Companys The Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan Morrison Homes LTIP business strategy and the long term interest of management with was approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
The George Wimpey LTIP is designed to lock-in Key executives in Morrison Homes, including Stewart Cline, participate key executives and motivate them through the opportunity to earn in the Morrison Homes LTIP which is a cash based scheme pursuant significant financial rewards, on the achievement of demanding and to which units are awarded to each participant following the end of a stretching performance targets, compared to its comparator group set financial year.
The value of each unit, and therefore the amount of cash out below.
Awards under the George Wimpey LTIP are made by the that an individual receives, will depend on growth in profit before Remuneration Committee to a limited number of key executives in the interest and tax PBIT of Morrison Homes over that financial year.
The UK and the US, including Executive Directors.
Neither the Chairman nor maximum value is achieved if PBIT grows by more than 30%.
The any Non Executive Director participates in the George Wimpey LTIP.
amount payable is, however, reduced progressively if Morrison Homes The maximum value of any award under the George Wimpey LTIP is Return on Assets RoA is less than 20%, so that no amount is payable two times basic salary, except that for 2002 when conditional awards if RoA is less than 15%.
The size of awards is determined by the equivalent to three times basic salary were made.
These were set Remuneration Committee which recognises the need to link awards against more stretching and demanding performance targets as and the rewarding of ongoing performance with the creation of described below.
The Committee will review the size of awards to be additional shareholder value.
made on an annual basis to ensure that they are appropriate.
Awards will not vest unless the pre-determined performance conditions are The value of the cash award is paid out over a four year period satisfied over a three year period the performance period.
commencing one year after the end of the relevant financial year, with 20% of the cash award being paid in each of the first three years of that The performance condition measures the Companys total shareholder period and the remaining 40% in the final year of that period, thus return TSR over the three year performance period against a specic making each award back-end loaded.
Interest is accrued on the unpaid comparator group of public limited companies made up of 23 part of the award at a current rate of 6%.
Certain executives of Morrison housebuilding and building materials related companies.
The Homes, including Stewart Cline, also participate in the George Wimpey Remuneration Committee believes that TSR is the most appropriate LTIP and have received conditional awards of shares under that scheme.
performance measure because it ensures that executives do not receive Ongoing participation in the George Wimpey LTIP by Morrison Homes rewards under the George Wimpey LTIP unless the Company has executives will be reviewed during 2005 as part of an overall review of outperformed relative to the designated comparator group companies.
the Morrison Homes Bonus and Long Term Incentive Plan arrangements.
The comparator group for the George Wimpey LTIP is as set out The review will be designed to ensure that appropriate incentives are in below and will be reviewed by the Committee from time to time : place to attract, motivate and retain senior executives in the US coupled with the need to link any awards with performance that ultimately Baggeridge Brick Gleeson MJ Redrow creates additional shareholder value.
Barratt Heywood WilliamsSIG Bellway John Laing Taylor Woodrow Awards under the Morrison Homes LTIP are usually scaled back Berkeley Kier Travis Perkins for those executives also participating in the George Wimpey LTIP.
Bovis Marshalls Westbury However, for 2005, in recognition of the need to retain and motivate BPB McCarthy & Stone Wilson Bowden key Morrison Homes senior management during a year of anticipated Crest Nicholson Persimmon Wolseley growth in the US, the Committee felt that it was entirely appropriate to Galliford Try Pilkington award Stewart Cline and designated senior management an additional award under the Morrison Homes LTIP equivalent to the size of the For awards to vest in full, the Companys TSR performance over the relevant performance period must equal or exceed the 75th percentile scale back made in 2003 and 2004 under the George Wimpey LTIP to performance as against the comparator group except that, for awards reect membership of both LTIPs.
Accordingly, for 2005, Stewart Clines made in 2002, the TSR performance had to be equal to or exceed the award under the Morrison LTIP for 2005 was increased by 1.5x to 3.5x 85th percentile so as to reect the higher awards made in that year his base salary as at 1 January 2005. three times base salary as opposed to two times.
No portion of the SHARESAVE SCHEME award will vest if the Companys TSR performance is less than the 50th The Company operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme percentile, but there will be partial vesting if the Companys TSR which all UK staff including UK based Executive Directors with over performance is at least equal to the 50th percentile.
At that level of six months service are eligible to join.
Under this scheme, employees performance, awards made in 2002 would have vested at a 20% level may acquire shares at a 20% discount to the market price at the time and awards made subsequently based on two times salary will vest at of grant, in three or five years time.
There is straight line vesting for levels of performance between the 50th and 75th percentiles 85th percentile in the case NEW POLICIES SHARE RETENTION AND TARGET DIRECTOR SHAREHOLDINGS of awards made in 2002.
In addition to this performance condition, During 2004, the Remuneration Committee implemented a share there is a requirement that the Companys underlying performance, retention policy with regard to shares awarded under the George as determined by the Remuneration Committee, should be satisfactory.
Wimpey LTIP, which took into account the requirements of the Awards under the George Wimpey LTIP are not pensionable.
Details Association of British Insurers Principles and Guidelines on of awards to Executive Directors are set out in the table on page 46.
The policy requires Executive Directors to retain, for at least 12 months from the date of receipt of shares under the The performance period in respect of the 2002 George Wimpey LTIP George Wimpey LTIP, not less than 50% of the after tax NI amount expired on 31 December 2004.
Against the comparator group, the of shares received in any year.
Senior employee participants in the Company nished in second place as veried by an independent third George Wimpey LTIP are expected to retain at least 25% of the shares party see page 46.
As a result of this performance, maximum awards of received on the same basis.
With regard to the 2002 George Wimpey shares vested in participants in the 2002 George Wimpey LTIP see the notes to the table on page 46 for details of the amount of shares that LTIP, the 25% retention expectation will also apply to Peter Redfern, who was appointed to the Board on 12 October 2004 but, in future vested.
Due to the requirements of the Model Code, shares were not received by participating Executive Directors and senior employees until years, the 50% retention requirement will apply in respect of any after the Company came out of its close period on 22 February 2005. shares received by him under the George Wimpey LTIP.
The Committee also introduced, during the year, a policy which Following the introduction of the George Wimpey LTIP in 2002, it is Company policy that Executive Directors are no longer granted requires Executive Directors to accumulate, within a five year period REMUNERATION REPORT www.
co. uk 43 from the date that each joined the Board, a shareholding in the In addition, life assurance of four times basic salary and a pension Company broadly equal to their base salary.
For Peter Johnson, the of two-thirds of the members entitlement for spouses on their Committee set a personal target shareholding broadly equal to death in service, or in retirement, are provided, together with a three times his base salary.
childrens allowance of up to 100% of the dependants pension for three or more children.
The above policies are intended to promote as close an alignment as possible of Executive Directors and senior management with the risks Pensionable salary excludes all bonuses, benets in kind and incentive and rewards faced by shareholders.
Having clear policies in place related remuneration.
For early retirement, after age 50 but prior to age provides a framework within which Executive Directors may sell shares 62, pensions will be reduced by an appropriate actuarial factor.
received under the George Wimpey LTIP and also in the achieving of The Directors accrued pensions in 2004 are shown on page 44. target shareholdings and futher sales of shares once such targets have been met.
SERVICE CONTRACTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS It is the Companys policy that all Executive Directors should have rolling A policy was also introduced in 2004 pursuant to which the Chairman service contracts which can be terminated by either party by giving not and the Non Executive Directors are required to accumulate within less than 12 months notice.
The UK based Directors, like all employees, are a five year period from the date that each joined the Board, a employed by George Wimpey UK Limited.
Stewart Cline is employed by shareholding in the Company broadly equal to 50% of each Directors Morrison Homes Inc.
The Companys normal retirement age for Executive annual fees.
Directors is 60 and the service contracts terminate automatically when PERFORMANCE GRAPH this age is attained, unless extended by mutual consent.
Set out below is a graph which shows the total shareholder return The dates of each service contract are as follows: of the Company during the period December 1999 to December 2004 as against the FTSE 250 excluding investment companies, based on Peter Johnson 26 March 2002 30 trading day average values.
The Group believes that the FTSE 250 Andrew Carr-Locke 27 March 2002 is the appropriate comparator index against which to plot its total Stewart Cline 10 April 2003 shareholder return performance as the Company is a member of Peter Redfern 12 October 2004 the index together with its key competitors and a broad cross section For each Director, the Company may, at its discretion, make a payment of leading companies.
The graph also shows the performance of the in lieu of notice equal to basic salary and the cost of providing other Company as against the George Wimpey LTIP comparator group benets under the contract for the period for which the contract see opposite.
The graph shows the theoretical growth in the value of would have continued.
In the event of a change of control of the a 100 shareholding over the specified period, assuming that dividends Company, the Director may, within six months of such change, elect are re-invested to purchase additional units of equity.
to terminate the service contract on three months notice and be paid a termination payment of the value of his annual remuneration TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN and benets package.
The purpose of this change of control provision is to ensure that the Director is not disincentivised should such a situation so arise.
GEORGE WIMPEY PLC PEER GROUP FTSE 250 THE CHAIRMAN NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Remuneration Committee has the responsibility of setting 400 the remuneration of the Chairman, any alteration to which is then submitted to the Board for approval in the absence of the Chairman.
300 Towers Perrin provide independent advice on appropriate levels of remuneration for the Chairman and provide data on remuneration paid to Chairmen of FTSE 100 and 250 companies with similar 200 turnover and or market capitalisation.
100 The Remuneration of the Non Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
Towers Perrin provide independent advice on appropriate levels of remuneration which includes data on the same basis as for 0 the Chairman.
Remuneration is paid in the form of xed fees, which are reviewed annually.
Non Executive Directors are invited, but not 99 00 01 02 03 04 obliged, to use any increase in their remuneration to purchase shares in the Company.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non Executive Directors participate PENSIONS in any incentive or share schemes.
Some UK based Executive Directors and other designated managers Neither the Chairman nor the Non Executive Directors have service are members of the Executive section of the George Wimpey Staff contracts.
The services of John Robinson, Michael Blackburn and Pension Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme is a funded, Inland Christine Cross are contracted to the Company under consultancy Revenue approved, final salary occupational pension scheme and all agreements dated 5 April 2001, 1 April 2000 and 11 January 2004 members contribute 5% or 8% of salary.
The agreements provide that each Director will continue to contribute once they have achieved 30 years pensionable service.
to serve the Company unless terminated by not less than six months Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with the Retail notice given by either party.
However, in the event that a Director is Price Index to a maximum of 5% per annum.
not re-elected as a Director by the Companys shareholders, or is The Scheme provides Executive members with a pension of up to removed from ofce by them in accordance with the Companys two-thirds of pensionable salary on retirement at age 62, subject Articles of Association, then the relevant agreement will terminate to the member having completed 30 years pensionable service.
with no provision for compensation.
The Company provides Peter Johnson with a pension allowance by David Williams and Brenda Dean have letters of appointment dated additional payments to him, amounting to 40% 214,200 of his basic 1 May 2001 and 7 October 2003 respectively.
Andrew Carr-Locke similarly receives a pension allowance also continue until terminated by not less than six months notice amounting to 35% 105,000 of his basic salary.
A payment of 22,320 given by either party or otherwise in accordance with the Companys was paid into a US cash plan for Stewart Cline.
REMUNERATION REPORT GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 44 The following tables and accompanying notes constitute the auditable part of the Remuneration Report as dened in Part 3, Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985.
A payment of 22,320 was paid into a US Cash Plan in respect of Stewart Cline.
2 The deferred bonus was paid under the Morrison Homes Long Term Compensation Plan, which was replaced during 2003 by the Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan which was approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting and also through the participation by Stewart Cline in the George Wimpey LTIP subject to the scaling back of awards as explained on page 42.
Under the Morrison Homes Long Term Compensation Plan, units were granted annually at the beginning of the year and then valued at the end of that first year.
Payments to participants commence one year after the valuation of the units and conclude four years after the first year payment.
Stewart Clines current interest in the scheme amounts to $2,561,572.
No equity is involved in the Plan.
As reported in the 2003 Report, upon winding up of this plan, units previously awarded under the Plan have vested but will not become payable any earlier as a result of such vesting except in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
Details of awards made under the Morrison Homes Long Term Incentive Plan are set out on page 46.
3 The bonus gure of 169,600 is calculated by reference to Peter Redferns salary as at 1 January 2004 and has not been pro-rated to take into account his date of appointment to the Board.
Further details of the bonus scheme are set out on page 41.
DETAILS OF DIRECTORS ACCRUED PENSIONS ARE AS FOLLOWS: Total Total Increase in Value of Increase in Transfer Value Transfer Value Pension Pension Accrued Increase in Transfer Value Net of Net of Directors Accrued Accrued Pension Accrued Net of Directors  1 as at as at in Year Pension Directors Contributions Contributions Paid During 31 12 03 p. a.
Peter Redfern was appointed to the Board on 12 October 2004.
At this date his accrued pension was 13,033 p. a.
The estimated transfer value of this accrued pension as at 12 October 2004 was 94,900.
He paid pension contributions of 5,271 from 12 October 2004.
1 Figures are stated net of ination.
The following Directors exercised share options under the Executive Share Option Plan during 2004 and the details are as follows: Peter Johnson exercised 107,962 options on 19 March 2004 on which date the mid market close price was 435p and 98,522 options on 6 September 2004 on which date the mid market close price was 428.5p.
Stewart Cline exercised 55,840 options on 6 September 2004 on which date the mid market close price was 428.5p.
The performance condition for the George Wimpey Executive Share Option Plan is based on the Company attaining a total shareholder return performance level which is above median in a dened comparator group.
The group is the same group as that used for the LTIP and listed on page 42.
The mid market close price as at 31 December 2004 was 404.5p and the range during 2004 was between 340.0p and 456.5p.
All options were granted at nil cost.
2 Peter Redfern was appointed to the Board on 12 October 2004.
REMUNERATION REPORT GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 46 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN CONDITIONAL SHARES AWARDED UNDER THE GEORGE WIMPEY LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN GEORGE WIMPEY LTIP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 Conditionally Awarded Vested 16 05 2002 1 05 2003 26 05 2004 Market value Market value Market value Awards held at on award 285p on award 242p on award 403.91p Number Date of Award 31 12 2004 Executive Directors P M Johnson 613,636 410,027 265,158 1,288,821 A C P Carr-Locke 361,364 226,908 148,548 736,820 S M Cline 181,776 101,562 283,338 P T Redfern 156,818 119,425 131,217 407,460 NOTES: Awards made pursuant to the George Wimpey LTIP do not vest in whole or in part unless pre-determined performance conditions are satisfied over a three year period.
The awards are therefore conditional awards and the table above sets out the maximum number of shares that can be awarded.
The performance conditions are explained in detail on page 42.
The 2003 conditional awards were made on 1 May 2003 with a performance period of 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2005 and during the year, conditional awards were made on 26 May 2004 with a performance period of 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2006.
The number of awards made to each participant was calculated by reference to a formula based on two times salary as at 1 January 2004 using a price of 403.91p, being the value calculated in accordance with the scheme rules.
For the 2002 award, for Peter Johnson, Andrew Carr-Locke and Peter Redfern, the formula was based on three times salary as at 1 January 2002 using a share price of 220p, being the value calculated in accordance with the scheme rules.
For Stewart Cline, the awards were calculated by reference to a formula based on one and half times his salary as at 1 January 2003 and 1 January 2004.
The 2003 George Wimpey LTIP awarded to Stewart Cline was made on 9 May when the market value on award was 250.5p.
As reported on page 42, shares conditionally awarded under the 2002 George Wimpey LTIP vested on 22 February 2005.
Based on verication from MM& K an independent consultancy, the Companys TSR performance during the period 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2004 placed the Company second as against its comparator group, therefore triggering maximum vesting of the shares conditionally awarded.
These shares were distributed by the employee trust after the Companys close period ended on 22 February 2005.
Peter Johnson, Andrew Carr-Locke and Peter Redfern received 616,636 shares, 361,364 shares and 156,818 shares respectively and the price on vesting was 449.0p per share.
In last years Report it was confirmed that Keith Cushen, who retired as a Director on 31 December 2003, would receive a further distribution of shares under the George Wimpey LTIP up to a maximum of 136,364 shares, representing one third of his 2002 conditional allocation of shares subject to the the Companys TSR performance for the period 1 January 2002 to 31 December 2004.
As mentioned above, the TSR performance during this period placed the Company in second place which therefore resulted in maximum vesting of all of the shares conditionally awarded to Keith Cushen.
The shares vested on 25 January 2005 and the price on vesting was 403.5p per share.
DIRECTORS INTEREST IN THE MORRISON HOMES LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN MORRISON HOMES LTIP AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 Stewart Cline is the only Director participating in the Morrison Homes LTIP.
More detailed information on the Morrison Homes LTIP is set out on page 42.
The Morrison Homes LTIP is a cash based scheme introduced in 2003, pursuant to which units are awarded to each participant.
The value of each unit, and therefore the amount of cash received, will depend upon the growth in the profit before interest and tax of Morrison Homes during the year of the award.
The value of the cash award is then paid out over a four year period commencing one year after the end of the relevant financial year, with 20% being paid out over the first three years and 40% in the final year.
No equity is involved in the Morrison Homes LTIP.
Stewart Clines current interest in the Morrison Homes LTIP amounts to $2,021,000 which includes the 2004 award of $1,054,935.
This report has been approved by the Board on 22 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: Michael Blackburn Chair, Remuneration Committee George Wimpey Plc
