Directors Remuneration Report The performance-related elements of the executive directors remuneration packages, Introduction under which executive directors can receive payments in total of up to 50% of their basic salaries, consist of annual performance based cash bonuses and participation in the This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Companys Profit-Sharing Scheme which distributes 10% of profits half-yearly to all Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
This report also meets the relevant requirements employees on the basis of a formula related to the profitability of their relevant division, of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has length of service and salary levels.
Such bonus payments are not pensionable.
In addition, applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
there have been occasional grants of options over shares in the Company, pursuant to The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the one or more of the share option schemes operated through the Remuneration auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their Committee.
These include both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved long-term opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the share incentive schemes, designed to encourage the executive directors and other Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has, therefore, employees to hold shares in the Company and to enhance share values.
been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the total number of new shares and shares held in treasury over which the Company may grant options is limited and the Unaudited information Company has chosen to allocate most of the number available to the Companys Savings Remuneration Committee Related Share Option Scheme open to all employees, including executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee of the Board sets the remuneration and terms of This has restricted the number of new shares or shares held in treasury available to be appointment of the executive directors and the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
allocated under the discretionary Senior Executive Share Option Schemes, under which The names of the directors who have served on the Remuneration Committee during the last grant of options in which no executive director participated was made in August the year are Ian Gregg Chairman, Sonia Elkin until 11 May 2004, Stephen Curran 2004.
The company will keep under review the need to maintain competitive benefit and Bob Bennett.
Mike Darrington and Andrew Davison have assisted the Committee packages, and where it considers appropriate, will make use of the Employee Benefit in their deliberations on directors remuneration.
Trust to supply shares on the exercise of options.
Unless granted pursuant to the allemployee Savings Related Share Option Scheme under which options may be offered General Policy on Directors Remuneration at a discount to market price, the Remuneration Committee intends that all options The Companys policy is to establish competitive remuneration packages for its directors granted to executive directors will be at exercise prices at least equal to the market price that will attract, retain and motivate individuals with appropriate skills and experience of a share as at the date of grant.
and will best serve the interests of the Company, its shareholders and its employees.
The above policies enable the executive directors to receive potentially significant benefits Remuneration packages for executive directors are designed so as to reward them fairly in addition to their basic salaries, but only if value has been created for shareholders.
for their contributions within the range of benefits offered by other UK companies of The Remuneration Committee considers that, although the non-performance related equivalent size, to recognise the unusually complex nature of the combined retail, elements of the executive directors remuneration packages are at or around the median manufacturing and distribution operations of the Greggs business and having considered the performance related elements are significant in terms of providing motivation to the levels of remuneration paid to others within the Company.
executive directors to improve shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee aims to set basic salaries for executive directors at a level In order to ensure that no director is involved in deciding his her own remuneration, broadly equivalent to median salaries for individuals holding similar positions in comparable the fees payable to non-executive directors other than the Chairman are set, after companies, with adjustment to reflect individual performance.
Basic salaries are normally consultation with the Chairman, by a committee of the Board consisting only of executive benchmarked every three years unless a material change in the business or in market directors Mike Darrington and Malcolm Simpson who periodically seek advice from conditions warrants earlier review.
Basic salaries were last benchmarked in 2002, to external consultants as to the appropriate market rates applicable.
take effect from 1 January 2003, on the basis of advice and information as to levels of remuneration in comparable companies provided by Monks Partnership.
A review was Policy on Performance Conditions started towards the end of 2004 by Monks Partnership, who are benchmarking salaries The performance conditions attaching to share options granted to the executive directors and remuneration packages against both sector and turnover comparator groups of under the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes have varied according companies.
Monks Partnership were selected and appointed by the Remuneration to the date of grant.
Such conditions are set by the Remuneration Committee following Committee.
They also assisted the Executive Director Committee by producing receipt of advice from external consultants as to prevailing market practice and in order to comparative information to assist in determining the fees payable to non-executive set challenging performance objectives linked to shareholder return.
The Remuneration directors and assisted the Company generally in determining the remuneration of its Committee intends that performance conditions will continue to be settled on this basis senior management team, but otherwise had no connection with the Company.
and applied to any grants of options to future executive directors under the discretionary The Remuneration Committee seeks to structure total benefits packages in a manner Senior Executive Share Option Schemes.
Details of the performance conditions for that will align the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders.
options currently outstanding are set out in the section headed Share Options below.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 42 43 Whether performance conditions attached to share options have been met is tested by Directors service contracts the Remuneration Committee, which compares the actual performance of the Company Details of the directors service contracts or letters of appointment are as follows: with relevant published statistics and, if necessary, obtains advice from external consultants Executive Directors in order to reach its conclusion.
This ensures that no director is in a position to rule on Mike Darrington has a service contract with the Company dated 7 March 2003. whether any performance condition applicable to his own options has been satisfied.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 15 July 1983.
No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant to the Malcolm Simpson has a service contract with the Company dated 7 March 2003.
Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is available for all employees.
His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 24 April 1973.
The principal purpose of this scheme is to encourage employees at all levels within the Company to participate in, and to understand better, the growth in value of the Company Both Mike Darrington and Malcolm Simpson have provisions in their contracts which and the rules of that scheme require that all options granted must be on the same terms.
enable them to be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice or by the executive on 6 months notice.
In addition to their basic salaries, each is entitled to participate in a Performance criteria in relation to the performance based annual cash bonuses payable performance based cash bonus.
They are also entitled to additional benefits including the to the executive directors are set by the Remuneration Committee each year in accordance use of a motor car, private medical insurance, pension, life assurance, permanent health with the general remuneration policy set out above.
insurance and a contribution towards telephone expenses.
Policy on Service Contract Notice Periods and Payments on Early Termination For 2005, the executive directors will receive a performance based cash bonus such that The Companys policy on the duration of directors contracts is that: the combined bonus to be received by each of them under this arrangement and the existing executive directors should have service contracts terminable on one year Companys Profit-Sharing Scheme will be set according to a straight line graph linked to notice served by the Company or by six months notice served by the director.
the level of profit achieved by the Company in the financial year, subject to confirmation Future executive directors would be engaged on terms necessary to secure individuals by the Remuneration Committee.
Total bonus payments are capped at 50% of basic salary.
of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at that time: Non-executive Directors non-executive directors are appointed subject to the Companys Articles of Association, The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
which require them to retire and to seek re-election at the first AGM after appointment.
However, each of them does have a letter of appointment.
The terms of appointment Thereafter, one half of the Board other than those appointed since the last AGM, of each non-executive director require that they seek re-election on a regular basis in being those who have been longest in office since last re-election, and any other accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company see above.
The fees director who has not been elected or re-elected at either of the two preceding AGMs, payable to the non-executive directors cover all normal duties.
In exceptional must retire and seek re-election.
Any non-executive director who has served on the circumstances, where significant additional time commitment is required, the Board Board for over 9 years must seek re-election annually.
The Nominations Committee or a duly authorised committee may award additional fees.
No right of compensation advises the Board as to whether a particular director, whose turn it is to retire, should exists where the office is terminated, for whatever reason.
Performance Graph The policy on termination payments for executive directors is that the Company does The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return for the Companys not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment shares for each of the last 5 financial years against the total shareholder return for the in respect of notice to which a director is entitled.
In exceptional circumstances, companies comprised in the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
an additional ex-gratia payment may be considered, based on factors including the This index was chosen for this comparison because it includes companies of broadly directors past contribution and the circumstances of the directors departure.
similar size to the Company.
The Companys policy on notice periods changed at the end of 2004 when the executive directors agreed without receiving any compensation to reduce their entitlement to notice and to compensation in all circumstances to a maximum of one year.
250 Non-executive directors would not normally be entitled to compensation for early termination of their appointments prior to the date on which they would next be due 200 to retire by rotation, or if not re-appointed at such time.
150 100 50 FTSE Mid 250 ex-Invst Trusts Greggs 0 31 12 1999 31 12 2000 31 12 2001 31 12 2002 31 12 2003 31 12 2004 Directors Remuneration Report continued Audited Information Directors emoluments and compensation The following table sets out details of the emoluments and compensation received in 2004 by each director excluding pension contributions, details of which are set out below.
No part of the remuneration, other than the basic salaries of the executive directors, is taken into account when calculating pension benefits.
Share Options The following table sets out details of the share options all of which were granted at a nominal or nil cost to the executive director concerned held by, or granted to, each director during the year, according to the register of directors interests: Number of options during year Market Exercise price at Date from At At price date of Gain on Date of which Expiry 27 12 03 Granted Exercised 1 1 05 exercise exercise grant exercisable date Scheme Mike Darrington 18,000 - - 18,000 26.875 - - Mar 99 Mar 02 Mar 06 Executive 199 - 199 - 20.98 33.83 2,557 Jun 99 Jun 04 Dec 04 SAYE 27,900 - - 27,900 17.015 - - Mar 00 Mar 03 Mar 07 Executive Malcolm Simpson 12,000 - - 12,000 26.875 - - Mar 99 Mar 02 Mar 06 Executive 199 - 199 - 20.98 33.45 2,482 Jun 99 Jun 04 Dec 04 SAYE 12,400 - - 12,400 17.015 - - Mar 00 Mar 03 Mar 07 Executive The aggregate gain on exercise of share options was 5,039 2003: 213,954, including 2,557 2003: 80,937 in respect of the highest paid director.
The executive directors also have a potential beneficial interest in the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust see note 24 to the Accounts.
On each of the grants awarded in 1999 and 2000 under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme, the exercise of one half of the options granted was made conditional upon the growth in the Companys basic earnings per share over the three years from grant being greater than the median earnings per share growth of the companies comprised in the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other half of the options granted was conditional upon growth in the basic earnings per share of the Company being at least 10% above the median basic earnings per share growth of such comparator companies within the same period.
No non-executive director has any options to acquire shares in the Company.
The mid-market price of ordinary shares in the Company as at 1 January 2005 was 36.58.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices of ordinary shares during the financial year were 37.50 and 31.00 respectively.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 44 45 Pensions Both of the executive directors earned pension benefits under the Greggs 1978 Retirement and Death Benefit Scheme, the Companys defined benefit scheme, during the period under review.
This scheme, which currently requires a contribution of 6.6% of pensionable salary from members, provides for up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary, dependant on length of pensionable service.
Both of the executive directors also received contributions into the Companys money purchase defined contributions pension schemes during the period under review.
No pension benefits were earned or accrued in respect of any non-executive director.
Defined benefit scheme The following table sets out the change in each directors accrued pension in the Companys defined benefit scheme during the year and his accrued benefits in the scheme at the year end: Accrued annual Accrued annual Increase in Transfer value pension pension Increase in accrued of increase entitlement at entitlement at accrued pension in accrued age 65 as at age 65 as at pension entitlement for pension 1 January 27 December entitlement the year net of entitlement Date of Date service 2005 2003 for the year inflation of 2.8% for the year Executive Director birth commenced Mike Darrington 8 3 42 15 8 83 117,892 104,910 12,982 10,054 126,525 Malcolm Simpson 15 10 41 24 4 73 114,021 103,186 10,835 7,956 90,337 Note 1: The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, but excluding any statutory increases which would be due after the year end.
Note 2: The inflation rate of 2.8% shown in the table above is that published by the Secretary of State for Social Security in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Pensions Schemes Act 1993.
Increase in the Cash equivalent Cash equivalent cash equivalent transfer transfer transfer value as at value as at value since 27 December 1 January 27 December 2003 2005 2003 Executive Director Mike Darrington 1,593,107 1,708,175 101,775 Malcolm Simpson 1,539,655 1,627,859 68,116 Note: cash equivalent transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuaries Guidance Note GN11 and the increase is stated net of contributions made by the director.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Money purchase schemes The Company has paid the following contributions to two of the Companys money purchase schemes the Greggs Bakeries MJD Retirement Benefit Scheme and the Greggs Senior Executive Pension Scheme for the benefit of executive directors during this financial year: Total Contribution contributions in respect made during of 2004 2003 Executive Director Mike Darrington 76,868 67,800 Malcolm Simpson 10,500 10,310 Approval by Shareholders At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 17 May 2005, a resolution approving this report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 14 March 2005.
Signed on behalf of the Board Ian Gregg Director Chairman of Remuneration Committee 14 March 2005
