HALMA Report on Remuneration The following sections of the Report on Remuneration have been audited: the table of Directors remuneration: pension benefits: Directors interests in shares.
Remunerationpolicy The policy on Directors Remuneration is to provide the remuneration packages necessarytoattract,  Group successfully, manage the business of the Group and to align the interests of the Directors with those of the shareholders.
In accordance with rule 12.43A c of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Board presents its Report on Remuneration to the shareholders.
The Board confirms that when determining the remuneration policy for executive Directors for 2003 04 full consideration was given to the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Remuneration Committee consists entirely of non-executive Directors, the current members being Mr R A Stone Chairman of the Committee, Mr E G Unwin, Mr A J Walker and Mr S R Pettit.
Messrs Walker and Pettit were appointed to the Committee during the past year.
Mr D S Barber was a member of the Committee prior to his retirement and Lord McGowan was a member prior to his death.
The Board has considered and confirmed Mr Stones independence following the third anniversary of his appointment to the Board.
The Board has also affirmed its decision to appoint Mr Unwin to the Committee as the Board believes that his Chairmanship of the Board does not interfere with his independence as regards membership of the Committee.
Mr Unwin does not take part in discussions concerning his own remuneration.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive remuneration, based on proposals formulated by the Group Chief Executive, and determines the terms of service and remuneration of executive Directors andsenior executives.
The Committees Terms of Reference are available from the Company Secretary on request.
 , theCommittee , compiled by New Bridge Street Consultants, IDS and Deloitte & Touche LLP, and other relevant data to relate remuneration levels to comparable publicly quoted companies.
In assessing the data that the Committee utilises, the Committee considers the benefits in comparable companies, the Companys market capitalisation, the Groups turnover and the complexity of Group operations in order to determine each Executives basic salary level.
Basic salary levels are set in order to achieve a balance between fixed and variable remuneration.
Shareoptions The Directors have long believed that share option plans are an excellent way to aligntheinterests  options provide excellent motivation.
The Committee recognises the need to continually assess and evaluate such incentives and therefore has asked Ernst &  introduce across the Group.
 of option both of which are subject to performance criteria.
The exercise criteria for these two plans are noted in Note 19 on the Accounts.
No further grants may be made from either of these plans.
40 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Report on Remuneration continued HALMA Options under the 1999 Company Share Option Plan have more stringent exercise criteria than the 1990 and 1996 Share Option Plans.
Section A options are exercisable after three years if the Companys earnings per share growth exceeds the growth in the Retail Price Index plus 3% per annum.
Section B options are   a peer group at the date of grant of any option.
 a triennial award of A options, an annual award of B options and the possibility of further A options under the Performance Related Bonus Scheme.
Performancerelated This scheme, which applies only to executive Directors and Divisional Chief bonusscheme Executives, is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Without approval of this scheme there is no alternative bonus arrangement for Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
During 2003 04 the Remuneration Committee carefully considered existing bonus arrangements and determined that incentive levels are appropriately set.
 Division for which he is responsible exceeds a target calculated from the profits of the three preceding financial years.
The profits calculated for this purpose regard  it utilises including the cost of acquisitions.
, bonusesarebasedonthe aggregated profit of the Divisions exceeding a target calculated from the profits of the Divisions for the three preceding financial years.
A pre-determined percentage of the profit improvement is payable in cash and .
The , in percentage terms, as performance improves.
The maximum cash bonus payable toanyone Director or Divisional ChiefExecutive is capped at100%of hissalary.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 41 Report on Remuneration continued HALMA After inclusion of gains on the exercise of share options, where applicable, Mr S R OShea was the highest paid director in the financial year.
Pensionbenefits The executive Directors participate in the appropriate section of the Halma Group Pension Plan.
This section is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, final salary occupational pension scheme, which provides a pension equal to the lower of twothirds of final pensionable salary and the Inland Revenue maximum pension at normal pension age 60.
Pensionable salary is the greatest salary of the last three complete tax years immediately before retirement or leaving service.
Thescheme also provides for life cover of three times pensionable salary, pensions in the event of early retirement through ill health and dependants pensions of one-half of the members prospective pension.
Early retirement pensions, possible from age 50 , are subject to actuarial reduction.
Pensions in payment increase by 3% per annum  of 5%.
Details of the value of individual pension entitlements are shown below.
Accrued Accrued Years of pension Increase pension Age at service at 2003 in the year 2004 3.4.
04 000 000 000 S R OShea 58 28 145 16 165 K J Thompson 44 16 44 6 51 N Quinn 54 16 52 6 60 K J Roy 53 11 23 9 33 The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
The increase in accrued pension during the year is the amount in excess of the increase due to inflation.
Increase Transfer in transfer Transfer value Directors value net of value 29.3.
04 000 000 000 000 S R OShea 2,279 25 418 2,722 K J Thompson 363 12 69 444 N Quinn 674 12 126 812 K J Roy 297 10 132 439 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
These values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
 The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return performance over the five years to 3 April 2004 as compared to the FTSE 250 and Engineering & Machinery indices which have been chosen as the Company is a constituent of both of these indices.
Over the period indicated, the Companys total shareholder return was 95% compared to 33% for the FTSE 250 and 8% for the FTSE Engineering & Machinery sector.
42 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Report on Remuneration continued HALMA , theHalmap.
l. c.  3 April 1999 was 3.327p per share.
The Halma p. l. c. ordinary share price at 3 April 2004 was 149.25p and the total of dividends in respect of the year then ended was 6.19p per share.
Directorsinterestsin The beneficial interests of Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the shares Company during the financial year were as follows: Shares Shares 3.4.
There were no changes in Directors interests from 3 April 2004 to 22 June 2004.
The movements in share options during the financial year were as follows: As at As at 29.3.
The gains are calculated by deducting the exercise price from the  if appropriate.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 43 Report on Remuneration continued HALMA Options granted to Directors during the financial year were at an exercise price of 134p.
The closing middle market priceof the Companys ordinary shares on Friday, 2April2004, , was149.25pper share and the range during the year was 109p to 151.25p.
Details of Directors options outstanding at 3 April 2004 are set out in the table below.
The status of the options can be summarised as follows: 1 Exercisable at that date at a price less than 149.25p.
2 Not yet exercisable, will only be exercisable when the performance criteria, set out above, have been met and have an exercise price per share of less than 149.25p.
3 Not yet exercisable, will only be exercisable when the performance criteria, set out above, have been met and have an exercise price per share of greater than 149.25p.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of Directors shareholdings and share options.
Servicecontracts It is the Companys policy that executive Directors should have contracts with an .
Theservicecontractof  years preceding normal retirement.
At the date of this report, Mr OSheas notice period is, effectively, 18 months.
The Board reviewed this contract term during the .
 with a notice period of one year.
None of the contracts has pre-determined compensation clauses in the event of early termination.
The Board and the Remuneration Committee confirm that these contracts are appropriate having regard, amongst other things, to the individuals length of service.
 All non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
The non-executive Directors receive a basic fee supplemented by additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
44 Halma p. l. c. 2004 Report on Remuneration continued HALMA The contract in respect of Mr Unwins services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months notice.
Mr Unwins basic fee for 2003 04 was set at 108,000 per annum excluding Committee membership fees, and he received a contribution of 1,000 per month towards his office costs.
The other non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Non-executive Directors fees were last reviewed by the Board of Directors in April 2004.
By Order of the Board R A Stone Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Misbourne Court Rectory Way Amersham Bucks HP7 0DE 22 June 2004 Halma p. l. c. 2004 45
