Directors Remuneration Report This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee, in accordance with The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations and to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, it describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration set out in the Combined Code.
The Regulations require the Auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within the Directors Remuneration Report the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
Their opinion is set out on page 57 and those aspects of the Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked.
Remuneration Committee The Board considers itself ultimately responsible for the framework and cost of executive remuneration but has delegated responsibility for determining the remuneration levels and conditions of service for Executive Directors of the Company and members of the Chief Executives Committee to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also oversees the overall policy for the senior management remuneration and the Groups employee share schemes.
The Committees approach is fully consistent with the Groups overall philosophy that all employees should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly aligning executive management with the Groups strategic business goals.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The members of the Committee during the year were: - Mr I J G Napier Chairman : Mr D C Bonham: Mr S Huismans: Dr P H Jungels: and Mr D W Thursfield from 2 February 2004.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
However he is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of his own remuneration.
The Committee sets the remuneration package for each Executive Director and member of the Chief Executives Committee after taking advice principally from external sources, including remuneration consultants Towers Perrin and Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow, who were appointed by the Committee to review the Groups principles and practices against corporate governance best practice and provide no other services for the Group.
Executive remuneration data provided by KPMG also appointed by the Committee and having provided tax and other consultancy services to the Group and Towers Perrin together with surveys published by Monks Partnership and William M Mercer have also been used to assist in the benchmarking process.
Mr G Davis, Chief Executive, Mr R C Hannaford, Company Secretary who acted as Secretary to the Committee and retired on 30 September 2004 and Mr D P Cuthbert, Group Compensation and Benefits Manager, also provide internal support and advice.
Solicitors Ashurst and Allen & Overy have also been retained by the Company to review and develop rules for the Groups revised share schemes.
The Remuneration Committee, which operates under clear written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website www.
com, confirms formally that it has been in compliance with the best practice governance provisions as set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
Remuneration strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in an increasingly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees, at all levels, across the Group.
The Group therefore sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in those countries in which it operates.
During the year a comprehensive review of executive remuneration has been undertaken and, where appropriate, shareholder approval is being sought at the Annual General Meeting.
As the Group continues to develop internationally and integrate acquisitions, it is having increasing regard to the need to relocate employees from country to country as the requirements of the business dictate and to develop its remuneration arrangements accordingly.
The remuneration strategy is therefore designed not only to align with the Groups fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity but also to support the Groups corporate strategy, as a significant contributor to its competitive advantage.
A cohesive reward structure across the Group - with a timely pay review process, consistently applied to all employees and well communicated to ensure each element of the package is understood with links to corporate performance recognised - is seen as critical in ensuring that all employees can associate with and strive for the Groups strategic goals.
The Group also seeks to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees opportunities and encouragement to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Through a series of share plan initiatives, Sharesave arrangements and Share Matching Schemes, the majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans with a significant number taking advantage of those invitations.. 45 Directors Remuneration Report Executive remuneration policy The remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, is intended to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
The package is also in line with the Groups overall policy on pay and benefits and, as the Group extends its business internationally, it takes account of market practices outside the UK where the scope of a particular executives role warrants this approach.
The ongoing policy combines short term and long term rewards, focusing on performance-related elements that take into account individual, business unit and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, an annual cash bonus, a Share Matching Scheme SMS, a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and pension benefits, with an increased weighting towards performance-related variable reward elements.
In the financial year to September 2004, base salary typically represented around 30 per cent of total remuneration with annual bonus and awards vesting under SMS and LTIP schemes making up the balance.
If approved by shareholders, under the revised policy base pay will represent around 20 per cent of Executive Directors potential remuneration.
This policy is set to provide base salary at around the median level of its comparator group while providing the Executive Directors with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
Percentage of Total Remuneration For the financial year to September 2004, a more stringent performance criterion was applied to the performance-related elements as detailed in the annual cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on page 50 both of which form part of this policy statement.
Base salary Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by reference to individual responsibilities, performance and external market data.
Therefore it is set within a range around the market median of the comparator group to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the relevant executive.
The comparator group of companies chosen remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
Annual cash bonus During the period under review, bonus targets related principally to the achievement of Group profit objectives.
However, the specific targets are not disclosed since they are considered to be commercially confidential.
Performance in the financial year has resulted in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 49, being awarded to Executive Directors.
Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior executives for achieving performance targets for the financial year to 30 September 2004.
2 For the financial year to 30 September 2004 onwards, the potential maximum bonus was increased from 66 3 per cent to 100 per cent for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and to 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
However, attainment of these increased bonus levels is subject to achievement of stretching, incremental, profit-based performance criteria.
Under the SMS, Executive Directors and management may elect to invest any proportion, up to a maximum of 100 per cent, of their gross bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares to be held by a nominee controlled by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided that the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years, the participant will receive the original shares plus additional shares equal in number to the original shares.
In respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS from their bonus payable in December 2003, and for future years, a performance criterion will be applied to the matched shares such that matching will only occur if the Group has achieved in excess of an average three per cent real increase in EPS per annum over the three year retention period, being an indicator of sustained ongoing profit delivery.
Achievement measurement is based on the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP.
There is no opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met.. 46 Directors Remuneration Report Benefits The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of cars and health insurance but in the case of Mr B C Davidson these also include one-off relocation costs.
Remuneration from other non-executive directorships The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to retain any fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Any serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Mr G Davis serves on the Board of Wolseley PLC and currently receives fees of 43,000 per annum.
Executive Directors service agreements It is the Groups policy to appoint Executive Directors under service agreements terminable by either party giving 52 weeks notice, as shown in the table below.
There are no predetermined provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements.
However, the Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and believes that severance arrangements should be restricted to base pay and consequential payments such as bonus accrual and pension accrual.
Nevertheless, the circumstances of the termination and the individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss would be taken into account.
Under the rules of the LTIP and SMS, outstanding awards vest on termination or on a change of control on a time-related pro-rata basis subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
If, however, the termination is by resignation or dismissal for misconduct, the full award lapses.
Date of contract Expiry date Executive Directors G Davis, Chief Executive 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice R Dyrbus, Finance Director 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice D Cresswell, Manufacturing Director 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice F A Rogerson, Corporate Affairs Director 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice B C Davidson, Sales and Marketing Director 1 October 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
However the terms of their appointments are reviewed annually and upon them reaching 65 years of age.
These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed on 2 February 2004.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors stand for reappointment at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment, are subject to triennial reappointment by shareholders and retire at the Annual General Meeting following their reaching 70 years of age.
There are no provisions in their letters of appointment regarding notice periods or compensation on early termination.
Although there is no current maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is supportive of the best practice provisions outlined in the Higgs Report.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice and within the restrictions contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in discussions on their own remuneration.
They receive no other material pay or benefits with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company and provision of administrative support including the use of Company offices by the Chairman and Vice Chairman, do not participate in the Companys share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
To align further the interest of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, it was agreed that a proportion of their fees be applied, after tax, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
These shares are to be held by a nominee during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship.
Exceptionally in respect of Mr D C Bonham and Mr A G L Alexander, this requirement has been waived due to their substantial shareholdings, as detailed below.
Mr S Huismans is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which he received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.. 47 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration arrangements for former Directors Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, runs to March 2007.
Under the terms of the agreement he provides consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of 1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each 12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007.
The agreement is terminable by either party giving 12 months notice.
He is also entitled to reimbursement for the use of his car.
Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which he receives additional remuneration, for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Following the acceptance by the Board, on 9 July 2003, of the resignation of Mr L W Staby, it was agreed that his remuneration continue until the expiry of his term of office on 1 February 2004.
Similarly the Company agreed that remuneration attributable to his duties on the Supervisory Boards of Reemtsma companies continued to be paid on a similar basis.
In respect of Mr M A Hussler, subsequent to his resignation as a Director of the Company with effect from 9 July 2003, he remains an employee receiving his full contractual remuneration.
DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2004 audited 2004 2003 000 000 Executive Directors Salary 1,980 1,444 Benefits 220 141 Bonus 1,455 955 1 LTIP annual vesting 1,508 937 2 SMS vesting 1,512 902 6,675 4,379 Non-Executive Directors Fees 485 457 Benefits 7 5 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 41 514 503 Former directors Consultancy fees to former executive director 125 100 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 23 Salary of former Executive Director 397 86 Bonus 258 56 Benefits 26 2 LTIP vesting on retirement 5 828 272 Fees of former Non-Executive Directors Company 12 8 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 7 5 19 13 Total remuneration 8,036 5,167 1.
Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year, based on the closing share price on the day of exercise.
Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a Company car and health insurance.
LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year both on annual vesting and retirement.
Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
Mr M A Hussler and Mr L W Staby resigned from the Board on 9 July 2003.
Mr C A C Inston retired on grounds of ill health on 14 December 2001.
Mr B C Davidson was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2003.
Benefits in kind include one-off relocation assistance of 135,520 in respect of Mr B C Davidson.
Base salary of Mr M A Hussler includes the payment of a pension allowance of 10,200 which is neither eligible for bonus nor share schemes and is not pensionable.
Executive share retention and executive remuneration review To ensure the interests of management remain aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior executives are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines by building a stake in the Group to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to twice their base salary.
At a more junior level, executives are expected to invest at a level equivalent to their base salary.
Following the remuneration review during 2004 the Chief Executive and Finance Director will be expected to invest at a level equivalent to three times their base salary, with the guidelines remaining unchanged for the remaining Executive Directors and senior executives.
The additional results of the remuneration review relate to LTIPs and are set out below.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Each year since demerger in 1996, annual awards worth 75 per cent of basic salary, have been made to Executive Directors under the LTIP and awards at a lower level have been made to other senior executives.
The awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject to the satisfaction of an applicable performance criterion, as set out below, over a three-year performance period.
It is anticipated that a further conditional award worth 75 per cent of basic salary will be made during November 2004.
For the December 2000 and future awards, the Committee replaced total shareholder return TSR with earnings per share EPS growth as the performance criterion.
This was seen as enhancing the incentive effect of the Plan by focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and executives have power to influence.
The Committee nevertheless retains absolute discretion to ensure that the EPS performance criterion fully reflects the underlying performance of the Group before any awards vest, including maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
Awards vest on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted for amortisation, based on an agreed protocol to allow appropriate adjustments for exceptional and extraordinary items.
The adjustments are confirmed by the Auditors after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
No vesting occurs unless the Companys average real EPS growth is positive.
Full vesting occurs if real EPS growth is equal to or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points the award vests on a straight-line basis.
In order to ensure that the performance criterion remains challenging, in 2003 the lower threshold was raised.
Therefore for the 2003 and the proposed 2004 awards, vesting will only occur if average real EPS growth exceeds three per cent per annum.
The upper threshold of 10 per cent real EPS growth remains unchanged.
On vesting, a participant is granted a nil cost option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
There is no opportunity to re-test if the performance criterion is not achieved.. 50 Directors Remuneration Report Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Following the remuneration review in 2004 and subsequent consultation with major shareholders for the 2005 and future awards it is proposed, subject to shareholder approval, that awards equivalent to twice salary in respect of the Chief Executive, one and a half times salary for the Finance Director and once salary for other Executive Directors be made with the performance criteria split into three elements as follows: First element 50 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on EPS as described above, with 12.5 per cent of this element vesting if average real EPS growth equals three per cent and 100 per cent of this element vesting if average real EPS growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points awards vest on a straight-line basis: Second element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index as described below: and Third element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group also described below.
The proposed performance criterion for the second element will be based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element will occur unless the Companys total shareholder return ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element will vest.
If the return ranks the Company in the top 25 of the Index, this element will vest in full.
Between these thresholds the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
The TSR calculations will use share prices averaged over a period to determine initial and closing prices rather than those ruling on a single day.
It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared ex dividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result since improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
The TSR calculations themselves will be performed independently by Alithos Limited appointed by the Company but who will perform no other services for the Group and then approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The proposed performance criterion for the third element will also be based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element will occur unless the Companys TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting a bespoke comparator group comprising of 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed in the table below.
At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of the third element will vest.
If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element will vest in full.
Each element will operate independently and will be capable of vesting regardless of the Companys performance in respect of the other elements.
However, the Remuneration Committee may vary, but not increase, the extent to which the award vests to ensure that it only vests, and at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, including the maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
EPS over the period averaged 20.19 per cent exceeding the average of 10 per cent, the threshold at which the award maximises.
In respect of the November 2001 November 2004 award, based on EPS to the end of the financial year, 100 per cent of the award will vest on 26 November 2004.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 4 November 2004, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 12.86 valuing the awards as follows: Award vesting no.
of shares Award vesting Award lapsing over which illustrative value no.
52 Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors conditional share awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan continued The value of any awards vesting could vary significantly from the above due to share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2002 November 2005 and the November 2003 November 2006 awards to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.
However, in respect of these awards, the adjusted EPS has grown by more than 10 per cent in real terms in the financial year and, therefore, if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance periods both awards would vest in full, their illustrative values based on the above share price are as follows.
Potential Awards Vesting November 2005 November 2006 Illustrative value Illustrative value No.
TSR Return Relative to FTSE 100 Index The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and most widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate performance of the Company which is a constituent of that index and reflects one of the benchmark indices proposed for use as an LTIP performance measure.
Shareholder approval for the amendment of the LTIP will be sought at the Annual General Meeting and further details of the proposed amendments can be found in the accompanying notice of the meeting.
Share Matching Scheme SMS Centenary Scheme To encourage employees to acquire and retain a shareholding, and to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco Company of Great Britain and Ireland Limited, all employees of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries employed on 10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase up to 3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares and lodge them with the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided these shares are left in the Trust, the lodged shares will be matched on a sliding scale from 20 per cent for one years retention to a maximum of 100 per cent if they are retained for five years.. 53 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Scheme As detailed under annual cash bonus on page 46, the Scheme also allows Executive Directors and most of the Groups management to invest their bonus in shares, which are matched 1:1 over a three year period.
Shareholder approval for the amendment of the SMS will be sought at the Annual General Meeting and further information on the proposed amendment can be found in the notice of meeting.
These will be matched with additional shares, equal in number to the original shares, provided they are both left in the SMS for three years and if the Company has achieved in excess of an average of three per cent real increase in EPS per annum over the retention period.
These additional shares are shown within contingent rights above.
There have been no further changes since 30 September 2004.
Share options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
However, Executive Directors are eligible along with all employees of the Company and any participating subsidiary of the Group to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs savings-related Sharesave Scheme.
Under this Scheme options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years.
Shareholder approval for the replacement of the savings-related Sharesave Scheme will be sought at the Annual General Meeting and further information on the proposed replacement can be found in the notice of meeting.
Aggregate gains during the year were 5,694 2003: 27,735.
2 any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
There have been no changes since 30 September 2004.
The Companys middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2004 was 12.04 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 9.67 to 12.86.
Full details are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at the Companys registered office.. 55 Directors Remuneration Report Employee Benefit Trust The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust have been established to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.
As potential beneficiaries of the Employee and Executive Benefit Trust, each of the Executive Directors is deemed to have a contingent interest in the 828,432 Ordinary Shares of the Company held by that Trust at 30 September 2004.
The Companys policy has always been, and continues to be, to satisfy all awards under its share schemes from market purchased shares through the Trusts.
The Trust Deeds and the rules of all schemes contain provisions limiting awards to five per cent in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee schemes with an additional restriction to five per cent in 10 years for executive schemes.
Currently an aggregate of only 0.9 per cent of the Companys issued share capital is subject to awards under the Groups share schemes.
Directors pensions The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the fund is non-contributory and fully funded with a normal retirement age of 60.
The fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age after 32 years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted within Inland Revenue limits.
For death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependant children will also receive allowances.
Pensions increase by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in RPI, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension for pension increases in line with the general index of retail prices of up to 15 per cent.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60.
In previous years, details of Directors pension benefits have been reported in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
However the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 have introduced the requirement to disclose additional information for Directors pension benefits under defined benefit schemes.
The following table provides the information required on both bases and gives details for each Director of: the annual accrued pension payable from normal retirement age, calculated as if he had left service at the year end: the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under the Listing Rules: and the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11.
None of the Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
audited Disclosures required under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules Increase Age at Pensionable Accrued pension Transfer value in accrued Transfer 30 9 04 service at 000 of accrued pension 000 pension value Years 30 9 04 at Increase at at Increase Directors at net of of Years 1 10 03 during 30 9 04 1 10 03 during the contribution 30 9 04 inflation increase the year year net of during the net of Directors year inflation contributions 000 000 G Davis 54 32 403 40 443 4,790 824 5,614 29 366 R Dyrbus 51 22 172 27 199 1,671 393 2,064 22 233 D Cresswell 59 42 140 60 200 2,486 1,307 3,793 56 1,064 F A Rogerson 51 27 122 53 175 1,171 636 1,807 49 516 B C Davidson 48 6 19 3 22 147 39 186 3 29 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.. 56
