34 Board report on remuneration Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration In establishing its remuneration policy and practice, the Committee Committee for determining and agreeing with the Board the had regard to the need to continue to support the Companys Companys policy and framework for executive remuneration.
It is business strategy, to allow the Company to motivate and retain also responsible for setting remuneration packages and terms of its executive management and, where necessary, recruit employment, including pension rights, for the Chairman, Executive executives of high quality.
The Committee was also guided by Directors and certain senior executives.
This includes agreeing the following principles: performance incentive arrangements and approving allocations the package should be competitive i. e. at or around median under any long term incentive arrangements, including executive when compared with those in organisations of similar size, share options.
complexity and type: The members of the Committee during 2004 were Michael Wemms Chairman, Simon Robertson and Ken Hanna.
there should be a clear link between the level of Hugh Norton served until his retirement on 13 May 2004. remuneration and the performance of the Group and the individual, All the members, other than Hugh Norton, who retired during to the extent that performance related elements should form a the year, and Michael Wemms, who was appointed on 29 January significant part of executives total remuneration package: 2004, served throughout the year.
The participation of Sir John Egan the interests of the shareholders should be safeguarded by on the Committee was reviewed in the year in light of the aligning the remuneration package of the executives with provisions of the Code.
While Sir John continues to attend shareholders interests: meetings, he ceased to be a member of the Committee on 29 January 2004.
Will Samuel and David Scotland were appointed the package as a whole should be easy to understand and to the Committee on 26 January 2005 and 24 February 2005 motivating for the individual: and respectively.
With the exception of Sir John Egan member until the composition of the package should reflect best practice 29 January 2004, whom the Code does not treat as independent, among comparable companies.
the Committee comprised wholly Independent Non-executive Directors during the year and continues to do so.
The remuneration packages for the Executive Directors are made up Throughout 2004 the Company complied with the of both fixed and variable elements as described below.
In broad remuneration provisions of the Code in respect of Directors.
terms, if the Group meets its target levels of performance, The contents of this report also comply with the Directors the expected value of the variable elements will account for Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the relevant approximately 45.0% to 50.0% of the Executive Directors total requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
remuneration and, if the Group achieves outstanding results, approximately 60.0% to 65.0%.
If target performance levels are not Committee operation met, then no pay out would be made under the incentive plans.
The Committee holds at least two meetings a year.
It has an annual Total remuneration for these purposes comprises base salary, meeting to review the compensation arrangements for each annual bonus and long term incentives.
Executive Director and certain senior executives, in advance of the The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors are annual salary review on 1 April.
It also holds a further meeting to made up of the following elements: consider policy issues.
In addition, ad hoc meetings are held as required.
During the year the Committee held eight meetings and Base salary details of members attendance are shown in the table on page 30.
Base salaries are set by the Committee, taking into account the Neither the Chairman, nor any executive, is involved in deciding individuals level of responsibility, experience, and performance, their own remuneration.
along with salary levels in comparable companies.
The comparator The Committee has authority from the Board to obtain the group is made up of twenty five general industry companies, services of external independent advisers, as it may require.
almost all being companies in the FTSE mid 250 index.
Towers Perrin provided advice to the Committee throughout 2004, Those companies were chosen because they are of a similar having been appointed by the Committee as advisers in December size and complexity measured in terms of revenues, market 2002.
In addition, Towers Perrin provided advice to the Board on capitalisation, employee numbers and international scope as the Non-executive fees and Board performance and to the Group in Company.
Executive Directors salary increases in 2004 took into connection with the introduction of IFRS 2 in 2005.
Each year the account the relevant median data from this comparative group, and chairman of the Committee reviews the use of advisers and he the individuals performance, as well as the continuing excellent considers the continued appointment of Towers Perrin as performance of the Company.
Base salary is the only element of appropriate.
In addition to Towers Perrin, the Committee is advised internally by Peter Johnson, Group Chief Executive, Roy Williams, Group Company Secretary and Nick Smith, Group Human Resources Director.
These external and internal sources of advice and data available to the Committee, together with consideration of the levels of pay increases for other employees and the remuneration policy outlined below, provide a framework for the decision making process.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 35 Annual bonus Executive share option plan During 2004 the Executive Directors participated in a bonus plan Changes to the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan were approved by based solely on profit before tax PBT.
Peter Johnsons bonus plan shareholders in 2004.
Under the Plan, share options are granted to yields a bonus of 40.0% of base salary if target performance is Executive Directors and certain other senior executives throughout achieved and higher payments for performance above target the Group.
The option price is calculated by rounding up the to a maximum of 90.0% of base salary.
Graeme Potts and arithmetic average of the market quotations of a share for the three Alan Fergusons bonus plans yield a bonus of 30.0% of base dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
The 2004 salary if target performance is achieved and higher payments for grant of share options covered 258 participants across the world.
performance above target to a maximum of 70.0% of base salary.
Details of share options granted to Executive Directors in 2004 are In 2004, the Companys PBT significantly exceeded performance shown in note 3 on pages 38 and 39. targets set at the start of the year for the bonus plan.
This has Options granted following the 2004 AGM vest according to a resulted in Peter Johnson receiving a bonus of 90.0% of his salary, sliding scale: 25.0% of the award will vest if earnings per share and Graeme Potts and Alan Ferguson receiving bonuses of 70.0% EPS growth of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved over the initial of their salaries, as set out in the remuneration table on page 37. three year period, with all of the award vesting if EPS growth is For 2005, an additional performance measure has been RPI 8.0% per annum.
Options will vest on a straight line basis introduced, covering stock ageing and churn, as the Committee between these two points.
No options will vest if EPS growth is feels this is an appropriate measure to monitor the quality of less than RPI 3.0% per annum.
There will be no retesting.
earnings as well as absolute profit before tax.
This will represent The Committee has retained EPS as the performance measure 10.0% of annual bonus payment.
to ensure that Executive Directors only receive rewards if there is significant and sustained improvement in the underlying financial Deferred bonus plan performance of the Company.
EPS will continue to be the Headline Changes to the Inchcape Deferred Bonus Plan were approved earnings per ordinary share as shown in the Companys reported by shareholders in 2004.
The Plan is a voluntary one available accounts as this provides an independently verifiable measure, to Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
which excludes volatile one off matters such as exceptional items The purpose of the Plan is to give participants a share linked reward and goodwill amortisation.
In exceptional circumstances, the that is related to the participants commitment to maintaining a Committee has the right to adjust the published EPS, as it considers shareholding in the Company.
Details of awards made to Executive appropriate.
If this were to be the case, any adjustment would be Directors in 2004 under the Plan are shown in note 3 on page 39. disclosed in this report.
In light of changes to accounting standards, From 2004, participants may invest a minimum of 10.0% and a the Remuneration Committee will make necessary adjustments to maximum of 75.0% of any net of tax bonus award to acquire ensure a consistent basis in respect to the EPS measure used to ordinary shares in the Company.
These shares will then be matched evaluate performance.
with a one for one matching share at the end of a three year period.
During the year, the Committee made annual grants of two In addition, to comply with current best practice and to align times base salary taking into account the Executive Directors and Executive Directors rewards under the Plan to shareholders the Companys performance.
This grant level is necessary to keep interests, there is a performance condition attaching to the vesting the Companys long term incentive provision in line with the market.
That test is EPS growth of RPI 3.0% Grants in excess of the two times limit may be required in the per annum, with no retesting.
EPS has been chosen because the future in the event of new hires or developments in market practice.
Committee believes the key to the Company delivering value to Therefore the Committee has the flexibility to increase the shareholders is through continued strong earnings growth over the maximum allowable annual grant level in the Plan rules to four long term.
EPS will be measured in the same manner as for the times base salary if required.
Subject to that performance condition being met, a Directors shares being held in trust for three years and the SAYE share option scheme Director remaining an employee of the Group, he or she will The Inchcape SAYE share option scheme was renewed for another become entitled to be awarded shares to an amount equal to the ten years with approval from shareholders in 2004.
It is open to gross amount of the bonus used to acquire ordinary shares in employees in the UK with at least three months service.
Participants make monthly savings for a three year period.
In previous years, Executive Directors could invest a minimum At the end of the savings period share options become of 10.0% and a maximum of 50.0% of any bonus award to acquire exercisable within a six month period.
ordinary shares in the Company, with no performance conditions attached to the vesting of matching shares.
Executive share ownership To emphasise the importance the Committee places on executive share ownership, Executive Directors are expected to hold a fixed number of shares equivalent to one times base salary.
They have up to five years from 2004, or date of first appointment as an Executive Director if later, to reach this shareholding target.
At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that date, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director held shares equating to 210.0% and 230.0% of their basic salaries respectively.
The Managing Director, Inchcape UK and Europe, who joined the Company in September 2002, holds shares to a value of 86.0% of his base salary.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 36 Board report on remuneration continued Retirement benefits Non-executive Directors remuneration The Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme provides benefits for The remuneration of Non-executive Directors consists of fees for Executive Directors and certain other senior executives at the their services in connection with Board and Committee meetings.
normal retirement age of sixty, equal to a maximum of two thirds Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the Board, of final base salary, subject to completion of twenty years service.
within the restrictions contained in the Articles of Association.
Fees are reviewed annually, with the Board taking advice from Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with the Towers Perrin on best practice and competitive levels, taking into lesser of 5.0% and the increase in the RPI.
A lump sum benefit of account the individuals responsibilities and time commitment.
four times base salary is provided, on death in service, along with The Non-executive Directors are not involved in deciding their fees.
a spouses pension of two thirds of the members pension.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme Childrens pensions may also be payable, up to one third of the membership or participation in any of the Companys bonus, share members pension.
In the case of Executive Directors and certain option or other incentive schemes.
other senior executives appointed after 1 June 1989 the benefits under the Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme are in respect of Service contracts capped base salary.
For those Executive Directors and certain other The Executive Directors have service contracts with a notice period senior executives whose base salary is capped, a separate life of one year.
In the event of termination, the Company will seek assurance exists to supplement the approved life cover to a total fair mitigation of contractual rights.
Within legal constraints, the lump sum benefit of four times base salary on death in service.
Remuneration Committee tailors its approach, in cases of early Executives whose base salary is capped are paid a monthly cash termination, to the circumstances of each individual case.
supplement to enable them to make their own pension Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are arrangements.
The two Executive Directors who received such as follows: supplements in the year are Peter Johnson and Graeme Potts.
Name Date of contract Unexpired term Details of the amounts paid are shown in note 1 on page 37.
Peter Johnson 1 January 1998 To normal Taxable and other benefits retirement age These include such items as company car and medical and life Alan Ferguson 1 January 1999 To normal assurance premiums.
They are in line with the remuneration policy retirement age framework outlined above.
Graeme Potts 10 September 2002 To normal Performance graph retirement age The following graph illustrates the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR over a five year period, relative to the performance of the total Normal retirement age is sixty.
Their contracts include entitlements return index of the FTSE mid 250 group of companies.
TSR is to compensation if their employment is terminated without proper essentially share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
The FTSE notice by the Company within six months of a change of control.
mid 250 has been chosen as the most suitable comparator as it is In those circumstances, the compensation payable would not the general market index in which Inchcape plc appears.
exceed the value of twelve months remuneration being salary, bonus, pension and company car benefit.
Historical TSR performance 100 holding Sir John Egans appointment which was due to expire on 31 May 2004, was extended by agreement with him for a further 90 900 0 Inchcape plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts two years.
750 As explained in the Corporate Governance Report, 750 Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period 60 600 0 of three years, which may be extended by agreement with the Board.
None of them are engaged on a service contract 450 450 with the Company.
30 300 0 Policy on external appointments 150 150 Inchcape recognises that its Executive Directors may well be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies 0 0 Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 and that this additional experience is likely to benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are, therefore, allowed to accept one Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years Non-executive appointment two in the case of the Group Chief FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts comparison based on thirty trading day average values Executive as long as these are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest or undue time commitments.
The policy in respect of the Chairmans remuneration Executive Directors other commitments is kept under review by During the year the Chairmans remuneration was determined by the Nomination Committee.
Any fees received for these duties may the Committee, taking advice from Towers Perrin on best practice be retained by the Executive Director.
and competitive levels, taking into account responsibilities and The Group Chief Executive currently holds only one external time commitment.
He is a Non-executive Director of Wates Group The Chairman is not eligible for pension scheme membership Limited, for which he receives a fee of 32,000. or participation in any of the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 37 Notes to the Board report on remuneration The following are auditable disclosures in accordance with Schedule 7A Part III of the Companies Act 1985.
1 Individual emoluments for the year The table below shows a breakdown of remuneration, including taxable and other benefits of each Director.
Details of pension entitlements and share options held are shown in notes 2 and 3 on pages 38 and 39.
Such payment was subject to tax.
b The payment of 76,175 2003 71,310 was paid directly to Graeme Potts to allow him to make his own pension arrangements outside the Companys plan.
c In the year the Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme paid the sum of 3,000 to Hugh Norton as the fee for chairing the Schemes Trustee Board.
d The details shown include fees of 2,083 to Hugh Norton and 5,417 to Michael Wemms for chairing the Remuneration Committee and 7,500 to Ken Hanna for chairing the Audit Committee.
e The emoluments shown for Raymond Chien include those in respect of services provided in Asia.
f Executive Directors may elect to invest up to 75.0% 2003 and prior 50.0% of their annual bonus in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The invested monies are grossed up by the Company to remove the effect of tax on that portion of the executives bonus and the grossed up amount is used by the Company to purchase ordinary shares Awarded shares, which are held in trust for the executive.
Provided certain conditions are met, the Awarded shares will vest and the executive may exercise his rights under the Plan at any time during the six month exercise period.
Details of Awarded shares are set out in the Deferred bonus plan table on page 39. g No Directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 2003 none.
h Taxable and other benefits comprise items such as company car, medical care, life assurance premiums and petrol allowance.
All Executive Directors are entitled to such benefits.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 38 Notes to the Board report on remuneration continued 2Directors pension entitlements Accrued annual pension under defined benefit schemes Transfer value Increase in Accumulated of the increase Transfer Transfer Increase in accrued total of in accrued value of value of Difference accrued pension accrued benefit net accrued accrued in transfer pension during the year pension at of inflation benefits at benefits at value during the year net of inflation 31.12.04 31.12.04 31.12.04 a 01.01.04 b a b 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Peter Johnson 4.4 3.4 33.4 56.6 560.8 449.6 111.2 Alan Ferguson 23.5 17.9 183.3 216.3 2,215.2 1,877.2 338.0 Graeme Potts 3.5 3.4 7.6 31.3 71.0 36.6 34.4 Total  The transfer value has been calculated in accordance with Retirement Benefits Schemes Transfer Values GN 11, 6 April 2002.
No Directors made any contribution to their pension in respect of the above during the year.
b Under the Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme.
c Peter Johnson and Alan Ferguson exercised their options over 104,166 and 52,083 ordinary shares, respectively, on 21 December 2004.
At the close of business on the date of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 1813.0p.
Gains of 1,501,032 and 750,516 respectively were made upon the exercising of these options.
d Exercise prices are determined in accordance with the rules of the relevant share option scheme.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2004 39 Notes on share options: i All options were granted for nil consideration.
ii The table shows Directors options over ordinary shares of 150.0p at 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004.
The mid market price of the shares at the close of business on 31 December 2004 was 1955.0p.
iii Options under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan are granted on a discretionary basis to certain full time senior executives based within and outside the UK including the Executive Directors of the Company.
Such options are normally exercisable between three and ten years of grant.
iv Options may normally only be exercised if the performance target has been met.
For all options granted between 1999 and 2003 under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan, growth in the Companys earnings per share over a three year period must exceed the increase on the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by 3.0% per annum.
Options granted after the 2004 AGM vest according to a sliding scale: 25.0% of the option will vest if EPS growth of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved over the initial three year period, with all of the option vesting if EPS growth is RPI 8.0% per annum.
Options will vest on a straight line basis between these points and there is no opportunity to retest.
v The Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme is open to employees in the UK with at least three months service.
At the end of the savings period options become exercisable within a six month period.
At the close of business on the date of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 1590.0p.
b Peter Johnson exercised the award granted to him on 12 April 2001, 30,769 ordinary shares, on 6 October 2004.
At the close of business on the date of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 1602.0p.
c Directors will become entitled to the Awarded shares if they remain employed by the Inchcape Group for three years and retain the shares purchased with their bonus throughout that period.
The awards made will normally vest within three years of award.
Special rules apply on termination of employment and on a change of control.
For awards made after the 2004 AGM to vest, growth in the Companys earnings per share over a three year period must exceed the increase on the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by 3.0% per annum, with no opportunity to retest.
By order of the Board Michael Wemms Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2005 Inchcape plc Annual report 2004
