Remuneration report This report sets out the Groups policy and disclosures in relation The maintenance of a competitive package of pay and benefits, to Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2004 commensurate with comparable packages of pay and benefits and, as required by schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 provided by other companies of comparable size and complexity The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the in the FTSE 250 index.
Regulations will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
The report fully The base salary is targeted at the market median whilst for superior complies with the requirements of the Regulations and The performance the total package of salary and bonus is aimed at the Combined Code annexed to the Listing Rules the Combined top quartile.
Code and has been audited by KPMG Audit Plc to the extent required by the Regulations.
The Company anticipates that its policy for 2005 and for the foreseeable future will remain the same.
The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate Governance relating to the remuneration of its Directors and this EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS report outlines how the Group has complied with the provisions of Base salary the Combined Code as well as some of the guidelines issued by The base salary for each Executive Director is set by the institutional bodies.
Remuneration Committee taking into account both the performance and experience of the individual REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the Committee and information from external advisors with respect The Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the Companys to comparators.
Consideration is given to remuneration policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior levels in the Group when determining Executive Directors pay.
The Committee determines their total remuneration packages, including any compensation on termination of office.
The Performance bonuses Committee also provides advice and consults with the Chief Executive The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible for annual Officer on major policy issues affecting the remuneration of senior incentive payments for the achievement of annual financial and executives.
To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices are strategic goals of the Group and its businesses.
The financial market competitive, the Committee takes advice from various targets are derived from the strategic planning process for the independent sources.
The Committee met nine times during 2004.
Group and its businesses which is the cornerstone of the Groups results culture.
During 2004, bonus targets focused on profit The Remuneration Committee is comprised of the following growth, the delivery of cash, increasing shareholder return and the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
achievement of individual strategic objectives.
For the Executive Directors these were based on the measure of achievement for DP Allvey Chairman operating profit, operating cash flow to operating profit and RE Sayers Group Earnings per Share EPS.
RC Nelson is entitled to receive a five Treves bonus payment of up to 70% of base salary, whilst W Spencer and R Kong are each entitled to receive bonus payments of up to 50% The Committee members have no personal financial interest, other of base salary.
These amounts include a discretionary element than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
No Director payable in appropriate circumstances.
Typical measures used for plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
the Executive Directors are as follows: They give due regard to the interests of shareholders and the Measure percentage RC W R requirements of the Listing Rules and associated guidance.
To help of salary Notes Nelson Spencer Kong achieve its objectives, the Committee has appointed and taken independent advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP New EPS 1 25% 25% Bridge Street and the Hay Group Management Ltd Hay Group Operating profit 2 23% 12% 25% remuneration consultants, in relation to remuneration matters and Operating cash flow 12% 6% 5% on share incentive arrangements.
None of these consultants have operating profit any other connection with the Company.
Operating profit margin 5% Working capital turnover 5% The Board, with the support of external professional advice, Return on operating assets 3 5% determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Discretionary 10% 7% 5% Total 70% 50% 50% REMUNERATION POLICY The Committees policy is to attract, retain, motivate and reward All measures for R Kong are based on Labtest high calibre individuals to ensure the future success of the business 1.
Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items.
and to deliver shareholder value.
It sets the terms of service 2.
Operating profit excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, translated contracts and any changes to the terms of employment of the at constant exchange rates.
Return on Labtests operating assets excluding goodwill.
The Committee therefore has regard to the following objective: www.
com Remuneration report continued 16 17 For RC Nelson and W Spencer, the main target is growth in the summary on page 18.
Such remuneration is neither pensionable Groups earnings per share compared to the previous year, with the nor eligible for annual incentive payments.
The Non-Executive maximum bonus opportunity for this target being 25% of salary Directors are not allowed to participate in the Companys share for each person.
The other major target is growth in Group incentive plans.
Other than five Treves, who has the benefit of a operating profit compared to the previous year, with the bonus company car, no other benefits in kind are provided.
opportunity being 23% and 12% of salary respectively.
SERVICE CONTRACTS In addition, RC Nelson and W Spencer may earn a further 12% Details of the service contracts currently in place for Directors who and 6% of salary, respectively, based on operating cash flow as a have served during the year are as follows: percentage of operating profit.
In 2004, full bonus was payable on this element when the ratio of operating cash flow to operating Executive Directors profit for the Group excluding FTS exceeded 85%, and when The service contracts of RC Nelson and W Spencer are dated the ratio of operating cash flow to operating profit in FTS 24 May 2002, whilst the service contract of R Kong is dated exceeded 75%.
In appropriate circumstances, the Committee 14 May 2002.
All are 12-month rolling contracts terminable by may also award a discretionary bonus of up to 10% and 7% of either party on 12 months notice and contain provisions by way salary, respectively.
of compensation for loss of office, limited to payment of salary over a 12-month period, pro-rated bonus, and benefits in lieu of For R Kong, the main target is operating profit growth in the notice.
None of the Directors service contracts contain provisions Labtest division, compared to the previous year, with the maximum regarding a change of control.
bonus opportunity for this target being 25% of salary.
A further 5% of salary may also be earned based on each of the following: Non-Executive Directors operating cash flow as a percentage of operating profit: operating The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with profit margin: working capital to turnover and return on operating the Company.
The letter of engagement for each Non-Executive assets for the Labtest division.
In 2004, full bonus was payable Director states that they are appointed for an initial period of when the ratio of operating cash flow to operating profit for the three years.
At the end of the initial period the contract may be Labtest division exceeded 90%.
In appropriate circumstances, the renewed for a further period if the Company and the Director Remuneration Committee may also award a discretionary bonus of agree.
W Hauser had a consultancy agreement with the up to 5% of salary.
Company until 1 March 2005, the details of which are disclosed in note 31 to the Financial Statements.
All targets are established and approved by the Remuneration Committee and bonus is paid dependent on the achievement of W Hauser is appointed Chief Executive Officer with effect from appropriate thresholds for each relevant measure.
RC Nelson will remain in a non-executive role as of these, the total bonus accrued in 2004 for RC Nelson, Deputy Chairman, effective 8 April 2005.
These new roles will carry W Spencer and R Kong equated to 70%, 50% and 45.6% terms and conditions broadly similar to the other executive and of base salary respectively.
In conjunction with the introduction of the Intertek Deferred Bonus POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Plan the Plan, described below, and with effect from the 2005 The Company recognises that, during their employment with financial year, the maximum annual cash bonus potential of the the Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become Executive Directors and the two other most senior executives in the Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such Company being the members of the Companys Management duties can broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive Board will decrease from 70% of salary in the case of the Chief Directors may, with written consent of the Company, accept one Executive and 50% of salary in the case of the other members such directorship outside the Company.
No such appointments of the Management Board, to 50% and 40% respectively.
The have been made during this year.
annual cash bonuses will continue to operate using a combination of the measures described above.
The Plan is described in more SHARE INCENTIVES current arrangements detail in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
The Company believes that share ownership by employees is an integral part of its programme to incentivise, reward and retain Pensions employees as it strengthens the link between the employees RC Nelson has a private pension scheme and contributions made personal interest and that of the shareholders and enables them to this scheme by the Group are governed by Inland Revenue to benefit from the growth of the Company.
In order to encourage contribution limits.
W Spencer participates in the Companys UK share ownership, the Company established a share option final salary pension scheme on the same basis as other eligible scheme for senior management in March 1997.
R Kong participates in the Intertek Hong Kong discontinued and replaced by the Intertek Group plc 2002 Share Retirement Scheme on the same basis as other eligible Option Plan the 2002 Plan and the Intertek Group plc 2002 local executive employees in Hong Kong.
See page 20 for Approved Share Option Plan the Approved Plan on 9 May 2002, more information.
under which options may be granted by either the Board or the Employee Share Ownership Trust on the recommendation of the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Remuneration Committee.
The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Their fees have not increased this year and are disclosed in the notes to the Directors remuneration Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts The 2002 Plan to the existing cash bonus arrangement, to be called the Intertek Only Executive Directors or employees of the Group are eligible to Deferred Bonus Plan the Plan.
The Plan will operate from 2006 participate in the 2002 Plan.
The exercise price is determined by onwards, based on bonuses payable in respect of the financial year the average of the closing middle market quotations of an ordinary ending 31 December 2005.
The Company is therefore seeking share in the Company on the five dealing days immediately prior shareholder approval for adoption of this Plan at the AGM in May to the date of grant and the options are exercisable between three 2005 and the rationale for introducing the Plan, together with and 10 years after the date of grant, provided the performance details of how it will operate, are described in more detail in the condition has been satisfied.
The Remuneration Committee will accompanying Notice of AGM.
decide whether the performance condition has been met at the appropriate time.
The Committee also proposes to introduce a shareholding retention requirement for the Management Board and other senior Options are granted annually and each tranche is based on executives.
Under these arrangements, the Management Board approximately 1% of the Companys issued share capital.
No will be required, within five years, to build up a shareholding in the individual can be granted options with a value of more than Company worth at least 100% of base salary and it is expected their annual base salary in each year.
The options are subject to that, after allowing for tax and similar liabilities, 100% of the performance criteria unless there are regulatory or legal difficulties shares subject to each vested award under the Plan will be retained in jurisdictions where the employee is based.
The performance by the executive until the ownership target is attained.
condition requires that the growth in the Companys EPS outperforms the growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI by a The Company does not operate any long-term incentive plans minimum of 5% per annum over a three year period.
If the other than those described above.
Other than as stated above, no condition is met, 25% of the options become exercisable.
If the significant amendments are proposed to be made to the terms and growth rate is 8% then 66.6% of options become exercisable.
conditions of any entitlement of a Director to share incentives.
100% of the options would only become exercisable if the Companys growth in EPS outperformed the growth in the UK RPI PERFORMANCE GRAPH by 11% per annum over a three year period.
For growth rates Total Shareholder Return TSR, comprising the changes in value of between 5% and 8%, and 8% and 11%, the percentage of a share and dividends distributed can be represented by the value options exercisable is calculated on a sliding scale.
In respect of of a notional 100 invested at the beginning of a period and its options granted prior to 2005, if the performance targets are not change over that period.
met in full for the initial performance period of three years, the performance period may be extended by one further period of The graph below shows TSR in respect of the Company since 12 months, to ascertain whether the balance of the unvested flotation on 24 May 2002.
The TSR for the Company is compared options can be exercised.
The final grant of options in 2005 will not with the TSR for the FTSE Mid 250 index.
The FTSE Mid 250 index have a re-testing provision.
The above performance criteria were was selected, as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a selected to closely link improvement in performance with increase member.
In addition, the Group uses that group of companies, in shareholder value and targets are reviewed regularly to ensure amongst others, for comparison of pay and benefit levels.
Other than in the case of hardship, senior executives are Total Shareholder Return required to retain 25% of their shares acquired upon the exercise of their options ignoring shares sold to meet any tax Intertek rebased FTSE Mid 250 rebased liability and the financing cost on exercise, for a period of up to two years following exercise, in order to demonstrate their 180 commitment to the Group.
160 The Approved Plan The key features of the Approved Plan which has been approved 140 by the Inland Revenue are broadly the same as for the 2002 Plan except that options are granted subject to the requirement that the 120 aggregate exercise price of all the subsisting options granted to an employee under the Approved Plan must not exceed 30,000.
100 Subject to the approval of the new incentive arrangements 80 described below, the Committee has decided that, after 2005, no further awards will be made under the 2002 Plan or the 60 Approved Plan.
SHARE INCENTIVES changes 2005 2006 During the year, the Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements, in conjunction with New Bridge Street.
This review concluded that the Company should adopt a new long-term incentive plan, linked www.
com Jun 02 Sep 02 Dec 02 Mar 03 Jun 03 Sep 03 Dec 03 Mar 04 Jun 04 Sep 04 Dec 04 Remuneration report continued 18 19 The auditors are required to report on the information contained in this section of the Remuneration Report.
The table below summarises Directors emoluments and pension contributions for 2004 and the prior year for comparison.
No payments for loss of office were made during the year and no other awards were made to any Director.
Benefits in kind for RC Nelson included 50,880 2003: 50,800 in respect of life assurance premium for the 1,000,000 policy described below.
Appointed on 14 May 2004, therefore remuneration reported pro rata from date of appointment.
R Kong is paid in Hong Kong dollars and the figures shown above are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate 2004.
In addition to his Directors fees, W Hauser received 36,700 2003: 77,000 under a consultancy agreement with the Group.
BENEFITS IN KIND The principal benefits in kind for Executive Directors are a company car, private medical and permanent health insurance, life assurance and personal accident insurance.
In addition, for the purposes of business entertaining, RC Nelson is provided with club membership and an air ticket for his spouse to accompany him on one long distance business trip each year.
R Kong is provided with a housing allowance, club membership and an air ticket between London and Hong Kong for himself and his spouse every two years.
five Treves is provided with a company car.
PENSIONS The details of the Executive Directors pension arrangements are shown below.
The Group is keeping under review current changes in UK pensions legislation: however, as the majority of the Groups employees are non-UK, these changes should only impact a small number of individuals.
RC Nelson RC Nelson is not a member of a Group company pension scheme.
The Group pays contributions directly into his private pension arrangement.
The Group contributes to this private pension plan at the greater of: Inland Revenue contribution limits allowed under retirement annuity contracts, currently 27.5% of relevant earnings base salary plus bonus : or Inland Revenue contribution limits allowed under personal pension schemes currently 40% of relevant earnings on the maximum earnings on which contributions attract relief, currently 102,000 for 2004 2005 plus 40% of the excess to base salary.
During 2004, the Company made contributions of 173,737 2003: 162,000 to his pension scheme.
RC Nelson is entitled to a death in service benefit comprising a lump sum payment equivalent to four times his base annual salary.
There is also another life assurance policy for 1,000,000 to be maintained for the whole of his life and payable to his beneficiaries on his death.
Intertek Group plc Annual report and accounts W Spencer W Spencer is a member of the defined benefit section of the Intertek UK Company Pension Scheme.
This is a defined benefit and defined contribution occupational pension scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
The main features of the defined benefit section of the scheme are: Normal retirement age 65 Annual pension at normal retirement age 1 60 of final pensionable salary highest base salary in any 12 month period preceding retirement date for each year of service.
Member may exchange part of their pension for a tax-free cash sum.
This will reduce their pension but not that of their spouse.
Spouses or dependants pension payable on death of member Half of members pension.
Early retirement From age 50 onwards with the consent of the Company and the Trustees, based on accrued entitlement reduced by 4% for each year of retirement prior to age 65.
Pension increases in payment or deferment Increases in deferment revaluation is in two parts: i The part that represents the Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP will be increased at the rate of 4.5% for each complete tax year between date of leaving and State Pension Age.
ii The balance of the pension will increase at the rate of 5% per annum or in line with the Retail Price Index if lower for each completed year between the date of leaving and the Normal Retirement Date.
Increases in retirement or payment : i Pre 1997 excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of 3% per annum.
ii Post 1997 excess pension benefits will increase at the rate of the lower of 5% pa or the increases in Retail Price Index.
iv Post 1988 GMP 3% or increase in the Retail Price Index, if lower.
Employee contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 8% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the earnings cap.
Employer contributions As determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 12% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the earnings cap.
Ill health or incapacity In the case of ill health, the pension is calculated as for early retirement but without the 4% reduction.
In the case of incapacity the pension is calculated as if pensionable service had continued to normal retirement date.
Death in service Lump sum of four times pensionable salary.
Details of the accrued pension to which W Spencer is entitled on leaving service, and the changes during the year are shown in the table below: Increase Contribitions in accrued Increase in Age at made entitlement Accrued Transfer Transfer transfer 1 2 2 31 December during the during the entitlement value value value 1 2004 year year 2004 2003 2004 in year Name W Spencer 45 12,150 2,317 22,667 128,469 137,191 8,722 1.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 65 based on service to 31 December 2004, excluding the effect of inflation.
Including inflation, the increase was 2,376 during the year.
Transfer values have been calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries dated 6 April 2001.
The transfer value disclosed above does not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director, instead it represents a potential liability of the Pension Scheme.
