The internal audit function has a direct reporting line to the Sustainability and social, environmental and Chairman of the Audit Committee, and its responsibilities include ethical matters the examination and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of The Board attaches high importance to sustainable development and the Groups system of internal control.
During the year, it reports to the guiding principles and values set out in the Invensys Intent regularly to the Audit Committee on its assessment of internal that are the foundation of our corporate behaviour.
The risks control issues arising in the course of its internal audit reviews of inherent in these matters are assessed as part of the Groups the Companys operations.
Each year it provides a consolidated overall risk management processes described above.
Accordingly, review to assist the Board in undertaking its own annual review of the Board, through the Audit Committee and Risk Council, receives internal control.
regular information and reports to enable it to make appropriate assessments in these areas.
Performance management, Internal controls are detailed in formal procedures, instructions and incentivisation and training procedures are being continuously manuals.
Compliance is verified by the Groups internal auditors and, developed so as to reflect more fully the Invensys Intent.
By way of to the extent necessary to form their opinion on the truth and benchmarking, we participated during the year in the Business in the fairness of the annual accounts, by the external auditors.
Senior Community Corporate Responsibility Index as reported on page 3. managers are required annually to certify compliance with the The processes required to achieve appropriate assurance and Groups financial and operational procedures and controls, including verification across all aspects of these matters continue to be environmental and health and safety matters, and compliance with reviewed and developed.
It is the policy of Invensys that over time the Groups legal and ethical conduct policy.
its success in meeting the Invensys Intent should be increasingly Following the significant changes to the size and structure of the measurable and transparent.
The full terms of the Invensys Intent Group during the period under review, management has identified a and details of our sustainable development initiatives are available number of areas where internal controls might be further improved on the website www.
and actions are being taken to address identified weaknesses.
Remuneration report This report is presented to shareholders by the Board and sets out The Committees terms of reference, together with the terms of the Boards remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of New Bridge Street LLPs appointment, are available on the website each director.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee is www.
com corpgov or from the Company Secretary.
responsible for developing policy on executive remuneration and The Committee meets at least four times each year and met on for approving the remuneration packages of individual executive eight occasions during the year under review.
The members of the Committee are Jean-Claude Guez member may attend other than by invitation of the Committee Chairman of the Committee since 9 January 2004 and a member Chairman.
No directors are involved in deciding their own throughout the period, Larry Farmer who served throughout the remuneration.
year and Andrew Macfarlane who was appointed to the Committee on 9 January 2004.
Other members of the Committee Remuneration policy for executive directors during the period were Rolf Brjesson, who chaired the Committee The Invensys Group operates worldwide in the areas of automation, until his retirement on 19 December 2003 and Sir Philip Beck, who controls and process solutions.
The markets for executives and staff retired on 23 July 2003.
They are all considered to be independent within which it operates are, therefore, principally from these and non-executive directors.
The area of executive remuneration, including The Committee takes advice, as appropriate, from independent pensions, remains dynamic and the Committee keeps the position remuneration consultants and internally from relevant executives under review in light of commercial needs, changes in competitive and human resources professionals.
Specifically, the Committee has practices and developments in UK corporate governance best taken advice internally from the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the practices.
Subject to this proviso, this report sets out the Senior Vice President Human Resources Regina Hitchery, the Vice Committees policy going forward.
It is the objective of the President Compensation and Benefits John Reed and the Company remuneration policy with respect to the current year and, subject to Secretary.
The Committee continues to take remuneration consultancy any changes of circumstances, future years to provide a advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
This firm provides remuneration package which is competitive and performance-linked the principal source of external advice to the Committee on issues whilst attracting, motivating and retaining the highest calibre relating to the remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee executive directors and senior executives.
The Committee has has also received advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in established a remuneration package for the executive directors after their capacity as lawyers to the Company on such issues, and from taking proper account of the specific requirements of the business Punter Southall & Co Limited, which provided advice in relation to including the international spread of the business, the remuneration executive directors pensions and actuarial advice to the Company applicable at other levels within the Group and developments in UK generally.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, which was appointed best practice.
by the Committee, provided no other services to the Company.
19 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Remuneration report continued management from ongoing operations is effectively managed both Remuneration policy for executive directors continued to develop the ongoing operations and to manage legacy liabilities The Committee is also responsible for setting the remuneration on as favourable terms to shareholders as possible.
of the next most senior executives in the Group approximately 15 individuals and for the operation of the Companys share The Committee confirms that it is not its policy to pay executive incentive plans.
There were no material changes to the Committees policies during Shareholder approval was given in 2002 for the operation of a the financial year.
The Committee has concluded that it The detailed components of the remuneration package are as follows: will not be appropriate to operate this plan in respect of the bonuses arising in relation to the year under review.
1 Base salary The Committee determines the level of salary for each executive 3 Long Term Incentive and Option Schemes director annually.
Base salaries are set at a level to take account of i Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP personal performance, salaries in comparable companies, internal The Committee has decided to continue to operate the LTIP as the relativities, wage inflation elsewhere in the Company and overall principal vehicle for long-term incentivisation for the executive affordability.
In establishing individual salary levels, the Committee is directors.
Under the LTIP, awards may be made subject to a conscious that it should pay no more than is necessary to retain the performance condition under which the Companys Total executive whilst ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
There is no Shareholder Return TSR will be ranked over a fixed three year automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
period against the TSR of the constituents as at the date of grant of the FTSE Mid 250.
The Companys TSR must rank at the median The Chief Executives salary is currently 660,000 and the Chief position for 25% of an award to be available subject to a retention Financial Officers is 400,000.
No increase has been awarded to period of, generally, two years, rising to all of the shares being either director in respect of the 2003 04 in the case of the Chief available if the upper decile position is achieved.
Intermediate Financial Officer, since his appointment to that position or 2004 05 awards between those points are assessed on a straight-line basis.
The next review date will be 1 April 2005.
General salary If at least the median position is not achieved, the whole award increases across the Group over the last financial year were lapses and there are no performance re-tests.
In addition to satisfying the TSR test, awards will only vest to the The Committee considers it appropriate to ensure that the executive extent that the Committee is satisfied that there has been, over the directors are properly incentivised to complete the restructuring and performance period, sustained financial and operational delivery.
recovery initiatives explained in the Chairmans statement on page 2 TSR was selected as an effective means of determining the which are believed to be the best way of realising the potential of Companys performance relative to that of other companies of all the Groups businesses over the longer term, thereby enhancing comparable size.
The Committee takes account of underlying shareholder value.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the financial performance relating to the effective financial management arrangements explained in the following pages represent an of the Group.
The TSR calculation will be periodically undertaken appropriate balance between fixed and performance-linked pay.
by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, using data supplied by Datastream, and reported to the Committee.
The Committee will 2 Executive Bonus Plan monitor performance against budget and other objectives set by the The Executive Bonus Plan the Plan provides short-term Board in considering whether the other tests have been met.
incentivisation for the executive directors in order to encourage the achievement of defined annual financial objectives and focus on the The level of awards to executive directors is determined by the most important measures of business success, whilst rewarding them Committee according to the prevailing market practice and within for outstanding performance.
In this way, the Plan seeks to align the the overriding limit of two times salary.
interests of shareholders and those participating in it.
In designing the Plan, the Committee has followed the provisions set out in As explained last year, no awards for the Chief Executive and Chief Schedule A to the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of Financial Officer will be made in respect of the 2004 05 financial the UK Listing Authority UKLA.
year as the award of one times salary made in June 2003 was, in light of the Companys circumstances at that time, intended to cover As described in last years report, the performance targets, for both both financial years.
the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2004, were set to reflect targets However, a similar award in respect of shares worth approximately related to operating profit before interest and tax, with a range one times salary is envisaged for the new Chief Operating Officer of supplemental measures.
The achievement of all targets would joining the Company on 21 May 2004 see page 22. produce a payment of 50% of annual base salary and the maximum ii Executive Share Option Scheme bonus achievable in respect of performance in excess of targets is The Company does not propose to operate the Executive Share 100% of annual base salary.
The bonuses paid to the executive Option Scheme in relation to executive directors except by directors in relation to the year under review are set out on page 24. exception, in the case of recruitment situations, where it may be For the forthcoming financial year targets have been set related to considered appropriate.
The number of shares over which options free cash flow and personal objectives.
The Committee considers may be granted to each employee is determined by the Committee these targets to be fully appropriate, particularly as the prime focus according to prevailing market practice in the relevant country.
for the Group over the period will be to ensure that cash 20 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 iii Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS 6 Service contracts The Company has an established SRSOS that has been operated in i Policy the UK and in a number of overseas countries where it has proved The Combined Code and the latest guidelines issued by institutional advantageous and practicable based on the numbers of eligible investors recommend that notice periods of no more than one year employees and local legal and tax requirements.
It is based on a be set as an objective for executive directors and that any payments savings plan and offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
to a departing executive director should be determined having full Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market regard to the duty of mitigation.
It is the Companys policy to achieve price of the Companys shares immediately preceding the date these objectives, wherever possible.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in ii Specific contracts the SRSOS.
The SRSOS operates in the UK within specific tax Richard Haythornthwaite and Adrian Hennah are employed under legislation and is therefore not subject to performance conditions.
service contracts with the Company dated 24 July 2001 and iv AdMustment of share options and incentive awards amended on 19 May 2004 and 29 July 2002 respectively.
Following the Placing and open offer and share capital subdivision, The following summary sets out certain provisions that applied at the the Committee has determined, having received the prior approval end of the year.
of the Inland Revenue where applicable and certification from the Companys auditors, that it was reasonable to adjust existing options Both contracts terminate automatically on the executive directors and LTIP awards for all employees including executive directors to 60th birthday.
reflect the increased and subdivided share capital of the Company as Mr Haythornthwaites contract provides that it may be terminated by at 2 March 2004.
The objective was to ensure that the value of each either party giving one months notice and with no provision option or award was, as far as is practicable, the same both before for liquidated damages in any circumstances.
and after the capitalisation and the adjustment criteria applied were as follows: the number of shares in respect of which each option had When Mr Hennah was recruited as the new Chief Financial Officer at been granted has been adjusted by the application of a multiplication the end of 2002, the Committee determined that it was important factor of 1.0378 and the exercise price has been adjusted by a that his services be obtained for the Company on an immediate basis multiplication factor of 0.9636: and the number of shares in respect and that his service contract and benefits should adequately of each LTIP award has been adjusted by a multiplication factor of compensate him for the benefits that he had foregone by leaving his 1.0378.
In all cases an entitlement prior to 2 March 2004 in respect previous employment.
His contract reflected the practices applicable of an ordinary share of 25p is now treated as an entitlement in at that time.
respect of an ordinary share of 1p.
As reported last year, Mr Hennahs contract can be terminated v Dilution limits by either party giving the other not less than 12 months written The Company has, at all times, complied with the dilution limits notice and does not contain any pay in lieu of notice provisions.
contained within its share plans principally a limit of 10% in 10 years Accordingly, if his contract is terminated other than for cause, and the Committee reviews the position before any proposed grants any termination payment will be negotiated subject to mitigation to ensure that this remains the position.
In certain change of control circumstances, Mr Hennahs contract 4 Pensions could be terminated by him giving the Company 30 days written Details of the individual executive directors pension arrangements notice provided both of two conditions are satisfied.
First, a change are set out on page 26.
Pensionable pay is defined as base salary of control must occur defined to include: i the acquisition of only: bonuses are not pensionable.
shares carrying more than 50% of voting rights of the Company: ii Typical pension and life assurance benefits are provided to the the approval by shareholders of a merger or consolidation of the executive directors, comprising participation in the Companys final Company: iii a compromise or scheme of arrangement between the salary pension on salaries up to the Inland Revenues earnings cap Company and its members under section 425 of the Companies Act currently 102,000 with appropriate top-up arrangements.
1985 or a resolution for the voluntary winding up of the Company: or iv the sale or disposition of 50% or more of the Companys Given that he is not a UK citizen, it is not tax efficient for the new assets.
Secondly, the directors title, responsibilities, status or place Chief Operating Officer to participate in the Companys UK tax of work must be materially and adversely changed or diminished approved pension scheme.
Therefore and as described on page 22, without his prior consent.
his pension provision is entirely made up of a salary supplement of 35% of base salary.
In the light of developments in best practice, Mr Hennah has agreed that the definition of change of control be amended to remove 5 Other benefits reference to disposals of assets by the Company see iv above.
Other benefits provided for executive directors comprise the provision of a company car, a cash allowance or the use of a pool car, and health care.
On appointment, and where circumstances so warrant, certain relocation costs are also met.
21 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Remuneration report continued He will participate in the annual Executive Bonus Plan i. e. 50% of Remuneration policy for executive directors continued base salary for on target performance and subject to a cap of 100% 6 Service contracts continued and the LTIP, on the same basis as the other executive directors.
It is Where Mr Hennah terminates his service contract by giving 30 days envisaged that he will receive his first LTIP award in June 2004 over written notice under the provisions set out above, the Company is shares worth one times his base salary using the average share price required to pay him an amount in cash equal to: i one years annual for the 20 dealing days preceding the award and subject to the base salary: plus ii the amount if any of his expected award same performance targets as the awards made to the other executive calculated at the target bonus level under the Executive Bonus Plan directors last year but with the relevant performance period for the preceding fiscal year if such award has not already been paid: commencing on the award date.
In respect of the first six months plus iii a pro rata share calculated at the target bonus level only during which he is employed by the Company, his bonus will be whether or not performance is at target level at the termination not less than 50% of his annual salary for the period.
date of his expected award under the Executive Bonus Plan calculated in respect of the period from the beginning of the fiscal Recognising recent developments in UK corporate governance best year in which his employment terminates to the date his employment practice, his contract, as detailed below, ultimately provides for terminates: plus iv the amount, if any, of the supplementary cash 12 months notice on either side and, at the Companys option, payments, as described in the next paragraph, that remain to be paid the choice of pay in lieu of notice or phased payments.
This payment is not subject to any discount or reduction for no enhanced notice provisions apply in the event of a change of early payment and the director is not under any duty to mitigate his control.
Accordingly, assuming that Mr Henriksson was dismissed losses in connection with this payment.
In addition, the Company will after the initial period of 24 months referred to below other than continue to provide Mr Hennah with pension and certain other for cause in which case no damages would be payable, he would be benefits for up to 12 months.
entitled to 12 months base salary and fixed benefits i. e. pension, car allowance and health insurance.
He would not be entitled to any In addition, Mr Hennah was entitled to receive a payment of payment in respect of prospective bonuses but would be entitled 250,000 on 5 April 2004 which has been paid and remains entitled to any bonus earned in the year of departure pro-rated to the date to a payment of 250,000 on 5 October 2005 provided he remains of departure.
This was agreed as a term of his joining the Company reflecting the then value of entitlements from his previous The Company may elect to pay the amount due in lieu of notice as employer that he lost as a result of his decision to join the Company.
a single lump sum or pay the first six months worth on departure Given recent developments in UK corporate governance best practice and then on a phased basis at six month intervals, with appropriate and as described below, the new Chief Operating Officer will be reduction in the event that he finds alternative employment.
employed on terms ultimately requiring 12 months notice on either Reflecting the fact that Mr Henrikssons position demands that he side and without any enhanced notice provisions in the event of a relocate to the UK, where corporate governance practices are change of control or otherwise.
different from the US, and having regard to the nature and extent of the remuneration arrangements which he is foregoing by joining the iii Appointment of Chief Operating Officer Company, the Committee has agreed to the following special one-off Although not appointed during the financial year, Ulf Henriksson arrangements on his joining: agreed to join the Company with effect from 21 May 2004 as Chief Operating Officer under a contract dated 28 April 2004. his contract initially provides for 24 months notice on either side, This followed an extensive search, looking at executives both in reducing to 18 months with effect from the first anniversary of his the UK and globally with the experience to hold this key role.
joining which, in turn, reduces to the agreed 12 months on the Mr Henriksson is a Swedish citizen and will be joining the Company second anniversary of his joining: after working in the US for the last 10 years.
He will be proposed for election as a director of the Company at the Annual General he will receive a cash payment of US$270,000 reflecting the bonus Meeting on 21 July 2004. lost from his previous employer, which would otherwise have been due for the period from 1 January 2004 to the date he ceased to The Committee, in determining the terms of his service contract took be employed by his previous employer.
This will be payable in account of the decision reached by the Board at the time of the January 2005 subject to his remaining in employment at that date: refinancing that, in view of the critical importance of delivering operational improvements within the Group, the executive team recognising the scale of the long term share awards held at his was required to be expanded to include a Chief Operating Officer.
previous employer and seeking to provide fair but not excessive Mr Henriksson was identified by the Nominating Committee as an compensation for the loss and considering such awards to be executive whose experience particularly qualified him as suitable to essential to securing the services of Mr Henriksson, the fulfil those requirements.
The objectives in negotiating his service Committee has established an individual arrangement pursuant to contract were to provide an ongoing remuneration package consistent Rule 13.13A of the UKLA Listing Rules, under which the following with that provided to the other executive directors and with UK awards will be made upon his joining the Company to replace corporate governance, whilst at the outset and for a transitional those benefits forgone by leaving his previous employment: period, compensating Mr Henriksson for the benefits foregone by a payment of 600,000 in cash: leaving his previous US employment, where his previous remuneration terms reflected the corporate governance norms in that country, and for certain costs involved in his relocation from the US to the UK.
His contract provides for a base salary of 525,000, a pension supplement of 35% of base salary and typical benefits including family health cover and a car allowance of 14,000 per annum.
22 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Executive.
Consistent with recent changes in the Combined Code, an option over five million shares, with the exercise price the Committee will be responsible for reviewing the Chairmans being the average of the closing mid-market price for the five fees going forward.
The fees currently paid to the Chairman and the dealing days preceding grant based on an illustrative share other non-executive directors, which are subject to the limits set in price of 20p per share, this represents an award over shares the Articles of Association, were set in 1999 and have not been worth 1.9 times salary.
Of these shares 50% will become increased since that date.
The Chairmans fees are set at 250,000 exercisable 18 months after his joining and the remainder per annum inclusive of any entitlement to attendance fees.
The 36 months after his joining.
The vesting of these options is basic fees for a non-executive director have been fixed at 28,000 contingent on continued employment until the relevant date per annum.
An additional fee of 5,000 is payable to the chairmen or, at the discretion of the Committee, leaving in certain of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and all members of the compassionate circumstances: and Boards standing committees receive a fee of 750 for each meeting an award of four million restricted shares, which will vest attended.
The fees of each non-executive director for the year are 18 months after his joining in respect of two million shares set out in the table on page 24. and 36 months after his joining in respect of the other 50%.
During the year, Mr Farmer undertook, for a limited period and at The vesting of these shares is contingent on continued the request of the Board additional advisory and oversight activities employment until the relevant date or, at the discretion of the in relation to a specific strategic performance initiative.
His own Committee, leaving in certain compassionate circumstances.
business experience was considered by the Board to be particularly In addition, Mr Henriksson will be required to retain any shares relevant and valuable for this purpose.
As a result of these activities, so vesting until the second anniversary of their vesting except his time commitment exceeded that normally expected of a nonas necessary to meet his tax liabilities.
executive director and the Board agreed that he should be paid neither the option nor the restricted shares are subject to preadditional fees accordingly.
This additional commitment will not vesting performance conditions as they replace US-style awards extend beyond 31 May 2004. which were not subject to any conditions other than continued employment.
The option and the restricted shares vest in full on External directorships a change of control: and The executive directors are encouraged to hold not more than one external non-executive directorship in order to broaden their payment of the reasonable cost of relocating his family and experience for the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are permanent home from the US to the UK up to a maximum subject to approval by the Board and the director may retain any of 525,000 including temporary accommodation for up to fees paid in respect of such directorship.
Details of any such fees 12 months.
are included in the table on page 24.
Should he resign or be terminated for cause within three years, he will be required to repay an amount equal to 350,000 reduced Performance graph pro rata for the period of employment.
Companies are required to include a graph indicating their total shareholder return performance that is, share price growth assuming Non-executive directors reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years relative to The Chairman and other non-executive directors do not have service a recognised equity index.
Accordingly, the following graph shows contracts or contracts for services save that Martin Jays letter of the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 100, which the appointment dated 28 May 2003 requires, except in the case of Committee considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes dismissal for cause, 12 months notice by either party: on early as the Company had been a constituent during most of that period.
termination at the request of the Company any compensation will be subject to mitigation and offset.
They are appointed under the Total shareholder return Companys Articles of Association under which they are required to seek re-election not later than the third Annual General Meeting following their last election and are subject to review by the Nominating Committee prior to being considered for election or re-election by shareholders.
They do not participate in any bonus plan or any of the Groups share incentive or option or pension schemes.
Any director aged 70 or over there are none currently is required to be re-elected each year.
Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Chairmans fees are set by a 31-Mar-03 31-Mar-04 31-Mar-99 31-Mar-00 31-Mar-01 31-Mar-02 Rebased to 100 on 1 April 1999 Committee comprising the Senior Independent Director, as chairman of the Committee, two other non-executive directors and the Chief 23 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration The remuneration of the executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2004 was as follows: Supplementary pension Total Total Salary Benefits payment Bonuses 2004 2003 Notes Current directors R N Haythornthwaite 1, 2, 3 660,000 22,991 105,600 200,000 988,591 790,461 A N Hennah 4 400,000 117,525 200,000 717,525 273,961 Former directors K A ODonovan 385,767 1,706,116 1,450,189 Notes 1.
Mr Haythornthwaite received a cash supplementary pension payment of 105,600 in lieu of certain benefits being based on final salary as set out in note 1 following the table headed Directors pension entitlements on page 26.
The emoluments of the highest paid director, Mr Haythornthwaite, excluding pension rights were 988,591 2003: 790,461 paid to Mr Haythornthwaite.
Mr Haythornthwaite received fees of 40,000 as a non-executive director of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Included in Mr Hennahs benefits figure is 79,725 relating to temporary accommodation provided in lieu of relocation allowance on his joining the Company, of which 31,384 was incurred during the period ended 31 March 2003.
Mr Farmers total fees of 142,750 comprise his basic non-executive directors fee of 37,750 and further fees of 105,000 in respect of his additional responsibilities set out on pages 17 and 23.
Mr Jay succeeded Lord Marshall as Chairman of the Company with effect from 23 July 2003: his fee as Chairman of the Company therefore relates to the period 23 July 2003 to 31 March 2004.
Lord Marshall and Sir Philip Beck retired from the Board of directors on 23 July 2003 and their fees relate to the period from 1 April 2003 to this date.
Mr Brjesson retired from the Board of directors on 19 December 2003 and his fees relate to the period from 1 April 2003 to this date.
Lord Marshall also received benefits of 8,797 2003: 32,828 in respect of the provision of a car.
His transport arrangements were shared by the Company and British Airways Plc.
24 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Directors interests Ordinary and deferred shares The interests of the current directors in the shares of the Company are set out below: At 31 March 2004 At 1 April 2003 Ordinary shares Deferred shares Ordinary shares of 1p each of 24p each of 25p each L E Farmer 3,250 2,000 2,000 J-C Guez R N Haythornthwaite 406,250 250,000 250,000 A N Hennah M Jay A E Macfarlane 12,187 7,500 7,500 S M Robertson 3,518 2,165 2,165 Notes 1.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2004 was 19.50p.
Between 1 April 2003 and 31 March 2004, the highest mid-market price was 36.13p and the lowest mid-market price was 9.64p.
All interests referred to above are beneficial.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors in ordinary or deferred shares between 31 March 2004 and 19 May 2004.
Full details of the directors interests in the Companys ordinary and deferred shares are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is kept by the Company and is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
This includes rights granted under the Companys various share schemes as detailed in the following section.
As a consequence of the Placing and open offer and share capital subdivision the above options and LTIP awards have, in accordance with the rules of the respective schemes, been adjusted as follows: a the number of shares in respect of which options have been granted have been adjusted by the application of a multiplication factor of 1.0378 and the exercise price has been adjusted by a multiplication factor of 0.9636: and b the number of shares in each LTIP award has been adjusted by a multiplication factor of 1.0378.
In all cases an entitlement prior to 2 March 2004 in respect of an ordinary share of 25p is now treated as an entitlement in respect of an ordinary share of 1p.
No Executive or Sharesave options were granted to directors during the year ended 31 March 2004.
No options were exercised by directors or shares released under the LTIP during the years ended 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2004.
The details of the share schemes, including performance conditions which apply if any, are set out in the following notes 6, 7 and 8.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors over share options or LTIP awards between 31 March 2004 and 19 May 2004.
The above Executive options were granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted under this scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant provided that the relevant performance condition has been met.
The performance condition which applies to grants made under this scheme are as follows: 25 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Remuneration report continued i for grants made between 25 July 2001 and 16 June 2002, no options may be exercised unless, over the measurement period commencing with the financial year in which the options were granted, EPS growth is equal to or in excess of RPI plus 12% over three years, RPI plus 16% over four years or RPI plus 20% over five years.
If not achieved after five years, the options will lapse: and ii for grants made on or after 17 June 2002, no option may be exercised unless a performance condition based on Total Shareholder Return TSR is met.
TSR is calculated as the percentage variance in the price of shares and the value of re-invested net dividend payments over the performance period compared to that of a group of comparator companies Peer Group selected at the discretion of the Committee.
The performance period will be the period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of grant of the option.
On the third anniversary of the date of grant, each constituent of the Peer Group will be ranked in descending order of TSR.
The TSR ranking of Invensys against the TSR of the Peer Group will determine the number of shares awarded.
Invensys must rank at the median position in order for 40% of the shares under option to become exercisable, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the shares under option will vest on a straight-line basis.
If the Company does not meet the performance condition in full at the first measurement, then it will be re-tested, from a fixed base, in years four and five.
If the median position has not been achieved by the end of the fifth year, the option will lapse.
The Peer Groups for the grants made on or after 17 June 2002 are the companies that comprise the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
The Sharesave options were granted under the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
These options are not subject to a performance condition as this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
The LTIP awards granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan are normally subject to a three year Performance Period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a two year Retention Period.
The vesting of awards made prior to 28 May 2003 are subject to Invensys TSR being ranked against a Peer Group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, at least at the median position over the Performance Period with no re-testing opportunities.
Additionally the Remuneration Committee must determine that the underlying financial performance of Invensys over the Performance Period is satisfactory.
On completion of the Performance Period, Invensys TSR must rank at the median position when the Peer Group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 50% of the shares that are subject to the award to be available subject to the Retention Period, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the number of shares that will be available will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
If Invensys does not achieve at least the median position the whole award will lapse.
The vesting of awards made after 28 May 2003 is subject to Invensys TSR being ranked against a Peer Group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, at least at the median position over the Performance Period with no re-testing opportunities.
Additionally the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained delivery over the Performance Period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group indebtedness.
On completion of the Performance Period Invensys TSR must rank at the median position when the Peer Group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 25% of the shares that are subject to the award to be available subject to the Retention Period, rising to all of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved.
The Peer Groups selected for the above grants are as follows: Award dated 25 July 2001: GKN, Smiths Group, BAE Systems, Marconi, ABB, Schneider Elte, Siemens, Emerson Electric, Honeywell International, Rockwell International, Johnson Controls and Tyco International: Award dated 4 December 2002: The companies that comprised the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding 4 December 2002: and Award dated 20 June 2003: The companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on 20 June 2003.
Directors pension entitlements Executive directors participate in defined benefit and defined contribution Mr Haythornthwaite only pension arrangements sponsored by the Company.
The defined benefit schemes provide benefits based on earnings at or near retirement and are part externally funded and part reserved for within the Company.
The following table gives details of the individual directors pensions values for the year ended 31 March 2004, including the disclosures required by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority: Transfer Change in value as at Transfer value transfer value Increase 31 March 2004 Accrued of accrued over year in accrued of increase pension at Increase in Transfer value pension less any pension, a less any year ended accrued of accrued at end of contributions excluding contributions 31 March 2004 pension pension previous year made inflation a made Notes per annum per annum 000 000 000 per annum 000 R N Haythornthwaite 1 8,860 3,401 93 54 39 3,248 34 A N Hennah 17,137 13,039 171 38 133 12,924 129 Notes 1.
The benefits shown for Mr Haythornthwaite relate to his participation in the approved pension scheme up to the Inland Revenue earnings limit.
With respect to his earnings above that limit, 158,400 was paid to an unapproved money purchase scheme together with the supplementary pension payment as set out in the table headed Directors remuneration on page 24.
The changes in transfer values over the year reflect any changes in pensionable pay and the service of each director.
They also take into account changes in the actuarial assumptions, particularly those related to equity and bond returns.
All benefits are due at age 60.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the level of inflation subject to a maximum increase of 5% per annum.
For death before retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension is payable, if applicable, plus a capital sum of four times the members salary.
For death after retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pension is payable plus the balance of a five year guarantee if applicable.
In the event of death after leaving service but before commencement of pension a spouses pension of two-thirds of the accrued preserved pension is payable plus a capital sum of five times the accrued preserved pension.
In all circumstances childrens allowances are also payable if applicable.
Auditable information The information in the Remuneration report subject to audit pursuant to the Directors Report Regulations 2002 is that included in the tables and related notes in the sections relating to directors remuneration, directors interests over shares, share options and long term incentive awards and directors pension entitlements.
The directors Remuneration report was approved by the Board of directors on 19 May 2004 and signed on its behalf by: Jean-Claude Guez Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
