Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 38 includes details of remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
Relations with Shareholders The board considers effective communication with shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, to be extremely important.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its half year and full year results are announced and an interim report and a full report are issued to shareholders.
These reports are posted on Johnson Mattheys website www.
At the same time, executive directors give presentations on the results to institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other international centres.
Copies of major presentations are also posted on the companys website.
The companys Annual General Meeting takes place in London and formal notification is sent to shareholders with the annual report at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors are available, formally during the AGM and informally afterwards, for questions.
Details of the 2004 AGM are set out in the notice of the meeting enclosed with this annual report.
There is a programme of regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and fund managers.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are always available to shareholders on all matters relating to governance.
Accountability, Audit and Control The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on page 38.
In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial position and prospects.
The groups organisational structure is focused on its four divisions.
These entities are all separately managed, but report to the board through a board director.
The executive management team receives monthly summaries of financial results from each division through a standardised reporting process.
The group has in place a comprehensive annual budgeting process including forecasts for the next two years.
Variances from budget are closely monitored.
The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the groups needs and address the risks to which it is exposed.
Such a system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the company which has been in place during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The board regularly reviews this process.
The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the board and updated on an annual basis.
At the business level the processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part of the control environment.
Key risks and internal controls are the subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executives Committee.
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and authority limits of the various board and executive committees and also specifies what may be decided without central approval.
It is supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals issued by the group, divisions and individual business units or departments.
The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical controls over precious metals held at the groups sites.
The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the groups systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity of the financial information reported to the board.
The Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives the reports produced by the internal audit function on a regular basis.
Actions are agreed with management in response to the internal audit reports produced.
In addition, significant business units provide assurance on the maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance with group policies.
These assessments are summarised by the internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit Committee.
The directors confirm that the system of internal control for the year ended 31st March 2004 and the period up to 31st May 2004 has been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance included with the Code and that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Corporate Social Responsibility Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the identification and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical and environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board and Chief Executives Committee.
A summary report on the groups policies and targets for corporate social responsibility is set out on pages 24 to 28.
A full version of the report is available on the companys website.
The identification, assessment and management of environment, health and safety EHS risks are standing items at the Chief Executives Committee.
Performance is monitored using monthly statistics and detailed site audit reports.
An annual review of EHS performance is undertaken by the board.
Risks from employment and people issues are identified and assessed by the Chief Executives Committee and reported through to the board.
Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable business practices and the groups position on ethical issues.
The Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further operational guidelines to reinforce these.
The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the internal audit function.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 31 Audit Committee Report Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose responsibilities include: Reviewing the interim and full year accounts and results announcements of the company and any other formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and recommending them to the board for approval: Reviewing the groups systems for internal financial control and risk management: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal audit function and considering regular reports from Internal Audit on internal financial controls and risk management: Considering the appointment of the external auditors: overseeing the process for their selection: and making recommendations to the board in relation to their appointment to be put to shareholders for approval at a general meeting : Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their audit, their remuneration, and considering their reports on the companys accounts and systems of internal financial control and risk management.
The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on our website at www.
Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
Biographical details of the independent directors are set out on pages 12 and 13.
Their remuneration is set out on page 34.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson who took over from Mr H R Jenkins following his retirement from the board at the Annual General Meeting on 16th July 2003.
The group Chairman, Mr H M P Miles, stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee on 25th November 2003 and now attends by invitation.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and external auditors KPMG Audit Plc attend Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee also meets separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditors without management being present.
The Company Secretary, Mr S Farrant, is secretary to the Audit Committee.
Main Activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended 31st March 2004.
At its meeting on 29th May 2003 the Committee reviewed the companys preliminary announcement of the results for the financial year ended 31st March 2003, and the draft report and accounts for that year.
The Committee received reports from the internal auditors on control matters and the external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, and their comments on risk management and control matters.
The Committee also reviewed the groups corporate social responsibility CSR review which is available on our website at www.
The Audit Committee met on 31st July 2003 to receive a presentation by the external auditors setting out their audit approach and procedures, including matters relating to scope, auditor independence and audit fees.
Following this presentation, and further discussion and review, the Committee recommended to the board that KPMG Audit Plc should be re-appointed as the companys external auditors.
At its meeting on 25th November 2003 the Audit Committee reviewed the companys interim results, the half year report and the external auditors review.
At its meeting on 25th February 2004 the Audit Committee reviewed managements and internal audits reports on the effectiveness of the companys systems for internal financial control and risk management.
In addition the Committee reviewed and approved revised policies on whistleblowing and ethics.
Independence of External Auditors Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had safeguards to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
Our policy in respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: Audit related services the external auditors are invited to provide services which, in their position as auditors, they must or are best placed to undertake.
It includes formalities relating to borrowings, shareholders and other circulars, various other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Tax consulting in cases where they are best suited, we use the external auditors.
All other significant tax consulting work is put out to tender.
General consulting in recognition of public concern over the effect of consulting services on auditors independence, our policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for general consulting work.
Internal Audit During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of the internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during the year, the departments resource requirements and also approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2005.
A M Thomson Chairman of the Audit Committee Johnson Matthey 32 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report to Shareholders Management Development and Remuneration Committee and its Terms of Reference The Management Development and Remuneration Committee of the board comprises all the non-executive directors of the company, other than the group Chairman, as set out on pages 12 and 13.
Mr Jenkins retired from the Committee on 16th July 2003 and Mr Miles stepped down from the Committee on 25th November 2003.
The Committees terms of reference are to determine on behalf of the board competitive remuneration for the executive directors, which recognises their individual contributions to the companys overall performance.
The Committee believes strongly that remuneration policy should be completely aligned with shareholder interests.
In addition the Committee assists the board in ensuring that the senior management of the group are recruited, developed and remunerated in an appropriate fashion.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board, within the limits prescribed by the companys Articles of Association.
Executive Remuneration Policy The Committee recognises that, in order to maximise shareholder value, it is necessary to have a competitive pay and benefits structure.
The Committee also recognises that there is a highly competitive market for successful executives and that the provision of appropriate rewards for superior performance is vital to the continued growth of the business.
To assist with this the Committee appoints and receives advice from independent remuneration consultants on the pay and incentive arrangements prevailing in comparably sized industrial companies in each country in which Johnson Matthey has operations.
During the year such advice was received from The Hay Group, which also provided advice on job evaluation, and the Monks Partnership.
Watson Wyatt provided actuarial services.
The Committee also receives recommendations from the Chief Executive on the remuneration of those reporting to him as well as advice from the Director of Human Resources.
Total potential rewards are earned through the achievement of demanding performance targets based on measures that represent the best interests of shareholders.
The remuneration policy was reviewed by the Committee in 2002 and consists of basic salary, annual bonus, a long term incentive plan, share options and other benefits as detailed below.
Salaries are based on median market rates with incentives providing the opportunity for upper quartile total remuneration, but only for achieving outstanding performance.
Following a further comprehensive review by the Committee in 2003 04, which included advice from independent consultants, changes are proposed to the annual bonus, long term incentive plan and share options.
These require shareholder approval and are the subject of a separate circular.
Executive directors remuneration consists of the following: Basic Salary which is in line with the median market salary for each directors responsibilities as determined by independent surveys.
Basic salary is normally reviewed on 1st August each year and the Committee takes into account individual performance and promotion during the year.
Where an internal promotion takes place, the median salary relative to the market would usually be reached over a period of a few years, which can give rise to higher than normal salary increases while this is being achieved.
Annual Bonus which is paid as a percentage of basic salary under the terms of the companys Executive Compensation Plan which also applies to the groups 150 or so most senior executives.
The executive directors bonus award is based on consolidated profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation PBT compared with the annual budget.
The board of directors rigorously reviews the annual budget to ensure that the budgeted PBT is sufficiently stretching.
An annual bonus payment of 30% of basic salary prevailing at 31st March is paid if the group meets the annual budget.
This bonus may rise to 50% of basic salary if the group achieves PBT of 107.5% of budget.
There is a provision that a maximum 105% of basic salary may be paid to the Chief Executive and 85% to other executive directors if 125% of budgeted PBT is achieved.
PBT must reach 95% of budget for a minimum bonus to be payable.
The Committee has discretion to vary the awards made.
The bonus awarded to executive directors in 2003 04 was 42.5% of salary at 31st March 2004.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which was introduced in August 1998, is designed to achieve above average performance and growth.
Shares are allocated to directors and key executives subject to performance conditions.
For shares allocated in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000 the number of shares released to the individual was dependent upon growth in Johnson Mattheys relative total shareholder return TSR compared with the FTSE 250 over a three year performance period.
100% of the allocated shares will be released to the individual if the companys relative TSR is in the 75th percentile or above.
Between 35% and 100% of the allocated shares will be released pro rata between the 50th and the 75th percentiles.
No shares will be released at or below 50th percentile performance.
Earnings per share EPS is used as a second performance measure and requires an increase in EPS to be at least equal to the increase in UK RPI plus 2% p. a. over the performance period before any release is made.
In 2001 shareholder approval was obtained for certain changes to the LTIP.
The LTIP will continue to provide for the release of half of the allocated shares based on the companys relative TSR and EPS measures, as described above.
The other half of the allocation will be released subject to the achievement of absolute TSR growth over a three year period.
Under this test no shares will be released should the absolute TSR growth be less than 30%.
100% of the allocated shares will be released should the absolute TSR growth be 45% or more.
Pro rata allocations will be made for absolute TSR growth between 30% and 45%.
On 12th June 2002 Johnson Matthey moved into the FTSE 100, and as a consequence of this the Committee decided that a comparator group of those companies ranked 51 150 in the FTSE index would be more appropriate than the FTSE 250 previously used.
Hence the August 2002 and 2003 allocations will be tested against this revised comparator group for that half of the allocation subject to the relative TSR test.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 33 Remuneration Report Executive Remuneration Policy continued Share Options option grants were not made to executive directors in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000.
Previously, options were granted to executive directors under the 1985 scheme under which the final grant was made in November 1994 and the 1995 schemes with the latter having a performance target of EPS growth of UK RPI plus 2% over a three year period.
Options under all the schemes were granted in annual tranches, up to the maximum permitted of four times earnings.
Following the review by independent remuneration consultants, the Committee obtained shareholder approval in 2001 for the introduction of a new employee share option scheme, known as the Johnson Matthey 2001 Share Option Scheme.
The executive directors and approximately 800 employees are awarded an annual grant of share options under the terms of this scheme.
For executive directors the Committee will award options each year up to a maximum value equal to basic annual salary.
The options will only be exercisable upon the achievement of appropriate performance targets.
The performance target is EPS growth of UK RPI plus 4% p. a. over any three year period.
The Committee has discretion to alter the performance targets for future options, but not so as to make the targets less challenging, and would only do so after consultation with institutional investors.
Pensions all the executive directors are members of the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme in the UK, with the exception of Mr Pentz who is a member of the Johnson Matthey Inc.
Salaried Employees Pension Plan in the US.
Under the UK scheme, members are entitled to a pension based on their service and final pensionable salary subject to Inland Revenue limits.
The scheme also provides life assurance cover of four times annual salary.
The normal pension age for directors is 60.
None of the non-executive directors are members of the schemes.
Details of the individual arrangements for executive directors are given on page 37.
Other Benefits available to the executive directors are private medical insurance, a company car and membership of the groups employee share incentive plans which are open to all employees in the countries in which the group operates such schemes.
Service Contracts Mr Clark was appointed to the board on 1st March 1990, Mr Sheldrick on 1st September 1990, Messrs Carson and Morgan on 1st August 1999 and Dr Hawker and Mr Pentz on 1st August 2003.
All are employed on contracts subject to one years notice at any time.
On early termination of their contracts the directors would normally be entitled to 12 months salary and benefits.
Non-executive directors remuneration consists of fees, which are set following advice taken from independent consultants.
They are reviewed at three year intervals.
2 Mr Pentzs emoluments are based on US basic salary adjusted for the cost of living differential in the UK including UK taxation.
He will be provided, for two years only, with an expatriation package commensurate with the companys policy on international assignments, including accommodation costs, education expenses and relocation expenses.
One-off costs associated with Mr Pentzs move to the UK were 24,316.
These costs are not included in the above table.
3 Non-executive fees were last reviewed on 1st April 2001 for all non-executives and on 1st October 2001 for the Chairman.
Includes 4,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
5 Includes 4,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee.
6 Includes 4,000 per annum for chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
8 Mr Clark is a non-executive director of Rexam PLC and FKI plc.
His annual fees are 90,000 from Rexam PLC and 35,000 from FKI plc.
These amounts are excluded from the table above and retained by him.
9 Mr Carson is a non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
This amount is excluded from the table above and retained by him.
10 Excludes emoluments of 281,000 for directors who retired in the year ended 31st March 2003.
Johnson Matthey 34 Remuneration Report Directors Interests The interests of the directors as at 31st March 2004 in the shares of the company according to the register required to be kept by section 325 1 of the Companies Act 1985, were: 1 Ordinary Shares 31st March 31st March 2004 2003 C R N Clark 17,840 65,770 N A P Carson 44,959 36,773 M B Dearden 2,000 2,000 1 P N Hawker 7,034 6,703 C D Mackay 12,500 12,500 H M P Miles 562 562 D W Morgan 35,396 34,913 1 L C Pentz 9,442 8,686 J N Sheldrick 52,355 91,860 I C Strachan 1,000 1,000 A M Thomson 2,056 2,000 R J W Walvis 1,000 1,000 1 at date of appointment The directors are also deemed to be interested in the shares held by two employee share ownership trusts see note 27 on page 64.
2 Share Options As at 31st March 2004, individual holdings under the companys executive share option schemes were as set out below.
Options are not granted to the non-executive directors.
Ordinary Exercise Date from Total number Date of shares under price which Expiry of ordinary shares grant option pence exercisable date under option C R N Clark 18.7.
