Corporate Social Responsibility Continued commenced to verify the internal reviews As can be seen from table 1 below, the centres have achieved a 21.8% reduction.
and will continue on a rolling basis.
Group made significant reductions in the Budgets for 2005 have been set to Detailed reports are produced after each consumption per tonne of throughput at encompass a further 1% reduction in visit and the implementation of all our print centres which further demonstrates consumption.
recommendations is monitored by the improved efficiency of the new printing management.
The slight increase in the fleet was mainly due to certain transport activities being The Group continues to benefit from its The increase in water consumption is taken in-house, which were previously 3 investment in more energy efficient entirely volume related and on a m tonne undertaken by contractors, in an effort to equipment as well as the time and effort basis there is again a good reduction.
Despite the fleet 2 put into the monitoring and control of energy increasing by 35 vehicles, the CO rating of consumption.
The equipment introduced For the first time the Group has undertaken the fleet was flat and the average vehicle a review of its motors fleet and the details for this control has enabled the Group to rating showed a decrease of 1.7%.
continue to benefit from rebates against the Climate Change Levy Tax.
External The Group also has a rolling programme of The Group continues to make excellent consultants are used to monitor and further independent audit visits covering property progress in achieving the target set out in facilitate a more efficient use of energy.
and health and safety risks.
These visits are its Energy Management Policy, which was targeted on the locations which have the adopted in 2003, for a 7% reduction in On a full year basis the Groups power highest risk profile along with a sample consumption over the period to 2010. costs decreased by 0.6% despite price of other sites.
Detailed reports and In fact, electricity consumption since 2002 increases from energy suppliers.
In terms recommendations are produced after is down by 3.2% and adjusted for volume of energy consumption, both electricity each visit which require follow up and throughput the print centres have resulted and gas showed significant decreases implementation by local management.
Gas consumption in notwithstanding the increased levels of This process is monitored by the Group the same period is down by 7.1% and throughput associated with business Management Committee.
adjusted for volume throughput, the print levels in 2004.
Table 1 - Consumption of energy on a like-for-like basis in 2004 2004 2003 % 2002 % Electricity - kWh 46,662,532 47,558,773 -1.9 48,195,619 -1.3 - print centres kWh tonne 258.0 274.6 -6.0 289.0 -5.0 Gas - kWh 31,564,320 33,974,515 -7.1 33,970,873 - print centres kWh tonne 164.5 201.9 -18.5 210.4 -4.0 Water 3 - m 123,923 118,751 4.4 125,309 -5.2 3 - print centres m tonne 0.61 0.66 -7.6 0.75 -12.0 Table 2 - Motor vehicle data 2004 2003 % Total Fleet No of vehicles 1,852 1,817 1.9 2 Total Fleet CO rating 325,237 325,223 2 Average CO rating 176 179 -1.7 Johnston Press plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Newsprint The Group is committed to ensure that its As part of its ongoing commitment, as recycled newsprint goes into the agreed with the Government, the industry, production of new newsprint and random through the Newspaper Society, has audits confirm this position.
continued to raise the target for the recycled content of newsprint used in the All categories of waste are now measured production of UK newspapers.
Against a and monitored and systems are in target of 65%, the actual figure achieved operation, including an independent audit, was 68.6%, well on schedule to hit the to ensure that all waste is correctly target of 70% in 2006.
This will be helped disposed of.
by the new fide-inking and recycling facility at UPMs Shotton Mill in North Wales.
Shareholders Members of the Board Executive and Newspapers cannot be recycled indefinitely Non-Executive have met a number of due to the process requiring some virgin fibre shareholders during the past year to to maintain paper strength.
All virgin fibre discuss Corporate Social Responsibility comes from renewable managed softwood matters and to address any questions coniferous forests, which themselves are raised by them.
Waste Packaging The Group adheres to the requirements of the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations 1997.
In 2003, the Group employed an industry recognised recycler to handle process waste and all non-paper waste is now handled through them.
This has been a very successful operation encompassing safe removal of waste with a transparent audit trail and an ISO 14001 accreditation.
In addition, the paper-based waste is now removed and recycled through a groupwide arrangement with one of our major newsprint suppliers.
Companies with no printing facilities are only required to account for any packaging done prior to delivery to the customer.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200445 Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in LLP did not provide any other services to There are five main elements of the accordance with the Directors the Company in 2004. remuneration package for Executive Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Directors and senior management: It also meets the relevant requirements Lord Gordon has decided to step down as of the Listing Rules of the Financial Chair of the Committee at the forthcoming Basic annual salary and benefits: Services Authority and describes how the Annual General Meeting prior to him Performance related bonuses: Board has applied the Principles of Good stepping down from the main Board in Pension arrangements: Governance relating to directors 2007.
It has been decided that Mr S J Share options: and remuneration.
As required by the Waugh, an independent Non-Executive Share Matching Plan.
Regulations, a resolution to approve the Director, will be appointed to replace Lord report will be proposed at the Annual Gordon and he has attended the last three The Executive Directors have a one-year General Meeting of the Company at which meetings of the Committee as an observer.
The most recently executed the financial statements will be approved.
Mr Waugh is currently undertaking a contracts for Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R training programme, which has been Paterson are dated 27 June 2003 and The Remuneration Committee determined by this Committee and 24 May 2001 respectively.
The contract for The Committee is chaired by Lord Gordon approved by the Board.
It includes a Mr D Cammiade is being prepared.
In the of Strathblane, an independent Nonuniquely designed training course run by event of termination, the Executive Directors Executive Director, and in 2004 comprised New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, a would be entitled to loss of salary, benefits two other independent Non-Executive series of seminars and detailed discussions and pensionable service for the notice period, Directors, Mr P E B Cawdron and with the Company Secretary.
subject to mitigation where appropriate.
It is required to meet at least annually and as necessary.
During the As explained on page 38, the Board Executive Directors service contracts, period it met on five occasions, two undertook an evaluation of its performance which include details of remuneration, will meetings being held by telephone.
This included a review of be available for inspection at the Annual members were present for each meeting.
the effectiveness of this Committee General Meeting.
The Committee is charged with considering its composition, chairmanship, recommending the remuneration of the whether it fulfilled its role as outlined in the The appointments of Non-Executive Chairman and Executive Directors as well terms of reference, its reporting and overall Directors of the Company are terminable at as changes to employment conditions, the performance.
This evaluation process was will, subject to a three month notice period.
Executive Share Option Schemes, Share undertaken by the Committee itself as well It is the Committees policy that any future Incentive Plan, Share Matching Plan and as by all members of the Board.
The results Board appointments will be made on the to the Save as you Earn Scheme, and the of this process were positive and confirmed same terms.
The Non-Executive Directors introduction of any new incentive or the effectiveness of the Committee.
have letters of appointment dated: remuneration schemes.
The Committee is consulted on, and notified of, all senior The terms of reference of the Committee Mr R G Parry 27 June 2003 management appointments and related are displayed on the Companys website in Mr P E B Cawdron 25 January 2002 remuneration.
It is also consulted on major the Investor Relations Section.
Mr F P M Johnston 25 January 2002 organisational changes.
Mr H C M Johnston 25 January 2002 Remuneration Policy Lord Gordon None of the Committee has any personal Executive remuneration packages are of Strathblane 25 January 2002 financial interest other than as prudently designed to attract, motivate Mrs M A King 25 April 2003 shareholders, conflicts of interest arising and retain directors of the high calibre Mr S J Waugh 25 April 2003 from cross-directorships or day-to-day needed to maintain the Groups strong Mr L Hinton 16 March 2005 involvement in running the business.
market position and to reward them for The Committee makes recommendations enhancing value to shareholders.
A copy of the standard letter of appointment to the Board.
Other directors attend The performance measurement of the for the Chairman and Non-Executive meetings when invited by the Committee Executive Directors and key members of Directors is displayed on the Companys and the Company Secretary acts as senior management and the determination website in the Investor Relations section.
No director of their annual remuneration packages plays a part in any discussion about his are undertaken by the Committee.
The The Companys policy is that a significant or her own remuneration.
remuneration of the Non-Executive proportion of the remuneration of the Directors, other than the Chairman, is Executive Directors should be The Committee has appointed New Bridge determined by the Executive Directors performance related.
As described below, Street Consultants LLP to provide advice and ratified by the Board.
Executive Directors may earn annual on structuring directors remuneration incentive payments together with the packages.
New Bridge Street Consultants benefits of participation in share schemes.
Johnston Press plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Executive Directors are entitled to accept For the 2004 calendar year, based on the the recommendation of the Chief up to two Non-Executive appointments above parameters, a profit target was set Executive Officer.
All options are granted outside the Company providing the by the Board on the recommendation of for nil consideration.
These options are Chairmans permission is obtained.
The the Remuneration Committee and on only capable of being exercised if the Remuneration Committee decides whether achievement of this target half the compound real growth in the Groups any fees are retained by the director.
In maximum potential bonus was payable.
headline earnings per share is between addition, the Executive Directors are Additional sums were payable above the 3% to 5% depending on the level of the entitled to accept any positions connected target on a sliding scale with a cap of grant.
The Committee has decided that 2 3 with the newspaper industry or any 66 % and 60% of salary for Mr T J there will be no retesting of performance businesses in which the Company holds Bowdler and Mr S R Paterson respectively.
on any options granted after 1 January an investment.
The target for payment of the maximum 2004 and performance will be measured bonus was dependent on market over a single three year period.
For In 2004, Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R conditions at the beginning of the year options granted prior to 31 December Paterson held external non-executive and was considered by the Committee to 2003, performance is always tested from posts and received 55,676 and nil in be challenging.
If the profit target was not a fixed base over a period of at least fees respectively.
achieved, bonus would be lost at twice the three years and may not be retested after rate of the sliding scale on the upside.
The the fifth anniversary of the option grant.
Basic Salary target for payment of the maximum bonus An Executive Directors basic salary is was achieved in 2004.
In order to exercise a grant above determined by the Committee prior to 0.5 times and above 1 times salary, the the beginning of each calendar year and With effect from 1 January 2005, the growth in the Groups headline earnings when an individual changes position or maximum bonus has increased for the per share must exceed the growth in responsibility.
In deciding appropriate levels, Executive Directors to 80% of salary, but the retail price index by more than 4% the Committee considers the Group as the scheme has been split into two parts.
and 5% points per annum respectively.
a whole and relies on objective research Four fifths, or 64% of the 80%, relates to carried out by its external consultants a profit based target using the same basic The Companys policy is to grant options which gives up-to-date information on structure as was in place throughout 2004. at the discretion of the Committee taking a comparator group of companies.
As a The remaining element, 16% out of the into account the Group and individual benchmark, it looks at the median rate for 80%, is based on a like-for-like increase in performance.
The policy is reviewed by similar sized companies.
total revenues comparing 2005 with 2004. the Committee from time to time.
For achievement of the revenue growth Currently, the grant of options to the In addition to basic salary, the Executive target, which is based on the Companys Executive Directors and all participants Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, internal budgets, half the maximum bonus in the Scheme in any year is based on principally a car or a cash buyout and is payable with a sliding scale for a percentage of salary for achieving the private medical insurance.
achievement above and below that target.
Group profit target and an individual Once again, the sliding scale of the profit target, with the allocation Performance Related Bonus downside is twice that of the upside.
increasing for individual performance The Committee establishes the objectives above target up to a maximum level.
The that must be met for each financial year if The Board retains the discretion to recognise maximum annual grant under this policy a cash bonus is to be paid.
In setting the performance outside this arrangement is 1.5 times salary for Mr T J Bowdler appropriate bonus parameters the where exceptional circumstances apply, but and 1.2 times salary for Mr S R Paterson Committee, having taken advice, takes into any such discretion is restricted to a total and Mr D Cammiade.
account the Companys internal budgets bonus, including the performance related and analysts expectations for the element, of 25% of salary.
No discretionary The exercise price of the options forthcoming year.
The Committee believes bonus was paid in 2004. granted under the Executive Share that this ties any incentive payments to the Option Scheme is equal to the market interests of shareholders.
The structure of Share Schemes value of the Companys shares at the the bonus scheme has been revised from The Company operates a number of Share time when the options are granted.
1 January 2005 to make the bonus Schemes and these are described below.
potential more comparable with companies In the event of a change in control of a similar size, but with tougher targets a An Executive Share Option Scheme of the Company, any options granted than hitherto.
Effective from the same date, with grants being shown below and in are exercisable within one month of all Executive Directors are required to note 26 to the Accounts.
Certain former the option holders being notified invest at least a third of their bonus in the and current Directors have already of the change in control.
In such Share Matching Plan.
The circumstances the performance Remuneration Committee reviews each conditions will apply.
However, in grant of options to Senior Executives on exceptional circumstances the Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200447 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Committee may, at its discretion, treat Trust on 31 December 2004 was At 31 December 2004 the total amount of the performance condition as satisfied 316,718, of which 207,497 related to shares granted in all schemes over the taking into account the underlying the Share Matching Plan.
The balance previous 10 years was 4.3% of the issued performance of the Company up until related to the Restricted Share Award share capital with a maximum limit of 10%.
made to Mr T J Bowdler as shown on page 51.
Pension Arrangements b A SAYE Share Option Scheme for eligible Throughout 2004, the Group operated two employees under which options may be d A Share Incentive Plan SIP for all pension schemes, both with defined benefit granted at a discount of up to 20% of eligible employees.
The SIP is in two and defined contribution sections.
Consistent with the parts: a Partnership Scheme, which defined benefit sections are closed to new legislation and normal practice, the SAYE allows employees to purchase shares members.
On 31 December 2004, the two Option Scheme does not require the in the Company on a monthly basis schemes were merged into one under the imposition of performance conditions.
The second umbrella of Johnston Press Pension Plan element is a Free Shares Scheme, JPPP.
The only members remaining in the c A Share Matching Plan which applies which provides employees who have Regional Independent Media Pension Plan to the Executive Directors and certain joined the Scheme with free shares.
are deferred or pensioners who have senior executives.
The participants The shares are held in a Trust, protected rights and cannot be transferred are invited to invest all or part of their administered by Halifax plc and after a under current legislation.
The assets of the annual bonus in buying shares in the period of five years the shares will be pension schemes are totally separated from Company and they have the prospect available to be held beneficially by the assets of the Company and of the of receiving extra matching shares after employees free of any tax and national Group, and are invested by independent three years, paid for by the Company.
For Free Shares, the fund managers.
A professional independent The matching ratio ranges from Committee sets a minimum Group trustee and member nominated trustees 0.5 times to 1.5 times the number of profit target and a base fund to be are appointed to each of the pension shares that could have been acquired utilised to purchase shares in the schemes.
A firm of external actuaries and with the pre-tax equivalent of the Company.
Performance above the consultants act as advisors.
Pension annual bonus invested, subject to target generates additional amounts scheme members receive a report from the achieving compound real growth in the payable into the fund on a sliding scale trustees and a statement of their actuarial Groups headline earnings per share of up to a maximum payout.
The Free benefits each year.
between 3% to 8% per annum over a Shares are allocated to employees three year period.
Mr T J Bowdler is based on hours worked and are not Contributions to the JPPP are at a rate of required by the Committee to invest at pro rata to salary.
In 2004, the profit 13.1% for all members.
The executive least one third of his annual bonus into achievement exceeded the maximum section of the Plan provides for a the Plan.
With the change in the bonus target set by the Committee.
retirement age of 62, a pension of two arrangements described above, Mr S R thirds of salary based on a 45th accrual Paterson and Mr D Cammiade are also The Company Secretary is responsible for rate or a full 2 3rds at retirement date, a required to invest the same level into ensuring the exercise criteria is met for members contribution of 8% of salary with the Plan in respect of the 2005 financial all the Share Schemes and this is verified a spouses pension of a third of year and thereafter.
The performance pensionable salary in the event of death in criterion, which applies to all Executive service.
There are no provisions for The Plan currently does not permit any Directors to whom options have been beneficial rights on early retirement.
dividends to vest on the element of granted under the Schemes except the matching shares.
SAYE Share Option Scheme, was chosen Mr T J Bowdler participates in the JPPP as it requires significant improvement in for a pension of two-thirds of the earnings When any grant of matching shares is financial performance before options can cap.
He also receives a contribution to an approved, the Company purchases be exercised.
The Committee will ensure unapproved scheme which is a total cost sufficient shares to cover the maximum that EPS is calculated on as consistent a to the Company of 50% of salary per match by all Executives.
These shares basis as feasible following the transition annum including the tax cost, equivalent to are held in the Johnston Press plc to International Accounting Standards.
a contribution of 27% of salary per annum.
Employee Share Trust, which is These pension provisions were revised administered by Hill Samuel in Jersey.
Options under a and b above are during 2002 and in order to compensate The only other shares held by the Trust satisfied by the issue of new shares.
As Mr Bowdler for the changes to his relate to the award of Restricted Shares indicated above, the Companys Employee detriment, the Annual General Meeting in to Mr Bowdler referred to in the Share Trust holds the shares to meet that year approved an award of 169,896 pension arrangements section below.
options under c and shares are Restricted Shares to Mr Bowdler.
He is The numbers of shares held by the purchased in the open market to satisfy entitled to acquire a proportion of these the Free Shares award within d. Johnston Press plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 shares every six months for a cost of 1 Non-Executive Directors Senior Executives Below Board Level until 2009.
No performance conditions All Non-Executive Directors have specific The five elements of the remuneration apply to the Restricted Shares as they terms of engagement and their package are described on page 46.
The were granted to replace reduced pension remuneration is determined by the Board salaries are determined by the Executive rights.
Mr Cammiade is a member of the within the limits set by the Articles of Directors after consultation with the JPPP and was prior to the introduction of Association and based on independent Remuneration Committee based on the earnings cap restriction.
Mr S R surveys of fees paid to non-executive individual roles and responsibilities.
The Paterson does not participate in the JPPP directors of similar companies.
The level targets for the performance related and the Company has agreed instead to of fees was increased in April 2004. bonuses are primarily profit related but make a contribution equivalent to 20% of The basic annual fee paid to each Nonalso include personal performance based his basic salary into his private pension Executive Director is 35,000.
The maximum bonus for 2004 scheme.
This contribution increases to Executives receive further fees for was 50% of salary and this has been 25% from his 50th birthday.
With effect additional work performed for the increased to 60% effective from 1 January from 1 January 2005, the Company has Company in respect of the chairing of 2005, with more challenging targets being also agreed to match any additional annual the Remuneration Committee and Audit set.
Most of the Executives are members contribution made by Mr S R Paterson, up Committee, together with the of the final salary section of the JPPP, but to a maximum of 5% of salary.
responsibilities as Chairman and Senior the Company contributes a maximum of Independent Director.
Non-Executive 12% of salary to those who are members The Committee is reviewing the impact of Directors cannot participate in the bonus of the defined contribution scheme.
the impending changes to the pension plans or in any of the Companys Share The Share Option Scheme and Share regime which is due to come into effect in Schemes and are not eligible to join the Matching Plan benefits are as described April 2006 and will ensure that any Companys pension schemes.
for the Executive Directors except the changes which are required do not result maximum level of share option grant is in an increase in the overall cost of 85% of salary.
pension provision for the Group.
Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector also measured by total shareholder return.
The FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector have been selected for this comparison because the former measures the performance of stocks in general and the latter measures the performance of companies operating in the same sector as the Group.
5 Year Return Index for Johnston Press as at 31 December 2004 200 Total Shareholder Return 180 Johnston Press 160 Total Shareholder Return 140 FTSE Media Sector 120 Total Shareholder Return 100 FTSE 350 80 60 40 20 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200449 Relative TSR
