The Board and the Committee considered the question of the Company Chairmans membership of the Committee and concluded that it is in the shareholders best interests and that, as a Non-Executive Chairman and with three independent NonExecutive directors as members, it remained appropriate for him to be a member.
The Chairman will not be present when his own remuneration is discussed.
Details of the Groups policy and procedures for directors and certain other senior executives remuneration can be found in the Remuneration Report.
Social Responsibility Committee comprises Margaret Salmon Chairman plus the Chief Executive, two other executive directors and representatives of the operating companies.
This Committee is responsible for discussing and developing a general policy relating to environmental, community and equal opportunities matters.
The Board director with overall responsibility for environmental matters is the Chief Executive.
The Finance Committee comprises the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and any one other director.
The Committee is responsible for the treasury operations of the Group, the approval and authorisation of financing documents and signature authorities on bank accounts within its terms of reference and the authority limits laid down by the Board.
It reviews borrowing arrangements and other financial transactions and makes appropriate recommendations.
It also allots new shares in the Company to Group employees following the exercise of share options.
The Share Option Committee comprises any two directors or any one director and the Company Secretary.
Its role is to consider the Groups share funding policy in respect of share incentive awards and to decide upon the level of contributions to the ESOP and QUEST in respect of the dilution cost when new shares are issued.
This Committee also considers the making of loans to the ESOP in respect of grants that are hedged with existing shares.
It has no authority in respect of the making of awards which is a matter reserved to the Remuneration Committee.
Company Secretary All directors have access to, and the services of, the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
The Company Secretary or the Company Secretary of B&Q plc acts as secretary to all the above Committees.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating the induction and professional development of Board members as well as ensuring good information flows within the Board, its Committees and between the non-executive directors and senior management.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, aims to ensure that senior executives including executive directors of the Company are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and are motivated to enhance returns to shareholders.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are shown on pages 11 to 19.
Relations with shareholders Kingfisher is committed to an active dialogue with its shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is a key component of its corporate communications programme and is headed by the Director of Communications Ian Harding.
The programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly trading statements on three other occasions during the year and regular meetings between institutional investors and senior management.
Shareholders also receive Annual and Interim Reports and, on their dedicated section of the Company website www.
com shareholders, can access copies of these, all trading updates, press announcements and presentations to shareholders made by the Company.
Following consultation with a number of institutional shareholders the Board believes there are sufficient opportunities for the necessary dialogue between shareholders and the Board.
These include regular meetings between investors and management, the availability of all the non-executive directors for meetings if so requested by the shareholders, a standing invitation for the non-executive directors to attend any of the meetings between management and institutional investors and the availability to shareholders of John Nelson, as the Senior Independent Director, if there are concerns that cannot be resolved through normal channels of communication.
Both institutional and private shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting, which will include a short presentation on the business and its latest trading position.
The Annual General Meeting also provides an opportunity for shareholders to discuss with executive and non-executive directors any issues they have concerning the Company and its activities.
Auditor independence Kingfisher has clear rules and authorisation processes for the instruction of the auditors for non-audit work.
The overall level in both years was primarily driven by the now completed major restructuring of the Group.
In 2003 4 the majority was in relation to the short and long form reports and listing particulars prepared in relation to the demerger of Kesa Electricals.
In 2002 3 it was primarily in relation to the rights issue prospectus and offer documentation for Castorama.
Accountability, risk management and internal control Internal control The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward profile.
The process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Group has been enhanced during the year under review.
The risk assessment process also identifies mitigating actions.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 9 This system of internal control is: the Boards overall responsibility: regularly and, at least annually, reviewed for its effectiveness by both the Board and the Audit Committee: and in compliance with the Turnbull guidance.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of this process are: The Board, which: has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks for effective internal control.
These include the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
They are periodically reviewed and updated: regularly updates the Groups strategy and those of its operating companies: reviews and assesses the Groups key risks at least annually: reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: has well-defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from the Audit Committee and various independent monitoring functions.
The Audit Committee, which: oversees the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and financial reporting processes: supervises the quality, independence and effectiveness of both the internal and external auditors: reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk identification and evaluation procedures and management responses to significant risks: reviews the reports made to it by the internal audit committees of each of the operating companies.
The business head of each operating business area, who: maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of the business: reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions: has responsibility for their local audit committee: self-certifies that internal control processes are in place and that they comply with Group policies.
He she also reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management function, which: works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations: ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that directors are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance: provides the Board with independent and objective assurance on the control environment across the Group: ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular and effective reviews of their internal controls: monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles: provides the Audit Committee with necessary assurances on the control environment.
The directors can, therefore, confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
By Order of the Board Helen Jones Company Secretary 16 March 2004 10 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED This report to shareholders provides information on the remuneration and option and contingent share interests of all Kingfisher directors, and the criteria by which that remuneration has been determined.
It has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the applicable UK Listing Authorities UKLA listing rules.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that senior executives including executive directors of the Company are rewarded for their contribution to the Group, and are motivated to enhance returns to shareholders.
It advises the Board on the remuneration framework and policy for such senior executives and, once formally endorsed by the full Board, it applies the policy.
The Committee has responsibility delegated to it by the Board for determining the remuneration and benefits of executive directors and approving those of senior executives who report directly to an executive director or the Chief Executives of B&Q, Castorama France or Brico Dpt approximately 44 executives in total.
The Committee also oversees the administration of the Groups employee share schemes.
The Committee is made up of three independent, non-executive directors, John Nelson, Michael Hepher, Margaret Salmon and the Chairman of the Board Sir Francis Mackay.
It is chaired by John Nelson.
There have been no other members during the year and all four have been members for the full year.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings of the Committee but not when his own arrangements are considered.
Similarly, the Chairman does not attend when his arrangements are under discussion.
Advice During the year the Committee sought the advice of Kingfishers Group Director of Human Resources Tony Stanworth and was supported by the Company Secretary Helen Jones.
The Committee also retained the services of the following external advisers: New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, also appointed by the Company to advise on the ongoing operation of employee and executive share plans: Allen & Overy was appointed by the Committee during the year to provide ongoing advice to the Committee on contracts for executive directors and senior executives.
Additionally Towers Perrin is requested by the Company periodically to provide advice on market positioning of remuneration for executives and non-executive director fee levels in both the UK and overseas.
When and where appropriate, such advice is considered by the Committee.
Remuneration policy for executive directors The Committee intends that executive director remuneration, both in terms of base salary and total remuneration, should be competitive by reference to the individual experience of the executive concerned, the role fulfilled and the markets in which the Company competes.
This is designed to promote business success through the recruitment, retention and motivation of the highest quality executives.
This policy is consistently applied across the Group for the remuneration of the executive directors and senior managers.
Components of executive directors remuneration Salaries and benefits Salaries are reviewed annually in August, taking into account criteria such as market conditions affecting executive remuneration, affordability, the level of increases awarded to staff throughout the business and the individuals contribution.
In addition, the Company provides a range of additional benefits, including life insurance, membership of a Company pension scheme, subsidised staff canteen, staff discount card, non-exclusive use of a driver for business purposes, 30 working days holiday per year and a company car or a cash allowance.
Current salaries for each executive director are detailed in the Executive Directors remuneration overview starting on page 14.
Annual bonus and long-term incentives Executive directors remuneration, apart from base salary, was reviewed in early 2003, following extensive discussion with major shareholders.
Following this consultation process, the Company introduced the Kingfisher Incentive Scheme comprising the Kingfisher Annual Cash Incentive Scheme 2003 KIS Cash scheme and the Kingfisher Incentive Share Scheme 2003 KIS Shares scheme, the KIS Shares scheme having been approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM in June 2003.
As a result of this review, the Executive Share Option Scheme closed in June 2003 with the final grant of options having been made in April 2003.
Under the arrangements, all senior executives receive a performance-related cash bonus under the KIS Cash scheme.
This is matched by a contingent share award under the KIS Shares scheme of an equivalent value at the time of the cash award.
The contingent share award must be held for three years before it vests, with the shares being subject to forfeiture should the executive leave the Group during the three year deferral period as a result of voluntary resignation or dismissal for cause.
If the executive does not work for the Company throughout the whole of the financial year, payment of the cash element of the KIS Cash scheme for that year is at the discretion of the Committee to determine the appropriate level.
Where the Company terminates an executives contract without notice or without proper cause, then, reflecting the fact there will be no entitlement to awards under the KIS Shares scheme, the executive may receive a cash replacement equivalent to the value of the KIS Shares scheme award, pro-rata for the period of the financial year he was employed, subject to the discretion of the Committee to decide the appropriate level of such bonus.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT For the financial year ended 31 January 2004 The number of shares conditionally awarded may be increased by up to 40% multiplier award depending on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Company against the constituents of the FTSE 100 over the three year period following the year for which the bonus was earned.
At above median performance 10% of these shares will vest, increasing on a straight-line basis, to 40% at above upper quartile performance.
In addition, the Committee must also be satisfied that the TSR performance reflects underlying performance for such awards to vest.
TSR was selected as the most appropriate measure for the multiplier award as it is robust, aligns executives interests with those of shareholders and is generally favoured by the Companys leading UK institutional shareholders.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP will independently carry out the relevant TSR calculations for the Committee.
The Committee believes these arrangements align executives and shareholders interests more effectively and encourage a long-term view of performance.
They also result in up to 63% approximately of executive directors annual remuneration opportunity excluding pensions being performance-related: an approach that is appropriate for Kingfisher as a dynamic international retailer.
Substantial awards under the KIS Cash scheme and the KIS Shares scheme are only payable to executives on achievement of demanding performance targets as agreed with the Committee at the beginning of each year, based on the Groups strategic and financial planning process.
Assuming target performance is fully achieved, each component is valued at 60% of base salary for executive directors, giving a combined value equivalent to 120% of salary.
In years when the Company achieves performance significantly in excess of target, executive directors can earn up to a maximum of 82.5% of base salary in each of cash and contingent share awards, giving a maximum performance related potential of 165% of base salary before any impact of the TSR multiplier.
The Committee has discretion to adjust awards up or down where it concludes that a particular individuals contribution warrants a different level of award but subject to the maximum combined level of 165% of base salary.
The final regular award of options under the discontinued Executive Share Option Scheme was made in April 2003 to those executives employed during the financial year ended 1 February 2003.
Gerry Murphy, who was not so employed, is, therefore, the only executive director to have a TSR multiplier award attached to the contingent share awards made in respect of performance in the year ended 31 January 2004.
However, in respect of future years, it is intended that all executives receiving awards will participate on the same basis.
The Committee has established formal Share Ownership Guidelines which prohibit executive directors selling shares obtained through the plans except to meet tax obligations until they hold shares worth at least one times base salary two times for the Chief Executive within a five year period.
The Committee believes that this, together with the KIS Shares scheme deferral period, will provide a longer-term retention mechanism and mean that, over time, executives will have a significant personal interest in Kingfisher shares, resulting in greater alignment with shareholders interests.
Key performance targets for the annual bonus applicable to the KIS Cash scheme and the KIS Share scheme for the financial year ended 31 January 2004 focused on: 1.
Group profit before tax and interest: 2.
Group operating profit adjusted for cost of capital: 3.
These targets were set and measured as if Kesa Electricals had been fully demerged from Kingfisher at the beginning of the financial year.
These were the sole criteria for executive directors with Group-wide responsibilities.
Bill Whiting and Ian Cheshire, having divisional responsibilities, were judged against similar measures relating to their divisions as well as certain of the Group targets, with 75% of total bonus potential assessed by reference to divisional criteria.
In the year ended 31 January 2004, the bonus payments for each of the executive directors are set out in the section Executive Directors remuneration overview on page 14.
The performance of the Group during the year was such that the targets set at the beginning of the year were exceeded, with the outcome being between 90% and 93% of the maximum award opportunity.
In respect of the financial year ending 29 January 2005, the key performance targets for Gerry Murphy, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Bill Whiting are: 1.
Group return on invested capital ROIC : and 4.
Executive directors with divisional responsibilities are targeted on profit and total sales growth in relation to their respective divisions performance and group ROIC.
For other divisional senior executives the profit, sales and ROIC are all targets against the performance of their respective business.
For all executive directors of Kingfisher, at least 25% of their bonus opportunity is based on Group targets.
The changes reflect the importance the Board attaches to profitable sales growth and return on invested capital.
12 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED
