Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 11 The board met during the year under the chairmanship of the senior Directors remuneration independent director, without the chairman being present, to assess To provide assurance to the board on the remuneration of directors the effectiveness of the chairman.
The unanimous conclusion was and senior executives, a Remuneration Committee was constituted that the chairman was fully committed to Lonmin and was in November 1993.
A report on directors remuneration which particularly effective in the role.
includes a description of the role and activities of the remuneration committee is set out on pages 14 to 23.
Attendance at board meetings The board met formally on seven occasions during the year.
Accountability and audit Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Number of for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of meetings held Number of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for during time meetings Director in office attended that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Sir John Craven 7 7 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Ian Farmer 7 7 consistently Peter Godsoe 7 5 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Michael Hartnall 7 7 state whether applicable accounting standards have been Edward Haslam 3 3 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Sam Jonah 3 explained in the financial statements Peter Ledger 7 7 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Brad Mills 4 4 it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in Sir Alastair Morton 5 3 business.
Roger Phillimore 7 7 John Robinson 7 7 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial In addition, a further seven ad hoc meetings were held to issue position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the formal approvals, or deal with other matters of a routine or financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They administrative nature, which did not require attendance of the have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably full board.
open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Re-election of directors All directors submit themselves to shareholders for re-election after Directors approach first appointment and then at least every three years.
Sufficient The boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable biographical and other information including, in the case of a assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in non-executive director seeking re-election, a statement as to their the annual review, interim report and other published documents and continued effectiveness and commitment is provided to enable reports to regulators.
shareholders to make an informed decision.
Whilst sympathetic to the principle of progressive refreshing, the board is aware that a The board has established an audit committee to assist with this deep understanding of a Companys business cannot arise instantly obligation.
A report from the audit committee describing its work fully on appointment.
In September 2003, Roger Phillimore completed his second Going concern three-year term as a non-executive director.
After a detailed review The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to involving all board members, it was unanimously decided that continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that Mr Phillimore is independent.
Accordingly, a third term of office was it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in offered to, and accepted by, Mr Phillimore.
The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
12 12 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Corporate Governance Internal control the identification and evaluation of the raw risk exposure The Company has complied and continues to comply with the an assessment of the probability of the risk occurring, enabling the Combined Code provisions on internal control in that an ongoing unmitigated risk exposure to be calculated process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the assignment of a champion, who is best placed to take faced by the Company was in place during the year under review responsibility for the management of the given risk, and who is and to the date of the approval of the accounts, which was regularly charged with developing and implementing detailed risk reviewed by the board and accords with the Turnbull guidance on mitigation plans internal controls.
an assessment of any residual exposures which remain, assuming all elements of the risk mitigation plan function as intended.
This For the avoidance of doubt, while the board has overall responsibility remaining risk is termed the mitigated risk exposure or risk for the Companys system of internal control, management is control gap.
responsible for implementing agreed board policies.
Systems of internal control can only be designed to manage, rather than The board has agreed a tolerance level for mitigated risk exposures, eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objectives, and and it is the job of operational management to ensure that it plans cannot provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or and acts to identify all new sources of risk, ensure that its mitigation loss.
The Company has an internal audit function which, to maintain steps function effectively and that no one single risk exposes the independence and objectivity, is outsourced to an external provider.
Company to a probability-weighted amount in excess of the stated board tolerance.
The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and Corporate social responsibility compliance controls and systems for the identification and The Company faces very significant social, environmental and ethical management of risk, and has with the assistance of the audit risks.
Whilst these are identified and assessed in the same way as all committee undertaken such a review as part of the process of other risks facing the Group, particular attention is paid to the compiling this report.
Whilst the audit committee routinely meets with management of these matters.
Safe production is of paramount both the internal and external auditors and discusses matters of importance to the Company, and safety is always the first agenda internal control, it also performed on behalf of the board a specific item at management meetings.
Lonmin plays a full part in helping review following the year-end.
This included reviewing a detailed South Africa to address the HIV AIDS pandemic, including the summary of all internal audit findings and assessing a report provision of condoms and anti-retroviral drugs to our employees.
summarising key performance indicator data relating to the material Lonmin must maintain sufficiently good relations with the risks facing the Company.
Further information on the process for the communities who host our operations to earn its moral licence to identification of these key risks is set out below.
In particular, this requires that we take particular care of the natural environment, and also invest in the communities who live on Risk management or alongside our property.
During the year, management created a risk and SHEC committee, whose terms of reference were endorsed by the audit committee In recognition of the importance of these areas, the Companys short and the board.
SHEC risks comprise safety, health, environmental term incentive schemes for senior management contain material and community matters.
This committee is chaired by the chief elements relating to safety, environment and community executive and comprises senior executives from within the Group measurements, while key individuals have these items and health who have the knowledge to review, but generally not line matters as personal objectives forming part of their incentive plans.
management responsibility for, their focus areas.
It reports to the Further explanation is contained in the remuneration report on pages audit committee, whose chairman attends its meetings as of right.
For many years, a continuous process has been in place for A full explanation of Lonmins approach and actions in these areas is identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by contained in the 2004 Corporate Sustainability Report available from the Company.
In August 2004 this was reviewed and significantly the company secretary, or which can be downloaded from the enhanced.
The principal components of the Companys approach Company website, www.
The website contains to the identification and management of risk now comprise significant amounts of additional information on our corporate social the following: responsibility programme in support of the formal report.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 13 Relations with shareholders The Combined Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The directors have regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, where they believe this to be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Detailed written feedback from these visits is shared with the board, and a summary of the views expressed is presented to the next board meeting.
In addition, the chairman wrote to the Companys top twenty shareholders during the year to offer meetings with either himself or the senior independent director, if required, to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wished to raise.
Copies of analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all directors, as are summaries of analysts opinions collected anonymously by the Companys financial PR advisors.
The Combined Code urges boards to use the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, as well as offering some detailed guidance on procedure in connection with AGMs.
The board has followed these particular principles for many years, but adopted electronic poll voting on all resolutions at its 2004 AGM.
This enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account, whether they are able to attend the meeting or not, as well as providing a more discreet and democratic method of voting at the meeting.
In recognition of the needs of private shareholders, the Company website www.
com contains a range of investor relations materials, including up-to-date information on the Groups activities and further explanation of the matters contained in the annual reporting documents.
This report was approved by the board on 24 November 2004.
14 14 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 The report below has been prepared by the remuneration committee The committee comprised the following members during the year and approved by the Board.
KPMG Audit Plc have audited the and to the date of this report, except where stated otherwise: following items stipulated in law for their review: Roger Phillimore an independent director, who has been a the table of directors remuneration and associated footnotes on member of the remuneration committee and its chairman since page 17, and the disclosure of the items comprising the directors September 2002 benefits in kind Peter Godsoe an independent director who has been a member the table of directors defined benefit pension benefits and of the committee since September 2002. associated footnotes on page 18 Michael Hartnall an independent director, who has been a the disclosure of directors defined contribution pension member of the committee since May 2003. arrangements on page 19 Sir Alastair Morton until his death on 1 September 2004 an the data on LTIP awards on page 20 independent director who had been a member of the remuneration the table of directors share option information and associated committee since May 1998. footnotes on page 22 Given their diverse backgrounds and experience, the board believes Role of the remuneration committee that the committee members are able to offer a balanced view on The remuneration committee is a formal committee of the board, executive remuneration issues.
and has powers delegated to it under the articles of association.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference formally adopted by the board, Each member receives an annual fee of 5,000 for serving as a which were last reviewed in November 2002.
A copy of the terms of member of the committee or, in the case of the chairman, 10,000. reference is available on the Companys website, www.
These fees are included in the table of directors remuneration on page 17.
The primary purposes of the remuneration committee are set out in its terms of reference and are: All members of the committee are provided with full induction into to make recommendations to the board on the Companys the role of the committee and the operation of its terms of reference framework of executive remuneration on first appointment.
Access to training is provided on an ongoing to determine individual remuneration packages within that basis to ensure that members are able to discharge their duties.
framework for the executive directors and certain senior employees Throughout the year, the committee was assisted in its work by to oversee the administration of the Companys incentive , an independent firm of remuneration schemes: and consultants who were appointed by, and report exclusively to, the to review directors expenses committee.
 had no other material all of which it carries out on behalf of the board.
involvement with the Company or Group during the year.
The company secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
In addition, The committee is authorised to seek information from any director or the committee received recommendations from the chief executive in employee of the Group and co-opt any resources including external relation to remuneration of executive directors and senior managers.
professional assistance it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
Meetings of the committee are attended by the chief executive and the company secretary, neither of whom do so as of right and who Minutes of all meetings of the committee are circulated to all do not attend when their own remuneration is being discussed.
directors, and supplemented by a verbal update from the committee chairman at the next board meeting, identifying any material matters Activities of the remuneration committee which arose from the committees work.
The committee presents a The committee normally meets four times annually, and reports its summary of its activities to shareholders and other interested parties material findings to the next board meeting.
The principal business of by means of this report, and the committee chairman attends the these meetings is: annual general meeting to answer any questions on the committees activities.
March consideration of option grants or LTIP awards to be made, review of projected short-term incentives for the current year, review Composition of the remuneration committee of directors expenses for the quarter to end December.
All independent directors, with the exception of the chairman of the board, are eligible to become members of the committee.
The board is empowered to appoint or remove members.
Any two members of the committee form a quorum.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 15 May: consideration of option grants or LTIP awards to be made after remuneration of the New Code, which have been applied as noted announcement of the interim results, including agreement of the in this report.
The Company complies and has throughout the year attaching performance condition, review of current policies and complied with all of the principles and provisions of both the Old practices with advisors, agreement with management of Code and New Code.
Importantly, no director plays any part in remuneration policy for the financial year in prospect, review of setting his own remuneration.
directors expenses for the quarter to end March.
Remuneration policy and practice September: consideration of option grants or LTIP awards to be Non-executive directors made, review of projected short-term incentives for the current year The board, with the benefit of independent professional advice, and outline scheme design for the new financial year, review of determines the fees of the non-executive directors.
When deciding directors expenses for the quarter to end June.
an appropriate level of fee for each non-executive director, the board considers the responsibility and time commitment required of each November: consideration of option grants or LTIP awards to be individual, taking into account the number of meetings each attends, made, salary review for executive directors and senior executives, the time required for reading board and other papers, their approval of detailed short-term incentive scheme design for the membership or chairmanship of board committees or in the case of financial year, approval for payment of short-term incentives for the Sir John Craven chairmanship of the board, and the significant prior year, approval of offer of deferred annual bonus plan awards overseas travel required of all non-executive directors by including settling the performance condition, approval of the the Company.
remuneration report and any relevant AGM business, consideration of offer of savings-related share options, review of directors Executive directors expenses for the quarter to end September.
The remuneration committees objective is to provide the Group with a remuneration policy and framework enabling it to attract, retain In addition to the routine business described above, the committee and motivate executive directors of the required quality, but without also undertook the following activities during the year and in the paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
In setting the period to the date of this report in discharging its responsibilities: remuneration of individuals within this framework, the committee Approval of the terms and conditions of Brad Mills contract seeks to give the executive directors every encouragement to of employment enhance the Companys performance whilst ensuring that they are Review of a report on pay benchmarking for the senior fairly, but responsibly, rewarded for their individual contributions.
It management team in South Africa also takes into account levels of pay and rates of annual increase Review of executive directors pension provision elsewhere in the Group.
The committees policy is built on the Detailed consideration of the design of the new long term incentive following principles: arrangements, and assessment of the feedback received from that base pay should not be excessive, and should therefore be at institutional investors and their representative groups during a around median market levels, but that upper quartile performance consultation exercise.
should lead to potential upper quartile total reward that total reward should be capable of reaching top quartile levels, Due to additional workload detailed above, the committee met six but such that a significant proportion of pay is at risk times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: that incentive reward must only be earned through achievement of demanding performance conditions, set in a manner consistent Number of with shareholders interests over all time periods.
The committee is meetings held Number of sensitive to the broader needs of the business and offers shortduring time meetings Committee member in office attended term incentives on a balanced scorecard approach to ensure that performance across a range of business-critical areas is measured Roger Phillimore 6 6 that the incentive plans, performance conditions and levels at Peter Godsoe 6 4 which payment is triggered should be designed with the objective Michael Hartnall 6 5 that they can be operated throughout the economic cycle Sir Alastair Morton to 1 September 2004 5 2 that the design of the incentive plans must not engender management actions that could expose the shareholders to The Combined Code undue risk The applicability of the Combined Code is explained on page 9.
This that accountability and transparency can be maintained and report, although prepared under the Old Code, also addresses the demonstrated at all times.
various requirements and recommendations relating to directors 16 16 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 The committee is alert to the danger of paying more than is Benchmarking methodology necessary, and monitors closely both basic pay and total The committee routinely analyses remuneration practices in two remuneration for executive directors and senior managers in the light groups of comparable companies, the first being UK listed of individual and corporate performance, to ensure that the businesses of comparable size and scope to Lonmin, the second Companys reward structures remain appropriate.
being direct international peers in the mining sector with whom we are in direct competition in the recruitment of executive talent.
The The committee also monitors the elements and amounts of aim of the remuneration committee is to ensure that our remuneration paid by comparable companies and takes account of remuneration framework is competitive with the latter without being relative performance.
Based on advice received from its consultants, out of step with the former.
In this way, the committee aims to avoid the committee believes that the overall values of the remuneration generating excessive reward for Lonmins directors and senior packages of the executive directors are broadly comparable to those executives.
awarded by peer group companies.
Performance graphs The committee has proposed, and the board has endorsed, a The primary role of the directors is to deliver value to shareholders, remuneration strategy based on a carefully balanced blend of fixed and it is against this backdrop that their remuneration must be pay comprising basic pay, benefits in kind and membership of an assessed.
The graphs below show the value, at 30 September 2004, occupational pension scheme and performance-related pay of 100 invested in Lonmins shares five years previously, compared comprising participation in the short term incentive arrangements, a with the current value of the same amount invested at the same date deferred annual bonus plan and either the award of shares under the in the FTSE All Share index and the FTSE Mining Sector, assuming Companys long-term incentive plan or the grant of executive share dividends are reinvested in each case.
The Company is a constituent options.
Full details of each element of the proposed remuneration of both these indices, and the board believes that these comparisons package are set out below.
For the year ended 30 September 2004, most fairly illustrate the Companys performance in delivering value to short-term incentives amounted to 58% of guaranteed pay being shareholders relative to both the market as a whole and its UK listed salary plus benefits in kind.
Ultimately, the committee believes that the interests of the directors and senior managers will best be aligned with those of shareholders by requiring that personally significant shareholdings are built up and retained.
For this reason, the board has introduced a shareholding policy, which is explained fully below.
220 220 200 200 180 180 160 160 140 140 120 120 100 100 80 80 60 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Lonmin Lonmin FTSE Mining FTSE all share Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 17 Directors remuneration For the year ended 30 September 2004 the cash costs of the directors remuneration was as follows: Other Total for Total for Salary Benefits Short-term see notes year to year to or fees in kind incentives to table 30.9.
The amount listed under other in the table is a cash payment to Mr Mills in partial compensation for the loss of long-term share incentives consequent upon his resignation from the employment of BHP Billiton.
The Company also entered into a co-investment plan with him as part of this settlement, further details of which are set out on page 20.
2 Edward Haslam retired from the board on 26 March 2004 and the data above therefore relates to a period of approximately six months.
3 Peter Ledger was appointed to the board on 21 November 2002, and the comparative data therefore relates to a period of approximately ten months.
In addition to the amounts shown above, in September 2004 the Company bought out the rights of 266 employees in South Africa to receive continuing medical aid payments beyond their normal retirement date, on a basis devised by independent consulting actuaries.
Mr Ledger was one of those who surrendered this benefit and received the sum of 36,608.
4 Michael Hartnall was appointed to the board on 8 May 2003, and the comparative data therefore relates to a period of approximately five months.
5 Sam Jonah retired from the board on 26 April 2004 and the data above therefore relates to a period of approximately seven months.
The amount listed under other in the table is an ex gratia payment of 500,000 made to Dr Jonah upon his resignation from the board, consequent upon the sale of the Companys interest in Ashanti to AngloGold, in recognition of his contribution to Lonmin over the twelve years that he served on the board, most of which were in an executive capacity.
6 Sir Alastair Morton died on 1 September 2004 and the data above therefore relates to a period of approximately eleven months.
7 No director received any expense allowances or any compensation for loss of office during the year.
8 Although the Groups functional currency is US dollars, these figures are stated in sterling as the directors emoluments are predominantly paid in this currency.
Fixed pay for executive directors and senior executives independent financial planning and tax advice, accommodation in Basic pay London and with a number of flights in view of the fact that his family Whilst the remuneration committee tends to have regard to overall currently reside in the USA.
The Company also provides compensation remuneration, including performance-related elements, individuals in lieu of pension benefits for Mr Mills, which is included under benefits inevitably focus on headline basic pay, especially at the point of in kind in the table.
Finally, the Company purchases permanent health recruitment.
For this reason, the Company needs to offer salaries insurance in respect of all senior employees in the London office, at around median market levels so that it is able to attract and including the UK-based executive directors.
retain suitable directors and executives, but without paying more than is necessary.
Pensions Defined benefit arrangements Ian Farmer, John Robinson and, to Benefits in kind the date of his retirement, Edward Haslam are members of the Benefits in kind for the executive directors comprise the provision of Lonmin Superannuation Scheme, an Inland Revenue approved final a fully-expensed car or, in South Africa, a car allowance, the salary scheme which provides benefits for all UK employees of provision of annual health checks and private medical insurance and, Lonmin Plc.
The aim of the scheme is to accure a pension of 2 3 of in the case of Mr Haslam and Mr Farmer, a childrens education final pensionable salary over the individuals career, subject to a allowance.
Mr Mills and, to the date of his retirement Mr Haslam, also minimum of 20 years service being possible.
Normal retirement age benefited from life assurance in excess of the Inland Revenue for all members in service at or after 1 April 1998 is 60: members in earnings cap.
Mr Mills was also provided with a limited amount of service prior to that date can opt to retire at 65.
18 18 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 The scheme is fully funded, when assessed on a conservative after retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members ongoing funding basis.
Active members contribute 5% of pensionable pre-commutation pension would be payable, revalued to the date pay being basic salary less an amount equal to the basic state of death.
If the members death occurs within five years of pension to the scheme and the Company has contributed in line with retirement, the balance of the five years unpaid pension would also the recommendations of the scheme actuary during the year, as be payable.
The Inland Revenue earnings cap restricts both pension and life assurance benefits for higher paid employees who became members Commutation of pension is permitted at retirement, so enabling of their scheme on or after 1 June 1989.
It does not apply to Ian members to exchange part of their pension for a tax-free lump sum, Farmer and John Robinson, each being members before that date.
subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Pensions accrued since 6 April 1997 The cap applied to Edward Haslam and as a consequence he are once in payment increased each year by the lower of 5% and benefited from an unfunded retirement benefit scheme operating on a the increase in UK retail price inflation RPI.
Pensions in excess of defined benefits basis, which is included in the data disclosed below.
any Guaranteed Minimum Pension accrued prior to 6 April 1997 will As noted above, the cap applies to Brad Mills as regards life increase by the lower of three per cent and the increase in RPI.
assurance and the premium paid is included within benefits in kind in the remuneration table.
In the event of death: whilst in service, a lump sum equal to four times salary is payable Prior to joining the UK scheme on 12 November 1999, Mr Haslam together with a pension to a qualifying spouse or dependant of was a member of The Lonmin Superannuation Scheme Overseas.
two-thirds of the pension that would have become payable to the This plan was established in Jersey to provide benefits broadly similar member at age 60.
In certain circumstances where there are young to those under the UK scheme for those directors and senior children or children in full-time education or vocational training, an executives allowance may also become payable to them of the Group employed overseas.
Mr Haslam had accrued benefits in after leaving service but prior to retirement, a pension would be this scheme as a deferred member, which are included in the payable to a qualifying spouse or dependant numerical disclosures.
Further details of the executive directors defined benefit pension entitlements are: Transfer value Accrued of accrued Increase in Additional pension at pension at transfer value pension 30.9.
04 Employee net of earned in or earlier of accrued or earlier Increase contribution inflation and the year date of pension at date of in transfer paid in employees 1 2 3 4 net of inflation retirement 30.9.
There were no changes to the basis on which benefits accrued during the year.
2 The pension entitlement shown above is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60, but based on service to 30 September 2004.
The normal retirement date for Ian Farmer is 25 March 2022 and for John Robinson is 4 August 2014.
3 The increase in transfer value represents the additional capital amount necessary to fund the increase in the accrued pension that the director would be entitled to take with him as part of the total transfer value, were he to leave the Company and move his benefits to another scheme.
The figure therefore reflects prevailing market conditions at the date on which it is evaluated.
For clarity, the transfer value is not a sum due to the director.
4 This adjusts the increase in transfer value to reflect both inflation of 3.1% and the fact that the director has shared in the funding of the increased pension provision by contributing 5% of his pensionable pay to the scheme.
5 Edward Haslam retired on his normal retirement date of 17 April 2004 and the closing figures quoted in the table refer to that date.
As at 30 September 2003, Mr Haslam had accrued pension benefits of 87,138 pa and a cash lump sum of 725,575.
The pension put into payment on 17 April 2004 was 92,384 pa as shown in the table, and a cash lump sum of 769,105 was payable in addition, of which 508,961 was paid by the Group in discharge of an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits promise, which had accrued during Mr Haslams long service with the Group.
Due to the complex nature of his pension promise, the figures as at 30 September 2003 have been restated to reflect the proportion of pension he sacrificed to provide a cash lump sum on retirement, in order to enable a meaningful comparison to be drawn.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 19 The pension entitlements shown exclude any benefits that might be Personal objectives 20% four or more projects which are attributable to additional voluntary contributions.
judged to be of material importance to securing the Companys future and which could be objectively assessed.
Defined contribution arrangements Peter Ledger is a member of the Sentinel Mining Industry Retirement Fund, an industry-wide For each element, three levels of attainment were set threshold defined contribution plan established in South Africa.
Members being the minimum level of attainment for which the committee contribute 7.5% of their salaries and their employer contributes a felt a payment could be warranted, target being based on the total of 20.52%, which the fund uses to provide retirement, disability Companys budget and stretch representing a significant level of and death benefits.
For the year ended 30 September 2004, these outperformance and also acting as a cap on the bonus due for that employer contributions amounted to 31,722 R376,473.
The scheme design provided for payment of 75% of base salary to executive directors 100% in the case of the chief Pensions generally No element of any directors remuneration executive for overall performance at the target level, with threshold other than basic salary is pensionable.
Except as disclosed above, and stretch for each element being 75% and 150% of the target the Company has given no undertakings to arrange or bear the cost level respectively.
of any other pension benefits for any director.
No former director enjoys pension benefits in excess of those provided, in accordance All results have been independently reviewed including where with the provisions of the trust deeds and rules, to all members of appropriate scrutiny by the external auditors and the committee has the relevant scheme.
subjected the scorecard to a detailed assessment before authorising payment.
For the year under review, individual bonuses due were The committee is monitoring the Pensions Bill and the Inland largely at or around the target level.
Of the bonus resulting, 2 3 is Revenue proposals on their tax treatment, and the gradually settled in cash and a minimum of 1 3 on an after tax basis is unfolding debate on these issues.
At this time, no detailed proposals invested in the Companys deferred annual bonus plan on behalf of have been considered by the committee as to how best the the executive concerned.
Company can treat pensions within its remuneration framework.
For the time being, therefore, the current arrangements will remain Of necessity, the design of bonus plans will evolve from year to year, in full force and effect.
in line with the Companys strategic needs.
The committee monitors the competitive environment and will devise amended or new plans Performance-related pay for executive directors and in future years to ensure that the Company can continue to recruit, senior executives retain and motivate the most able senior executives, and that they Short-term incentive arrangements are given the clearest possible incentive to deliver exceptional value The committee believes that participation in a short-term incentive to shareholders.
However, the plan for the year to 30 September scheme enhances the focus of the executive directors and key senior 2005 is almost identical in design to that of the prior year, save executives by providing a meaningful incentive to out-perform.
During that the component weightings have been varied on an individual basis.
the year, and as signalled in last years remuneration report, the cash bonus scheme first introduced for all directors in 2002 was further Deferred annual bonus plan developed into a balanced scorecard system.
As noted above, a minimum of one third of the net cash bonus due to each executive is invested in this plan, with executives able to The scorecard for the year measured performance under four broad elect to invest any amount up to the whole of their net bonus.
headings, each comprising at least three measures, being as follows The funds invested are used to buy Lonmin shares in the open the weighting generally attaching to each component is quoted as a market via a trust, administered independently of the Group.
At the percentage of overall bonus opportunity : date the shares are purchased, the trustees make a matched award SHEC matters 15% relating to number of fatalities, community to the executive which, subject to the attainment of performance satisfaction with Lonmin as a neighbour, and the Companys conditions, could enable matching of the number of shares bought management of environmental risks.
by the executive of up to one for one, on an after tax basis.
Shareholder alignment 45% comprising earnings before interest The purpose of the plan is therefore to provide directors and and taxation, economic value added and free cash flow.
executives with a direct personal stake in the delivery of value to Production and growth 20% based on primary production of shareholders, and to ensure that the interests of management platinum, unit cost control in local currency terms and the efficiency and shareholders are demonstrably and fully aligned.
of the capital expenditure programme.
20 20 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 The performance criterion attaching to any awards under this plan is An award under this plan entitles the recipient to receive shares at identical to that applied under the long-term incentive plan, save that no cost, subject to attainment of a stretching performance condition.
there is a different vesting schedule, being: This compares the total return accruing to Lonmin shareholders over three years assuming dividend re-investment TSR with that of Percentage of thirteen mining or mining-related companies, being: Level Relative TSR reward released Anglo American plc Threshold 50th percentile median 50% Anglo American Platinum Corporation Limited Target 60th percentile 75% AngloGold Ashanti Limited Stretch 75th percentile upper quartile 100% Aquarius Platinum Limited BHP Billiton plc No awards were made during the year or to the date of this report, Engelhard Corporation as the first cycle of the short-term incentive arrangements has only Gold Fields Limited now ended, and the offer of participation in this plan can only follow Impala Platinum Holdings Limited completion of the year-end audit and confirmation of the bonus to Inco Limited be paid.
Johnson Matthey plc Rio Tinto plc Co-investment plan WMC Resources Limited The deferred annual bonus plan forms the basis of a co-investment Xstrata plc.
plan entered into with Brad Mills in partial compensation for the loss of his long-term share incentives upon leaving the employment of There is a single test only, three years after the date of award, with BHP Billiton to join the Company.
Mr Mills is the sole participant in three levels of attainment: threshold, target and stretch, and straightthis arrangement which applied from his date of appointment, and line interpolation between these points.
The potential reward profile under which the Company paid 1,205,994 into its employee benefit is as follows: trust on 19 May 2004.
The trustees applied this money to the purchase of 124,362 Lonmin shares in the open market on the same Percentage of Level Relative TSR reward released date, which will be held in trust for three years and are at risk of forfeiture if his employment is terminated by the Company with Threshold 50th percentile median 35% cause during that period.
The trustees made a matching award of Target 70th percentile 50% up to a maximum of 104,869 Lonmin shares to Mr Mills having a Stretch 92nd percentile 100% matching value at the time the plan was first agreed, which may be transferred to him at the end of the three-year period, if stretching This condition was chosen as it most closely aligns the individual performance conditions are met.
Half of the award is linked to the participants interests with those of shareholders.
TSR growth target used in the Companys Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and must at least equal the median of the comparator group On 20 July 2004 the first awards were made under this plan to all with the vesting of the other half linked to absolute growth in the four executive directors, and a number of senior executives.
The Companys share price over the period which must be at least share price on that date was 949p.
None of the awards have vested 20%.
A vesting schedule attaches to each part of the performance and the performance conditions will be assessed on 20 July 2007. condition, and the maximum award can only vest for performance at Details are as follows: the most stretching levels on both tests, being total shareholder return in the first quartile and share price growth of 50% over the Director Maximum number of shares contained in the award performance period.
Participation in this plan is not pensionable.
Ian Farmer 26,773 Peter Ledger 27,831 Long-term incentive plan Brad Mills 78,451 This plan is designed to ensure that the Company can offer longJohn Robinson 30,266 term incentives to executive directors and senior managers that do not rely on share price appreciation to deliver the desired benefit, as Executive share option schemes is the case with traditional share option schemes.
The committee Eligibility to participate in these schemes is not subject to a believes that it is vital to be able to offer such incentives to ensure performance criterion, and executive directors are therefore eligible that those best placed to deliver value for shareholders have a direct to receive a grant of options, subject to two caveats: personal interest in so doing.
the rules of the scheme preclude the grant of an option to anyone in the final year of employment before retirement Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 21 the Company has previously indicated that it would not normally that Lonmin can continue to retain and motivate the best people in make an award under the LTIP and grant an option to anyone in the South African PGM industry.
Further information on the the same year.
performance condition is given in note 23 to the accounts.
No options were granted to the executive directors during the year.
The Company routinely monitors whether these performance conditions have been met by reference to data supplied by The purpose of the scheme is to provide directors and employees independent external advisers.
with an incentive to deliver value to shareholders and, by exercising their option, to benefit directly from their contribution to furthering the Lonmin Plc Share Plan interests of the Group.
Since 1994, this has been achieved by There is a limited availability of proven and experienced managers in making the exercise of options by all participants subject to South Africa, which generates a need for specific retention stretching but realistic performance conditions relating to the delivery arrangements.
To this end, in September 2001 the Company of value to shareholders, which must be met before the option can introduced the Lonmin Plc Share Plan, under which shares are be exercised.
Details of these for the Companys various executive conferred on selected key managers of Lonmin Platinum but not the share option schemes are as follows: Company over a five-year period.
For administrative and other reasons the trust has not allocated shares outright to participants Options granted before 1994 in common with virtually all plans at but instead granted options, of which those over 323,280 shares are that time, and in full accord with best practice then in force, exercise outstanding, at a price of 0.01 per share.
This is designed as an was not subject to attainment of a performance condition.
employee retention scheme, although there is an inherent incentive element since participants will benefit from any increase in the Options granted in or after 1994 but before 1998 exercise was Lonmin share price.
Following the introduction of the deferred annual subject to attainment of the performance condition that, over a bonus plan and long-term incentive plan, no further awards are consecutive three-year period, the total return to shareholders was intended to be made under this scheme.
greater than the total return on the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index during the same period.
That condition was attained during 2000 Peter Ledger was granted and exercised options under this plan and the options granted during this period became exercisable.
prior to his appointment as a director and the resulting shares are included in the table of shareholdings on page 7.
No other directors Options granted in or after 1998 but before 2002 exercise was participate in this arrangement.
subject to attainment of a similar performance condition.
However, to relate the condition specifically to the industry in which we operate Sharesave this required that the total return to shareholders over a consecutive The Company offers an Inland Revenue approved savings-related three-year period must be greater than the total return on the Mining share option scheme to all UK-remunerated employees, including Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices.
The conditions certain of the executive directors.
Under this scheme, the participant attaching to the options granted in 1998, 1999 and 2000 were enters into a savings contract and in return is granted an option over attained in 2001, 2002 and 2003 respectively and these options the Companys shares to be funded by the balance on their savings became exercisable.
The condition attaching to options granted in account at the end of the contractual savings period.
The option price 2001 has not yet been satisfied and these options have not become may, at the boards discretion, be at a discount of up to 20% to the capable of exercise.
prevailing mid-market price at the date of invitation.
The Company has historically granted all such options with a 20% discount, including Options granted in or after 2002 whilst exercise remains subject that granted to John Robinson during the year and reflected in the to achievement of total shareholder return greater than that on the table overleaf.
Mining Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share Indices, this must be achieved in one of the periods of three, four, five or six years Share schemes generally following the date of grant, in each case relative to a fixed base year.
Except under the savings-related share option schemes and the These options were granted, in the main, to our management team Lonmin Plc Share Plan, no options have been granted that have an in South Africa where there is severe competition for talent at all exercise price at a discount to the market price at the time the levels of the business.
The options play a pivotal role in retention and exercise price was set.
No options have been granted to nonour primary concern is how attainable the incentive reward will prove executive directors.
Directors are strongly encouraged to hold the to be in practice.
The remuneration committee is satisfied that the shares issued to them upon the exercise of options.
offer of a limited amount of re-testing is a prudent step to ensure 22 22 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2004 The options held by directors over ordinary shares of the Company are set out in the table below: Number of shares under option Options exercised 30.09.04 or earlier 1 date of Scheme Date from Date on Notional 01.10.03 resignation Exercise and which which Exercise Market pre-tax 3 4 Shares of Shares of price performance Date of normally first option Date of Number price price gain 2 US$1 US$1 Pence condition grant exercisable lapses exercise of shares Pence Pence Ian Farmer 60,000 60,000 668.5 b 2 8.6.
09 121,986 115,886 Notes: 1 The share option schemes under which these options were granted are: a The Lonmin Share Option Scheme 1994 b The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme formerly The Lonmin Overseas and Associate Share Option Scheme 1994 c The Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994.
2 The performance conditions are fully explained in the narrative above, but are briefly: 1 TSR exceeds that achieved on the FTSE All-Share index over any 3 years 2 TSR exceeds that achieved on the FTSE mining sector over any 3 years 3 TSR exceeds that achieved on the FTSE mining sector over 3, 4, 5 or 6 years 4 No performance condition is attached to sharesave options 3 The market price is the closing middle market quotation for Lonmin shares on the date of exercise.
4 The notional pre-tax gain is the difference between the market price and the exercise price.
The total notional pre-tax gains made by directors exercising options during the year was 266,039 2003 66,938.
This figure is notional only as Mr Robinson retained the shares issued to him upon exercise of his option and may be subject to capital gains tax on any sale.
5 Subsequent to his resignation as a director, Edward Haslam exercised the options granted to him in 2000 and 2001.
The remuneration committee has exercised its discretion to allow him a period of twelve months from his date of leaving employment in which to exercise his remaining options, as reflected in the table above.
6 Although he was latterly a non-executive director, Dr Jonah was permitted to retain options granted to him during the term of his executive directorship.
No options were granted to him whilst he was a non-executive director.
7 Save as disclosed above, no options were held by directors, or were exercised or lapsed during the year.
There were no changes from 30 September 2004 to the date of this report.
8 The closing middle market quotation for the Companys ordinary shares, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 1095p on 30 September 2004, and the price ranged between 910p and 1245p during the financial year.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 23 Directors shareholding obligation The remuneration committee would be responsible for settling any Ultimately, the committee believes that the most powerful way of payment to be made if a directors employment ended, and would ensuring that the actions of the directors are best aligned with have full regard to the provisions of the Combined Code and other shareholders interests is for the directors to build up and retain components of best practice in this area.
The committee would have personally significant holdings of the Companys shares.
As a matter regard to the individuals legal duty to mitigate their loss when of policy, the board expects all directors to acquire a shareholding settling any compensation due following termination of employment.
including vested but unexercised share incentives, over the five years to 30 September 2008, equal in value to 100% of their basic The non-executive directors are each appointed for a fixed period of pay or, in the case of non-executive directors, fees, and 150% in three years, subject to the provisions of the Companys articles of the case of the chief executive.
In this way, shareholder value association for retirement by rotation and for earlier cessation for any becomes a paramount principle underlying all board decisions, since other reason.
No compensation would be payable to non-executive real personal wealth will be at stake.
Failure to achieve these targets directors for loss of office, save for any arrears of fees.
may result in exclusion from participation in some or all of the incentive schemes that the Company operates.
Details of the Non-Group directorships directors shareholdings are set out in the directors report on page 7.
Save as noted below, no executive director holds any executive directorship or appointment outside the Group.
It is both the Service contracts Companys policy, and generally a requirement of the individuals The Company complies fully with the provisions of the new contract of employment, that no executive director may take up Combined Code relating to service contracts.
such an appointment without the approval of the board.
Ian Farmer is employed under a contract with the Company dated The board believes that in the right circumstances the holding of 15 October 2001, and John Robinson holds a contract with the non-executive directorships and similar appointments by executive Company dated 1 April 1999 most recently amended by a variation directors can be useful and appropriate if they help those involved dated 15 October 2001.
These are identical rolling contracts gain additional skills and experience, or promote the interests of the terminable on 364 days prior written notice given by either the Group, and do not necessitate an excessive time commitment.
Company or the individual, save for gross misconduct and certain Whilst it would be considered on a case-by-case basis, any other circumstances which may result in summary dismissal.
In the individual holding such a role outside the Group would generally be event of termination, the Company is entitled to impose a period of permitted to retain any fees or other payments relating to that gardening leave of up to six months, if it so chooses.
Edward Haslam was employed until his normal retirement date, Ian Farmer is a non-executive director of the International Platinum 17 April 2004, under a service contract with the Company dated Association and Furuya Metals Co. Ltd, a Japanese company 18 October 2002, which is in identical terms to those of Messrs undertaking significant research and development into uses for Farmer and Robinson.
PGMs in which Lonmin has an equity investment.
He currently acts as the interim chief executive of Incwala Resources Pty Limited, Peter Ledger is based in South Africa and has a contract with the although the search for a permanent successor is currently well Group dated 6 October 1988, most recently amended by a variation advanced.
Mr Farmer does not receive any remuneration in respect dated 25 November 2002.
He is employed on a rolling contract, of his services to any of these organisations.
terminable on 364 days prior written notice by either the Company or the individual.
Brad Mills is employed under a service agreement dated 4 February 2004.
In order to secure his services, it was agreed that during the Roger Phillimore first year of his appointment, the notice period would be 24 months Chairman, remuneration committee from the Company and 18 months from Mr Mills, each reducing by one month for every complete month of employment, and that after the first anniversary of his appointment being 26 March 2005 the notice period would therefore be 12 months from the Company and 6 months from Mr Mills.
The contract also contains provisions for gardening leave and payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
