02 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans statement Transforming the Group for success in a digital world The transformation now being undertaken will ensure we maintainthe core values of the pastwhile equipping us to succeedin thefuture.
Lord Blackwell Chairman the core values of the past while equipping Overview and strategy us to succeed in the future.
It will also ensure I am pleased to report that 2017 has been we use all our capabilities across the Group another successful year with significant to serve our customer needs seamlessly as progress both financially and strategically.
an integrated financial service provider.
The We have continued to transform the Group pace and scale of this transformation will be to become a safer, more agile and customer challenging to every bank, but we have a focused organisation whilst increasing very strong foundation from which to move profitability.
As a result of this progress, the forward.
I am confident that our new strategy UK government was able to conclude its will provide the capabilities to continue share sale in May, more than recovering its to deliver for customers, colleagues and initial investment and allowing the Group shareholders and support the communities in to return to full private ownership.
landmark event is a tribute to the hard work of all our colleagues in recent years.
Capital return The UK financial services sector continues to As a result of the financial progress in the face a number of near term challenges.
The year, I am pleased to announce that the Board economic environment remains uncertain, has recommended a final ordinary dividend the level of regulatory change remains high, of 2.05pence per share, bringing the total competition continues to be fierce and ordinary dividend for 2017 to 3.05pence per the pace of technological change requires share, an increase of 20 per cent on last year.
continuing innovation while posing new threats In addition the Board intends to implement a from data and cyber security.
This reinforces share buyback of up to 1 billion.
This is in line our conviction that our differentiated, with the Groups policy to deliver a progressive customer focused, simple and low risk and sustainable ordinary dividend whilst business model is the right approach.
It has distributing surplus capital when appropriate helped us deliver over the last few years and to do so.
will, I believe continue to do so going forward.
However, the rapid pace of technological Our purpose change also brings new opportunities to The strong motivation for all of us in Lloyds is improve our service to customers with the central role we play in Britains economy faster, more convenient and more extensive as the UKs leading financial services provider.
propositions tailored to meet their needs.
We are clear our purpose as a Group is to Help To meet our customer needs effectively in Britain Prosper.
This means not only providing this new world we will need to transform our outstanding service to our customers, but also business operations while building on our responding to the UKs social and economic traditional strengths.
As a Board we have issues which we believe we are best placed spent considerable time over the past two toaddress.
years discussing the path we need to follow to succeed as a Bank of the Future.
This We are enormously proud of this role.
provided a solid base for us to develop the Through our products and services, we have next phase of our strategy with the senior been helping the people, businesses and management team.
The transformation we communities of Britain for more than 250years.
have now embarked on will ensure we maintain But we want to do even more: we want to Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 03 Helping Britain Prosper and our contribution to the UK As the UKs leading financial services provider we are making a significant impact on the UK economy Colleagues Communities Payments Tax Lending Dividends O ne of the largest 58m given to 14 trillion 2.5bn taxes paid 65bn SME and 2.3bn paid employers in helpcommunities of payments in 2017 Mid Markets in dividends the UK in 2017 processed in 2017 lending portfolio to 2.4 million The UKs largest 7 x UK GDP shareholders 260,000 hours corporate tax Biggest mortgage volunteered payer lender in UK with c. 290bn portfolio be a bank for Britain.
Our Helping Britain I have also had the opportunity to travel Despite the uncertain environment, the Prosper Plan takes us beyond our business as around the country to see some of this work, Group has reported increased statutory and usual activities by using our scale and reach, speaking with teams who work directly with underlying profits, strong capital generation, and unites our Group to meet some bold vulnerable customers and visiting charities has announced an increased ordinary dividend commitments.
When Britain prospers we who receive support from our independent and intends to implement a share buyback.
prosper, so the Plan is an important investment Foundations.
As a result, the Groups total Group in our long-term success.
I am delighted that we have raised more than Performance Share GPS outcome has 4 million for our 2017-2018 charity partner increased to 414.7 million an increase of Corporate culture Mental Health UK in the past 12 months.
This is There is a growing recognition that mental after a 21per cent collective performance The Board and senior management have a health and financial health are closely linked adjustment, and reflects both strong vital role to play in shaping and embedding a and together we are creating the perfect performance against stretching Group healthy corporate culture, and this continued partnership to start developing this support for strategic objectives and issues impacting to be a focus in 2017.
Trust is the foundation people across the UK.
negatively on profitability and shareholder forour customer franchise and I believe that returns, customers, conduct and the our performance in the year has helped to Groupsreputation.
rebuild trust not just in the Group but in Directors the future stability and sustainability of the Total GPS outcome remains a small proportion We review the Boards composition and bankingsector.
of underlying profit at 4.7 per cent.
Cash GPS diversity regularly and are committed to awards are capped at 2,000 with additional Our responsible, inclusive and diverse culture ensuring we have the right balance of skills and amounts paid in shares and subject to ensures our colleagues consistently do the experience within the Board.
More right thing for customers.
Over the last year As announced previously, two of our information on how we ensure our approach to we have taken steps to become even more Non-Executive Directors, Anthony Watson remuneration supports our new strategy can transparent in the way we communicate and Nick Luff, stepped down following the be found in the Directors remuneration report with all our stakeholders.
Of course, there is AGM in May.
Anthony was succeeded as on page 97. always more to do and getting this culture Senior Independent Director by Anita Frew right is critical to our success in an increasingly and Nick as Audit Committee Chairman by competitive environment.
There is of course much more to do as we In June Lord Lupton joined the Board as an Customers face into a rapidly changing and challenging independent Non-Executive Director and world.
However, given our clear strategy and We aim to treat all our customers fairly and Chairman of the non ring-fenced bank.
James approach to transforming the business, our inclusively, making it easy for them to find, brings not just his experience of UK banking strong track record of delivery, our customer understand and access products that are right and capital markets, but also extensive focused values and the dedication and for them, whatever their circumstances.
During corporate advisory experience which will be commitment of our colleagues, we have all the year I have seen first-hand how the way we of particular value to our overall Commercial the components to succeed - building a great serve our customers has continued to improve, Banking activities.
British institution we can all be proud of.
with colleagues embracing new technology and ways of working to meet changing Remuneration customer needs.
Our approach to reward aims to provide a clear link between remuneration and delivery Communities of the Groups key strategic objectives, namely, I am extremely proud of the way we support becoming the best bank for customers whilst communities across the country and help delivering long-term, superior and sustainable Lord Blackwell British people and businesses prosper and returns to shareholders.
We believe in offering am pleased that so many of our colleagues Chairman fair reward where colleagues are rewarded have once again taken the time to volunteer for performance aligned to the long-term and raise funds for charities and community sustainable success of the business, our groups.
Over the course of 2017 our commitment to rebuilding trust and changing colleagues donated 260,000 hours of their the culture of the Group.
time by sharing their skills and experience to help make sustainable differences to local charities, schools, colleges and businesses.
