Chairmans letter While a number of challenges remain, the launch of the ringfenced bank expected at the beginning of April this year largely draws a line on large-scale restructuring, and we look forward to a more traditional business pattern, including the return to a more normal dividend pattern.
As I indicated last year, Barclays is one of the Since the crisis, we have refocused the largest restructuring situations in bank history.
business, halving the balance sheet by 1 While this was partly a consequence of the trillion and the staff by some 80,000, through Global Financial Crisis, it was also partly a the disposal of Non-Core assets.
We are also consequence of the doubling of the balance creating a new UK ring-fenced bank from sheet and the seven-fold increase in scratch, resolving and continuing to resolve derivatives across 2007 and 2008, multiple large legacy conduct matters, as well immediately prior to the full onset of the as preparing the Group for Brexit.
The enormous impact all of this has had on This, together with the subsequent the business, the Board and management, is a designation of the Group as globally systemic, sobering lesson.
and the consequent more than doubling of Over the past 6 years, reasonable underlying minimum regulatory capital ratios, meant the operating profits have been fully eroded in the need substantially to re-capitalise the Group, process.
Over this period, we saw 15.1bn in and resulted in a considerable proportion of litigation and conduct charges, 2.4bn in bank our portfolio becoming economically levies, 10.1bn in losses from Non-Core, a non-viable in the post-crisis environment.
2.5bn loss from the sell-down of Barclays The consequent recapitalisation involved the Africa, and 7.1bn in taxes at an average rate urgent raising of capital in 2008 now the of 65.
All of this, totalling 35.6bn over the subject of charges by the Serious Fraud six years, resulted in an aggregate attributable Office, a substantial reduction in capital and loss of 1.0bn over the same period.
Imagine balance sheet usage, and the disposal of a if all the underlying profits had gone to considerable portion of our international shareholders and to investment in growth.
Clearly, shareholders would prefer we declared higher dividends, but it should be remembered over the same period, we paid 5bn in dividends out of negative attributable profits.
02 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information While the bulk of our historical challenges are We continued with our Brexit preparations to Share price performance in 2017 was behind us, we do continue to face some ensure that Barclays can preserve our access disappointing, with the share price falling residual challenges.
These include the to the EU markets for our customers and from 223p to 203p over the calendar year.
We historical residential mortgage backed clients.
Barclays Bank Ireland, where we have a are working to reverse this in 2018.
Delivering securities matter in the US, the Serious Fraud banking license and have operated for nearly quality earnings above the cost of equity as Office prosecution in the UK as well as the 40 years, will provide us with a natural base well as returning to higher dividend levels, are consequence of Brexit.
This said, depending from which we can continue to provide necessary to generate a meaningful recovery on their scale and pacing, we believe we have products and services which require an EU in the share price.
This is the priority for 2018 the capacity to deal with them over time.
So, while a number of challenges remain, the As shareholders are aware, during 2017 The ultimate resolution of legacy conduct and litigation issues will allow underlying profit to launch of the ring-fenced bank Barclays UK Barclays disclosed a whistleblowing incident expected at the beginning of April this year involving allegations made in connection with fall to the bottom line to the benefit of the hiring of a senior management team shareholders.
This, together with the largely draws a line on large-scale restructuring.
We look forward to a more member.
After an internal investigation, the resolution of the whistleblowing issue, will Board determined that CEO Jes Staley also help remove some uncertainty which is traditional business pattern, including the return to a more normal dividend pattern, believed, mistakenly but in good faith, that it overshadowing the company.
was permissible to identify the author.
A planned to begin with the 2018 financial year.
The past few years have been a really tough detailed announcement on the issue was Turning to the 2017 financial year itself, this period for the Board and management, and made in April and the matter is now the was another critical year for Barclays.
Good bottom line results can obscure the real subject of an external investigation.
progress was made on a significant number of underlying progress that is being made.
The closure of the Non-Core business Despite the very significant achievements and would therefore like to thank the Board, the from the start of July marked a significant milestones passed during the year, our management team and all our staff for the milestone.
This business was formed in 2014 financial performance in 2017 highlights that enormous efforts they are making to secure in order to deliver the divestment of our further progress is required to deliver our recovery.
non-strategic assets and businesses, releasing acceptable returns to our shareholders.
Profit Finally, I would thank shareholders for their capital to support strategic growth in our Core before tax was 3.5bn, and although this was patience, and believe it will be rewarded.
The business and to strengthen the Groups capital a 10% increase on prior year, return on situation is more complex and difficult than position.
At its peak, the business comprised tangible equity was a negative 3.6% on a we had envisaged, and is taking longer than approximately 121bn of RWAs, representing statutory basis.
Excluding litigation and we hoped, but shareholders can rest assured 28% of the Groups total at the time and it has conduct, the loss on sale of our BAGL stake that we will continue to strive to deliver the been a significant achievement to reduce this and a re-measurement of DTAs, largely from performance and value creation that their to just c. 23bn by the time of its closure.
US tax reform, return on tangible equity patience deserves.
We also implemented the difficult decision to Fortunately, the losses we experienced last sell down our shareholding in Barclays Africa in 2017.
The changing regulatory requirements year from Non-Core, as well as the costs of John McFarlane structural reform, are unlikely to be repeated Chairman for global banks resulted in higher hurdles, making the ownership of the profitable going forward, and this, together with the profit improvement programme in the core African business uneconomic.
Therefore, we successfully sold down 33.7% of our business, should contribute towards improving returns.
remaining BAGL shareholding in the first half of the year.
We now own a residual 14.9% of Accordingly, the focus of management and the the issued share capital, consistent with Boards attention is on performance, regulatory commitments.
particularly that of the Corporate and 2017 also saw us make significant progress in Investment Bank in Barclays International.
terms of creating the new ring-fenced bank as There, performance in Markets, and in required by UK legislation.
This has been an particular Macro and Equities, was weak, driven enormous undertaking as we are in effect by difficult market conditions.
There have been creating a new bank comprising some significant management changes and action is 24 million customers.
We remain on track to being taken to improve profitability in this area.
set up this bank in the second quarter of 2018.
Barclays Consumer, Cards and Payments saw profits decline by 22% but still produced a As part of our Structural Reform requirements a Group Service Company has been respectable 16.7% return on tangible equity.
Barclays UKs profits were marginally up on successfully established which provides a wide range of operations, technology and the previous year generating 9.8% return on tangible equity.
functional services to the Group as a whole.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 03
