62 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE OPENING THOUGHTS FROM THE CHAIRMAN planned and structured.
On behalf of the Board, I thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication.
We appreciate their contribution to making the Company the success that it is.
Soumen Das very much hit the ground running as CFO when he arrived in January 2017 and the case study about his induction on page 71 will tell you more about his first few months.
He has been involved in a number of refinancings which has kept the Treasury and Finance teams busy throughout the year.
I believe that every board benefits from new thinking so along with Soumen, I am delighted to welcome Carol Fairweather to the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Carol joined us at the start of 2018 and her extensive retail and financial experience will be a great asset to us, particularly as we seek to help our customers to adapt to and thrive in the e-commerce revolution.
Details of Carols appointment process and her induction are set out on pages 76 and 73 respectively.
I am very much looking forward 2017 has been another successful GERALD CORBETT to working with her.
year for the Company where we have CHAIRMAN Margaret Ford recently informed continued to build on the strategy put the Board of her intention to retire as an in place in 2011.
The acquisition of a 50 independent Non-Executive Director at per cent interest in the APP portfolio the Companys AGM on 19 April 2018. we did not already own, and the Rights Margaret has done an excellent job for Issue, early in the year enabled us SEGRO as a Non-Executive Director, as to grow our portfolio and complete Chairman of our Remuneration Committee the largest volume of developments until last year and as our Senior Independent in the Companys history, whilst also Director.
She has made a significant significantly strengthening our balance contribution to the growth and success of sheet.
We were pleased that our strong the Company and we shall miss her wise performance was recognised with counsel.
We wish her well in the future.
entry into the FTSE 100 index in May.
SEGRO remains committed to maintaining Whilst this is not a business objective, a diverse Board and we are members of the we are mindful of the leadership 30% Club.
We shall remain mindful of the responsibility of being in this index along benefits of a diverse Board as we search for a with the increased public scrutiny this can suitably experienced Non-Executive Director bring at times.
It has been a time of change for the Board.
David Sleath continues to be an 2017 was my first full year as Chairman inspirational leader for the business.
Not only and an opportunity for me to get to see does he drive the strategy forward but he is more assets, meet some customers and instrumental in setting the culture of an open to spend time with the talented people and inclusive Company where employees are we have working for us.
I continue to empowered to feel part of One SEGRO.
be impressed with the quality of teams The Directors are keen to leave the across the whole business, especially their boardroom regularly and get out to see some commitment and their enthusiasm.
This year we had visits to Dsseldorf the employee conference in Barcelona and Paris where the local teams showed us which every employee was invited to attend.
some of their latest investments and some We had a lively and engaging debate about new developments.
In November, as part the business.
I am impressed with our of the Strategy Day, we had a tour of the employees intellectual rigour, as well as how logistics Golden Triangle in the UK Midlands, systematically matters are thought through, looking at big box warehouses we already 63 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Throughout the year, we complied with the Code which is the framework against which we measure our compliance with governance.
This Corporate Governance report follows the five main principles of the Code: LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS Where we describe the role of the Board, its work during the year and Where we set out the work of the Nomination Committee to ensure the role of the Directors.
that we have the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION Where we describe the work of the Audit Committee in ensuring that Where we detail the work of the Remuneration Committee and show the financial integrity of the Company is maintained.
how the Remuneration Policy has been applied throughout the year.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS Where we illustrate how we communicate with our shareholders and other stakeholders to ensure a good dialogue is taking place.
In each of the sections we explain how we have complied with the Code, and detail how its principles have been applied to the running ofthe business.
LOOKING FORWARD own and the land under development at particularly keen to ensure there was plenty SEGRO Logistics Park East Midlands Gateway.
of time to search for the right candidates.
Looking forward, the ever changing economic More information about the Strategy Day is On page 76 we set out the process to recruit and political environment will continue to on page 72.
occupy much of the Boards time.
From Brexit Our work on succession planning will to technological advances, we seek to ensure GOVERNANCE AT A GLANCE continue into 2018. that the business remains resilient and During the year, Martin Moore continues to adapt to new changes, including In this section we focus on Corporate completed his first three-year term with us the new rules and regulations which will come Governance and explain how the Board and the Committee considered renewing his into force with the implementation of the EU and its Committees have exercised effective appointment for a further three-year term.
We will also follow closely stewardship over the Groups activities It was agreed that he continued to be an the discussions around the proposed revised in the interests of shareholders and effective Non-Executive Director, made a Code being introduced by the FRC to reflect other stakeholders.
valuable contribution to the meetings and the changing business environment and the Governance is an important element of continued to demonstrate commitment to growing demand for sharper governance to our culture and permeates all of our decisions the role.
I am pleased to report that he has increase trust in business as a whole.
It is central to our business and agreed to continue to serve as Director for a I trust that you will find this Governance designed to create an environment where further three years.
The intention matters can be considered and decisions With the changes to the Board, we of this Report is to show you how the Board made at the appropriate level in the decided to defer the external evaluation is acting in the long-term interests of the organisation.
Good governance is about more for just a few months and it is currently Companys stakeholders.
Lasting success than box ticking and following the letter of underway.
I will report on the conclusions of goes hand in hand with good and effective the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the review next year.
The Board, as custodian of the the Code : it is about following the spirit and business, seeks to secure the long-term future principles of the Code, communication and RIGHTS ISSUE of the Company.
We are responsible to our information flows, appropriate challenge, trust shareholders, customers, employees and and respect, and open and honest debate in a In March 2017, we carried out a Rights other stakeholders for the performance of structured environment.
Issue to part fund the acquisition of a 50 per the Company and for promoting its success, cent interest in the APP portfolio we did not and it is a responsibility all at SEGRO take SUCCESSION already own, from our joint venture partner, very seriously.
Aviva, and to part fund our development As mentioned in my report last year, longerpipeline.
Many people throughout the term succession planning for the Nonbusiness were involved in this project and GERALD CORBETT Executive Directors would be a particular the Board and its Committees also played an CHAIRMAN area of focus for the Nomination Committee important role.
In 2019, two of our Non-Executive section we set out in case studies the role Directors will have been with us for nine of the Board and Committees in the Rights years and letters of appointment will be due Issue.
Further details of the Rights Issue itself for renewal for two others.
The Committee can be found on page33.
wanted an orderly transition and was
