com Chairmans statement Natural catastrophes shine a spotlight on the claims paying ability of insurers, The value of insurance and particularly the speed with which funds can be dispatched to those in wasbrought home to need.
However, the less high profile work millionsof people in 2017 of claims teams who focus on other lines of business plays an equally important role.
Beazley is often able to distinguish itself by the quality of the claims service provided for third party risks as well as first party risks: for many businesses a lawsuit can be just as damaging as a hurricane.
The board is pleased to announce a second interim dividend of 7.4p per ordinary share.
Together with the first interim dividend of 3.7p this takes the total dividends declared for 2017 to 11.1p per ordinary share 2016: first interim dividend of 3.5p, second interim dividend of 7.0p plus a special dividend of 10.0p, totalling 20.5p.
Since Beazleys stock market flotation in 2002, we have aimed to achieve dividend growth excluding special dividends of between 5% and 10%, a record we have maintained this year.
We identified a number of opportunities to invest further in the business in 2017, particularly in the growth of our specialty lines division outside the US.
Our long term approach to capital management is clear.
We do not hoard capital and we will continue to distribute excess capital Dennis Holt to shareholders if cash flow exceeds the Chairman opportunity to invest in profitable growth.
Beazley has a track record of premium In a year in which many insurers growth, even in challenging markets, The diversification of Beazleys and reinsurers are expected to post and in 2017 we delivered the high business once again showed underwriting losses, Beazley recorded single digit growth we are targeting, its value in 2017, enabling the a combined ratio of 99% 2016: 89% with gross premiums written increasing company to generate a return and a strong investment return of 2.9% 7% to $2,343.8m 2016: $2,195.6m.
Earnings per share were Profitable growth has proved steadily on average shareholders 25.0c 2016: 48.6c and net tangible harder for insurers to achieve in recent equity of 9% 2016: 18%, assets per share were 261.6c years as premium rates for short tail, despite recognising substantial 2016: 268.2c.
catastrophe exposed business have claims due to policyholders declined, but 2017s catastrophe events The value of insurance was brought have arrested these declines and affected by natural catastrophes home to millions of people in 2017 in the lines of business most directly in the second half of the year.
and Beazleys claims teams responded affected reversed them.
Beazley is swiftly, as they did in the wake of accordingly well placed for stronger comparably severe events in 2011. growth in 2018.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 17 Innovation is the lifeblood of a specialist Investments in technology have also Beazley has demonstrated an insurer, which must stay ahead of the underpinned Beazleys growth and these impressive ability to weather rapidly inevitable commoditisation that affects have increased significantly in recent shifting market conditions, as the past insurance products as much as any years.
2017 saw the establishment of year has once again demonstrated.
Beazley has a data and analytics strategic initiative, Davids experience and acumen give had notable successes in launching the performance of which will be me added confidence that the company products that are entirely new to world followed closely by the board.
will be well equipped to continue to grow markets, but innovation also consists profitably in the years ahead.
of bringing products developed in one Money has continued to pour into market to others.
This approach has so-called insurtech ventures in recent It has been a privilege to work with such informed the thinking behind the months, but the distinction that is a strong executive and non-executive geographic expansion of our specialty sometimes drawn in the media between team on the board and also to get to lines division, which began in earnest in disruptive startups and stodgy know so many talented individuals at 2017.
The team identified an opportunity incumbents oversimplifies and distorts many levels across the company.
It is to offer products that are market-leading the changes that are taking place.
The a clich but true that the success in the US such as our cyber, most successful businesses are likely of a service-oriented business such as management liability and medical to be those that combine the expertise Beazley depends on the quality of its malpractice policies to clients in of established insurers with new tools people and the culture that binds them Europe, Asia and Latin America.
and data sources that the insurtech together.
On both counts, Beazley should ventures are developing.
A priority for have a very successful future.
Most of the growth resulting from Beazley is to increase the volume of this strategy is likely to be organic, business that underwriters can handle but small scale acquisitions where without diminishing the focus they Dennis Holt there is an excellent strategic fit can can bring to bear on the more complex Chairman also contribute.
Advances in areas such as Creechurch Underwriters, a managing robotics can play an important role here.
7 February 2018 general agency in Canada that we have supported for many years, fell into this Board changes category.
Beazley now has an underwriting Clive Washbourn stood down from platform for growth in Canada which the Beazley board in July 2017.
I am would have taken far longer to establish extremely grateful to Clive for his organically.
exceptional contribution to the board over the past 10 years.
Clive will Another building block for future continue to provide a valuable service growth was put in place in July, when to Beazley by remaining head of our we received authorisation from the marine division.
Central Bank of Ireland to convert our long established Dublin-based reinsurance David Roberts joined the board in company Beazley Re dac into an November 2017.
I have now served insurance company Beazley Insurance two, three year terms as chairman of dac permitted to transact business Beazley and I am delighted that David throughout the European Union.
Planning will be succeeding me as chairman for this predated the British referendum following the annual general meeting vote to withdraw from the European in March 2018.
We can now offer prospective clients in continental Europe a choice of cover, backed by either the Dublin-based insurance company or by our Lloyds syndicates.
