Strategic Report Group Chairmans Statement With an international network covering 90% of global trade flows and a leading presence in the worlds fastest growing region, we are in a prime position to help our customers capitalise on broad-based global growth.
Board changes As I start my first full year as Group Chairman, I am very grateful to my predecessor, Douglas Flint, and to Stuart Gulliver for ensuring a smooth handover.
They steered HSBC through challenging waters during and after the global financial crisis, and renewed HSBCs reputation as one of the worlds strongest and safest international banks.
They have passed on a strong legacy.
My first responsibility as Group Chairman was to appoint a successor to Stuart who would be capable of building on his achievements while further enhancing the qualities that make HSBC Mark E Tucker Group Chairman unique.
With an exceptional record of managing a diverse range of international businesses and a deep understanding of HSBCs heritage and culture, John Flint was clearly the outstanding Our 2017 results demonstrate both the strength candidate.
The Board and I look forward to working and the potential of the Group.
A large increase closely with John and his management team.
in reported profit before tax reflected both a 2017 also saw other Board changes as we said healthy business and the non-recurrence of goodbye to Rachel Lomax, Sam Laidlaw and Paul significant items from 2016.
All three provided valuable service and wise businesses grew adjusted profits and our three counsel to the Board and I thank them warmly for main global businesses generated improved their advice and support.
I am especially grateful adjusted revenue.
to Rachel for her excellent work as the Senior Strong revenue growth more than covered the cost Independent Director and to Sam for his thoughtful of business investment, and increased lending laid leadership of the Nomination Committee.
Asia again contributed a substantial proportion of the Groups profits, particularly in Commercial Banking and Retail Banking and Wealth Management.
Together, this delivered an adjusted Group profit before tax of $21bn, up 11% on 2016.
This performance has enabled us to approve an unchanged fourth interim dividend of $0.21.
This brings the total dividend for 2017 to $0.51, representing a total shareholder return of 24% for 2017.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4 Group Chairmans Statement We expect the worlds major economies to show The year ahead reasonable growth in 2018, helped by relatively The Board is focused on sustaining resilience by low unemployment, recovering consumer enhancing reputation and performance.
We will confidence and improving trade.
Fears of a further develop our strategy to deliver value to hard landing in China have receded, and all of our stakeholders within a governance markets across Asia look set for a strong year.
framework that provides stability, prudence The anticipated conclusion of large regional andeffective oversight.
trade agreements in 2018, mostly involving Asian nations, also provides cause for optimism.
With an international network covering 90% of global trade flows and a leading presence in the worlds fastest growing region, we are in a prime As a well-diversified business underpinned position to help our customers capitalise on by historically stable revenue generation and this broad-based global growth.
significant capital strength, HSBC is well While we are optimistic about the prospects for the global economy, rising international tensions, equipped to manage the risks and uncertainty the threat of protectionism and a lack of inclusive growth all have the potential to disrupt economic inherent in todays world.
We continue to model and anticipate a wide range of scenarios as part of our day-to-day risk management, to cover unlikely but not impossible events.
As a well-diversified business underpinned by historically stable revenue generation and significant capital strength, HSBC is well equipped to manage the risks and uncertainty inherent in todays world.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | Group Chairmans Statement Supporting our people It is important not just to achieve good results, It is important not just to achieve good results, but to do so in a way that treats all of our but to do so in a way that treats all of our stakeholders employees, customers, regulators and shareholders in a fair and transparent way.
stakeholders in a fair and transparent way.
We are committed to holding ourselves to account in meeting that aim, and to being accountable to our stakeholders for our actions.
Transparency and disclosure As part of this commitment, the Board and I are Last year, we published a range of environmental, determined to ensure that HSBC remains a place social and governance ESG metrics to enable where all our people have the opportunity to investors and customers to assess our nonfulfil their potential in a nurturing environment financial performance.
The data we disclose will that encourages the right behaviour.
Our continue to evolve as we learn more about what stakeholders expect honesty and integrity and our stakeholders find useful and improve our we will continue to promote a culture in which ability to collect the necessary information.
people do the right thing.
We will publish our next ESG Update on our My special thanks are due on behalf of the Board website in April 2018. to each of the 229,000 people who work for HSBC We are also making our first disclosure under the around the world.
In my short time as Group terms of the Financial Stability Boards Task Force Chairman I have been enormously impressed by on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
This the effort, energies and ability of our people in can be found on page 27.
As one of the worlds each country I have visited.
These results are a largest international banks, we take seriously testament to their hard work and dedication.
our responsibility to help develop a voluntary, consistent and comparable system of climaterelated financial disclosure.
We intend to continue to expand and improve the quality and specificity of these disclosures, and to encourage all those who work with us to do the same.
Mark E Tucker Group Chairman 20 February 2018 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6
