Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Overview Chairmans statement 3 Chairmans statement as last year, and, on an unadjusted basis was 1.9x, compared with 1.8x last year.
Adjusted cash ow conversion was 96%, compared with 95% in 2016, with capital expenditure at 5% of revenues.
Share buybacks In 2017, we deployed 700m on share buybacks.
In 2018, we intend to deploy a total of 700m.
By February, 100m of this years total had already been completed, leaving a further 600m to be deployed during the year.
The Boards We continue to refresh the Boards.
In September 2017, we welcomed Suzanne Wood to the boards as a non-executive director.
Suzanne is Group Finance Director at Ashtead Group plc and brings extensive board experience on both sides of the Atlantic.
In 2018, Adrian Hennah will become Chairman of the Audit Committees, replacing Ben van der Veer, who will have been on the Boards for nine years in September 2018 and has been Chairman of the Audit Committees since 2010.
Sir Anthony Habgood Chairman Parent company structure We are proposing a set of measures that will further simplify our corporate structure into a single parent company.
We believe this We achieved good underlying is a natural next step for RELX Group, removing complexity and increasing transparency.
The changes will be cost and profit neutral revenue growth in 2017, and on an ongoing basis and will not impact the economic interests of any shareholder.
RELX NV shareholders will receive one new RELX PLC continued to generate underlying share in exchange for each RELX NV share held and will, following the additional listing of RELX PLC shares on Euronext Amsterdam, adjusted operating profit growth have the option of trading new RELX PLC shares on Euronext Amsterdam, priced in euros, and receive dividend payments in ahead of revenue growth.
RELX PLC will continue to have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and we will be applying for an additional proposing a set of measures that listing of RELX PLC on Euronext Amsterdam.
RELX NV ADRs will be converted one-for-one to RELX PLC ADRs which will continue to be will further simplify our corporate listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
There will be no changes to the locations, activities or stafng levels of RELX Group or its four structure into a single parent business areas.
The simplication is subject to the approval of both RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders.
We expect a circular to be company.
sent to shareholders in Q2 2018, with implementation in Q3 2018.
Corporate responsibility RELX Group continued to execute well on its strategic priorities We prioritise excellence in corporate governance across RELX aimed at achieving more predictable revenues, a higher growth Group.
In 2017, we advanced a more structured approach to prole and improving returns.
As a result, growth of underlying compliance training for employees in higher-risk roles and revenues was again 4%.
Underlying adjusted operating profits locations by creating a resource library with presentations on grew 6%, as we continued to grow revenues ahead of costs.
competition law, anti-bribery, anti-harassment, trade sanctions Adjusted earnings per share in constant currencies grew 7%.
and fostering a culture of compliance.
Over 2,400 colleagues Adjusted EPS expressed in sterling was 81.0p 12% or in euros received advanced in-person compliance training.
Reported earnings per share expressed in sterling Diversity and inclusion remain critical to our business to ensure we was 82.2p 56.3p and expressed in euros was 0.936 0.687. reect the diversity of our customers and communities.
Over 44% The difference in growth rates between the sterling and euro EPS of non-executive directors on the Board are women.
In the year, we reects the movement in exchange rates.
expanded our women in technology mentor pilot to include mentees Dividends in the US and China as well as the UK, and developed a new mentor We are proposing a full year dividend increase of 10% to 39.4p programme for high potential women.
for RELX PLC and 6% to 0.448 for RELX NV.
The difference in We focus on our unique contributions to society, such as fostering growth rates between the two dividends reects movement communities, applying our expertise, and using our convening in the sterling euro exchange rate since the payments a year power, to address key challenges across our market sectors.
The long-term dividend policy is unchanged.
We discuss our efforts to avoid human trafcking and slavery in Balance sheet our direct employment and our supply chain in our Modern Slavery With the majority of our debts dollar denominated, net debt was Act Statement, approved by the Board, and available on the RELX 4.7bn 5.3bn on 31 December 2017, compared with 4.7bn 5.5bn Group homepage.
last year, with the difference between the sterling and euro increases reecting movements in exchange rates.
Net debt EBITDA on a Anthony Habgood pensions and lease adjusted basis for 2017 was 2.2x, the same level Chairman
