Chairmans statement Chairmans statement 2017 was another year in which we saw the bank move closer to achieving sustainable profitability.
Our share price increased 20% division, with the remainder of the assets now folded back mainly into in the year, outperforming other main UK banks.
We also welcomed NatWest Markets.
the UK Treasury announcement in We also settled an action with the November 2017 to potentially restart Federal Housing Finance Agency the privatisation process by the end related to this banks participation in the of March 2019.
This announcement US subprime mortgage market in the showed confidence in our strategic run up to the financial crisis.
approach, the progress that we have made in making the bank safer and in There is, however, one major piece of a position to succeed as we approach a litigation we need to resolve in relation new era of disruption in banking.
Howard Davies to our past subprime mortgage activity, Chairman with the Department of Justice in the The bank made an operating profit United States.
At this point we cannot before tax of 2,239 million, and an say when that issue will be closed, attributable profit of 752 million, the as the timing is not in our gift, but we first full year profit since 2007. continue to hope to resolve it in the Progress in resolving legacy issues coming months.
We resolved a number of major legacy The treatment of some of our small issues during the year.
The Competition business customers between 2008 and Directorate of the European 2013 has been under scrutiny, and Commission announced that it had has received significant political and agreed a revised scheme to satisfy media attention.
The Financial Conduct the remaining State Aid obligations Authority FCA published a summary which were imposed on the bank in report into the historical operation of 2009.
The new scheme replaces the our former Global Restructuring Group need to divest the business formerly GRG and the full report by Promontory described as Williams & Glyn, and was published by the Treasury Select involves the creation of a capability fund Committee on 20 February 2017.
The to benefit challenger banks, alongside most serious allegations made against incentivised transfers of some of our the bank in an earlier report by Dr. small business customers.
The scheme Lawrence Tomlinson were not upheld.
is not only practical, it will enhance Promontory stated that they did not competition.
find that defaults were engineered to transfer business simply to generate Another potentially damaging reputational risk was the 2008 Rights revenue for RBS.
However, the bank was strongly criticised in the report and Issue litigation.
That has now been resolved.
The settlement announced in we acknowledge that we could have done better for many small business June 2017 brought the proceedings to an end.
I again apologise for the mistakes that were made during In 2017 we continued with the run down that time.
The attitudes to customers of our non-core bank, with legacy risk displayed by some staff were not weighted assets, excluding Alawwal, acceptable, and communication with reducing by 12.6 billion in the year.
We have, as a Given its reduced scale, in December result, refunded complex fees to many we announced the wind-up of this customers and established a complaints 06 scheme which is overseen by an to transfer some of our customers to the must respond to these changes.
This independent third party - retired High most appropriate post ring-fenced legal shift in behaviour, combined with our Court judge Sir William Blackburne, who entity.
This will allow us to continue to partnership with the Post Office, mobile is working through our cases.
The FCA serve them with little or no change to branches and Community Bankers, have described this as an appropriate their day-to-day banking.
The services means there are now more ways to response to these findings.
We have they use their local branch, sort code, bank than ever before.
provided a sum of 400 million for these account numbers and where relevant Our branches will remain key outlets redress schemes.
Relationship Manager will not change for customers and we are investing in as a result of the Ring-Fencing Transfer those that remain, to reflect the way Economy and Regulation Scheme and they will not need to do customers want to use them, typically In 2017 the UK economy continued to anything differently.
for financial advice related to buying a grow, albeit below its long-term trend home or starting a business rather than rate.
Inflation is currently running at Brexit for routine transactional banking.
around 3%, above the Bank of Englands While there is some more clarity on the 2% target.
In its latest outlook the Bank regulatory environment, the political Colleague engagement, diversity of England has indicated that rates may context remains uncertain, especially and inclusion have to rise somewhat sooner, and to a in relation to Brexit.
Since our business We are making good progress somewhat greater extent that they had is largely UK-focused, the impact on in improving the culture of the previously anticipated.
The Monetary RBS is not as significant as it is on many organisation.
Our annual colleague Policy Committee believes that inflation other banks.
However, in common with sentiment survey scores are the highest will still be above target three years them, we are preparing contingency they have been in ten years and there is from now when they expect price plans to maintain our Western generally a more positive outlook from pressures to be mounting, necessitating European business.
One option is to colleagues across the bank.
use our existing banking licence in the Netherlands to provide continuity of In 2017 we were recognised as the Surveys of business confidence service from NatWest Markets to our Diverse Company of the Year at increasingly point to longer term EU customers.
the National Diversity Awards: a Top uncertainty over how businesses will 10 Employer for Working Families: a structure their operations, once the Changing customer behaviour Times Top 50 Employer for Women and UK leaves the EU.
The depreciation of and disruption retained a gold rating for our work on sterling pushed up inflation but provided Our operating environment is also Race in Business in the Communitys a boost to UK exporters, giving them changing.
The UK financial services Race for Opportunity benchmark.
We the opportunity to reduce prices in sector is experiencing its most also have a Black, Asian and Minority overseas markets or to boost margins.
significant period of disruption for some Ethnic BAME focus on recruitment, With the International Monetary Fund time.
More accessible data, cheaper talent identification and promotion, IMF and Organisation for Economic technology, new competition regulation and have introduced explicit targets for Co-operation and Development OECD and shifting customer expectations BAME representation at senior levels pointing to improving global growth are the key drivers of change and in 2018. prospects in 2018, the UK economy are creating new challenges and could gain from this favourable opportunities for incumbent banks.
Today, for the first time, we have also tailwind, albeit the scale of these gains These drivers are enabling new published details of the average pay gap is uncertain.
In recent weeks, sterling challenger banks to compete more between male and female colleagues has appreciated against the dollar, but effectively, from a lower cost base, in the bank, which is 37.2%.
Gender remains weak against the euro.
There will be pay is markedly different to equal pay more external partnerships with others which looks at the difference in pay In terms of regulation it was good than we have seen before as we offer between men and women for similar to receive clarity on one of the most new products and services.
We are confident that we pay significant reforms following the created a Technology and Innovation our employees fairly and keep our HR financial crisis.
The Basel Committee Committee of the Board to oversee policies and processes under regular scrutinised the way in which banks and monitor RBSs strategic direction review to ensure we do so.
assess risk on their balance sheet, with in what has become one of the most the aim of bringing more consistency important areas of focus for the bank.
Our gender pay gap reflects an under and tighter controls.
The impact on RBS The Committee is chaired by Alison representation of women at senior of the package announced in December Davis.
Frank Dangeard and a new levels.
That is not a satisfactory position 2017 is likely to be small and we are well Board member, Yasmin Jetha, have also and we know that we still have much to positioned for when the new rules come been appointed as members.
We are therefore into force in 2022. putting more impetus behind our work We also announced a significant to achieve a better gender balance.
We are also on track to meet our reduction in our branch network.
The decision to close a branch is always a We are strongly committed to having majority of the bank will be within the difficult one to make, and is never taken more female colleagues in senior ring-fence, so I will chair the Boards of lightly.
However, customer behaviour positions across the organisation.
In the Group and the ring-fenced bank.
is changing, with more customers 2015 we set ourselves a target to have We are well advanced in the process of choosing mobile and online over at least 30% of roles in the three most securing the legal permissions we need traditional branch counters, and we senior levels of each of our businesses 07 Chairmans statement filled by women by 2020.
Our latest The Board has, during 2017, as figures show we are now at 37% on in previous years, run a series of aggregate, and on track to achieve 40% stakeholder engagement sessions with by 2020.
Furthermore, 44% of our top representatives from a wide variety 5000 roles are occupied by women and of different organisations to discuss we are aspiring to achieve full gender key topics such as financial capability balance at all levels of our business and technological disruption with by 2030. members of our Board and senior executives.
This is helping us to make Building a sustainable bank better informed decisions and ensure We are committed to running the bank our future strategy addresses emerging as a more sustainable business, serving sustainability risks and opportunities.
todays customers in a way that also We will continue to run these events in safeguards future generations.
Board members have also visited business customers, and will In 2017, RBS publicly committed to undertake more such visits around the support the Financial Stability Boards country this year.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD a voluntary set Board Changes of guidelines encouraging consistent In 2017 Mark Seligman and Yasmin climate-related disclosures in annual Jetha joined the Board and have reporting.
We also improved our position already brought a wealth of experience in a number of rankings for example and fresh perspectives to our achieving 13th in top 100 organisations discussions.
Mark became the Senior in the Stonewall Workplace Equality Independent Director at the end of Index and maintained inclusion in the the year.
Sadly, John Hughes, who FTSE4GOOD index and high scores in joined in June 2017, had to step down in the CDP climate index.
Dr Lena Wilson was appointed as a nonOur volunteering and fundraising executive director on 1 January 2018. partnerships also continue to make Lena brings strong commercial and a difference for the communities public sector experience to the Board, we serve.
In 2017, our employees having previously served as Chief supported a wide variety of charities Executive of Scottish Enterprise and by raising 4.3m in giving through their Senior Investment Advisor to The World giving and fundraising efforts.
With effect from 1 January 2018, won the Platinum award for Payroll Sandy Crombie stepped down from Giving and the Payroll Giving Award for the Board and Penny Hughes has told the Most Successful Sustained Scheme: us that she does not plan to stand for 3,454 charities received funding.
re-election at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank both Shareholder engagement Sandy and Penny for their outstanding This year, we have increased the overall commitment and huge contributions level of our non-financial disclosures in to RBS over a number of years.
Sandy our Strategic report by featuring our was, as Senior Independent Director, a performance highlights against each of great support to my predecessor and to our key influences we have described.
Penny has led the Remuneration We have introduced a new section, and, later, the Sustainable Banking entitled Our Stakeholders, which Committee with great enthusiasm.
describes our stakeholder groups and We wish them both well for the future.
our approach to managing key topics of interest such as climate change.
Conclusion Overall, the Board believes that in 2017 As well as encouraging a more open we have made further progress in culture internally, the Board has also resolving the legacy issues which have made a considered effort to listen to hung over the bank for too long.
We still the views of all shareholders.
In 2017 have important issues to resolve and we hosted two retail shareholder tough decisions to make, particularly events in London and Edinburgh.
Those on cost control, but in 2017 we made events provided shareholders with the several important steps in the right opportunity to share their views on direction.
Thank you for your patience our progress and our future initiatives as we continue the banks turnaround.
directly with members of the Board and executive committee.
Individual shareholders views on our plans to build a better bank are important to us.
