247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 3 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Chairmans Statement his risk averse approach produced Tsteady progress in your Companys net asset value per share, which increased over the year to 1,839 pence per share, a total return of 8.2%.
Over the last three years the Lord Rothschild, OM GBE NAV total return stands at 31.2%, with shareholder returns of some 48.3%.
In the year under review global stock markets rose to extraordinarily high levels, stimulated by low interest Our performance reflects diversified sources of return, rates and unprecedented monetary policy initiatives of from the quoted equity portfolio through external central banks, at a time when major economies of the managers in addition to individual stocks.
Over the course world have been enjoying significant growth.
In addition, of the year, profitable sales, subject to regulatory the USA has brought in tax cuts and reduced regulation, approval, of two of our direct private investments unemployment has been lower, inflation has remained Rockefeller Financial and GVQ, the UK investment subdued and geo-political concerns have been shrugged manager specialising in the small company sector off by stock markets.
Looking ahead to the current year, subject to market conditions, we are expecting initial The world has undoubtedly recovered from the global public offerings of two of our investments Helios economic crisis of a few years ago.
The question is Towers, the telecoms towers company in Africa, and whether such benign conditions are sustainable.
Dropbox, the cloud storage company in Silicon Valley.
Quantitative easing is in the course of being phased out, and interest rates are rising.
Debt levels are higher Our investments in absolute return and credit focused on indeed significantly higher than at the time of the financial stable returns with little correlation to broad markets.
The World Bank and other luminaries are real asset portfolio has also contributed, helped by a highlighting the risks to the present growth in the global timely increase in our holdings of gold.
With regard to economy, in particular over the medium term.
currencies, the net asset value of your Company was In addition, the geo-political situation remains a cause of affected in Sterling terms by the appreciation of Sterling concern: the risk of war, terrorism and cyber attacks, against the Dollar of around 10%.
The impact was come at a time when American policies are highly mitigated by the reduction in our Dollar holdings.
Europe is enjoying a cyclical recovery but current year we have benefited from short positions in political conditions remain unsettled.
Rising populist government bonds taken out at a time when we nationalism may well affect future elections.
In the UK, expected interest rates to rise.
we struggle with the problems and complexities of Brexit As I write this, stock markets have experienced a and a minority government.
resurgence in volatility and we ask ourselves whether Reflecting these concerns, your Companys net quoted current valuations remain excessive, adequately equity exposure averaged around 44%, including reflecting the risks which lie ahead.
Are we in the last significant investments in technology in the USA and chapter of a bull market, and one which is already the Asia.
This was complemented by approximately 22% in second longest in the post-World War II era?
We remain private investments, 25% in absolute return and credit, an atypical investment trust in that there are times when and 7% in real assets, including gold.
Currency holdings our exposure to listed equities will be relatively low, ended the year spread between Sterling, the Euro and reflecting your Companys priority of preserving the US Dollar.
Our belief, however in the merits of holding equities over the long term remains unshaken.
This risk averse approach produced steady progress in We seek to identify through stock selection, talented your Companys net asset value per share, which external managers and special situations opportunities increased over the year to 1,839 pence per share, a total at attractive levels with a margin of safety.
Over the last three years the NAV total cautious policy of diversification has rewarded return stands at 31.2%, with shareholder returns of some shareholders who have participated in 75% of up-markets 48.3%.
and 39% of down-markets, since your Companys inception in 1988.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 3 247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 4 Chairmans Statement Dividend We are intending to pay a dividend of 33 pence per share in 2018, an increase of 3.1% above the previous year.
This will be paid in two equal instalments of 16.5 pence in April and October.
We recognise the importance that shareholders ascribe to such income, and intend to maintain or increase the dividend in the years ahead, subject to unforeseen circumstances.
Your Companys Board I would like to take the opportunity of thanking Jean Laurent-Bellue for his support as a Director of the Company over the last few years.
Earlier in 2017, we regrettably announced that Mike Wilson had to retire from the Board for health reasons.
Again, I would like to place on record our gratitude for Mikes significant contribution, both as a Director, as well as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Rothschild 26 February 2018 4 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc
