Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder While the operational setbacks 2017 performance were disappointing, with the 2017 was a disappointing year for ConvaTec and for shareholders.
In October, the Group reduced its guidance for appropriate improvements in both revenue growth and the Margin Improvement Programme.
Supply constraints, relating to the transfer of production from execution we anticipate that we the Greensboro plant to Haina in the Dominican Republic, had will deliver the performance that a negative impact on growth in the Advanced Wound Care and Ostomy Care franchises.
In addition, revenues from new shareholders expect.
product launches were lower than expected.
The costs associated with the supply constraints, in addition to headwinds and cost increases, substantially lowered the Groups gross margin.
Your Board is focused on the remedial actions being taken by the executive management team to redress these setbacks, however our expectation is that the combined effects will delay the return to revenue market growth rates and our plans for adjusted EBIT margin improvement.
A more detailed explanation of these issues is contained in the Chief Executive Officers review on page 6.
The Board believes that the Company has the right strategy and that ConvaTec has substantial opportunities which underpin its business, including our market-leading positions in growing chronic care markets and our strong and innovative product pipeline.
With the appropriate improvements in execution, 1 we anticipate that we will deliver in the medium to long term the performance that shareholders expect.
Dividend Sir Christopher Gent On 2 August 2017, the Board declared the first interim dividend Chairman of 1.4 cents per share.
We are now proposing a final dividend of 4.3 cents per share in respect of 2017, subject to shareholder approval at our Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2018.
The interim dividend of 1.4 cents per share and the final dividend of 4.3 cents per share gives a total dividend for the year of 5.7 cents per share, in line with our dividend policy to target a payout ratio of 35% to 45% of adjusted net income over time.
The Board I am very pleased to report that we have assembled a strong and highly skilled Board of Directors who I am confident will help your Company reach its full potential on behalf of shareholders and all stakeholders.
In our Corporate governance report last year we highlighted the areas of non-compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
All of these matters have been successfully addressed, as have the requirements for gender diversity.
More details on the composition of the Board and its committees can be found on pages 62 to 65 and the relevant committee sections on pages 70 to 79.
Following share sales by the companies ultimately owned by Nordic Capital Nordic Capital and Avista Capital Partners Avista, the private equity firms which owned ConvaTec prior to the IPO in 2016, Thomas Vetander and Kunal Pandit, the nominated directors of Nordic Capital and Avista respectively, stepped down from the Board in March 2017.
Dr Raj Shah, the second nominated director of Nordic Capital, stepped down from the Board in September 2017.
In March, Kasim Kutay joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director and the nominated director of our strategic investor Novo Holdings A S. Kasim is a highly experienced finance and healthcare professional, and the Chief Executive Officer of Novo Holdings A S, which acquired a 19.95% shareholding from Nordic Capital and Avista in March 2017.
In the context of this Annual Report medium term is two to three years and medium to long term is three to five years.
ConvaTec Group Plc 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 In June, Ros Rivaz became a Non-Executive Director of the to lead by giving them more confidence, mobility and freedom.
Ros has a detailed understanding of the medical We also rely on our employees to design, develop and deliver products and technology sector and extensive operational our products, and the employees of our suppliers and experience gained from a successful career across a variety distributors, to bring our products to market.
She is a member of the Nomination and healthcare professionals help us to improve our products and Remuneration Committees.
our investors trust us to deliver a sustainable return on their capital.
Our shareholders, other investors and governments and In August, Regina Benjamin and Margaret Ewing both joined regulators are also key stakeholders, and a key focus of the the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
More broadly, we interact with the local communities physician who was United States Surgeon General from 2009 which host our facilities, and the environment, on which we all to 2013 and is currently CEO at the Bayou La Batre Rural Health rely.
Each of these interactions touch people and so fall within Clinic in Alabama.
She has significant healthcare expertise and our Purpose.
knowledge of the US healthcare system and is a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Margaret, who was We aim to gain a better understanding of all our stakeholders, previously Chief Financial Officer at BAA plc and Managing and their needs, so that our responses can build long-lasting and Partner of Deloitte, has deep and extensive finance and sustainable relationships.
We will achieve this from our detailed accounting experience.
She is a member of the Audit and Risk interactions with individual specialist nurses all the way through and Corporate Responsibility Committees.
to alignment with global initiatives such as the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
Frank Schulkes joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer CFO designate in August and became CFO in November.
We have created a strong Corporate Responsibility Committee He succeeds Nigel Clerkin who, following the decision to of the Board to ensure that in this very important area of our relocate the CFO role to our Head Office in Reading, decided business, we operate and behave in a manner which will earn not to move his family from Dublin and left the Company.
Frank trust and ensure that we act with integrity, making a positive has exceptional MedTech experience having been with GE contribution to society.
Healthcare for 27 years, where he held a number of increasingly senior financial and planning roles including eight years as CFO Governance of GE Healthcare.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Nigel for his contribution to ConvaTec.
He saw the business governance.
During the year we have made good progress through a critical phase in its history and we wish him well in putting in place processes and procedures to ensure that his future career.
your Board operates effectively including appraisals and performance evaluations.
We have also introduced a robust Reshaping our shareholder base process that annually reviews our internal controls and risk When I wrote to you last year, a majority of ConvaTecs shares management systems.
Further details of these enhanced were held by Nordic Capital and Avista, the private equity firms governance arrangements are set out on pages 64 to 69. that owned the business prior to our IPO in October 2016.
Our employees In March, Nordic Capital and Avista announced the sale of Personally, and on behalf of the entire Board, I would like to 19.95% of shares in ConvaTec to Novo Holdings A S, the thank our employees across the Group for their continued hard investment holding company of the Novo Nordisk Foundation, work and commitment.
Their relentless focus on delivering a charitable foundation focused on contributing significantly to products and services that improve peoples lives and, at all research and development which improves the health and times conducting themselves in accordance with our values, welfare of people.
I am delighted to welcome Novo Holdings are essential to delivering sustainable returns for shareholders.
A S as a strategic investor and significant shareholder in your Company.
In addition to the sale to Novo Holdings A S, Nordic Capital and Avista announced the concurrent placing of 375 million shares in ConvaTec with institutional investors, reducing their ownership Sir Christopher Gent in the Company to 16.10% and 7.03% respectively.
Chairman 14 February 2018 In June, Nordic Capital and Avista placed a further 250 million shares in ConvaTec, reducing their shareholdings to 7.34% and Business insight 2.98% respectively.
The role of your Board in providing effective governance is critically important.
The governance framework we have established ensures that decisions are made in the interests of our stakeholders and ConvaTecs long term success.
It I am very pleased to welcome all new shareholders to ConvaTec.
also embeds appropriate financial and operational controls and risk management processes across the business and underpins our values-led performanceCorporate responsibility CR driven culture.
ConvaTec has a clear role in society, as is summarised in our Further information about our governance framework, including details Purpose statement on the front of this Annual Report: We exist about the Board and its committees, can be found in the Governance section.
to improve the lives of the people we touch.
This year, we have Information about how we operate responsibly is included on pages 16 to 21 published our first standalone Corporate Responsibility Report and in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website, which sets out our CR strategy and the progress we have made www.
in this area in our first full year as a publicly listed company.
Chairmans governance letter Page 60 In the context of our Purpose, our primary stakeholders are the Board of Directors Page 62 people who experience the various chronic conditions that our Corporate governance report Page 64 products aim to help enabling them to live the lives they want ConvaTec Group Plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
