STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT FOUNDATIONS BUILT OVER 100 YEARS The companys pursuit since 2013 of greater operational efficiency and of upgrading the quality of its asset portfolio is reflected in further improvements in financial and operational performance.
Free cash flow increased strongly to $4.9 billion on an attributable basis, with profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders doubling to $3.2 billion, and underlying EBITDA improving by 45% to $8.8 billion.
Net debt had reduced by a further $4.0 billion to $4.5billion at the year end, well below the targeted level for the year.
Importantly, we regained our investment grade credit rating and were able to restore dividend payments to shareholders six months earlier than expected, establishing a payout policy at a targeted level of 40% of underlying earnings.
As a result of this strong performance, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 54 US cents per share, It was a great privilege to be appointed payable in May 2018, taking total dividends to shareholders chairman of Anglo American in the in respect of 2017 to $1.02 per share.
Operationally, we are producing greater volumes of product from fewer assets and with fewer people.
Despite the Stuart Chambers, Chairman disposal of a number of assets that no longer met our portfolio criteria, production was 5% higher than in the previous year, while productivity improvements continue the trend we have seen since 2015.
This focus on costs Anglo American is one of the great names in mining, and productivity is a continuous imperative for the business with considerable relevance both local to its operations to ensure the sustainability of free cash flow generation and, through its products, to the everyday lives of and returns.
A customer focused mindset needs to be a priority in any This is a global business, with a distinct and high quality business, and I am pleased to see the approach taken by asset portfolio, which I am determined to see that we the Marketing team to drive the appropriate commercial develop in the most productive and responsible way, decisions across the value chain.
Given their finite nature, while continuing to strengthen Anglo Americans it would be irresponsible not to optimise the value in our longstanding reputation as a leader in innovative and mineral resources, for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
AN ASSET-LED STRATEGY AN IMPROVED TRADING ENVIRONMENT Anglo American today is a radically changed business During 2017, global economic growth quickened to its from what it was just five years ago.
The portfolio has been fastest pace since the financial crisis.
In the mining sector, materially upgraded, resulting in todays suite of generally demand turned out to be considerably stronger than had larger, longer life, more productive and competitive been envisaged some 12 months earlier.
Combined with the innovative practices and positive effect on many of the metals and minerals that technologies that we develop and deploy across the Anglo American produces, with notable price increases in business, and the people and culture that we nurture, copper: the bulk commodities thermal and metallurgical our aim is to deliver industry-leading shareholder returns coal, and iron ore : and certain of the platinum group metals and lasting value to all our stakeholders.
such as palladium and rhodium.
Our diamond business, DeBeers, is unique amongst our competitors and further Underpinning our strategy is our sharp focus on capital highlights our diversification and differentiation from our allocation a key and continuous role of the Board as the peers.
Stronger trading conditions and an increase in the guardian of shareholders funds.
Coming from outside the price index for rough diamonds supported fide Beers mining industry, I am well aware of the mis-steps made by so production growth.
many companies in the pursuit of growth and it is important that our financial resources are directed towards the bestvalue outcomes for shareholders.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE During 2017, no major new projects were given a green Starting with safety, while we were able to report yet another light, though we do expect the opportunity presented by year of improvement in injury rates in 2017, it is with deep our Quellaveco copper project in Peru to come before regret that nine lives were lost at our operations.
A single the Board for development consideration during 2018. fatality is, of course, unacceptable and we still have far to go to reach our target of zero harm.
I will expand more on this critical area both below and in our Sustainability Report.
04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report FUTURESMART MINING Anglo American has demonstrated that operations even deep-level underground mines can go for long periods Innovation on all fronts without incurring a single serious injury.
We have shown that I believe that the mining industry, with its important role in our target of zero harm is attainable, and I believe that, if society in general, has a bright future, but only if all mining each and every one of us is vigilant in looking out for each companies are committed to investing effort and resources other, we are all more likely to get home safely day in, day into a sustainable future.
Anglo American has long been out, year after year.
recognised as a company that does the right thing and that cares deeply about its people and all those its business touches.
We can never rest on our laurels and, as we look to GOVERNANCE the future, there is no doubt that we will face considerable Executive remuneration challenges in safety, energy, water and climate change.
As a chairman, I know there are few more contentious FutureSmart Mining is Anglo Americans innovation-led subjects than executive remuneration.
Through our approach to sustainable mining and it is critical for the Remuneration Committee, chaired by senior independent future of how we do business.
It is about finding new ways director Sir Philip Hampton, the Board had been seeking for to make mining safer, more efficient, more sustainable, some time to address certain investors concerns about the more harmonised with the needs of host communities, and potential quantum of the total remuneration packages of with a smaller environmental footprint.
I am pleased to see our executive directors.
So, it is reassuring that, at the 2017 the progress that the technical team is making on a number AGM, we received overwhelming shareholder support for of fronts.
our revised remuneration policy, which we believe to be fair, performance-based and comparable with our peer group as Our Sustainability Strategy a major global mining company.
We continue to pay close Anglo American has a proud and longstanding reputation as attention to our remuneration structures to try to ensure that a leader in innovative and sustainable mining.
I am delighted they deliver a fair and appropriate outcome for both that the company will shortly be embarking upon a new and shareholders and employees.
ambitious journey to again push the boundaries of positive change through such innovative thinking, aimed very much Board composition at addressing certain of the major challenges we face as an I believe that a board sets the tone for the entire business industry and the rightful and increasing expectations of all that it governs.
This is why it is so important that the directors our stakeholders.
are drawn from the widest talent pool, best reflecting our society, as well as bringing the right mix of skills, diversity Aligned to the UNs 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, and experience to match the full scope of the Groups our new Sustainability Strategy will set out a number of business activities and value chain.
I have inherited a ambitious medium to long term targets that will drive the capable, high calibre board and I am committed to its work we are doing around the natural environment, the ongoing refreshment.
long term prosperity of our local communities, and the proactive shaping of policy and ethical standards to drive greater trust and transparency amongst our stakeholders THANKS from host governments and communities to civil society Finally, I wish to pay tribute to Sir John Parker, who after and customers.
more than eight years, stepped down as chairman at the end of October.
Sir John is a highly experienced and respected leader, a masterful negotiator and organiser, who could be Underpinning our strategy is our sharp focus on tough, but was always fair and unfailingly courteous.
capital allocation a key and continuous role of After almost four months as your chairman, I would like to the Board as the guardian of shareholders funds.
give a personal thank you to Sir John for his words of advice to me as we worked together during the handover period: to Sir Philip Hampton and the non-executive directors for their Keeping people safe great support: and to Mark and his management team for A further aspect of our FutureSmart Mining work is their time in helping to bring me up to speed.
Lastly, and focused on keeping our people out of harms way in most importantly, I would like to thank all Anglo Americans underground mines, where safety records have long shown employees, who continue to work tirelessly, giving their the considerably greater risks compared with open cut very best, and who I know were so proud to celebrate the operations.
For example, and with a number of partners, companys 100th anniversary during the year.
the Group is developing automated and continuous mining vehicles designed to create far greater rock stability and Our Strategic Report less variance in the quality of ore extracted, with people Our 2017 Strategic Report, from pages 2 to 62, was well separated from areas of high risk.
reviewed and approved by the Board on 21 February 2018.
The companys safety record in 2017 makes very plain to me why this and other work is so pressing.
Although our intense focus on preventing harm in the workplace was reflected in an 11% year-on-year decrease in recordable injury rates, building upon the 51% decrease achieved since 2012, I am deeply saddened that we lost six people in our Platinum business and three in our Coal business, all in Stuart Chambers South Africa.
I can assure you that the Board is working Chairman closely with the management team to ensure that momentum is sustained to address the clear challenges we face to prevent further loss of life.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 05
