CHAIRMANS STATEMENT These are important matters, but the Board also remains firmly focussed As we look back on 2017, it is quite clear that the consumer goods on the Groups number one priority of continued outperformance over both sector is going through a vast amount of change and disruption.
the medium and the long-term.
The events of this year have re-affirmed Increasingly fragmented media channels and routes to market are our confidence that Unilever has both the quality of management and the transforming the shopper experience and leaving the way open for clarity of strategy needed to deliver on this objective.
many more new players to enter our markets.
Consumers own During the review earlier in the year, I met with investors in Europe behaviour is also changing, with a much higher importance being and North America as part of a consultation exercise involving 50 of placed today on products that satisfy a growing desire for naturalness the Groups top shareholders and other investors.
The meetings were and authenticity.
valuable in confirming the widespread support among shareholders It all makes this a very exciting time to be in consumer goods and while for Unilevers long-term compounding growth model, whilst also change on this scale brings its own challenges, there are many more helping to identify opportunities to accelerate value creation.
opportunities in my view, especially for companies able to respond with We also conducted a separate consultation on our proposed new the kind of speed and agility that todays environment demands.
Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors.
At the 2017 AGMs For Unilever, the organisational changes of recent years - with a much you provided your strong support to the implementation of a reward greater focus on front-line empowerment - combined with the steady framework that encourages and enhances the strong performance strengthening and sharpening of our portfolio, mean that the Group culture that Paul Polman has built at Unilever by enabling managers is well placed to take advantage of these changing market dynamics.
within Unilever to have an even stronger personal commitment to There is also no doubt, in my view, that Unilevers unflinching Unilever share ownership.
The proposed new Remuneration Policy will commitment to sustainable and equitable growth, as reflected in the be put to shareholders to be voted upon at the 2018 AGMs in May to Unilever Sustainable Living Plan, has growing resonance among enable this.
Further information on our proposals can be found in the consumers the world over.
Compensation Committees report on pages 47 to 76.
These factors certainly contributed to another strong year for Unilever, EVALUATION with solid revenue growth, strong profitability and good cash flow Our Board evaluation in 2017 was externally facilitated and the results performances.
These results capped what has been an eventful year for were discussed at the April 2017 Board meeting.
The Board continues the Group, which included in February an unexpected takeover attempt.
to perform effectively with good leadership and competent and The Board had no hesitation in rejecting the offer for all the shares engaged members, and has the appropriate focus on both in-year of Unilever N. V. and PLC, which we believed was without any financial performance and strategy for the future.
Reflecting on the lessons or strategic merit.
Even though the offer was quickly withdrawn, it did learnt by the Board in the previous year the Board agreed, in highlight further opportunities to capture the value we see in Unilever particular, in the evaluation discussions to: at a faster rate.
maintain an ongoing focus on strategy and emerging risks during the year in addition to the deep focus on strategy once To that end, the Board and management undertook a thorough review a year: on how to accelerate sustainable shareholder value creation, building continue to ensure that Board succession planning is closely aligned on the Groups successful long-term compounding growth model.
In this regard the Board welcomed the skills A wide-ranging package of measures announced in April was well and capabilities matrix developed by the Nominating and Corporate received and by the end of the year the Group was able to report Governance Committee as a tool strong progress towards those goals.
to help enhance Board succession discussions: and, At the heart of the review was an acceleration of the Groups existing ensure that the Board programme and agendas allow the best strategy, including faster implementation of the successful Connected exposure to Unilevers business and its senior management.
for Growth change programme, first introduced in 2016, as well as the further sharpening and strengthening of the portfolio.
No Further detail on the evaluation process this year, together with the fewer than twelve acquisitions were announced or completed in 2017.
Boards remit, operations and the topics the Board regularly discusses Significantly, the Group also announced in December the sale of the and debates can be found in the Governance section on pages 34 to 76.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND SUCCESSION As part of the review the Group also announced the setting of a longDuring the year, we saw the departure of Professor Louise Fresco term goal towards an underlying operating margin target of 20% by who I would like to thank for her outstanding contribution to Unilever.
2020 and the completion of a 5 billion share buy-back programme.
The Board remains truly diverse in their nationality, experience and Another important outcome was a commitment to simplify the Groups gender, with the proportion of female Non-Executive Directors in 2017 capital structure, and hence provide Unilever with the flexibility for at 45%.
further and bigger portfolio change if deemed necessary in the future.
The review of the dual-headed structure is progressing well, LOOKING AHEAD and while no decisions have yet been taken, the Board considers that Confidence in our outlook was reflected earlier in the year when we unification with a single share class would be in the best interests of announced a 12% increase in the dividend for the 2017 financial year.
Unilever and its shareholders as a whole.
Despite the fact trading conditions are likely to remain challenging in 2018, the Board remains confident in the outlook and in the strategy Whatever the outcome of the dual-headed structure review, the for the Group.
Board is determined that Unilever will remain at the forefront of good corporate governance and to that end we have already announced that Finally, on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our many it would be our intention to maintain listings in the Netherlands, the stakeholders as well as the 161,000 hardworking employees United Kingdom and the United States, and continue to apply both the of Unilever for their continued support and commitment.
UK and Dutch corporate governance codes.
MARIJN DEKKERS CHAIRMAN 2 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BOARD OF DIRECTORS OVERVIEW OF EXECUTIVE & NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MARIJN DEKKERS Chairman Previous experience: Bayer AG CEO : Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. CEO.
Current external appointments: Novalis LifeSciences LLC Founder and Chairman : General Electric Company NED : Quanterix Corporation Director : Georgetown University member Board of Directors.
ANN FUDGE Vice-Chairman PAUL POLMAN GRAEME PITKETHLY NILS SMEDEGAARD Senior Independent Director CEO CFO ANDERSEN Previous experience: General Electric Dutch, Male, 61.
Appointed CFO: October Previous experience: A. P. Moller Maersk Company NED : Marriott International, Inc.
A S Group CEO : Carlsberg A S and Carlsberg NED : Young & Rubicam, Inc. Chairman Previous experience: Procter Previous experience: Unilever UK and Ireland Breweries A S CEO : European Round Table and CEO.
& Gamble Co. Group President, Europe : EVP and General Manager : Finance Global of Industrialists Vice-Chairman.
Current external appointments: Novartis AG Nestl SA CFO : Alcon Inc. Director.
Markets EVP : Group Treasurer: Head of M&A: Current external appointments: BP Plc NED : NED : Northrop Grumman Corporation NED : Current external appointments: DowDuPont, FLAG Telecom VP Corporate Development : Dansk Supermarked A S Chairman : Unifeeder Catalyst, Inc. Director : US Programs Advisory Inc. NED : World Business Council for PwC.
Panel of Gates Foundation Chairman : Sustainable Development Chairman, Executive Current external appointments: Financial Brookings Institution Honorary Trustee.
Committee : Financing Capitalism for the Stability Board Task Force on Climate Related Long-Term FCLT, Global Board member.
LAURA CHA VITTORIO COLAO JUDITH HARTMANN MARY MA Previous experience: Securities and Futures Previous experience: RCS MediaGroup SpA Previous experience: General Electric various Previous experience: TPG Capital, LP Commission, Hong Kong Deputy Chairman : CEO : McKinsey & Company Partner : roles : Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA CFO : Partner : TPG China Partners Co-Chairman.
China Securities Regulatory Commission Finmeccanica Group Services SpA renamed RTL Group SA NED : Penguin Random House Current external appointments: Lenovo Group Vice Chairman.
to Leonardo SpA NED : RAS Insurance SpA LLC NED.
Ltd. NED : Boyu Capital Consultancy Co. Ltd Current external appointments: HSBC merged with Allianz AG, NED.
Current external appointments: ENGIE Group Managing Partner : MXZ Investment Limited Holdings plc NED : China Telecom Corporation Current external appointments: Vodafone CFO and EVP North America and UK Ireland: Director : Securities and Futures Commission, Limited NED: Foundation Asset Management Group plc CEO : Bocconi University Suez NED.
Sweden AB Senior international advisor : International Advisory Council : European Executive Council of the Hong Kong Special Round Table of Industrialists Vice-Chairman.
Administrative Region Non-official member : 12th National Peoples Congress of China Hong Kong Delegate.
STRIVE MASIYIWA YOUNGME MOON JOHN RISHTON FEIKE SIJBESMA Previous experience: Africa Against Ebola Previous experience: Harvard Business School Previous experience: Rolls-Royce Holdings Previous experience: Supervisory Board of Solidarity Trust Co-Founder and Chairman : Chairman and Senior Associate Dean for the plc CEO : Koninklijke Ahold NV merged to DSM Nederland B. V. Chairman : Utrecht Grow Africa Co-Chairman : Nutrition MBA Program : Massachusetts Institute of Koninklijke Ahold Delhaize NV CEO, President University Supervisory : Stichting Dutch Cancer International formerly known as Micronutrient Technology Professor : Avid Technology NED.
and CFO : ICA now ICA Gruppen AB NED.
Institute Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital Initiative Chairman.
Current external appointments: Rakuten, Inc. Current external appointments: Informa plc NKI AVL Supervisory.
Current external appointments: Econet Group NED : Sweetgreen Inc Board Member : NED : Serco Group plc NED : Associated Current external appointments: Koninklijke Founder and Group Executive Chairman : Harvard Business School Professor.
British Ports Holdings Ltd. NED.
DSM NV CEO and Chairman of the Managing Econet Wireless Zimbabwe Ltd Director : Board : fide Nederlandsche Bank NV Member The Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa of the Supervisory Board : Carbon Pricing AGRA Not-for-Profit Corporation Chairman : Leadership Coalition High Level Assembly CoRockefeller Foundation Trustee.
Chairman, Climate Leader for the World Bank Group Leader, convened by World Bank Group.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MARIJN NILS LAURA VITTORIO ANN JUDITH MARY STRIVE YOUNGME JOHN FEIKE DEKKERS ANDERSEN CHA COLAO FUDGE HARTMANN MA MASIYIWA MOON RISHTON SIJBESMA Age 60 59 68 56 66 48 65 57 53 60 58 Gender Male Male Female Male Female Female Female Male Female Male Male Dutch ZimbabNationality Danish Chinese Italian American Austrian Chinese American British Dutch American wean April April May July May April May April April May November Appointment date 2016 2015 2013 2015 2009 2015 2013 2016 2016 2013 2014 CC CRC CRC, NCGC CC, NCGC AC NCGC CC AC CC CRC AC Chairman Committee membership Chairman Chairman Chairman Leadership of complex global entities Finance Consumer FMCG insights Digital insights Sales & marketing Science & technology Attendance at planned Board Meetings 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 Attendance at ad hoc Board Meetings 8 8 8 8 6 8 7 8 5 8 6 8 8 8 7 8 7 8 5 8 7 8 Tenure as at 2017 AGMs 1 2 4 2 8 2 4 1 1 4 3 AC refers to the Audit Committee: CC refers to the Compensation Committee: CRC refers to the Corporate Responsibility Committee: and NCGC refers to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 3
