STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Reported operating profit was 65.5m During 2017, the Group made good isexpected to outgrow the large commercial OVERVIEW OF 2017 RESULTS 2016 65.8m and reported profit before progressagainst our six strategic priorities aircraft market as these new engine versions Senior delivered a solid performance in 2017 SENIOR DELIVERED A taxwas 52.2m 2016 55.5m.
With the which wereidentified as key elements of come into service and production ramps up.
with trading slightly ahead of expectations and Group benefiting from a 16.0m exceptional ourbusiness model, driving the creation Customer deliveries of the 737 MAX began generated healthy free cash flow.
non-cash tax credit related to the US tax ofshareholder value: inMay 2017 and production of the A320neo SOLID PERFORMANCE Group order intake in 2017 was again strong reform, basic earnings per share increased by and A350 continues to ramp up, whilst the 1.
Enhance Seniors Autonomous with a book to bill of 1.15x.
A330neo and 777X are scheduled to enter andCollaborative Business Model.
increased by 11.6% to an all-time high of service in 2018 and 2020 respectively.
IN 2017 The Group continues to generate healthy cash 1,023.4m 2016 917.0m.
flows and delivered free cash inflow of 58.3m In the regional and business jet market, favourable exchange rate impact of 45.5m, 2016 48.5m after gross investment in 3.
Introduce a High Performance theCSeries and HondaJet continue to ramp Group revenue increased by 60.9m 6.3% capital expenditure of 54.8m representing OperatingSystem.
up deliveries and the Group is also expected ona constant currency basis driven by sales 1.3x depreciation.
Working capital as a tobenefit from the Embraer E2-Jet, the growth across both divisions.
percentage of sales improved to 13.4% at the Bombardier Global 7000 and the Mitsubishi increase in the Aerospace Division was driven end of 2017 2016 15.1%.
Considered and Effective MRJ, with the first two due to enter service by growth in large commercial aerospace.
debt at the end of December 2017 reduced to CapitalDeployment.
In the defence Increased revenue in the Flexonics Division 155.3m December 2016 198.1m.
This sector, Senior is well positioned on major was driven by its sales to the truck & off- 6.
decrease was principally due to free cash growth platforms, for example the Joint Strike highway and upstream oil & gas markets.
inflow of 58.3m and favourable currency Further details including our plans for 2018 are Fighter and CH-53K which are scheduled to Adjusted operating profit decreased by 3.0m movements of 11.0m, and was after 27.9m noted on pages 16 and 17 of the Annual Report ramp up significantly over the next five years.
The ratio of net debt to & Accounts 2017.
However, some of the 2017 North American truck and off-highway market favourable exchange rate impact of 5.0m, EBITDA was 1.3x.
highlights include those set out below.
conditions improved through the latter half of adjusted operating profit decreased by 8.8% Multi-site collaboration efforts have led 2017, resulting in North American heavy-duty on a constant currency basis.
As expected, the toimportant new business awards as truck production increasing 11.9% in 2017, Groups adjusted operating margin reduced by demonstrated by recently announced new with further growth forecast for 2018.
The 1.2 percentage points, to 8.1% for the full year.
It was encouraging to see contracts.
Senior has been successful in off-highway market continues to benefit from Aerospace Division margins were impacted by marginsimprove in the second growing its market share by supporting key improved levels of activity in end markets the transition from more mature to new aircraft customers with their cost down activities, such as oil and gas, mining and agriculture.
production programmes and margins in the halfof the year particularly leveraging our cost competitive Upstream oil and gas related markets are Flexonics Division reflected some of the country strategy.
seeing increasing drilling activity in North challenging market conditions in the higher The Board is proposing a final dividend of America.
The downstream oil and gas market margin segments of the Division.
This would bring total In 2017 we hired a new VP of Operational remains subdued as anticipated, with few itwas encouraging to see margins improve dividends, paid and proposed for 2017 to 6.95 Excellence and launched the Senior Operating major projects being launched: however, repair inthe second half of the year, as predicted, pence per share, representing an increase of System, incorporating lean manufacturing, and overhaul activities have been reasonable from increased revenues and operational 5.8% over the prior year.
initially focused in our Aerospace Structures and we believe recovery in this sector will improvements, particularly in the Aerospace business.
The early results are encouraging lag the upstream recovery by at least a year.
Division as we continue our cost reduction DELIVERY OF GROUP STRATEGY and will be key to improving margins and focus on our newer programmes.
working capital across the business.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged: we remain committed to retaining Adjusted profit before tax decreased to Having disposed of a small non-core business a balance between Aerospace and Flexonics 73.1m 2016 75.3m, down 2.9%, or in Wichita in 2016 we disposed of a second At current exchange rates the and to grow both segments of our business.
Adjusted non-core business in Ilkeston, UK, in 2017.
Board expects good progress We undertake regular reviews of the Groups earnings per share increased by 0.1% to Wewill continue to prune to grow where portfolio as we seek to increase shareholder 14.39pence 2016 14.37 pence.
As noted to bemade in 2018 itmakes sense to do so while maintaining value by leveraging our current operations, and inthe announcement of 10 January 2018, adisciplined approach to additions to our where appropriate, acquisitions, disposals or theGroup benefited from a one-off reduction portfolio.
mergers of operations will be considered to in the effective tax rate for 2017, resulting in optimise returns on capital.
anadjusted tax rate of 17.5% for the year MARKET CONDITIONS 1.15x 2016 20.1%.
The production ramp-up of new, more efficient, Book to bill.
large commercial programmes means the outlook for the commercial aerospace sector DAVID SQUIRES isboth strong and visible.
Air traffic grew by GROUP CHIEF 7.6% in 2017 and demand for new aircraft EXECUTIVE 1bn remains robust with Boeing, Airbus and independent forecasters predicting air Record sales.
traffic togrow in excess of 4% per annum over the next 20 years.
Senior has healthy shipset content on all the large commercial aircraft platforms and has further increased its contenton the new engine versions during 2017.
With higher content on the new engine A320neo, 737 MAX, A330neo and 777X thanthe current engine versions, the Group SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 9 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED INVESTMENT CASE Good progress has been made in 2017 to Looking further ahead, Senior expects to OPERATIONAL REVIEW Engineering solutions provider further reduce costs, particularly in reducing continue to make good progress as new We are continuing to invest in capacity in our both labour and material costs on some programmes and products continue to ramp with a solid platform for sustainable existing cost competitive country locations for ofourlargest new aerospace programmes.
up, and as the benefits of the implementation both our Flexonics and Aerospace businesses growth in profitability, cash flow and Cost reductions are being achieved through of the high performance Senior Operating to enable us to meet increasing order levels ourlean manufacturing programme and System and cost saving actions continue from our customers and to ensure we remain shareholder value.
through the use of the state-of-the-art high to be delivered.
Senior is competitively competitive and profitable.
In December 2017 speed and high performance equipment that positioned with exposure to strong growing we opened an extension to our highly efficient we have been investing in.
We launched our end markets which enable it to grow Flexonics plant in the Czech Republic to Senior Operating System inour Aerospace organically on a sustainable basis.
Furthermore, support organic growth and new business Structures businesses andheld targeted Seniors cash-generative nature and robust opportunities.
As a direct consequence of A DIFFERENTIATED BUSINESS MODEL LEADING POSITIONS performance improvement workshops.
The financial position provide a solid platform from winning new commercial aerospace business, Design, manufacture and market high-technology IN ATTRACTIVE MARKETS early benefits of these actions, together with which the Group can continue to pursue work has commenced on adding a new components and systems for principal original Focus on attractive, growing end markets: increased revenue, delivered improved margins growth opportunities to complement its Aerospace factory in Malaysia, close to our equipment manufacturers OEMs in the second half of 2017 for the Group.
Commercial aerospace existing operations, and is anticipated to be Specialists in providing engineering solutions We will continue to see the benefits of Long-term growth trends from increasing air traffic completed towards the end of 2018. to customers for fluid systems and structural products theseactions incrementally helpingmargins David Squires driving need for new and replacement aircraft Additionally, we are reviewing capacity plans in and systems in2018 and beyond.
Group Chief Executive our Flexonics India business and our Flexonics US military aerospace Integrated global footprint operating in the aerospace, Defence remains a priority for the US, JV in China as both these facilities have defence, land vehicle and energy markets OUTLOOK key positions on major funded programmes continued to win new long-term business.
Autonomous and collaborative culture enables 2018 trading has started in line with Weplan to relocate our Crumlin South Wales Land vehicle entrepreneurial approach within a strong control expectations.
Order books across most of our Demand driven by tightening global emission operation to a smaller high-tech facility with framework control regulations for truck, off-highway businesses are strong.
Although our Flexonics building commencing in 2018 and completing and passenger vehicles Strong and enduring relationships with key customers businesses, which are exposed to downstream in 2019.
The new facility will focus on design, built on technical innovation and excellent operational oil and gas and power and energy markets, Petrochem, Power and Energy development, test and qualification of new performance remain at subdued levels, we expect to see Market leader of complex fluid systems products, which will be built around the world and products improved performance in both divisions.
in our existing cost competitive locations.
In READ MORE ON PAGES 14 AND 15 Overall, at current exchange rates, the Board North America, our Aerospace Fluid Systems READ MORE ON PAGES 12 AND 13 expects good progress to be made in 2018 Metal Bellows business continues to perform with performance slightly weighted to the well and we will be expanding their facility in second half.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES LONG-TERM GROWTH AND Focus on growth through innovation and operational VALUE CREATION excellence for our customers Primary strategic objective to create long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value Implement and embed high performance operating system across the Group to optimise profitability and Considered and effective capital deployment to returns on capital maximise returns Established global cost competitive country strategy Robust financial platform and cash-generative nature Continuously invest in the best leadership talent Actively manage the portfolio: disciplined acquisition and prune to grow strategy READ MORE ON PAGES 16 AND 17 READ MORE ON PAGES 14 TO 17 10 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 11
