Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Chairmans Statement Acquisitions and Equity Issuance 2017 has been a busy year on the acquisition front.
We completed the acquisition of interests in 10 new windfarms 9 onshore and 1 offshore during the year, through 5 transactions, and also increased our investment in the Clyde wind farm.
These acquisitions further demonstrated our ability to source and execute transactions across the market but only when we consider the terms to be advantageous to shareholders.
As a result, we invested a total of 507.4 million, with our net generating capacity increasing from 420MW to 694MW.
In order to finance our continuing growth through pursuing further attractive investment opportunities, in September we announced a Share Issuance I am pleased to present Greencoat UK Wind PLCs fifth Programme to issue up to 500 million new shares over Annual Report since listing in March 2013, for the year a 12 month period.
Under this programme, in October ended 31 December 2017. we issued 290.6 million new shares at an issue price of Performance 117 pence per share, raising gross issue proceeds of 340 million in an oversubscribed fund raising.
Net During the year, portfolio power generation was in line issue proceeds of 335 million were applied to repay with budget at 1,457GWh.
Wind speed was also in line short term borrowings.
The issue was NAV accretive with the long term mean.
The Groups current average after issue costs by 1.7 pence per share.
generation provides enough electricity to power 620,000 homes.
This capital raising caused our market capitalisation comfortably to exceed 1 billion 1,263 million as at Net cash generated by the Group and wind farm SPVs 31 December 2017.
With increasing size, our ongoing was 80.1 million and the dividends paid in the year charges ratio again reduced from 1.33 per cent.
in totalled 52.3 million, thus dividend cover was 1.5x.
The expected ratio for Dividends and Returns 2018 is 1.15 per cent.
helped by the second step Declared dividends for the year total 6.49 pence per down in management fees to 0.8 per cent.
on NAV share, with the fourth and final quarterly dividend of above 1 billion.
1.6225 pence per share paid on 23 February 2018.
Gearing With our strong cash ow and robust dividend cover, The Group will generally avoid using non-recourse we can condently target a dividend of 6.76 pence per debt at wind farm level and aims to keep Group level share with respect to 2018, again increased in line with borrowings at a prudent level the maximum is 40 per Decembers RPI.
of GAV to reduce risk, while ensuring that the NAV per share increased from 107.0 pence ex Group is always fully invested, thus using shareholders dividend on 31 December 2016 to 109.6 pence ex capital efficiently.
During the year the minimum dividend on 31 December 2017, an increase of gearing was 11 per cent.
of GAV and the maximum 2.6 pence 2.4 per cent.
average 19 per cent.. We ended the year with external borrowings totalling 265 million The chart on page 18 compares NAV per share with and gearing of 19 per cent.
RPI, showing how we have been meeting our objective of real capital preservation since listing.
Outlook Wind continues to remain the most mature and widely At the time of the 30 September 2017 NAV, we deployed renewable energy technology available in announced a reduction in the portfolio discount rate the UK, and the Company is in a good position to of 0.3 per cent.
the only such change since listing.
This benefit as electricity production from wind becomes reduction reects an increase in the market value of UK an increasingly important part of the UKs generation wind generation assets.
of the UKs The Total Shareholder Return for the year was 8.4 per electricity demand was supplied by wind energy.
and since listing has been 58.3 per cent.. 02 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Chairmans Statement continued Outlook continued The Groups governance is further described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 to 34.
Although only limited new onshore wind capacity is expected to be installed in the near term, there is a Annual General Meeting very large existing market of onshore and offshore Our fifth AGM will take place on 30 April 2018 at wind farms that we expect to be available for 2:30 pm at the ofces of the Investment Manager.
Details of the formal business of the meeting are set out in a separate circular which is sent to shareholders We will continue to maintain a disciplined acquisition with the Annual Report.
We look forward to meeting strategy: if a potential investment is not in line with the shareholders on that occasion.
Companys investment objective or is otherwise not in the interests of shareholders then we will not invest.
Conclusion We are already of a sufficient size where shareholders The Company first listed nearly 5 years ago in March are benefitting from economies of scale, and net cash 2013.
Since listing, we have fully met all of our generation from our current portfolio meets our long investment objectives.
This is down to the excellent term financial objectives.
performance of the executive management team in originating and executing investments, raising capital, With our strong cash ow and robust dividend cover, achieving high levels of performance from the portfolio we continue to have confidence in meeting our and maintaining a focused investment strategy, objectives of dividend growth in line with RPI and supported by our advisers and other suppliers.
capital preservation in real terms.
Governance The annual internal evaluation of the Board raised no significant issues.
Tim Ingram During the year a Management Engagement Committee Chairman was set-up as a sub-committee of the Board, with all Directors being appointed to this committee.
