STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement Group Chairmans statement Focused on unlocking potential while strengthening culture and resilience In my statement last year my first as Banking plays a crucial role at the heart of Yet, as Bill Winters describes in his review, Chairman of the Group I committed to the economy and in the lives of individuals.
many indicators are now changing in a focus my efforts on three priorities: helping We are privileged to be present in some of positive direction.
Economic forecasts have the Group to unlock its true potential: the most exciting and dynamic economies been upgraded again, with global growth improving its resilience to shocks: and in the world, which are inhabited by twobroadening and projected to improve this ensuring excellent governance and the thirds of the worlds population.
This unique year and next, and world trade continues to highest ethical standards.
This is critical to position brings with it a tremendous advance at a healthy pace.
It is up to us to achieving sustainable, long-term growth responsibility.
Our obligation is to carry continue working hard to identify and seize and improving long-term value.
out our business in a way which not only the opportunities as they arise, becoming provides returns for our shareholders but more competitive, embracing technological also delivers good things for society: our change and innovation, and continuing to Unlocking the Groups potential clients, communities, and people.
All of our develop attractive value propositions for The Groups underlying pro t before tax extensive work in our markets to improve our clients.
This is encouraging standards of conduct and control is aimed At the same time, we should be mindful given that the extraordinary engine that at helping to improve the lives of people of the risks around this favourable outlook.
sits within the Group is not yet ring on in the communities where we work, These range from the geopolitical situations all its cylinders, but we must improve the through enabling sustainable growth.
in North Korea and the Middle East, and result further.
We complement this with our successful protectionist fears, to those stemming from health and education programmes such as To increase the Groups returns over the the challenges of normalising monetary Seeing is Believing seeingisbelieving.
org medium term, we need to grow income in a policy in an environment of elevated market and Goal sc.
strong, safe and sustainable manner, while valuations and high leverage.
The realisation maintaining both cost and capital discipline.
of some of these risks could provoke sharp We are con dent that we can do this.
Improving our resilience market corrections, undermine the global There are clear links between the global recovery and adversely affect emerging We have experienced a decade of lower economy, international banks and trade that markets that are more leveraged or exhibit economic growth, subdued world trade, are fundamentally tied to global growth and weaker fundamentals.
It is essential that we low interest rates, stricter regulation and prosperity.
As one of the worlds top-three continue our efforts to increase the Groups increasing competition, including from trade banks, the Group is ideally positioned resilience to such potential shocks.
Recent political to bene t from the opportunities that the controversies about globalisation have I believe the completion by international continuing recovery in global trade will bring.
standard setters of the international regulatory capital framework for banks, known as Basel III, is a positive development for the industry overall.
Although banks, as well as their investors and clients, do not yet know precisely how the rules will be applied in practice, having the framework in place is an important step towards a more resilient banking system that supports the real economy.
Against this backdrop, the Groups strengthening position was evident in several respects in 2017.
The quality of our balance sheet improved signi cantly, loan impairment reduced to around half the level it was in 2016, and we passed what was considered the toughest Bank of England stress test to date.
It is critical that we maintain the focus and progress into 2018 while as I said at this time last year being willing to adapt and make the necessary decisions as conditions evolve.
Jos Vials Group Chairman Standard Chartered 04 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information As part of our focus on brand and culture Financial KPIs Ensuring excellent governance in 2017, we engaged with our colleagues The independent, externally facilitated Underlying return onequity RoE around the world to identify the essence of Board evaluation that I commissioned what we stand for, who we are and how we Aim Deliver sustainable improvement in the shortly after becoming Chairman concluded need to behave to deliver our full potential.
Groups pro tability as a percentage of the value that the Board is operating effectively and This led to our invigorated purpose statement of shareholders equity provided useful ideas on how to maximise its Driving commerce and prosperity through leadership to the Group.
More details can be our unique diversity and a refreshed set of found in the Directors report.
These are designed to 3.5% 320bps Towards the end of the year, following the support the Groups desired culture, drive departure of Dr Kurt Campbell, Dr Ngozi our transformation and increase our returns 2015 0.4 % Okonjo-Iweala joined us as an independent and resilience.
Ngozi has signi cant The Board continues to oversee far-reaching geopolitical, economic, risk and development 2017 3.5% changes to transform the Groups response experience at a government level and in to financial crime.
This is a critical journey, and international organisations.
She twice served Analysis Underlying RoE of 3.5 per cent in2017 we must remain focused on delivering this as Finance Minister in Nigeria, Africas largest was a substantial improvement on 0.3 per cent transformation to provide the foundation for a economy and one of our most signi cant in 2016 but further progress is required strong, sustainable business in the long term.
African markets, and was part of the senior The underlying pro t attributable to ordinary shareholders expressed as a percentage of average ordinary leadership of the World Bank.
I would like to shareholders equity Dividend take this opportunity to thank Kurt for his signi cant contributions to the Group, and In recognition of our increased con dence in Capital ratio welcome Ngozi to the Board.
the prospects for the Group, I am pleased to report that we are recommending the Aim Maintain a strong capital base and We also recently announced the appointment a Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 ratio resumption of dividends with an 11 cent of Christine Hodgson as Senior Independent of 12to 13per cent per share distribution in respect of 2017.
Director of the Group, in addition to her The Board understands the importance of current role as Chair of the Remuneration the ordinary dividend to shareholders and Committee.
Christine takes over this role from intends to increase the full year dividend 13.6% Naguib Kheraj, who will remain as Deputy per share over time taking into account the Chairman and Chair of the Audit Committee.
earnings outlook, group and local regulatory 2015 12.6% capital requirements and opportunities to Embedding a culture of 2016 13.6% invest to grow the business.
ethical banking 2017 13.6% Deeply embedding a culture of ethical Conclusion Analysis The Groups CET1 ratio remained banking will ensure we are able to deliver This is an exciting time to be at Standard at 13.6 per cent above the top end of the range for our investors, our clients, our colleagues Chartered.
I remain convinced that if we The components of the Groups capital are summarised and our communities.
Good conduct work hard, with dedication, passion and on page 183 doing business in the right way can, and creativeness to seize the opportunities ahead will, be a powerful differentiator for our Group.
of us, our future will be bright.
I look forward Total shareholder return TSR to updating you on our progress in our 2018 Since I wrote to you in the 2017 Half Year Half Year Report.
Aim Deliver a positive return on shareholders Report, I have continued to travel extensively investment through share price appreciation across our franchise, meeting our clients, and dividends paid colleagues, investors, regulators and other stakeholders.
This has reinforced for me what an extraordinary organisation we have, with talented and dedicated colleagues and 10bps 17.
Jos Vials 2015 35.4 % Group Chairman 17.7% 2016 27 February 2018 2017 17.6% Analysis The Groups TSR in the full year 2017 was 17.6 per cent, compared to 17.7 per cent in 2016 and negative 35.4percent in 2015 Combines simple share price appreciation with dividends paid to show the total return to the shareholder and is expressed as a percentage 05
