Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Chairmans statement Provident Financial prides itself on its 140 year history ofproviding valued customers with access to credit where others will not.
Recent events have demonstrated a need torefresh the groups direction, focus and culture.
Stuart Sinclair Interim Non-Executive Chairman Provident Financial prides itself on its 140 year history of its sales calls that the charges for ROP would be treated as providing valued customers with access to credit where others will apurchase transaction and therefore potentially incur interest.
We deeply regret the impact that recent events have had on Vanquis Bank will refund those customers with the interest customers and shareholders which clearly demonstrate the need element of ROP charges in the period between inception of the to refresh the groups direction, focus and culture.
The Board product in 2003 and the communication to ROP customers firmly believe that the group continues to have an important role which was conducted in December 2016.
The total cost of to play in serving customers responsibly in the non-standard settlement is estimated to be 172.1m and has been reflected as credit market, and that it can do so whilst providing an attractive an exceptional cost in the 2017 results.
The settlement comprises return to shareholders.
However, in order to do this, there balance reductions for existing customers, cash refunds, ahigher isaneed to restore the groups capital base.
expected forward flow of ROP complaints more generally in respect of which compensation may have to be paid, costs of On 27 February 2018, the group agreed a settlement with the administering the settlement and an FCA fine.
Vanquis Bank FCA on its investigation into Vanquis Banks ROP.
The agreed willbe working with the FCA on a plan to resume sales of ROP settlement relates to a failure by Vanquis Bank to disclose in tonew customers.
4 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Manjit Wolstenholme Everyone at Provident Financial was shocked and deeply saddened at the sudden death of Executive Chairman Manjit Wolstenholme on 23 November 2017.
It was a great privilege to know her personally and to work alongside her over thelast few years.
She showed exceptional leadership in stepping up to the role ofExecutive Chairman in the months leading up to her death.
Manjit was known and respected for her achievements and championing diversity in British business, and we would like to pay tribute to her contribution to the business landscape.
Her passion, belief and commitment for the role PFG plays in customers lives wasunwavering and we owe her a huge debt of gratitude.
Moneybarn continues to cooperate with The net proceeds of the proposed rights Developments over the the FCA in its ongoing investigation into issue will ensure that the group has affordability, forbearance and termination appropriate levels of regulatory capital to last 12months options.
The scope of the investigation meet its current and future regulatory capital is understood and the estimated cost of requirements as well as ensure its balance On 28 February 2017, the group announced 20.0m, being managements prudent sheet is strengthened with the appropriate developments to the home credit businesss estimate of the expected outcome in respect level of buffers in order to enable it to pursue operating model that focused on changing of the investigation, has been reflected as an underlying organic growth opportunities.
from a self-employed agency model to an exceptional cost in the 2017 results.
A final In addition, the Board believes that this level employed workforce, aimed at delivering resolution to the investigation is likely to take of capital is aligned with leverage expectations a more efficient and effective business.
for investment grade credit status and as such, The proposals were intended to enhance the the group expects to re-establish normal home credit operating model by: i serving Following the operational disruption in home access to funding from the bank and debt customers through full-time employed credit as a result of the poorly executed capital markets.
Taking into account the receipt Customer Experience Managers CEMs migration to the new operating model and of the net proceeds of the proposed rights rather than self-employed agents to take the estimated costs of resolving the FCA issue and the intended use of proceeds, on a direct control of all aspects of the relationship investigations, the groups CET 1 capital pro forma unaudited basis the CET 1 capital with the customer: ii changing the field ratio reduced to 14.5% as at 31 December ratios of the group and Vanquis Bank would management structure in the UK, with newly 2017, which is below the groups regulatory have been 28.7% and 25.4% respectively, defined roles and ways of working: and iii capital requirements set by the Prudential up from 14.5% and 21.6% respectively at developing further technology to improve Regulation Authority PRA.
In addition, 31 December 2017. efficiency and effectiveness.
The migration the group has agreed a revised regulatory tothe new home credit operating model, capital requirement with the PRA.
This has The company expects to use the net cash with more centralised control over a resulted in the groups total regulatory capital proceeds of the proposed rights issue to: distributed workforce and greater evidencing requirement increasing, primarily due to an i inject approximately 50m into Vanquis of customer interactions through voice increase of approximately 100m in respect of Bank by way of a subscription of equity as an recording technology currently unique to conduct and operational risk assessments.
additional management buffer: ii repay an Provident inthe home credit sector, was also 85m bridge facility provided by Barclays Bank Following a thorough review of the various intended toenhance regulatory standards.
plc and JP Morgan Securities in February 2018 options available to the group to improve its It sought toachieve this by improving first line which will be used to allow Vanquis Bank to capital position in light of the groups short oversight of field staff through more consistent draw down 85m under an intercompany term and medium-term priorities, the Board has evidencing of interactions with customers than loan facility between the group and Vanquis decided to pursue a fully underwritten rights might be the case in circumstances where Bank, reducing the reliance of Vanquis Bank issue and a prospectus will be issued later dual visits when self-employed agents were on Provident Financial plc: and iii create today.
The group is seeking to raise additional accompanied by field management to monitor 165m of additional liquidity headroom by capital of approximately 300.0m 331m the interaction between the agent and the either holding cash on deposit or repaying gross proceeds before deduction of expenses customer for regulatory purposes and apps amounts due under the syndicated revolving of 31m through the proposed rights issue, are utilised to perform the same function.
which is subject to shareholder approval On 20 June 2017, the group provided an at a general meeting on 21 March 2018.
The Board continues to believe in the strong update on the transition to the new home Full details of the rights issue are provided growth opportunities available to the groups credit operating model indicating that inaseparate prospectus.
attractive businesses and aims to leverage the operational disruption associated with the rights issue and its revised strategy to build a transition was higher than anticipated, with robust foundation for the long-term strength agent attrition rates and vacancy levels of the group.
The Board remains confident of adversely impacting collections, sales the groups underlying prospects and value, penetration, customer retention and profits.
and is committed to restoring sustainable At that time, it was expected that collections earnings growth and reliable operational would normalise after the transitional period performance, together contributing to but the disruption relating to the transition to attractive future shareholder returns.
5 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued the new operating model would result in 2017 full-year pre-exceptional pre-tax profits for Over the last six months, the group has: CCD reducing to around 60m 2016: 115.2m.
Conducted a search to identify suitably Assessed conduct risks and On 22 August 2017, the group released a qualified candidates for the role of group improved internal controls, including further trading update on the home credit Chief Executive Officer.
On 2 February commissioning an external review of the and Vanquis Bank businesses.
The disruption 2018, the group announced the effectiveness of CCDs first and secondin the home credit business was more severe appointment of Malcolm Le May as group lines of defence in the risk management than originally anticipated, and the full year Chief Executive Officer.
In making this process, as well as its governance and profit guidance for CCD was significantly decision, the Board has consulted with, culture in general: reduced to a pre-exceptional pre-tax loss of and received support from, certain of between 80m and 120m for 2017.
The group Worked closely with the FCA to resolve the groups leading shareholders, as also announced that the FCA was conducting the groups immediate challenges, an investigation into Vanquis Banks ROP well as discussing his appointment with including implementing the home and that in April 2016 it had agreed to enter the FCA.
The Board firmly believes that credit recovery plan, improving risk into a voluntary requirement with the FCA to under Malcolms leadership the group management controls and oversight suspend all new sales of ROP and to conduct can once again return to delivering in CCD and to resolve fully the FCAs a customer contact exercise, which has since attractive returns for shareholders whilst investigation into Vanquis Banks ROP been completed.
Vanquis Bank also agreed establishing strong relationships with and to continue to cooperate with the to enter into a voluntary requirement with all the groups stakeholders, including FCA with its ongoing investigation into the PRA pursuant to which it agreed not to: customers and regulators: certain issues in Moneybarn: i pay dividends to or make any distribution Undertaken a review to clearly of capital to the group: ii provide loans Addressed governance and culture understand the root causes of the issues or facilities to the group: iii conduct non issues more widely across the group, in deploying the new operating model in business as usual liquidity transactions which refocusing on the customer first.
the home credit business which included have or may have the effect of transferring The Board has placed positive customer insufficient recognition of the importance any cash or assets in favour of any member outcomes and enhanced regulatory of the front line customer relationship of the group: or iv provide any security for engagement firmly at the centre of the to the performance of the business.
the obligations of any member of the group, groups strategy: In addition, an inflexible approach without the PRAs consent.
As a result of the Closely monitored the capital and was adopted in implementing the new impact of the disruption and the investigation, liquidity position of the group on a operating model which lacked customer the interim dividend for the 2017 financial consolidated basis and of Vanquis Bank focus.
These were clearly largely year was withdrawn and the Board indicated on a solo basis, whilst maintaining regular that a full year 2017 dividend was unlikely, managerial failings in implementation, and frequent dialogue with the groups toretain liquidity and balance sheet stability rather than fundamental flaws in the bank lending group, M&G, rating agency, on 13 October 2017, the Board confirmed main concepts behind the new approach: the PRA primarily through Vanquis Bank no final dividend would be paid.
Under the Strengthened leadership of the and the FCA: circumstances, PeterCrook stepped down home credit business through the as group Chief Executive Officer and Developed a new capital plan based on reappointment of Chris Gillespie as Manjit Wolstenholme assumed the role of revised forecasts for the groups three Managing Director of CCD at the end of Executive Chairman.
businesses to establish the appropriate August 2017 with a mandate to improve During this time the group continued to scale and nature of resources required the operating model in order to reassess and discuss with the FCA the processes to execute the groups strategy and establish relationships with customers applied by Moneybarn in relation to customer generate capital with a view to restoring and restore collections and stability in affordability assessments for vehicle finance the shareholder dividend as soon as the business.
Chris Gillespie previously and the treatment of customers in financial possible: and acted as Managing Director of CCD from difficulties.
This included Moneybarn 2007 to 2013: Assessed the various options available to entering into a voluntary requirement with the group to meet the potential costs of Swiftly designed and implemented the FCA pursuant to which it agreed to restitution and to ensure the group has the recovery plan for the home credit amend its processes for dealing with loan appropriate levels of regulatory capital.
business based on a revised and more terminations to ensure that customers flexible operating model alongside a receive information which enables them right-sizing of the cost base, with a focus to make an informed decision as to which on re-establishing customer service termination option to adopt.
On 5 December levels and relationships.
The recovery 2017, however, the group was informed that plan is expected to be substantially the FCA had commenced an investigation implemented by the end of the first half into Moneybarn covering the adequacy of creditworthiness assessments as well as the of 2018: treatment of customers in default or arrears with forbearance and due consideration, and the provision of information about termination processes.
As the issues above emerged during the summer of 2017, the group moved swiftly to put in place a near-term action plan focused on ensuring stability and addressing the immediate challenges.
The most pressing issues were stabilising and turning around 6 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Review of governance arrangements The group has completed an initial review Brought together all its senior executive Executive has been appointed and the of its governance arrangements.
The review and non-executive management from the group also intends to appoint a Group has identified where enhancement and whole group to discuss where the group HR Executive.
These appointments change was needed to ensure greater has fallen short and why, what the groups are intended to improve coordination, Board effectiveness, clarity of group aspirations should be going forward, and cooperation and efficiency across the purpose and divisional roles and what needs to change as a result: group in pursuit of the groups aims and responsibilities, and significantly improve in support of the Executive Committee: Re-initiated a clear and consistent tone group risk and conduct management.
from the top from the Board in line with Initiated the recruitment of two these customer-centric values that also additional new non-executive directors Following completion of the review, emphasises the need to collaborate more with directly relevant experience the group has: effectively and work together across and in line with a Board skills needs the group: assessment, to work alongside the new Appointed a new group Chief Executive group Chief Executive Officer to deliver Officer and initiated the recruitment of a Provided greater clarity over the roles and on the Boards vision: and new external Chairman: responsibilities of each of the divisions as well as those that exist at the broader Begun the process of establishing a Reaffirmed a clear purpose, vision, group level, and in doing so begun to new Board committee, to be chaired by mission and set of values which are disseminate the more consistent and clear one of the new non-executive directors centred firmly on the customer, and vision, mission and values more widely: noted above, focusing on the customer, helping them to help themselves to build culture and ethics to help drive changes brighter financial futures: Established a group Chief Risk Officer in behaviours and attitudes across CRO role for the first time who will, Re-constituted a wider group Executive the group.
once appointed, work closely with the Committee which will play a far greater Board and the group Chief Executive The changes listed above have already role in delivering on the groups vision Officer to provide group-wide oversight been implemented or initiated.
and in enhancing the information flows of governance, risk and conduct and Additional changes are planned in the and control between the group and ensure that these all remain a key focus longer-term through to 2020 in order to its divisions: of the group and appointed an interim continue to refocus the culture on the group CRO: customer first thereby improving regulatory compliance, and the group will reassess Begun the recruitment of a number of its structure to ensure the changes executives to create key group functions.
An interim IT Strategy & Procurement the performance of the home credit business, customers whose relationship had been mainstream lenders.
The groups customers, reaching a resolution with the FCA in relation adversely impacted following the poorly who come from many different walks of life, to its investigation into ROP in Vanquis Bank, executed migration to the new operating have always valued highly the way the group continuing to cooperate with the FCA with model in July 2017 was at the lower end of provides access to credit closely tailored to its ongoing investigation into Moneybarn expectations through the fourth quarter their needs and the realities of their lives, and ensuring that the groups capital base of 2017. often involving smaller sums, shorter terms and liquidity were appropriate to rebuild and more flexible repayment options.
As part of an ongoing process of reviewing the business.
Customers on modest and less predictable its cost base, the home credit business incomes want, and deserve, access to credit During this time, while working to push announced at this time a proposed to help them cope with everyday challenges, forward these actions Manjit Wolstenholme rationalisation of its central support functions and to allow them to participate fully in the tragically died suddenly on 23 November which is subject to workforce consultation.
Malcolm Le May assumed the role This is a necessary step to align the cost of Interim Executive Chairman until his base to the reduced size of the business.
Recent events have demonstrated that appointment on 2 February 2018 as group In addition, the business expects to secure although the groups intentions were good Chief Executive Officer.
I was appointed as improvements in the effectiveness and in what it was seeking to do for customers, Interim Chairman on 2 February 2018 pending efficiency of the field organisation as the new the delivery methods and the culture and the completion of the groups search for a new business model continues to be embedded.
governance around them have not always external Chairman.
However, customer facing resource is being been at the high standards which should managed very carefully in order to ensure that have been expected.
As a result of these On 16 January 2018, the group released further improvements in customer service shortcomings, it is clear to the Board that a trading update which disclosed the are delivered.
the group needs to address culture and expectation of a pre-exceptional pre-tax loss governance, refocusing on the customer first, for CCD of approximately 120m, consistent Culture and governance thereby improving regulatory compliance and with the upper end of the guidance previously as a result begin to rebuild and enhance its issued on 22 August 2017.
Although the reputation with regulators.
Malcolm LeMay Provident Financial was founded 140 years actions taken by management had delivered has a clear agenda of engagement to ago with a clear social purpose of providing asignificant improvement in customer service address these issues that the Board is fully much valued access to credit for customers and operational performance in the home supportive of.
in the non-standard credit market who often credit business since August 2017, the rate find themselves ignored or under-served by of reconnection with those home credit 7 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Chairmans statement continued director remuneration has been reduced Having taken action to strengthen governance so as to operate well within the parameters in the short-term, the Board believes that the Our values: of the current policy.
In addition to reducing group is well placed to address the longerCollaborative the level of pension and benefits for new term matter of implementing an appropriate executive director appointments, there will corporate structure, including the nature and We work together to deliver better beno further grants of matching shares under interaction of the regulated entities within outcomes forourcustomers and hold the performance share plan PSP, although the group.
The group, under the direction ourselves accountable.
part of the annual bonus will continue to be of the new group Chief Executive Officer, deferred for three years.
For awards under Malcolm LeMay, will consider all opportunities the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS, the to improve coordination and organisation Fair group plans to change the performance of resources to deliver better customer condition from absolute Total Shareholder outcomes and regulatory interactions We are decent, fair and reasonable Return TSR to a more common relative TSR in a more effective and efficient manner.
in our dealings withallstakeholders metric, in relation to a suitable comparator In evaluating these opportunities, the group and treat everyone with respect.
LTIS awards and the aims to carefully balance the benefits and annual bonus will also be subject to a more advantages of any changes with the costs and rounded set of metrics designed to improve risks involved, in light of the need to continue Responsible culture and performance by focusing on risk, to grow the groups businesses and adapt to We conduct our business dealings balance sheet and customer performance the changing external environment.
Furthermore, the group will responsibly and ensure we have introduce a post-vesting sale restriction Board changes apositive impact on the environment period of two years to all new LTIS grants, and communities we serve.
and have enhanced the withholding malus The Board appointed Malcolm Le May as group and recovery clawback provisions currently Chief Executive Officer from 1 February2018.
In the longer-term, the group will This follows a Board process which I led over Accessible work with external advisors to develop a recent months.
I believe that Malcolm Le May more comprehensive balanced scorecard We provide our customers with is an outstanding candidate for the role, given approach to performance management with hisexisting knowledge of the group, his deep access to products which meet an appropriate balance of financial, customer, knowledge of the business and sector, his their evolving needs and help risk and strategic metrics which is reflected regulatory understanding and turn-around in a revised executive remuneration policy themtohelpthemselves.
In making this decision, to support the groups desired culture and the Board has consulted with certain of its approach to greater coordination of group leading shareholders and discussed his Straightforward resources for the benefit of customers.
In due appointment with the FCA.
course, any proposed new remuneration We are straightforward, transparent, David Sear joined the Board on 1 January 2017 policy will be discussed fully with shareholders open andhonestin all our dealings, to assist with the development of the groups and submitted for their approval thereafter strategy for the broad IT direction.
The group building trusting relationships.
now finds itself in very different circumstances Given the position of the group in the nonand with different strategic priorities and Progressive standard credit sector, there is an opportunity he therefore resigned with effect from and an expectation that the group will lead 26 January2018.
We are innovative and help our by example, becoming a true champion for The group has investigated a process to customers anticipate and respond less creditworthy customers and taking appoint a new external Chairman as well as positive steps to help them.
The group plans tothe challenges of a changing world two additional non-executive directors as to leverage the newly established role of the tobuildbrighter financialfutures.
group CRO once appointed to champion the interests of the customer internally and Closing remarks thereby begin to transform the nature of The group plans to realign its culture more interactions with regulators and provide closely to the developing needs of the greater consistency and coordination across Our priorities for 2018 are to rebuild trust with customer, and to better coordinate and the groups regulated businesses.
The group our customers, regulators, shareholders and cooperate internally across businesses to has begun to build and staff a group risk employees which, Malcolm will discuss further deliver better customer outcomes more and compliance function for the first time in his Chief Executive Officers review.
More specifically, the under the leadership of the interim group group will focus on helping customers on their 2017 has been a very challenging year but in CRO.
This new function will lead the design creditworthiness journey, where possible recent months we have made good progress and implementation of the governance and helping them to help themselves build brighter in resolving our regulatory uncertainties and risk management changes required, and financial futures, using all its resources and the turnaround of the home credit business.
improve group oversight of divisional risk offers, going beyond granting the much valued I would like to thank all our employees for and compliance functions.
The interim group financial inclusion to as many people as is their continuing hard work and dedication CRO is, and once appointed, the permanent responsible within each area of the group.
throughout this difficult period for the group.
group CRO will be, responsible for maintaining Remuneration has an important part to play involvement in all regulatory interactions in realigning the groups culture.
The group across the group so as to ensure consistency Stuart Sinclair plans to continue to operate within the with the culture, direction and risk appetite constraints of the remuneration policy set by the Board, reflecting the greater Interim Non-Executive Chairman approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
importance being placed on the groups key 27 February 2018 However, in light of recent events, and the regulatory relationships.
latest shareholder feedback, in the short-term 8
