Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Such visits allow us to meet with employees and host governments to Chairmans letter gain a greater understanding of our people and operations local contribution.
Board renewal was a feature of the past year.
We said thank you and farewell to non-executive directors Robert Brown, Anne Lauvergeon Dear shareholders, and John Varley, and welcomed David Constable, Sam Laidlaw and Simon Henry to the board as non-executive directors.
In 2017, your company delivered a strong financial performance and signi cant cash returns to shareholders.
These results were achieved On 15 February 2018, we also announced that, after more than through a focused strategy, disciplined capital allocation and the ten years of service, Paul Tellier will be retiring from the board in early commitment of our employees around the world.
May 2018, as well as the appointment of Moya Greene as a new non-executive director.
Moya will join the board in the second half of The cyclical nature of our industry is readily apparent.
Just over two 2018. years ago, the prices for many commodities were at near decade lows.
In 2017, prices for a number of our key products were higher On 5 March 2018, Simon Thompson will succeed me as chairman of Rio than in 2016.
This, combined with our strong cash and productivity Tinto.
Simon has served on the board since 2014 and has signi cant focus, helped underpin Rio Tintos underlying earnings and cash experience of the industry, having led various extractive businesses in generation.
I am pleased to be succeeded by Simon and know that he will do an outstanding job chairing your company.
Underlying earnings in 2017 were US$8.6 billion, up 69 per cent on 2016.
Net earnings were US$8.8 billion 2016: US$4.6 billion and operating Personal reections cash ow was US$13.9 billion 2016: US$8.5 billion.
I would like to thank the board of directors and you, our shareholders, Rio Tinto continued to realise considerable savings from its cost for the opportunity to serve this company for the past nine years as reduction programme, delivering US$0.6 billion of pre-tax chairman.
It has been a privilege to work with many outstanding improvements and reductions in 2017 and meeting its US$2.0 billion people across the organisation and to have learnt so much about an target for 2016 and 2017 six months earlier than scheduled.
exciting industry that continues to provide the materials that are essential for modern life.
The company ended the year with a strengthened balance sheet, with net debt reduced to US$3.8 billion.
There is no doubt it has been both challenging and rewarding to chair a business that is so cyclical in nature.
The industrys move, some Record shareholder returns years ago, to sell iron ore by reference to spot prices rather than Rio Tinto declared cash returns to shareholders of US$9.7 billion for annually xed prices, further introduced unprecedented levels of 2017, including record dividends.
short-term volatility in an already cyclical industry.
We announced a final dividend of 180 US cents per share, equivalent The investment in 2011 of US$4 billion in Mozambique in what to US$3.2 billion, bringing the full year 2017 ordinary dividend to ultimately turned out to be inferior quality coal assets was undoubtedly 290 US cents per share, equivalent to US$5.2 billion.
The final a low point during my tenure.
It was also a dif cult moment for the dividend is the largest in your companys 145-year history.
board when we took the decision to notify the relevant authorities about contractual payments made in 2011 to a consultant providing advisory For 2017, we announced buy-backs of US$2.0 billion, the first services on the Simandou project in Guinea.
US$1.0 billion having been announced in August 2017 and completed in December 2017, and the second US$1.0 billion announced with our full Along with the obvious challenges, there have also been many year results in February 2018 and to be completed by the end of 2018. highlights.
Nine years ago, Rio Tinto had net debt of almost US$40 billion: net debt is now less than US$4 billion.
A supplementary share buy-back of US$2.5 billion from the Coal & Allied sale proceeds was announced in September 2017.
Shareholders contributed US$15 billion of much needed capital by way of a rights issue three months into my chairmanship.
However, Supporting our communities since the start of 2011, and including the US$6 billion that will be Our shareholder returns are signi cant, and so is the economic and paid to shareholders during 2018, we will have returned in excess of US$40 billion in the form of dividends and share buy-backs.
social contribution we make in the countries in which we operate.
In 2017, more than a third of Rio Tintos direct economic contribution In terms of share price performance and total shareholder return, over the last nine years we have outperformed the sector by a was through payments to suppliers businesses large and small considerable margin.
for their goods and services.
Our contribution is not monetary alone: it is also shared through Rio Tinto today has arguably the strongest balance sheet in the sector.
Taken together with the quality of our assets, I therefore have generations in education, skills development and community development.
every con dence that, under the leadership of our chief executive J-S Jacques, Rio Tinto has a bright future.
In this report, and through our Sustainable development report, you will nd examples of our work in action: be it delivering on our strong Our people commitment to environmental management, building our relationship Clearly, none of our achievements would have been possible without with governments and civil society, or building our community links the incredible dedication and hard work of thousands of employees through local procurement partnerships.
My final thanks must therefore go to our people, many of Rio Tinto seeks to act in ways that strengthen transparency, whom I have met on my many visits to of ces and operating sites.
understanding and trust with all of its stakeholders and through Without them Rio Tinto would simply not be the great company that pioneering publications, such as our Taxes paid report, we have it is.
sought to build awareness and understanding of the signi cant economic contribution we make.
Board composition In 2017, your directors visited Rio Tintos iron ore operations in the Jan du Plessis Pilbara region of Western Australia, aluminium assets in the Chairman  region of Quebec, Canada, as well as our 28 February 2018 global commercial centre in Singapore.
