Chairman Chairmans s Statement Statement Simon Fraser Simon Fraser, Chairman, Chairman As we begin to mark Foreign & Colonials 150th anniversary and the launch of the investment trust industry, I am very pleased to report another year of strong gains with a total shareholder return of 21.0%.
150-year milestone Performance Before reporting on our results for last year, we should perhaps 2017 was a good year.
Our Net Asset Value NAV total return with take a moment to reflect on the last 150 years.
It is remarkable to debt at market value rose by 16.9% and our total shareholder return think that the original purpose of Foreign & Colonial Investment was 21.0%.
We benefited from a rise in global stock markets with Trust has remained relevant throughout its long history.
Providing many indices reaching new record highs over the year.
The 21.0% exposure to a globally diversified portfolio of private and listed rise in our total shareholder return over the year significantly exceeded securities in one place, with access to all aspects of portfolio the 13.8% return of our benchmark, the FTSE All-World Index.
construction including portfolio allocation, stockpicking, manager selection and risk management at a reasonable cost, the investment Many of our investment portfolios delivered returns in excess of their trust that launched an industry 150 years ago is as relevant today as market benchmarks and we benefited from exposure to technology it ever was.
related stocks and the outperformance of Europe, Japan and Foreign and Colonial NAV and share price performance vs Foreign and Colonial annual dividend per share vs Consumer 1 Market benchmark over 10 years Prices Index over 10 years 300 180 250 160 200 140 150 120 100 50 100 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Foreign & Colonial annual dividend per share Foreign & Colonial Share price total return Foreign & Colonial NAV Total Return Consumer Prices Index 1 Market Benchmark Source: F&C & Thomson Reuters Eikon Source: F&C & Thomson Reuters Eikon 1 See Glossary of terms on pages 91 and 93 for explanations of Benchmark and Market benchmark 6 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT Emerging Markets.
In another year of strongly rising equity markets of 1.06%.
The Board and Manager will keep the Companys costs gearing was also helpful to performance.
Returns on our private under continuous review.
equity investments were lower than on our listed equities but have been higher over the longer term.
The majority of our private equity Discount portfolio was invested over ten years ago and is therefore quite mature.
The Board has long been committed to effective discount control I am pleased to say that this means our fund of fund programme is that provides benefits for shareholders in terms of reducing volatility returning cash to us 77.8m net in 2017. and enhancing returns.
The Companys discount to NAV started the year at 7.4% but, due to improved investor demand, narrowed to Delivering long-term growth in capital and income 4.3% by the end of the period further enhancing shareholder returns.
We look to deliver sustainable long-term growth in capital and income The average discount level of 6.7% for the year was the lowest seen and I am pleased to say that over ten years our share price total return for over twenty years.
This is equivalent to 9.9% per annum.
Over twenty years it is 453.4%, which equates to 8.9% per annum.
The number of shares bought back by your Company in 2017 fell to a low level of 4.4m shares.
The shares have recently been trading, Dividend growth has also been strong, with an annualised rise of 5.9% and bought back, within a 5% discount level, which represents in payments over the past decade and 7.4% over the past twenty significant progress since adjusting our policy towards a 7.5% years.
Foreign & Colonial has paid a dividend every year for 150 years.
average attainment level in May 2015.
Earnings and Dividends The Board will continue to use buybacks for the benefit of We continued to see good growth in income during the year helping shareholders in pursuit of a sustainably low deviation between the to bring our Net Revenue Return per share up to 11.7 pence from price and NAV per share in normal market conditions.
No reference 10.6 pence last year.
While sterling had gained slightly against will therefore be made in future to a specific attainment level for a number of major currencies by the end of the year, average the Companys discount.
The policy and the levels within which it exchange rate levels over the period were still down on 2016 and operates will continue to be reviewed with the aim of achieving our this was estimated to add to our income by 3m 6m in 2016. long-held aspiration of seeing the Companys shares trading at or Special dividends treated as income were 2.7m for the year, 1.7m close to NAV.
Key Information Document Shareholders will be asked to approve a final dividend of 2.7 pence In the context of investment performance, I should draw your attention per share payable on 1 May 2018.
This will bring the total dividend to the EUs PRIIPs regulations which came into effect in January of this for the year to 10.4 pence, a rise of 5.6%, which compares with the year.
Their purpose is to improve the functioning of financial markets 3.0% rise in the Consumer Prices Index, and will be the 47th year of and increase customer protection.
One aspect is the responsibility of rising dividends.
The 2017 dividends are fully covered by earnings our management company to produce a Key Information Document.
and after payment of the final dividend the Revenue Reserves will Retail investors must now be directed to this before buying or significantly exceed one years worth of dividends.
selling shares in the Company.
The document has been prepared according to a prescriptive methodology under the regulation such The Board remains confident that our investment portfolio will that the investment performance scenarios, based on recent past generate revenue increases higher than inflation over the long term performance, may indicate future returns for shareholders that are too and our intention is to continue to deliver sustainable real rises in optimistic.
This affects investment trusts generally and concerns have dividend per share to shareholders.
been expressed within the industry.
It is to be hoped that these issues will be quickly resolved but, in the meantime, we will continue to Efficiency remind shareholders to heed the maxim that past performance should Control of costs continues to be a focus of the Board.
Annualised not be taken as a guide to the future.
costs are calculated as a proportion of net assets in accordance with two recognised yardsticks: the AICs Ongoing Charges, and the The Board 1 EUs new Total Cost measure introduced under PRIIPs.
These As part of the Boards succession plans, we are very pleased that are set out on page 15.
Ongoing Charges for 2017, which take Beatrice Hollond agreed to join the Board in September.
She brings account of expected future costs, have remained level at around to us her significant experience in asset management and as a non- 0.8% of net assets for the last three years.
This calculation includes executive director, including investment trusts.
approximately 0.3% attributable to fees incurred within investee funds.
Total Costs, as measured under the EU rules for the first time, F&C Investment Trust include costs such as interest and transaction charges as well as Our anniversary year provides a natural reflection point to ensure the charges within investee funds and therefore show a higher figure your Company continues its contribution and relevance in the modern world.
As part of this, our marketing will increasingly take 1 See Glossary of terms on page 93.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 7 place under the Companys commonly used name F&C Investment More than ever before the financial services industry needs to create Trust: the name with which Foreign & Colonial has always been simple to use, transparent investment products that help everybody synonymous.
At the AGM shareholders will be asked to approve an in our society invest for the long term and secure their financial amendment to the articles of association to enable the Directors to future.
Your Company meets that need by being structured to change the Companys corporate name to F&C Investment Trust provide a clear investment choice, particularly for smaller investors PLC in the year ahead.
to have as a core holding of their investment portfolio.
Indeed, we are confident that your Company will remain an appropriate choice Your Company, your future for any longer-term investor, however small or large, for many years While we look forward to celebrating our 150th anniversary in a to come.
In 2018 we face another period of political and economic number of ways our greatest focus is, as always, on the future of the uncertainty as well as market volatilty, but we still strongly believe Company and the part that it continues to play within the investment that the best long-term investment approach is to hold a globally sector as a whole.
Despite the growth in the industry, there is still diversified portfolio of publicly listed and private equities such as much work to be done in helping people to understand the benefits Foreign & Colonial.
of saving and investing for the longer term given that there is now a much greater need for individuals to take control of their future financial wellbeing.
State and private pensions will simply not be able to provide a comfortable retirement.
The fact that life-expectancy is so much longer, combined with the rapid rise in the cost of care in old age means that people will also have to plan their savings for their Simon Fraser future requirements much more carefully.
Consequently, we will be Chairman focusing considerable effort during our anniversary year on supporting 6 March 2018 broader financial education across schools and universities.
The investment trust that launched an industry 150 years ago is as relevant today as it ever was.
Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
8 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT Over ten years our share price total return is 156.1%.
