Chairmans Your Board of Directors is Statement focused on ensuring that AstraZeneca returns to growth.
I share Pascals excitement about AstraZenecas prospects as a science-led innovator... One of the Boards basic responsibilities is to Medicines for the long term set our strategy and monitor progress towards The long-term prospects for the pharmaceutical meeting our objectives, so that we bring our sector, however, remain encouraging.
science to patients, create value for society, AstraZeneca too is focused on the long term and reward you, our shareholders.
and we are committed to operating in a way that recognises the interconnection between Executing our strategy business growth, the needs of society and In 2017, we made encouraging progress the limitations of the planet.
Our listing, for across all our therapy areas, as well as in another year, in the Dow Jones Sustainability commercial execution and cost discipline.
World and European Indices bears testament After a number of years of falling revenue, to our continued achievements in this regard.
I am pleased we were able to report a growth We are also one of only 25 companies to in Product Sales in the final quarter of 2017. be recognised by investor benchmarking We are now positioned for Product Sales organisation, CDP, for both our climate growth from 2018. change and water stewardship programmes.
I firmly believe that the significant progress Returns to shareholders and outlook we have made against each of our three In 2017, and against this background, Reported strategic pillars vindicates the strategy we set earnings per share EPS of $2.37 represented a in 2013.
As a Board, we have reviewed and decline of 14% 15% at CER.
The performance confirmed that strategy each year.
We also was driven by a decline in Total Revenue and regularly review the supporting business increased SG&A costs, partly offset by a net tax performance reports, including pipeline benefit, continued progress on R&D cost control updates and the results of key clinical trials.
and an increase in Other Operating Income and Expense.
Core EPS declined by 1% 2% at CER Continued global uncertainty to $4.28.
Given this performance, the Board The progress made by AstraZeneca has declared a second interim dividend of in executing its strategy is all the more $1.90 per share 133.6 pence, 14.97 SEK impressive given the continued challenges bringing the dividend per share for the full we face.
These include strong competition year to $2.80 202.5 pence, 22.37 SEK.
At the from both branded and generic medicines same time, the Board reaffirmed its continued around the world.
Pricing and reimbursement commitment to our progressive dividend policy.
also remains challenging in many markets including the US and Europe.
I share Pascals excitement about AstraZenecas prospects as a science-led In Europe, there is the added uncertainty innovator and its ability to deliver value for of Brexit, the UKs announcement under patients and shareholders.
Article 50 of its intention to leave the EU, which has potential implications for both the UK and the remaining EU27.
We are CVMD: engaging with stakeholders and taking Stem cell differentiating actions to mitigate potential risks arising into heart muscle cardiac regeneration from all possible outcomes.
Leif Johansson Chairman 4 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report
