CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Mike Clasper TO MAKE CONSIDERED AND BOLD DECISIONS Chairman REQUIRES THOUGHTFUL DISCUSSION WITHIN THE BOARD AND A DEEP UNDERSTANDING OF Highlights for 2017: OUR STAKEHOLDERS.
Achieving inclusion in the FTSE 250 stock market index Dear Shareholder Successful ongoing integration This past year has seen us make good progress on our move from the industrial to the digital of prior acquisitions age, as we work with clients to meet their needs in a digital world and to anticipate trends Board visits to observe that will influence the way in which we work in the future.
In doing so we have drawn on the sustainable global operations talents and engagement of our workforce, while aligning the interests of our shareholders in any decisions made about the business.
It has been the year in which we realised our aspiration to return to FTSE 250 listing as a global manufacturer and also the year in which the Pension Regulator ceased its investigations.
Priorities for 2018 Governance Oversight of Connecting Our corporate governance framework provides a platform from which we can deliver our for Growth global strategic strategic aims.
It also ensures that we operate to the benefit of all of our stakeholders -- - change programme so having a diverse range of Board members is vital.
Focus on key themes including I am, therefore, pleased to report that the Board appointed two new female Non-Executive data, innovation, people and Directors.
Hongyan Echo Lu joined the Board in December 2017 and Anne Fahy joined the corporate responsibility Board in March 2018.
Continued proactive outward focus through programme of Ruth Anderson, Non-Executive Director and currently Chairman of the Audit and Risk visits to operations, customers Committee, has announced she will not be standing for re-election as a Director at the 2018 and other third parties Annual General Meeting.
I would like to thank Ruth for her insightful guidance and contribution over the years she has served, in which she has played a key part in steering change both to the Audit and Risk Committee and also the broader Group.
To make considered and bold decisions requires thoughtful discussion within the Board and a deep understanding of our stakeholders, be they investors, employees, suppliers or customers.
It also demands an in-depth understanding of the business and -- - to this end -- - we made Board visits to two of our international sites this year.
Having a diverse range of Board In June, we met the local management team and wider EMEA Performance Materials members is vital to our success.
We also visited the innovation showroom, showcasing the latest Board decisions set the tone and developments in Performance Materials and Apparel and Footwear, and heard about a culture for the organisation.
pilot project in Bursa to digitise and automate the supply chain.
The team told us about opportunities presented by machine learning, robotics and the use of sensors to digitise the working environment.
In October, we met in India, where we were given an introduction to the business performance, key competitors, market environment and the sheer scale of the domestic end uses of the thread produced e. g. apparel tailoring.
We also visited our manufacturing facility at Ambas, where we saw the results of our recent major investments in safety and sustainability: a new synthetic dyehouse, a zero-liquid discharge facility, a biomass-based steam boiler and a solar power plant.
FTSE 250 Our trip to Turkey coincided with their celebration of Coats entry into the FTSE 250, which Our entry into the FTSE 250has has been celebrated by staff across all our sites, from Shenzhen to Singapore and Stockley been celebrated by staff across all Park.
This is a validation of the corporate changes we have made since returning to listed our sites, from Shenzhen to Singapore status in February 2015 and brings the company full circle, as Coats was a founding member and Stockley Park.
of the FT 30 index created in 1935.
Pension funds I am happy to say that, in June, we signed a binding settlement agreement with the Trustee of the Staveley Industries Retirement Benefits Scheme.
The UK Pensions Regulator has now withdrawn its regulatory action and its investigations have now ceased.
4 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Dividend I am pleased to report that the Board I am pleased to report that the Board has been able to continue with the progressive dividend has been able to continue with the policy announced last year.
For 2017 we have recommended a final dividend of 1.00 cents per progressive dividend policy announced share, which combined with the interim dividend of 0.44 cents per share, gives a total dividend last year.
for the year of 1.44 cents per share pro-forma 2016 full year dividend: 1.25 cents per share, which represents a 15% increase on the previous year.
The final dividend will be paid on 29 May 2018 to ordinary shareholders on the register at 4 May 2018 Performance in 2017 We continued to perform well during the year with revenue growth of 4% to $1,510 million: driven by Apparel and Footwear, up 5%, and Performance Materials, up 12%, with some offset due to a weak performance in Crafts which declined by 11%.
Wider global trends Our continued success relies on our ability to understand and anticipate global trends, so Our continued success relies on our ability to understand and anticipate that we offer our customers leading-edge processes and products.
This requires a pro-active global trends, so that we offer our outward focus, working in partnership with outside organisations to broaden understanding customers leading-edge processes and identify future opportunities.
For example, this year our Performance Materials team and products.
has been working with research and development partners and a major car mouldings manufacturer to respond to the car industrys continued move towards lighter, cleaner cars in order to meet ever more stringent new fuel efficiency standards.
By exploiting our innovative composite technology, we aim to produce carbon composite shapes that could ultimately replace metal.
Heritage and culture It was very pleasing to see the diversity and richness of our shared heritage cultures were very much in evidence this past year.
In the UK, we celebrated our long standing links with the city of Paisley by supporting its bid to become the 2021 UK City of Culture ultimately won by Coventry, in December.
We also recently became the Royal Shakespeare Company RSC s Official Thread Supplier and a supporter of its Stitch In Time campaign for the restoration and redevelopment of the RSCs Costume Workshop in Stratford-upon-Avon.
In the year we launched a programme called Doing the right thing which encourages employees to reflect still further on the importance of ethical behaviour in their working lives, supported by a network of Ethical Culture Champions around the Group.
2017 also saw us taking part in Global Ethics Day for the first time -- the day - on which organisations around the world hold events to explore the meaning of ethics in international affairs.
Diversity Diversity is an important asset in achieving our success and one that we strive to instil throughout the business, not simply at Board level.
In November 2017, the Turkish parliament recognised Coats Turkey for its gender equality work, naming it as one of the top three companies in the country where working conditions show equality of opportunity for women and men.
People As ever, the business benefited from the loyalty and involvement of our people around the network.
Our employee engagement survey showed an engagement score of 83%, maintaining our position in the top 10% of companies globally.
This survey is an important tool in understanding how our workforce feels about the company and why.
Looking ahead Achieving our FTSE 250 listing has given us an important external accreditation, but we Achieving our FTSE 250 listing recognise that to maintain the support of all our stakeholders our shareholders, our has given us an important customers, employees and suppliers, we must be vigilant in maintaining the best possible external accreditation.
behaviours -- - meeting their needs in a manner that is forward thinking, responsible and sustainable.
