S STRA TRATEGIC TEGIC REPOR REPORT T CHAIRMANS FOREWORD READY FOR GROWTH My focus for my two-year tenure is twofold: to provide stability for Tullow after 30 years of leading the Company and to support Paul and his Executive Team as they move Tullow into its next phase of growth.
At the beginning of 2017, the risks to the business that lay DEAR SHAREHOLDER ahead included our gearing being at 5.1x net debt adjusted We began 2017 by announcing our $900 million farm-down EBITDAX, theITLOS process was still to be resolved and our inUganda, an excellent deal that recognised the value of this Reserves Based Lending RBL facility needed to be refinanced.
This, coupled with major cost cutting over Wetherefore needed to give the business greater operational the last three years, meant that your Company started 2017 and financial flexibility by materially reducing our debt through with a positive outlook.
the combination of a Rights Issue and ensuring the business Dealing with our high level of debt has been a priority of the generated free cash flow in a low oil price environment.
Board and management over the last three years.
As a Board, Rights Issues are not often popular, but with a continuing low we had never intended to reach such high levels of debt: a oil price, a highly leveraged balance sheet and limited cash flow combination of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea available to invest in the business, we needed the flexibility it ITLOS proceedings between Ghana and Cte dIvoire and the offered.
To create shareholder value we needed to both reduce fall in the oil price meant we were obliged to develop the TEN the risks and invest in the high rate of return projects in our field at a level of equity that we had not anticipated.
While that level of equity is now creating significant value in terms of our portfolio.
We have actively listened to feedback from share of production from the TEN field, our debt position earlier shareholders, both before and after the Rights Issue, and itis this year, while manageable, was restricting our ability to invest my hope that shareholders will look at the strength of our in the business.
business today and the many challenges we have overcome along the way, and agree that we made the right decision.
Nevertheless, I recognise and am grateful for the loyalty of ourshareholders through this process.
We leave 2017 in a strong financial position with the Ghana Cte dIvoire border dispute resolved, the RBL refinancing I am confident the completed and a new culture of financial discipline and team will meet the efficiency after three years of cost reductions.
Our challenge challenge of restoring isnow to regain the trust of the market and restore value to shareholder value ourshareholders.
2017 also saw changes in leadership at the top of our Company.
At our AGM, Simon Thompson stepped down as Chairman after five years and I would like to recognise all that Simon did for Tullow and the Board during some difficult years for our Company.
In succeeding Simon as Chairman, my focus for my two-year tenure is twofold: to provide stability for Tullow after 30 years ofleading the Company and to support Paul and his Executive Team as they move Tullow into its next phase of growth.
The Nominations Committees search for Tullows next Chairman iswell advanced and we expect to make an announcement by the end of 2018.
I am delighted that Paul has adjusted so rapidly to his new position AIDAN HEAVEY, CHAIRMAN as CEO after 11 very successful years as Chief Operating Officer.
6 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 He is already making his mark on Tullow as CEO and is increasing of the aims of the Hampton-Alexander Review and I was glad to the financial and operational strength of the Company.
I have see that Pauls selection of his new Executive Team included two women: this is a good signal of the further progress we been working with Paul to hand over Tullows relationships want to see.
We also work alongside governments to meet their across Africa and it was clear at the Africa Oil Week conference in aims of employing and developing local talent and we want to Cape Town in October, where Paul gave the keynote speech, that support the continued development and long-term careers of he is building very effective networks with key ministers and our local staff.
Underlining this commitment, we have embarked officials from all over the continent.
upon a dedicated initiative, Project LEAP, to help all employees Ian Springett, our long-standing CFO, also retired this year due manage their careers and personal development in Tullow, to ill health.
This was a premature retirement after eight years which you can read more about on page 50. ofmuch valued service as CFO, but I am pleased to report that Ian is making good progress and is well on the road to recovery.
Outlook Ian was replaced, in an interim capacity at first and then The outlook for Tullow at the end of 2017 is brighter than it permanently, by Les Wood, previously our VP, Commercial hasbeen for some time.
The team has shown that it has the andFinance.
I was particularly pleased that the CFO appointment skills to meet any challenge and deal with it.
We have come was internal as it showed the exceptional talent that we have through some of the most difficult years in the oil industry as atsenior levels within the Company.
This promotion followed abetter and more disciplined Company.
Wehave created high Pauls appointment of the Executive Team, all of whom came rate of return opportunities within our existing operated and entirely from within the Tullow business.
non-operated portfolio that we now have the financial flexibility to invest in.
I am confident the teamwill meet the challenge of In our Full Year Results statement we announced that restoring shareholder value throughdisciplined investment in AnneDrinkwater had informed the Board thatshe has decided these opportunities, while maintaining our newly embedded nottostand for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
Iwould like to performance and cost management culture.
thank Anne for her excellent counsel andguidance to the Company over the six years she has servedon Tullows Board.
Values Our Company Values underpin all that we are and all that we Aidan Heavey doin Tullow.
They are important to me and important to our Chairman staff.
Our core Values have been refreshed by our employees toreflect the Company we are today.
They are based on four 6 February 2018 keyprinciples of Creating Value, Acting with Integrity, Working Collaboratively and Using Initiative.
Our transition to being a much more efficiently managed, cost-conscious workplace  Company is reflected in these Values and they are helping us enhance Tullows culture.
Diversity and inclusion Paul and I are personally committed to ensuring that our teams and talent are diverse and that we improve and prioritise the development of people from our countries of operation and women for Senior Management positions.
We know the benefits Our strategy 16 that diverse thinking, perspectives and experiences can bring to Organisation & Culture 50 our business and we are acutely aware of the value of the Shared Prosperity 52 different cultures in areas where we operate.
