2 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEAR SHAREHOLDER One of the core duties of a Board is to ensure that companies evolve to meet the ever changing challenges and opportunities they face.
A Board must set the pace in this, refreshing and strengthening its membership with deeper expertise, new perspectives and greater diversity.
Since becoming Chairman in 2014 I am pleased with the evolutionary changes we PROVIDING have made at Smith & Nephew.
I believe these build on the successes of the past and position the Company well for further progress.
LEADERSHIP STRENGTHENING THE BOARD We have been able to attract new NonExecutive Directors of high calibre to replace Board members retiring after completing The Board approaches 2018 with optimism.
Olivier has built a strong foundation and Angie Risley, who joined in September 2017, weexpect to attract someone of the highest is currently Group HR Director of J Sainsbury calibre to accelerate business performance plc and was previously Non-Executive Director of Arriva plc, Biffa plc and Serco plc where from this base.
she was also chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Marc Owen, recently retired from the Executive Committee of Fortune 500 healthcare business McKesson Corp, where he was Chairman of Celesio AG and President of McKesson Speciality Health, and previously a healthcare and technology specialist at McKinsey, joined in October 2017.
Roland Diggelmann, Chief Executive Officer at Roche Diagnostics and a member of the Corporate Executive Committee of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, and previously a senior executive at Zimmer GmbH, will join on1 March 2018.
Marc and Roland strengthen the Boards knowledge of commercial healthcare and the medical devices sector while Angie will provide effective leadership to our Remuneration Committee when Joe Papa steps down atthe AGM in April.
Joe has been a highly valued colleague and exemplary steward of Smith&Nephew.
On behalf of the whole Board, I thank him for his service.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER In October Olivier Bohuon notified the Board of his intention to retire by the end of2018, after seven years as Chief Executive Officer.
Under Oliviers leadership Smith & Nephew has undergone important and necessary change and he has significantly strengthened the foundations of our Company.
As Smith&Nephew enters its next chapter, the Board is determined to build on this.
3 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued Olivier continues to lead Smith & Nephew We conducted our regular review of strategy Whilst the trading performance of the Group anddrive the Companys growth initiatives and Group structure at our annual strategy was better than in 2016, and we delivered and operating plans.
In this he is supported by meeting in October, ensuring the continued within our guidance, we continue to endorse ournew Chief Financial Officer, Graham Baker, close alignment of Board and management the Chief Executives view that this business who joined in March 2017. on our expectations and current direction.
can and should deliver better results and Weupgraded our Risk Management process reinforce the need for continued focus on The Board has been impressed with and strengthened our internal team in this area.
Grahamsstrong start as he quickly developed Our Senior Independent Director, Ian Barlow, his understanding of the business and The 2017 full year dividend of 35.0 per share conducted a Board Effectiveness Review which we welcome his commercial acumen and reflects the strong growth in adjusted earnings identified some areas of further improvement attention to detail.
Our views of Graham have per share.
which we are focusing on, such as deepening been echoed by the positive shareholder our knowledge of the competitive landscape The Board approaches 2018 with optimism.
to enable us to better support management Olivier has built a strong foundation and we develop and deploy resources to win in our expect to attract someone of the highest GOVERNANCE AND CULTURE chosen markets.
I encourage you to read calibre to accelerate business performance In 2017 the Board invested significant time more about these and other matters in our from this base.
Thank you for your support meeting local management and employees Governance section starting on page 50. and engagement in 2017 and the Board looks and understanding market dynamics.
forward to serving you into an exciting next These included visiting our offices in Dubai, 2017 PERFORMANCE chapter for Smith & Nephew.
Tokyo and Hull, as well as some Board The Board receives regular updates on the Yours sincerely, members spending time with our salesforce performance of the business from the CEO to better appreciate their role and meeting and CFO, together with members of the senior customers.
In addition to giving us commercial management team attending Board meetings insight, such activities let us get anecdotal over the course of the year.
evidence of the culture at Smith & Nephew, something the Board puts great value on.
We could clearly see areas of the business We strive toset the tone from the top, and where the Company excelled in 2017, review data to demonstrate performance, such asGlobal Operations where we have Roberto Quarta but it is only by meeting employees from all improvedquality and supply, and R&D, where Chairman levels of the Company that we can be certain we have an exciting new product pipeline.
that Smith&Nephews values of I perform, It is no coincidence that both of these areas Iinnovate and Iearn trust are being lived of the business have effective leaders who across the business.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS $4,765m 2% 3% 35.0 14% 1 Revenue Reported Underlying Dividend per share Group revenue was up 2% on a reported basis including -1% headwind The 14% year-on-year increase reflects the strong growth in adjusted fromthe 2016 Gynaecology business disposal and 3% on an underlying earnings per share.
basis, in line with guidance.
$934m 17% $1,048m 3% 87.8 0% 1 Operating profit Trading profit Earnings per share EPS 1 Operating profit margin of 19.6% is up Trading profit margin was 22.0%, up In 2016 EPS benefited from the gain on 240bps year-on-year due to more favourable 20bpsyear on year, in line with guidance.
thedisposal of the Gynaecology business.
94.5 14% 14.3% 280bps 5% 1 1 Adjusted Earnings pershare EPSA Return on Invested Capital ROIC R&D expenditure Reflects one-off tax benefits, improvements in Reflects improvements in operating profit, To drive innovation, we maintain our investment 1 trading profit margin and the tax rate on trading.
the lower tax rate and a stable asset base.
in R&D at around 5% of Group revenue.
1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 178181.
FINANCIAL REVIEW PAGE 36 OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS PAGE 50 GOVERNANCE PAGE 56
