Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Overview of the year Board focus during 2017 2017 was a year of not 2017 was a year of strong performance across The focus of the Board during the year centred our business.
We delivered absolute returns for on delivery of the significant improvements in only delivering excellent clients across our investment strategies with the the quality and effectiveness of our organisation, majority of these strategies outperforming their the review of risk and the substantial new results, but also of peers.
In addition, the record net inflows in the compliance requirements of the industry building for the long year of $12.8 billion reflected not just the strong including MiFID II.
investment performance but the quality of our term future growth and investment propositions, our approach to deep The Board spent time reviewing the client relationships and the excellent work done progress that has been made in improving success of the business over the past 12 months to strengthen our sales the consistency of performance in our organisation.
This combination of strong discretionary alternative strategies, looking Lord Livingston of Parkhead performance and record net inflows led to a at research activity within our quant teams Chairman 35% increase in funds under management.
to develop new products and the continued development of innovative client focused The growth in assets and strong relative solutions across the firm.
In addition, investment performance, combined with our significant time was spent discussing people continued focus on running the business in and the culture of the business, encouraging an efficient and effective manner, have led to the promotion of diversity and talent excellent profit growth, with a 87% increase in development at all levels of the organisation.
adjusted profits for the year to $384 million.
Our statutory profit before tax was $272 million.
The acquisition of Aalto was completed at the The strong profit growth reflected a significant beginning of the year and the Board spent time increase in performance fees, with material reviewing the progress and performance of this contributions from a wide range of strategies.
business and how well it was being integrated We have achieved this growth despite 2017 onto the Man platform.
Potential acquisitions being a year where the trend following industry were also reviewed, with time spent evaluating largely had negative performance.
Our potential opportunities that could add to the management fee profits have also grown Groups growth and long term profitability.
strongly, driven by the increase in assets during the year albeit at a steadier pace than the asset We have continued to monitor the potential growth as some of the largest inflows were into impact of Brexit and seek to ensure our lowest margin products.
We continue to we are well positioned to deal with any return our management fee earnings to outcome the negotiations may bring.
As a result of this growth in management fee profitability and also the impact of a reduced share count due to our ongoing share buyback programme, our total proposed dividend per share for the year is up 20% in US Dollars.
06 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Remuneration Funds under management At Man, we recognise that The exceptional performance of the business is reflected in a high level of bonus payment our long term future is across the firm, as it is in strong returns for 35% shaped by the contribution our clients, higher dividends and one of increase from 2016 the best share price performances in the to the communities in which Adjusted profit before tax FTSE 250.
This is an appropriate alignment we operate of the interests of our key stakeholders.
Board changes $384m Maintaining this alignment of experience was We were pleased to welcome Dame Kate Barker up from $205m in 2016 at the core of our review of our Directors to the Board in April and to appoint Richard Remuneration policy, which shareholders will Berliand as Senior Independent Director in May.
Proposed dividend per share be asked to approve at the AGM in May 2018.
In September, Phillip Colebatch retired from the This review included extensive consultation Board.
Phillip was on the Board for ten years with a majority of our shareholders, and their and during that time served as Chairman of 20% representative bodies, on the most appropriate the Remuneration Committee for eight years increase from 2016 in $ approach for executive remuneration in our and Senior Independent Director for four years.
We have been well aware of the On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank need to address the legacy concerns on Phillip for his dedication to the firm and for his remuneration raised by some shareholders.
leadership and contribution throughout his In proposing the new policy, under which many roles.
the maximum variable opportunity is substantially reduced, the Remuneration Outlook Committee has sought to demonstrate that 2017 was a year of not only delivering it will act responsibly in the interests of both excellent results, but also of building for the the Company and its shareholders.
Our long term future growth and success of the approach to the new policy is explained fully business.
I would like to pay tribute to the in the Directors Remuneration report.
management team led by Luke Ellis and all our people for what has been achieved.
Community At Man, we recognise that our long term future is We will continue to build on this good base by shaped by the contribution to the communities investing in our people, our technology and in which we operate.
Our employees are developing innovative investment strategies to actively involved in charitable initiatives and deliver value both to our clients and the millions volunteering opportunities local to the firms of pensioners and investors they represent and offices through the ManKind Programme.
ManKind gives employees the opportunity to take two additional days paid leave per annum Lord Livingston of Parkhead to volunteer with charities supported by the Man Chairman Charitable Trust or with a charity of their choice.
We have also set up a separate US based Charitable Trust to benefit the communities and employee volunteering activities in our local US regions.
Furthermore, we have a worldwide commitment to promoting education and literacy, underscored through our sponsorship of the Man Booker Prizes and the charitable activities of the Booker Prize Foundation.
Return of capital During 2017 we completed the share buyback programme announced in 2016.
In October, we announced the return of a further $100 million to shareholders through a share buyback programme.
Across the two programmes we repurchased $92 million worth of shares in total in 2017.
In line with our dividend policy, the Board has announced a recommended final dividend of 5.8 cents per share, subject to approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 07
