LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Responding to market dynamics Strong financial performance Our focus as a Board is to maximise shareholder value over the medium to long term.
Despite the market backdrop, which was tougher than the previous year, I am pleased to report that Hammersons financial performance in 2017 was strong and this should help to underpin future returns for shareholders.
IFRS profit was 388 million, 71 million higher, principally due to higher revaluation gains from our Premium outlets.
Adjusted earnings for the year grew by 16 million to 246 million and adjusted earnings per share grew by 6.5% to 31.1p.
The improvement arose largely from a rise in rental income across the Group, in particular our Irish portfolio and Premium outlets earnings.
As a share of gross rental income, costs fell by a full percentage point from 22.6% to 21.6%.
During the year, equity shareholders funds increased by 4.3% to 6,024 million and on an EPRA basis net asset value rose by 5.1%.
This resulted in an EPRA net asset value per share of 776p at the end of December, up 5.0%.
At the same time, our net debt position remained conservative, with a loan to value ratio of 36%, unchanged from the previous year.
The Board has proposed a final divided of 14.8p per share, bringing the total dividend to 25.5p, up 6.3% on last year and in line with our focus on consistent income growth for shareholders.
Major transaction announced 2017 will also be marked as the year we reached agreement to acquire intu properties plc see page 12.
The proposed acquisition of intu will enable us to achieve our strategic goals more successfully.
Its portfolio contains many large, high-footfall shopping centres that match retailers needs in todays multichannel world.
The portfolio also increases our exposure to another higher-growth market in Spain.
The enlarged business will bring together the talent of both companies and will create an enhanced operating team for the combined portfolio.
Following the acquisition, we believe that the Company will have a stronger income profile and superior growth prospects.
Our strategy Focus on growing The proposed acquisition consumer markets of intu will enable us to For information on our strategy, achieve our strategic see pages 16 Create differentiated and 17. goals more successfully.
destinations David Tyler Chairman Promote financial efficiency and partnerships 4 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN We are alert to the effects of increasing interest rates which could have Clear strategy a dampening effect on economic growth or increase volatility in Ahead of the proposed acquisition, we made good progress this year capital markets.
in delivering our strategy: to focus on growing consumer markets: create differentiated destinations: and promote financial efficiency Thanks to our high-quality portfolio and strong balance sheet position and partnerships.
we are confident we can steer the business through expected economic conditions in our markets.
We increased our investment in faster-growth markets by putting more investment into Premium outlets, completing our acquisition of Structural consumer trends Pavilions, Swords in north Dublin, and opening new retail and leisure Technology is changing all aspects of our lives including retail and space at our Shopping centres, including Westquay, Southampton.
Our share price has been weaker this year in part because However, it is our strategy to create differentiated destinations which the market is cautious about how structural changes will affect our increasingly sets us apart.
Thanks to our size we are able to dedicate business, in particular how retailers adapt to a multichannel marketplace.
specialist teams to support this.
Our Product Experience Framework We spend a good deal of time as a Board determining how to respond to has brought together innovative retailers, stylish design, consistent structural trends.
For example, you can read about our Board Strategy customer services and exciting events see pages 20-27.
Our capital allocation strategy has focused on investing recognised as a leader in creating destinations which are attractive to in Shopping centres, Retail parks and Premium outlets with a shoppers, draw high footfall and hence provide the most productive combination of retail, dining and leisure experiences that inspire space for our retail partners.
shoppers to visit again and again.
These venues will draw high footfall We continue to be a chosen operator for global investors, further and therefore benefit from strong leasing demand even as retail evolves extending our joint venture partnerships this year.
We have also to become increasingly multichannel.
We have also focused on continued to take advantage of the low interest rate environment to locations in growing cities in selected European countries.
strengthen our balance sheet and lower our cost of debt.
Our We frequently assess our properties and sell those that do not match ambitious Net Positive strategy demonstrates our commitment to these characteristics: this year we have sold 400 million of deliver meaningful change in the areas of carbon and resource use.
The proceeds from disposals are reinvested into highergrowth opportunities, which lifts the overall quality of our portfolio.
Economic and consumer backdrop As a result, we believe we will be a beneficiary of the market changes.
In the UK, consumer spending has been softer as inflation reached a 10-year high, putting pressure on household income see chart 1.
Uncertainty about the UKs exit from the EU has impacted business investment and the UK economy is expected to deliver subdued economic growth over the next two to three years.
In Europe, economic growth was higher in 2017 and this has supported our businesses in France and Ireland and in Premium outlets.
There is good momentum in the Eurozone economy with encouraging GDP growth set to continue over the short to medium term.
With reduced political uncertainty and falling unemployment this should support a more confident consumer outlook in Europe.
Chart 1 Outlook As a result of the adjustments retailers are making to respond to Real household consumption growth structural changes in their market and the consumer conditions in the % UK, the backdrop is becoming more demanding.
However, our portfolio contains high-quality retail property which is in demand by 5 retailers: our teams are some of the most skilled in the sector at 4 creating positive customer experiences: and we have a strong balance sheet.
As a result, we are in a strong position to manage the consumer 3 conditions in the UK and stand to benefit from improving consumer 2 confidence in France and Ireland and fast-growing Premium outlets.
This will support future returns for shareholders.
1 Following the completion of the acquisition of intu we believe that the 0 Company will be further strengthened and will provide enhanced opportunities for all our stakeholders alike.
-1 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Ireland France United Kingdom David Tyler Source: Oxford Economics Chairman HAMMERSON.
