04 GSK Annual Report 2017 Chairmans statement The Board believes the renewed focus on innovation will enable GSK to capitalise on the opportunities in our industry to drive long-term value for investors.
Philip Hampton Chairman I am pleased to report another year of Cash generation remains a key focus for Financial reporting The Board is mindful of the need to good performance with sales and earnings the Board and we were pleased to see growth, some important new product increased free cash flow for the year.
We provide clear financial reports.
In 2017 we approvals and continued cash returns approved a dividend of 80p per share for reviewed aspects of our financial reporting to shareholders in line with expectations.
2017 and expect the same for 2018. framework and made changes to ensure we remain in line with both the latest regulatory Following Emma Walmsleys appointment I noted in my first letter to shareholders requirements and best practice in the as CEO, from April 2017, the Board two years ago that cash dividends were industry.
Commercial structures and conducted a review of the companys in excess of free cash flow generation reporting requirements sometimes lead to strategy with management in the context and that is still the case.
The Board has more complexity in reporting than we would of the operating environment and industry established a policy of achieving, over like but we make great efforts to simplify dynamics in global healthcare.
In July, time, cash dividend cover in the range and clarify where possible.
Emma presented the new strategy to 1.25x 1.5x, since investment in growth investors setting out long-term priorities opportunities should be funded at least Board changes during the year under three main headings Innovation, in part by cash retentions in the business.
We continue to bring in new skills and Performance and Trust.
Our top priority capabilities to the Board.
During the year, Culture is to improve performance in the we welcomed Dr Laurie Glimcher as an Central to ensuring long-term delivery pharmaceuticals business and to seek Independent Non-Executive Director and against the strategy is developing a culture more growth from pharmaceuticals R&D.
At this years which rewards high performance but The Board believes the renewed focus AGM, Professor Sir Roy Anderson, who also seeks to build on the values of the on innovation will enable GSK to capitalise joined the Board in 2007, will step-down.
The Board was pleased to see on the opportunities in our industry to I thank Roy for his excellent contribution, employees support this, with a marked drive long-term value for investors.
both in his special areas of scientific increase in employee engagement knowledge, but also more broadly.
Early progress against the strategy has scores.
In the past, there have been some Dr Patrick Vallance will also step down been encouraging and the Board is closely instances where our commercial practices from the Board at the end of March and engaged with management on its delivery.
have been disappointing, leading to leave GSK to become the Chief Scientific regulatory intervention.
The Board has Capital allocation Adviser to the UK Government.
Patrick has focused on improving both the framework The company now has a new capital been a fine leader and Board colleague.
and the culture for our control environment.
allocation framework to help shape our Sir Andrew Witty and Dr Moncef Slaoui strategic priorities.
Improving our pipeline Executive team both stepped down after long careers of new pharmaceutical products is our main Following the announcement of Emma as with the company.
I thanked them both priority and the company has the potential in my last letter.
our new CEO, the Board was involved with for a marked improvement in performance.
Dr Hal The new Science Committee made good We will also invest behind key products in Barron, our new Chief Scientific Officer progress last year.
This is crucial as we our vaccines business which we expect and President, R&D, has joined the Board.
enter an important phase for the pipeline in to drive growth in the coming years.
In We have a new President, Global our pharmaceutical and vaccines activities addition, we may invest further in our Pharmaceuticals, Luke Miels: and a new over the next 2 to 3 years.
Dr Barron will be Consumer joint venture if our partner Chief Digital and Technology Officer, working closely with the Committee.
Novartis decides to exercise their option Karenann Terrell.
The Board has taken to sell their interests to us.
Dividends I would like to thank all of GSKs employees a keen interest in the balance between represent an allocation of capital and the and partners for their hard work throughout external recruits, and the development Board is mindful of the value that many 2017 and our shareholders and customers of internal succession planning.
Under for their continued support and look our framework, any material acquisitions forward to a successful 2018. have a lower priority and would have to meet our strict returns criteria.
