CHAIRMANS STATEMENT WE REMAIN CONFIDENT IN THE LONGTERM FUNDAMENTALS OF THE INDUSTRY AND CONTINUE TO POSITION THE COMPANY FOR SUCCESS IN THIS DYNAMIC ENVIRONMENT.
Introduction I am delighted to have the opportunity to present our Annual Report, following my appointment as Chairman in September 2017.
2017 remained a year of challenge for Hunting, as the Companys core energy markets showed early signs of recovering from a three-year downturn, driven in large part by the US onshore shale plays, and in particular, the Permian basin.
This has led to increased revenue and a return to underlying profit for the Group in the year.
This is a major milestone for the Company, however, the Board continues to believe that a full market recovery, including improvements to international and offshore drilling, will be a longer-term process.
Fundamentals of oil supply and demand remain delicately balanced, limiting the upper range of oil prices at levels that present significant challenges to field economics offshore, and supply volatility that pose downside risks to prices in the short to medium term.
We remain confident in the longJOHN F. GLICK CHAIRMAN term fundamentals of the industry and continue to position the Company for success in this dynamic environment.
Board succession plans were initiated in the year, leading to changes in Huntings senior leadership team, with Dennis Proctor, our former Chief Executive, retiring on 1 September 2017.
During the 16 years of Denniss tenure, Hunting has focused its business interests in oil and gas services and built a strong portfolio of products and services for operators and international oil service groups.
Thanks to Dennis, the Hunting brand is well regarded globally for its quality of product offering and motivated, committed personnel.
We wish Dennis a happy and long retirement.
Dennis has been succeeded by Jim Johnson, Huntings Chief Operating Officer.
Jims understanding of the Group, including product offering and customer knowledge, is unrivalled and, following a rigorous search and interview process that included external and internal candidates, the Board unanimously approved his promotion to Chief Executive.
HUNTING PLC 04 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION TM H-1 PERFORATING GUN CARTRIDGE WITH CONTROLFIRE SWITCHGEAR AND RF SAFE DETONATOR.
Financial Performance My thanks go to both John Nicholas and John Hofmeister Revenue for the Group increased 59% in the year to $722.9m, for their wise counsel during their nine years of service on compared to $455.8m in 2016, leading to an underlying profit the Board.
The recruitment of new Directors is underway and With the return to underlying profit and improved cash generation announcements will be made in due course.
due to continuing tight working capital management, the Group reports a net cash position of $30.4m at the year end, which is Finally, I would like to thank my predecessor, Richard Hunting, an excellent achievement by the management team.
The Board who retired as Chairman of the Company after 26 years in has been pleased by this turnaround, with the Group now September 2017.
Richards knowledge of the Group and benefiting from the cost-cutting measures initiated since 2014. leadership through the recent management transition has been exemplary and I am pleased that Richard has agreed to remain Bank Facility Terms and Dividends as a non-independent, non-executive Director of the Company.
With the improved trading reported in the year, in December we undertook steps to exit from our revised bank covenants, Conclusion which were implemented in July 2016.
This process was In summary, the Board believes that the difficult decisions that completed in January 2018, with restrictions on capital have been made during the past three years have returned the investment and dividends being lifted.
While the Board are not Company to good health.
With Jim leading the Group through proposing a dividend for 2017, the reversion to our old bank a new phase of growth, the Board is confident that Hunting covenants and other bank facility terms that existed prior to the remains in a position to take advantage of the opportunities that July 2016 amendment will allow for consideration to be given lie ahead in an improving market.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our stakeholders Non-executive Director Changes including employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers, Changes to the Hunting Board are underway, with the for their support during these challenging times.
announcement of the retirement of John Nicholas in April 2018, to be followed by John Hofmeister in August 2018.
Both complete their nine years of service as independent, nonexecutive Directors of the Company.
John Nicholas has chaired the Audit Committee since his appointment in 2009.
As noted in the Corporate Governance statement, John will not be seeking re-election at the Companys John F. Glick Annual General Meeting and will step down as a Director of the Chairman Company at the conclusion of the Meeting.
1 March 2018 John Hofmeister has held the role of Senior Independent Director since 2010 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 2014.
John will be retiring later this year, once a successor has been identified.
HUNTING PLC 05 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
