Chairmans statement DRIVING THE GOVERNANCE CULTURE DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present Inchcapes Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Routine disclosures required under the UK Corporate Governance Code are detailed in the Compliance Report on pages 82 to 86 which should be read in conjunction with this report.
As previously announced, I will be retiring as Chairman following the AGM in May and I am delighted that Nigel Stein will become Chairman after my departure.
Nigel has considerable skills and expertise with a proven track record both at a financial and operational level and as a Non-Executive Director.
A Q&A with Nigel is given on page 48.
I have been on the Board of Inchcape since 2001 and at that time the Group had recently become an automotive only business following a successful divestment programme in 1999.
Since then, Inchcape has become the leading independent multi-brand automotive Distributor and Retailer with acquisitions in the UK, Russia, Australia and most recently South America.
As a Board we have had to tackle some challenging watch online conditions as well as the many successes over the years inchcape.
com AR17 and it is a testament to our strong leadership that we were able to navigate these successfully.
It also shows that Inchcape has a proven and resilient business model.
In fact, over the years the Group has developed into a highly focused and agile business and is in a strong a strong platform for continued growth in the medium position to successfully deliver on its Ignite strategy term.
The fundamentals of the business model remain and to deal with the many changes likely to affect strong with strong cash conversion over the year the automotive industry in the years to come.
I have thoroughly enjoyed my years with Inchcape, The Group continues to identify opportunities to especially working with so many talented colleagues both leverage our scale and respond to the slower market on the Board and in the business, and I know that I am outlook in some of our businesses, in particular the UK leaving the Group in very good hands.
We have already taken action to protect DIVIDEND the profitability of our business and see meaningful The Board is pleased to recommend payment of a final opportunity for further efficiencies.
In addition, we dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 18.9p.
expect other regions, in particular our Emerging This gives a total dividend for 2017 of 26.8p, a 13.0% Markets business, to see continued strong growth.
Subject to approval at the I hope you find this report informative and I would like to Annual General Meeting on 24 May 2018, the final take this opportunity to thank my Inchcape colleagues dividend will be paid on 22 June 2018 to shareholders of for all their hard work in 2017 and I wish them, and the the Company on the register of members at the close of Group, all the very best for the future.
2018 OUTLOOK Inchcape has delivered a strong set of results for 2017 supported by initiatives within our Ignite strategy.
The South American acquisition has been a key component Ken Hanna of these results.
Overall, Inchcapes diversified revenue Chairman streams and geographic exposure continue to provide 46 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2017
