STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Bunzls success is based on the strength and resilience of our business model, the execution of a consistent strategy, understanding our customers requirements and our ability to deliver products and solutions when and where they are needed.
This brings the total macroeconomic and market conditions dividend for the year to 46.0p, up 10% across the countries and sectors in which we compared to 2016.
Shareholders will again operate, I am pleased to report that Bunzl have the opportunity to participate in our produced another good set of results in 2017.
Executing our dividend reinvestment plan.
Overall currency translation movements due consistentand proven to the weakening of sterling during 2016 had strategy has resulted in a significant positive impact on the reported Strategy Group growth rates at actual exchange rates, We have continued to pursue our another successful year although the impact for the year as a whole consistent and proven strategy of developing with continued growth was somewhat less than that seen during the the business through organic growth, inearnings and dividends first half of the year.
consolidating our markets through focused acquisitions and continuously improving the through a combination Group revenue increased 16% to quality of our operations and making our oforganic and 8,580.9 million 2016: 7,429.1 million businesses more efficient.
andadjusted operating profit before has delivered another successful year of customer relationships amortisation growth for the Group.
Philip Rogerson andacquisition related items was up Chairman 12%to589.3 million 2016: 525.0 million.
We seek to achieve organic growth by Adjusted earnings pershare were 119.4p applying our resources and expertise to offer 2016: 106.1p, anincrease of 13%.
an efficient and cost effective one-stop-shop solution to enable our customers to reduce At constant exchange rates, revenue or eliminate the hidden costs of sourcing and increased by 10% and adjusted operating distributing a broad range of goods that are profit rose by 6% with the Group operating essential to the successful operation of their margin declining from 7.1% to 6.9%.
businesses but which they do not themselves Adjusted earnings per share were up 7%.
By outsourcing these activities to Bunzl, they are able to focus on their core Return on average operating capital business and run their operations more decreased from 55.9% in 2016 to 53.1% cost-effectively by achieving purchasing dueto a lower operating margin and efficiencies and savings, while at the same higheroperating capital in the underlying time freeing up working capital, improving businessand the impact of a lower return their distribution capabilities, reducing onoperatingcapital from acquisitions.
carbon emissions and simplifying their Returnon invested capital of 16.0% was internal administration.
We are continually down from 16.7% in 2016 principally due looking to enhance our service offering by tothe effect of acquisitions.
providing a variety of value-added, innovative and customised solutions, thereby building long term relationships with our customers.
4 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Adjusted operating profit m Share price range p High 589m 2,465p 589 2,465 Low 2,436 525 1,950 455 430 2,016p 414 1,820 352 336 1,450 307 296 281 1,167 2,016 1,735 1,671 884 777 1,367 757 675 1,014 852 Before customer relationships amortisation, 676 616 542 482 acquisition related items and, where relevant, the associated tax.
At the same Corporate responsibility was substantially higher than the previous time, functional knowledge and expertise is We have continued to make improvements in year, principally due to additional business shared across businesses to the benefit of our corporate responsibility CR approach won in North America towards the end all.
I have been delighted once again by the by focusing on the environmental of2016.
contribution and commitment of all our sustainability of our operations as well as employees.
Whenever I visit our operations ourrole in assisting both our customers and Acquisition activity accelerated in 2017 with around the world I am reminded of the suppliers to improve the sustainability of the Group agreeing to make 15 acquisitions enthusiasm with which our people undertake their own businesses.
This year saw the during the year with a total committed spend their responsibilities and their individual expansion of the remit of the quality of 616 million, thereby adding annualised accountability to improving performance assurance quality control team in Shanghai revenue of 621 million.
This was a record which is key to the ongoing growth and not only to undertake audits of our key Asian level of acquisition spend for Bunzl, success of Bunzl.
On behalf of the Board, suppliers to assist them in meeting our significantly exceeding the previous high of Iwould very much like to thank all our stringent standards but also to work with 327 million achieved in 2015.
The hardworking and loyal employees.
suppliers in countries such as Mexico, Brazil, businesses purchased have helped to Romania and Turkey to strengthen further strengthen our position in many of the their already robust practices.
We believe Board markets that we serve in both new and that building relationships, capacity and trust David Sleath, who had served as a nonexisting geographies.
In addition, the with suppliers is critical.
To this end, we executive director since 2007, retired after acquisition of Revco in the US was announced organised a conference during the year for the Companys Annual General Meeting in and completed at the beginning of 2018.
In our Asian suppliers to showcase examples April 2017.
During his time with us, he also early February 2018 we also completed the ofgood practice, build CR awareness and served as Chairman of the Audit Committee sale of OPM, a non-core business that was provide a helping hand in how to identify and Senior Independent Director.
His sound principally involved in the sale of SodaStream andremedy CR issues.
We also adopted advice and significant contribution to our products to retailers in France.
aspecific supplier code of conduct during success are greatly appreciated.
Lloyd theyear which is in the process of being Pitchford, who is currently Chief Financial Investment rolled out across our supplier base.
Officer of Experian plc, was appointed as Over time we have steadily invested in anon-executive director with effect from As part of our policy to provide our thebusiness to support our growth strategy 1March 2017 and assumed the role of customers with high quality and good and to expand and enhance our asset base.
Chairman of the Audit Committee upon valueproducts, companies within the During the year we continued to improve Davids retirement when Vanda Murray Grouphelp their customers to achieve ourexisting facilities and opened new ones, alsobecame the Senior Independent theirsustainability goals by developing and both as a result of acquisitions and by Director.
Stephan Nanninga, a Dutch offering environmentally friendly products consolidating our warehouse footprint in nationalwho has had extensive international and innovative solutions.
order to make it more efficient.
Our ability experience across a range of businesses toserve our customers in the most effective operating in the distribution and service way is critical to our success.
In striving to sectors, joined the Board as a non-executive People doso, we continuously upgrade our IT director on 1 May 2017.
We recognise that the people best placed to systems and digital platforms as we make a decision in relation to our day-to-day integrate new businesses into the Groups Philip Rogerson operations are those who understand the operations and increase the functionality of Chairman local circumstances and our customers.
our existing systems and platforms, thereby 26 February 2018 Bunzl is therefore rightly proud of its enabling us to enhance our customer decentralised organisation structure which Read our Corporate governance report offering and retain a competitive advantage.
allows each of our business areas to decide on page 42 5 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2017
