CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This has been a transformational year for Alliance Trust, 1,015,198 Liontrust shares in April 2018, which are subject to a as the new approach to managing our equity portfolio was one-year lock-up.
When ATI was sold, it was expected that the approved by shareholders and implemented in the spring.
net proceeds of the sale would be not less than 25m, before The early investment performance achieved by this new any future contingent consideration.
We now expect that the approach has been encouraging against the backdrop of world net proceeds will be not less than 35m, before any future markets which have been characterised by macro-economic contingent consideration.
That said, it is still early days and Since the new approach was implemented, the Board has all of us at Alliance Trust recognise our commitment to invest received regular updates from WTW in order to assess its for generations.
We look forward with confidence to the progress.
We have also hosted a number of events in conjunction opportunities and challenges that 2018 will bring as the with WTW and refreshed our communications materials in new approach becomes more familiar to the market and order to provide relevant updates to our shareholders.
we develop our track record.
A small Executive function was established on 1 April which DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 comprises five members of staff.
They provide Company Secretarial services to all Group companies, oversee the work Following the Boards strategic review of the Trust in 2016, of our outsourced providers and generally support the Board.
shareholders voted on the proposed new approach to managing the Trusts equity portfolio at a General Meeting THE NEW APPROACH in February 2017.
We were delighted with the strong support WTW has brought together eight best-in-class equity of our shareholders, with over 96% of those who voted being managers from around the world who invest only in their in favour of the change.
Following a competitive selection highest-conviction ideas a maximum of 20 stocks, except process, we appointed Willis Towers Watson WTW as for in the emerging markets portfolio where around 50 investment manager to manage the Trusts portfolio.
It is the combination of their individual, WTW appointed eight equity managers and the portfolio high-conviction investment ideas, overseen by WTW, that underwent transition to the new managers during March creates the alliance of best ideas approach that we now 2017 and the new strategy became effective on 1 April.
talk about when referring to the overall equity portfolio.
In January, the Board reached agreement with Elliott, Our equity portfolio is targeting outperformance of the then the Trusts largest shareholder and a related party, MSCI All Country World Index by 2% per annum, net of costs, to repurchase the shares in which it had a disclosable over rolling three-year periods.
WTW selects and manages interest approximately 20% of the Trusts issued share the underlying managers and monitors their performance capital as at December 2016.
Approval for this was also as well as providing risk management expertise.
granted at the February General Meeting and the repurchase went ahead, resulting in a reduction in the size of the Trust and By leveraging the scale of Alliance Trust and WTW, total an uplift in the Net Asset Value NAV for other shareholders ongoing charges are targeted to be below 0.65%.
This is of around 1%, as well as the removal of a potential share highly competitive for an investment trust targeting such overhang.
This development has allowed the Trust to move outperformance.
forward with a more stable shareholder register.
The aim of the new approach is to: As part of the strategic review, Alliance Trust Investments deliver more consistently our outperformance target: ATI, our asset management subsidiary which managed the Trusts portfolio prior to 1 April, was sold to Liontrust Asset maintain our long track record of growing dividends: and Management PLC at what we believe was a fair price.
As part maintain the Trusts ongoing competitive cost ratio.
of the consideration we received shares in Liontrust, which we We still hold some Non-Core investments but are actively sold in January 2018 at a price of 520p per share, representing reviewing our private equity, funds and mineral right holdings a significant return of 55.3% on the price of 334.9p at which with a view to an early disposal, subject to market conditions.
We are due to receive a further Alliance Trust was one of the earliest investment trusts to be created back in 1888 and we are now combining our strong heritage with an innovative, high-conviction alliance of best ideas investment proposition.
The foundations are firmly in place for the Trust to deliver strong and sustainable performance as we continue to invest for generations.
As rated by Willis Towers Watson.
I STRATEGIC REPORT II III PERFORMANCE IN 2017 REGULATION The Trust has performed well over the year, outperforming This year has seen the introduction of the Key Information the target benchmark.
Total Shareholder Return was 19.2%, Document KID, which is available on our website.
We Net Asset Value NAV Total Return was 18.5% and the share believe that this Annual Report, together with the other price rose 17.0% to 746.5p with the NAV per share increasing documents we issue, may be more informative and useful 16.5% to 777.7p.
Performance since 1 April, when the new to our shareholders in assessing the risks and benefits of investment approach was adopted, has been particularly purchasing our shares.
encouraging and this has been achieved while keeping our BUYBACKS ongoing charges below 0.65%.
In October 2015 the Board committed to narrow materially The expected total gain of 10m from the sale of shares the Trusts discount to NAV.
Share buybacks are one tool in Liontrust received as part of the consideration for the used in this context and were available to all shareholders sale of our subsidiary Alliance Trust Investments, has been throughout the year.
We buy back shares when we believe it more than offset by a reduction in the value of Alliance Trust is beneficial to shareholders to do so.
In addition to the 95.5m Savings ATS.
Following a year of poor financial performance, shares repurchased during the Elliott transaction, we also the Directors reduced the fair value of ATS by 23.5m to repurchased 49.6m shares as part of the ongoing programme.
Our share buyback programme has helped us to maintain an ATS has had a challenging year.
While the business has average discount during the year of 5.4% against the Global continued to attract additional assets and now has more Investment Trust Sectors 4.3%.
We opened the year with than 110,000 customer accounts, ATS incurred a particularly a discount of 4.4% and closed the year with a discount of high level of costs in 2017.
These principally related to the 4.0% calculated on the published NAV as at 31 December transfer of the Stocktrade operations from Edinburgh to 2017 adjusted for the impact of the Alliance Trust Savings ATSs main centre in Dundee and to steps taken to improve valuation as at that date determined after the year end the level of customer service.
In 2017, ATS generated an against the sectors average of 2.5%.
operating loss of 6.1m before exceptional expenses.
ATS has written down the value of its intangible assets, related to the As supply and demand have moved towards a state of Stocktrade business, resulting in an exceptional charge of equilibrium, share buybacks have reduced over the course 13.2m.
After this charge, ATSs loss for the year was 19.3m.
THE NEW MANAGERS DIVIDEND Shareholders have had the opportunity to meet WTW and The Trust continued to build on its 50 years of consecutive some of the equity managers at our last AGM and the various dividend growth in 2017.
We are very proud of our dividend shareholder forums we have held over the year.
In addition, track record and the Board is delighted to continue the there are new videos on our website to give a flavour of who Trusts progressive dividend policy.
We have decided to the managers are and their investment styles.
It is our intention maintain our progressive dividend, and that we may make to continue holding such events for shareholders in 2018 and use of our revenue reserves when we have unanticipated details will be posted on our website www.
co. uk levels of income we may retain part of it, as we have done this year, or declare a special dividend.
The Board declared Hugh Sergeant from River and Mercantile and George Fraise a dividend of 3.29p per ordinary share, bringing the full year from Sustainable Growth Advisers SGA presented after the dividend to 13.16p, growth of 3% on the previous year.
AGM in April, when they described their particular investment approaches.
River and Mercantile invests in recovery stocks IN SUMMARY through a systematic and repeatable process, while SGA looks for a balance between quality, growth and valuation While our new high-conviction, multi-manager investment to reduce the overall risk of any investment.
Following this approach has been available to institutions for some time, years AGM we expect presentations by Bill Kanko from Alliance Trust brings the approach to a wider audience for Black Creek Investment Management and Andy Headley the first time.
I am pleased that the new approach has of Veritas Asset Management.
The presentations will be already demonstrated it can deliver outperformance at available on our website after the AGM.
We also launched our new quarterly newsletter, CONNECTION, Looking ahead, 2018 is the Trusts 130th year and the first in the autumn, which included articles from two other managers.
anniversary of the new investment approach.
The Board Rajiv Jain from GQG Partners discussed matters affecting believes we have the foundations in place to deliver strong emerging markets.
He sees solid prospects for healthy profits and sustainable performance for our shareholders, whatever going forward.
The team from SGA George Fraise, Gordon conditions global markets bring.
The new investment Marchand and Rob Rohn reflected on how high-quality, approach is a compelling offering and we look forward secular growth businesses were temporarily out of favour to continuing to invest for generations to come.
and how this can provide opportunities for their investment style.
A copy of the publication is available on our website.
We hope you enjoy reading CONNECTION and accessing our new video content, along with the Trusts new-look website.
We welcome any feedback on these materials and the Lord Smith of Kelvin Trusts shareholder engagement activities.
Chairman | Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2017 3
