Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:27 Page 6 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 06 Executive Chairmans review Focusing on fundamentals The Group is well positioned in what we expect to be growth markets with strong niche positions and talented people.
Douglas Caster CBE BSc FIET Executive Chairman 2017 was a disappointing year for Ultra with Despite the 8.4% decline, year-on-year, in the Groups financial performance falling underlying operating profit, Ultra continues to short of expectations and the prior year.
In the be a fundamentally sound company with great main this was because expected order intake, potential.
The Group is well positioned in what from which in-year revenue was planned, was we expect to be growth markets with strong delayed until the second half of the year or niche positions and talented people providing beyond.
Additionally, in the UK, we specialised technologies and capabilities that experienced a significant downturn of our customers need to support their platforms routine, short-term support activity late in the and programmes.
This aligns with Ultras second half year owing to customer funding strategy to generate long-term shareholder constraints.
When the likely impact of this value by gaining strong market positions was announced to the market on 10 through being a niche supplier of electronic November 2017, Ultras share price declined systems, products and services in growing signicantly but has recovered to some sectors within the defence, aerospace, energy extent.
Overall, at 901.4 million, Group and transportation markets.
order intake was good, but it was achieved too late in the year to support the projected 2017 financial performance.
There is no doubt that for the six conversion of 97% and follows the 92% years of Rakeshs incumbency as Chief conversion in 2016.
This represents a return to Executive, market conditions have been a consistent level of cash generation for which challenging for Ultra.
Nevertheless, the Ultra was always noted.
The Board is continued organic decline over that period recommending a final dividend of 35.0p per combined with the recognition, late in the share.
At this level, if approved, the dividend is Group order year, that the 2017 targets were not going to covered 2.35 times by underlying operating be met caused the Non-Executive Directors to profits, which is a lower level of cover than is intake was good, but conclude that the Board needed to seek new usual for Ultra.
It is the Boards intention it was achieved too leadership for Ultra.
This decision was made therefore that future increases in dividend after a period of careful reection, particularly should not exceed growth in earnings per late in the year.
regarding how the Groups culture had share so that, over time, dividend cover will be evolved and how that had been a contributing restored to its traditional level of about 2.8 to factor to declining performance.
Net debt at the year end was 74.5 desire to embark on a process of cultural and million which resulted in a net debt to EBITDA business renewal as quickly as possible was gearing ratio of 0.56 times, well below the the reason for implementing the Chief banking covenant requirement of less than Executives immediate departure.
This low gearing has benefitted has embarked on an external search for an from the in-year cash ow as well as the industry-leading, high calibre candidate to 133.5 million net proceeds, after attributable enable the company to achieve its growth expenses, of the share placing that we potential.
This process is well underway.
The purpose of the the meantime, in view of my previous share placing was to enable the Group to experience as Ultras Chief Executive from acquire Sparton Corporation in the United 2005 to 2011, the Board requested that I States.
Sparton is the co-owner with Ultra of should take over as Executive Chairman and the ERAPSCO joint venture that supplies lead Ultra again until the successful candidate sonobuoys to the US Navy and the antiis available to take over.
This is a privilege submarine forces of other nations.
The fact which I am happy to have.
that ERAPSCO is the sole supplier of all current production sonobuoys types to the US Navy meant that the merger agreement to acquire Sparton had to be reviewed by the United States Department of Justice DOJ under the Hart, Scott Rodino antitrust legislation.
Following feedback from meetings with the DOJ, Sparton and Ultra have mutually agreed to terminate the merger as the DOJ advised they would seek to block it further details on page 19.
It is now the Groups intention to buy back shares in order to return to shareholders the net proceeds of the equity raise.
see footnote on page 150 Ultra AR 2017 Narrative AW Layout 1 09 03 2018 11:27 Page 8 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 08 Executive Chairmans review continued The immediate priority for the Board is to deliver shareholder value through a renewed 8 strategic tenets focus on organic performance.
Improving marketing and sales force effectiveness will 1.
Core competencies be key to this through reinvigorating the Focus on the Groups core competencies innovative culture that has created offerings in defence, security, transport and energy that were  in the eyes of and expand into adjacent market sectors customers and enabled Ultra to compete of growth successfully.
Portfolio outlined left, which have stood the test of Offer a range of products and time, will be used to drive competitive services including components, substrategies.
Emphasis on the behaviours valued by Ultra that are encapsulated in LEAP and systems, systems and through-life management solutions LAUNCH, described on page 50, will also be an important part of Ultras cultural renewal.
Niche player High-performing organisations are Be a niche and market-leading player characterised by a culture of openness and through technical advantage learning where differences and diversity are encouraged and respected.
Growth renewal will embrace these themes as well as Contribute to the organic growth of improving the way our people interact.
It will the Group, as well as identifying wellalso extend to strategies to develop Ultras matched acquisition targets organisation so that it continues to be t for purpose as market conditions change.
Ultras 5. efficient organisation management style of collaborative autonomy, Have an efficient organisation with where the Groups businesses share engaged competent people The Board technology and team internally, as well as externally, to compete for market 6.
Teaming intends to increase opportunities that would have been Gain competitive advantage by inaccessible to them individually, will continue internal and external teaming and investment in to be encouraged.
Succession planning to honing LEAP behaviours improve the breadth, depth and quality of the internally funded 7.
Excellent supplier bench strength of management below Board level will also be undertaken.
Be an excellent and strategic supplier R&D to generate to our customers Since my appointment as Executive Chairman new intellectual I have spoken with a number of Ultras 8.
Meet our commitments shareholders from which some consistent property from which themes emerged.
Shareholders generally expressed a desire for the Board to create the competitive offerings conditions for delivering long-term value.
this end, the Board intends to increase investment in internally-funded R&D to generate new intellectual property from which competitive offerings will be derived.
Business efficiency will also be improved through continued investment in the Groups Shared Services and Standardisation S3 programme including increased capital expenditure to accelerate renewal of outdated business systems.
P58-94 Good governance LEAP: Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Audacity, Paranoia P??
Overview Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 09 Mark Anderson stepped down as Group Ultras shareholder returns pence Marketing Director and from the Board on 1 June 2017.
The Board is pleased to 300 welcome our new Non-Executive Directors, Geeta Gopalan and Victoria Hull.
I am confident that Geeta and Victoria will bring 250 diverse experience and thinking to the Board.
On behalf of the whole Board, I send our 200 thanks to Ultras employees.
They consistently show great commitment, fortitude and hard work and this has been particularly so during 150 the challenging time of 2017.
With orders arriving so late in the year, they executed 23% of the years revenue during November and 100 December: a real show of dedication and Ultra Electronics Holdings plc KPI commitment for which we thank them.
The FTSE all share price index talent and skills of our people combined with 50 FTSE 100 price index the Groups specialised capabilities and FTSE 250 price index technologies are what give Ultra such FTSE all share aerospace defence tremendous potential.
0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Ultra has extensive intellectual property, strong market positions, differentiated technologies, talented people and a strong balance sheet.
The Groups core strengths include worldleading positions in many of its specialist capabilities and a reputation for successful The Board is programme execution.
It has positions on a broad number of long-term platforms and confident that Ultra programmes, significant exposure to the strengthening US defence budget, and to the has sustainable growing demand for advanced defence operating trading technologies.
The Group also has good visibility through a strong order book, which momentum as we excludes contributions from a large volume of IDIQs US DOD indefinite Delivery indefinite go into 2018 and Quantity contracts and other off order book aerospace long-term supply agreements.
have entered 2018 with an order book of 897 million that provides opening order cover against projected revenues for the year of 62% 2017: 56% which is higher than in recent times.
The Board is confident that Ultra has sustainable operating trading momentum as we go into 2018 and beyond.
