Chairmans statement Building a sustainable business forthe long term Despite political uncertainties in many parts of the world, investment markets performed well in 2017 and it was a record year for Schroders.
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased 24% to 800.3 million 2016: 644.7 million and profit before tax was up 23% to 760.2 million 2016: 618.1 million.
We generated net new business of 9.6 billion 2016: 1.1 billion and assets under management and administration ended the year up 13% at 447.0 billion 2016: 395.3 billion.
Dividend The Board Our policy is to increase dividends progressively in line In 2017, the Board focused on major topics including with the trend in profitability and to maintain a payout the five year strategic outlook for the business, risks to ratio of approximately 50%.
Consequently, the Board our strategy, product strategy, capital, talent and will recommend to shareholders at the Annual General succession planning, and remuneration strategy.
The Meeting a final dividend of 79 pence per share Board pays great attention to the culture of the firm 2016: 64 pence, an increase of 23%.
which we believe, built over many years, represents a key competitive advantage.
We consider culture in The final dividend will be paid on 3 May 2018 to many aspects of our Board discussions, including when shareholders on the register at 23 March 2018.
The full reviewing acquisition opportunities where cultural year dividend of 113 pence per share 2016: 93 pence alignment is a major factor in our decision making.
In November, the Board met in New York for an in Our role as asset managers depth review of our positioning and strategy in the As one of the largest investment firms in Europe we North American market, which we believe represents play a vital role in helping a broad range of investors an important growth opportunity for the Company.
Philip Howard, our Senior Independent Director and Our objective is to create and preserve value for Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will retire institutions and individuals.
In so doing, we actively as a Director at the Annual General Meeting in April channel capital to companies to support them in having completed nine years on the Board.
Philip has investing for growth and, as shareholders, we use our been an exemplary non-executive Director, giving a ownership rights on behalf of clients to engage with great deal of his time to the business outside of Board our investee companies in relation to strategy, risks, meetings and providing a highly constructive level of management succession, governance and challenge and support to the management team.
will miss his deep experience and insights and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for his Through this we are aware that we can play a broader very significant contribution.
role, beyond our clients and shareholders, to the benefit of a wider range of stakeholders and we take this responsibility very seriously, applying the same We remain committed to providing an environment standards to the management of our own business as we do to companies in which we invest.
that is open, collaborative and based on merit, where everyone has the opportunity to realise their potential We were delighted to announce earlier this year that Sir Damon Buffini would join the Board effective 1 February 2018.
Damon has a track record of success in the field of private equity, supporting a wide range of growing companies, and we look forward to benefiting from his experience in relation to our overall range of growth opportunities and particularly in the field of private assets which is one of our priorities.
Ian King, who joined the Board in January 2017, will succeed Philip Howard as Senior Independent Director and Nichola Pease will succeed Philip as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Nicholas long experience in the asset management industry and her membership of the Remuneration Committee since 2014 will ensure a smooth transition for this key role.
8 Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Our people Schroders success is based on our diversified business model, our financial strength and in particular on our values and our people.
We were therefore pleased to see that in our 2017 employee opinion survey 94% of our employees said they were proud to be associated with Schroders, and we again had very low levels of staff turnover.
We remain committed to developing the extraordinary pool of talent we have at Schroders across the world and providing an environment that is open, collaborative and based on merit, where everyone has the opportunity to deliver their best and realise their potential.
To all our employees, those who have been with the firm for many years and recent joiners, whether mid career or at the beginning of their career, I would like to extend the Boards thanks for their contribution to the achievement of a record year in 2017.
Michael Dobson Chairman Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9
