Q&A WITH THE CHAIRMAN Focused on Corporate Governance Q Q It has been a complex year, what have been Towards the end of the year there was the key focus areas for the Board?
management churn, how have you managed the succession planning to ensure the new team will be successful?
A The work of the Board has been challenging A during 2017.
In particular we have had to focus on addressing the introduction of the I would like to start by thanking those that concentrate export ban in March, legislative have left the business during 2017 for their changes affecting the natural resources efforts and many contributions during their sector, and the receipt of tax assessments tenure.
Whilst it was disappointing to see from the Tanzanian Revenue Authority to the them depart, the quality of the people we have Group companies that own and operate the put in their place demonstrates the work we KELVIN DUSHNISKY Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi mines.
have done to build the talent pool within the CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD business.
Peter Geleta, our Interim CEO, is an industry veteran with 35 years experience, Q primarily in African gold mining, and Jaco INTRODUCTION Maritz, our CFO, has been with the business You have formed an Independent Committee for more than 15 years.
They are the ideal 2017 was a challenging year of the Board, please can you explain why you team to lead the stabilisation of the business have done this?
for Acacia and resulting from over the next 12 months and then onto the next stage in its development.
changes in its operating A environment the Company did Q As part of our commitment to corporate not deliver against its primary governance standards, we decided to form objective of delivering free cash Please can you talk through the changes in a Committee of the Board made up of the the Board during the year.
Are you happy with generation.
However, I am Independent Non-Executive Directors when the current composition of the Board?
Acacias majority shareholder, Barrick Gold pleased with the dedication Corporation Barrick, entered into and commitment shown at discussions with the Government of Tanzania A about resolving the current situation.
As a all levels of the Group, which majority shareholder, Barrick nominates two During the year Peter Tomsett and enabled the business to Directors to the Board of Acacia, including Ambassador retd Juma Mwapachu stepped achieve solid operational myself, and in order to ensure that there down from the Board, and at the beginning were no conflicts of interest, we formed of 2018, Peter Geleta replaced Brad Gordon results for the year.
the Independent Committee to manage the on the Board of Directors.
interactions between Acacia and Barrick Following these changes, the Acacia Board during the negotiations.
If a resolution is comprises seven members, including four agreed between Barrick and the Government Independent Non-Executive Directors, two of Tanzania, it will be put to the Independent Non-Executive Directors and one Executive Committee, who will provide a recommendation Director.
Post year-end we also appointed to the full Board of Acacia on the appropriate Michael Kenyon as Senior Independent Director.
The Board functioned well through 2017 and has a good balance of UK and international experience together with a broad skill set across the mining and financial areas.
12 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Relevant pages p62 Governance overview GOVERNANCE IN FOCUS The Board has been highly engaged during Ensuring the best interests of all shareholders the year in overseeing In response to the entry of Barrick Gold of Tanzania and any related proposals.
Corporation into discussions with the In 2018, the Committee will continue the complex situation Government of Tanzania, Acacias to focus on the above matters.
As and Board of Directors made the decision when any detailed proposal is provided facing the Company.
to form an Independent Committee, to the Company, the Independent made up of all four Independent Committee will be responsible for Non-Executive Directors, in order to reviewing and evaluating these oversee the process, ensure minority arrangements.
Any proposal agreed shareholders views are represented, in principle between Barrick and the and ultimately review the final proposal Government of Tanzania will require when it is presented to Acacia.
Acacia would like to thank Brad, Peter and the Ambassador for their valuable commitment The Independent Committee is and support to the Company during their Chaired by Michael Kenyon, and met tenure on the Board and wish them all the 14 times in 2017.
The Committee is best for the future.
responsible for overseeing all aspects and implications of the discussions between Barrick and the Government Q You didnt pay a dividend in 2017, please can you explain why?
Board composition Board skills A Acacia has a cash flow based dividend policy where we aim to pay a dividend of between 15-30% of our operational cash flow after sustaining capital and capitalised development but before expansion capital and financing costs.
As a result of the inability to export concentrates, Acacia has experienced negative free cash flow in 2017 and therefore the Board of Directors has not recommended the payment of a final dividend.
Independent Non-Executive Directors 4Geology 1 Non-Executive Directors 2Financial 4 Executive Director 1 African and regional affairs 2 Q How do you see 2018 panning out for Acacia?
Member Specialty Nationality Michael Kenyon Chair Geology Canada A Rachel English Finance UK Steve Lucas Finance UK I would like to thank all Acacia employees Andre Falzon Finance Canada for their hard work through 2017 and hope that we will have a positive year in 2018.
It is encouraging that the Government is engaged in discussions to resolve the dispute and that all parties are working to support efforts towards achieving a negotiated resolution.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 13
