Chairmans Statement It has been a year of rebuilding and renewal and we have made encouraging progress Operational turnaround We have made encouraging progress against all We also have some significant contract exposures, 2017 was extremely challenging for Cobham, these operational priorities, in line with our prior including on the KC-46 US tanker programme, being the first full year of the turnaround.
It was commitments, and I am pleased to say that the as well as contingent liabilities that remain to be a year of rebuilding and renewal, following a very overall financial performance of Cobham in 2017 is retired, and progressing these will also be a priority disappointing 2016.
Cobham started the year with slightly ahead of expectations.
We have achieved a for 2018. a new Chief Executive Officer CEO and Chief more stable operational and financial performance Financial Officer CFO, as well as myself taking including the important metric of on time Divestment of AvComm and Wireless over as Chairman on 1 January 2017. delivery to the Groups customers.
Having said this, We have also made progress during the year it is very important not to get ahead of ourselves, in simplifying the portfolio, re-focusing on our David Lockwood as CEO, and David Mellors as CFO as much remains to be done.
While stability is a traditional defence, aerospace and space markets.
quickly recognised the attributes of the business, goal, it is certainly not the final destination or As announced in February 2018, we have agreed including Cobhams differentiated technology, anywhere near it.
Our shareholders, customers and to divest the AvComm and Wireless test and know-how and leading market positions.
As I our employees deserve much more than this and measurement businesses for US$455m in cash and, reported last year, they diagnosed what needed to the Board is absolutely clear that further significant with the completion of this transaction, we will have be done to bring about an operational turnaround progress needs to be made during 2018. reduced portfolio risk, with a more coherent at Cobham, which would reverse the Groups business and further resilience in the Balance Sheet.
They agreed We have prioritised cash flow as a key measure three operational priorities with our Board to of operational performance.
This was not just FCA investigation give this process both clear objectives and instil a because the net debt EBITDA gearing ratio was In June 2017 we announced that the Financial sense of momentum among employees.
However, 3.0x at the end of 2016, but also because focusing Conduct Authority had appointed investigators to it was also recognised that the turnaround would on cash is just good business sense.
As a result of ascertain whether the Company had breached the take time as the underlying causes were in part the 2016 gearing level, the Group completed a Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency cultural, as well as being linked to operational and Rights Issue in May 2017, raising 05497m net Rules between April 2016 and February 2017, and execution weaknesses.
the Market Abuse Regulations between July 2016 and February 2017.
It is not possible currently to Our net debt EBITDA ratio at 31 December 2017 predict what the outcome of this investigation was far lower at 1.3x with the improved position will be.
due primarily to the Rights Issue.
This was enhanced by the focus on our cash position, enabling us to deliver cash conversion of 103% in the year, and we will continue the focus on cash.
For details on net debt EBITDA gearing ratio and reconciliation to statutory numbers refer to note 16 to the Group Financial Statements.
com 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Dividend policy I said last year that we would start the I said last year that the Board would not announce reinvigoration of our succession planning a dividend in respect of the 2017 financial year.
below Board level, to strengthen the quality and 2018 is another The Board recognises the importance of dividend depth of management, although done diligently payments to shareholders and will review the this would not be a quick task.
We expect to important year as we dividend policy as the turnaround progresses continue progressing this through 2018. and the risk profile improves, seeking to resume David Lockwood has made a number of senior position ourselves for a dividend when it is appropriate to do so.
management appointments in the year which have strengthened the management team a strong performance The Board and succession planning and this has provided a foundation for our work Consistent with the rolling succession plan agreed on succession planning.
thereafter with the Board, as set out in last years Annual Report and Accounts, the Board has undergone I continue to be impressed as to how hard our a number of changes during the year.
In employees have worked to improve the Groups implementing the plan, I have been cognisant performance.
The deep employee knowledge of that there is a need to balance the recruitment our technologies, together with their capabilities of experienced Non-executives with a measure and long experience, are key ingredients which of Board stability and continuity, and I have at will help us on the road to success.
all times tried to maintain this balance.
In David Lockwood and David Mellors we have During the year we appointed John McAdam as two executives who will take Cobham forward, Senior Independent Director, replacing Jonathan supported by a strengthening and capable Flint who retired from the Board at the same time.
I remain grateful for their Ren Mdori and General Norton Schwartz retired dedication and commitment.
were also appointed as Non-executive Directors.
Ren Mdori will take over as Chairman of the Audit Looking forward Committee in April 2018 when Alan Semple will 2018 is another important year for Cobham as we retire from the Board.
accelerate progress on our turnaround, complete our senior recruitment goals and retire a number In addition, General Michael Hagee retired and of remaining challenges so as to position ourselves Birgit Nrgaard have indicated that they will retire for a strong performance thereafter.
General Hagee will remain on the Cobham Advanced Electronic Solutions Sector Board, to which he was appointed in the first half of 2017.
The Board and I are extremely grateful for the Michael Wareing service, hard work and dedication of Jonathan Chairman Flint, Alan Semple, General Hagee and Birgit 1 March 2018 Nrgaard and I thank them for their contribution to the turnaround.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05
