Primary strategic area affected symbols RISK CONTINUED Customer Technology Efficiency People F I N A NCE Failure to collect payments or to recover assets Executive responsible: Heath Drewett, Chief Financial Officer Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted Significant Margins The Group has some large contracts in Regular monitoring of the risk profile anddebtor customer emerging market countries where payment position for large contracts Earnings payment default practices can be unpredictable, where their per share Mitigation techniques will vary from customer or impounding liquidity has been adversely affected by a to customer, but include obtaining advance Returns ofassets.
fall in commodity prices or where they have payments, letters of credit, and in some cases competing demands on a limited budget.
insurance against losses Thereis a risk that we do not obtain payment for Active customer relationship management, a large project or combination of projects and including escalation to senior management or that a material value of assets are confiscated.
The scale of our business and diversity of our We take a rigorous approach to credit risk customer portfolio make it less likelythat any management and to date have not suffered unprovided for bad debt or equipment seizure asignificant loss.
would be material to the Groups balance sheet A customers non-payment would result in an increased bad debt provision or write-off of the debt.
Should our assets be seized, wewould also lose future revenue and profitassociated with that equipment whilsthaving to write off its residual value.
Changes during 2017: Our risk in this area has risen in 2017 with debtor days increasing.
While we have not suffered a significant loss in this area during the year, we have chosen to increase the provision against overdue debts in Power Solutions Utility due to delays in payment.
Read more about Power Solutions performance on page 40 Working capital management Executive responsible: Heath Drewett, Chief Financial Officer Primary strategic area affected Risk Primary KPIs Background and impact Prevention and mitigation impacted Unexpected Capital activity A large, unexpected increase in working capital We maintain financial headroom over the forecast funding could reduce the amount of funds available for level of gross debt in the form of undrawn Returns requirement for our strategic priorities and make it more difficult committed debt facilities to cope with unexpected working capital to deliver our strategicplan.
funding requirements affects our ability Working capital is monitored and managed to fund the to reduce the likelihood of unexpected strategic plan.
funding requirements We maintain access to diverse sources of funds to meet additional funding requirements should they arise at short notice A working capital improvement programme to improve creditor days, inventory levels, debtor days and related processes Changes during 2017: A project to improve working capital was launched in 2017 with the help of external advisers which will continue into 2018.
We have already seen a significant improvement in creditor days and, towards the end of the year, some improvement in debtor days.
Read more about our financial performance on page 36 54 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 O V E R V IE W BUSINESS STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE G O V ER N A NCE FINANCIAL & OTHER INFORMATION Brexit With the above as background, the Board approached the The main impact of Brexit to date has been the depreciation viability assessment as follows: ofthe Pound.
A weaker Pound has increased the Sterling It carried out the viability assessment over a three-year valueof our revenues, the majority of which are denominated period to2020.
Although the Board considers prospects in US Dollars.
The Sterling value of our debt and borrowing ofthe Groupover a longer period, three years was deemed facilities has increased by similar amounts.
We believe it is too appropriate for the viability assessment because: early to determine the impact of the UK leaving the European The Groups funding requirement can be forecast with Union on the Groups activities, although we do not expect sufficient accuracy over the viability period.
ittobe material because a large majority of the Group's business is outside of the UK and the EU.
We will continue The Board expects to be able to arrange sufficient finance tofollow developments closely.
tomeet its funding requirement over the viability period.
Power Solutions Utilitys historical off-hire rate of Assessment of prospects and viability 30% suggests an average contract life of three years.
The prospects for our Rental Solutions business are linked Rental Solutions and Power Solutions Industrial have togrowth in local economies and commodity cycles.
shorter hire periods than Power Solutions Utility.
Our Power Solutions Industrial business is driven by growth It stress-tested the Groups strategic plan to 2020 by in developing markets, which can be commodity dependent, modelling scenarios linked to each principal risk.
whilst Power Solutions Utility is driven by shortfalls in permanent capacity caused by economic growth, ageing It stress-tested the Groups strategic plan to 2020 by power infrastructure, hydro-shortages and social pressures.
modelling scenarios of combinations of principal risks.
The Executive Committee and the Board regularly discuss The results of this stress-testing showed that the Group factors that might affect Aggrekos prospects.
The 12 principal has sufficient scale, diversity and balance sheet strength risks, which the Board concluded could affect business to withstand the impact of these scenarios by making performance, are set out on the previous pages.
adjustments to its operating plans within the normal course of business.
Based on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their detailed assessment.
AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 55
