Chairmans statement A year of strong execution Read more about A year of strong operational progress An outstanding team corporate governance The results we have reported for the year are a In 2017, Just Eat achieved another year of strong on page 44 trading, whilst our industry continues to benefit reflection of the Companys leadership and also the strength of the wider Executive Team all from rapid change.
Advancements in technology, compounded by notable societal shifts, are achieved against what can only be described asa difficult set of circumstances.
Technology is also having a positive impact on the restaurants In February 2017, David Buttress announced we serve, helping to enlarge their customer base thathe was stepping down from his role as and provide the tools to operate more efficiently ChiefExecutive Officer.
Our then Chairman, and dynamically.
John Hughes, assumed the temporary role of Against this backdrop, I am pleased with the Executive Chairman only to step down shortly Groups excellent results for the year ended thereafter due to ill health.
John subsequently 31December 2017. passed away on 12 June 2017, following a short period of medical treatment.
John had been During the year, we enjoyed strong organic Chairman since December 2011 and played a growth and continued to make progress with the fundamental role in the successful development integration of the acquired Canadian business, of Just Eat as first a private and then a public SkipTheDishes.
We also received regulatory company for five and a half years.
approval for our acquisition of Hungryhouse Following John Hughes stepping down, the Board inthe UK, which we subsequently completed on31 January 2018. and I asked Paul Harrison to act as Interim Chief Executive Officer and I would like to thank Paul Our strategy is based on providing an unbeatable for his outstanding management of the business takeaway experience for both our Customers and during a period of significant uncertainty.
As a technology business, we will continue to invest in innovation and to We were pleased to appoint Peter Plumb partner with others in order to enhance our asChief Executive Officer with effect from Customers experience and create additional 18September 2017.
Peter has a successful value for our Restaurant Partners.
trackrecord of running customer-focused, high-growth technology companies, and this The restaurants with whom we work are primarily experience will prove invaluable as we continue small independent businesses that form part of to build our business in the coming years.
In the UK alone, the takeaway industry was worth more than 10 billion As is evident, the Group has been through an exceptional amount of change this year and in 2017 and employed more than 230,000 local people.
We are proud to work closely with our Iwould like to thank my fellow Directors and partners to support their growth and the service theentire Just Eat team for their hard work and that they offer to people throughout the professionalism, which have contributed to our country every day.
continued success over the period.
Just Eats ambitious culture is one of the Groups key For our shareholders, between being admitted strengths and itis pleasing that this has been totrading on the London Stock Exchange in maintained through this period of transition.
April 2014 and the end of December 2017, the Companys share price increased by more than 200%.
As a consequence, the Company joined the FTSE 100 Index during the year, allowing shareholders to benefit from the additional liquidity and enhanced profile which this confers.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 8 Corporate governance  The Board seeks to operate the highest standards of corporate governance.
In a business enjoying strong growth in a fast-moving sector, we seek to implement a governance structure that encourages growth and appropriate risk taking, while ensuring appropriate controls are in place.
Webelieve that we have once again struck the right Dr. John Hughes, 19522017 balance for this in 2017.
For more than thirty years, John was a leading Alistair Cox joined the Board as an Independent Non-executive figure in the international business and technology Director on 2 May 2017.
As Chief Executive Officer of communities.
He held senior executive positions recruitment specialist Hays plc, Alistair brings extensive at many of the world's foremost technology experience in both technology and talent management businesses and since 2008 had focused on within the UK listed sector.
advising and steering several of the UK's most On 2 March 2018, we announced that Mike Evans will successful growth companies.
As we saw in jointhe Board on 6 March 2018 as an Independent hiswork for a number of businesses and Non-executive Director and Chairman elect.
His appointment initiatives both public and private, commercial as Non-executive Chairman will be effective from the and not-for-profit he passionately believed in the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting on UK as a place to found, scale and list companies 26 April 2018.
Effective from the same date, David Buttress and he inspired a host of entrepreneurs to fulfil will retire from the Board as a Non-executive Director.
We would like to pay tributeto his extraordinary talents, his many Whilst our entry into the FTSE 100 generated headlines, accomplishments, and his outstanding we were also pleased to have become a constituent of the contribution to the business landscape.
"FTSE4Good Index Series, which measures the performance of companies demonstrating strong environmental, social We were proud to recognise John's legacy in and governance ""ESG"" practices."
2017 by sponsoring an award in his name at the UK tech awards, reflecting John's passion for Looking ahead supporting entrepreneurs in the technology We will continue to build our business in the current year, sector and championing the UK as a home for striking the right balance between investment and risk.
Within Just Eat, Indoing so, we are confident of continuing to drive we presented the John Hughes Award, to reflect sustainable, profitable growth and creating lasting value John's commitment to high standards and an for all our stakeholders.
The Group is strongly positioned infectious passion for Just Eat.
The first recipient for the future.
being Amanda Roche-Kelly, Ireland Country Manager, who was recognised for the way in which she inspires her team and goes above andbeyond to make a difference every day.
Andrew Griffith Interim Non-executive Chairman 5 March 2018 www.
