EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We are committed to building a bold and sustainable future for Rotork, returning the business to higher growth and margin levels, despite a lower growth market environment.
We have seen a return to more favourable I am pleased to report that, in a period of change market conditions following a stabilisation of the for the Group, Rotork has delivered another solid oil price and improving macroeconomic trends in a number of our geographic markets.
Within the set of full year results with growth in order intake, Groups oil and gas markets, representing around revenue and adjusted operating profit.
Despite half of the Groups revenues, customers investment in existing facilities, both in respect of inflationary pressures the adjusted operating maintenance and upgrades, has returned to margin has been maintained above 20%, more normal levels, providing more consistency to order input.
Investments in major new projects demonstrating the resilience of our business.
remains patchy and although still below historic highs, increased levels of quotation activity point to a generally improving position as the break-even point for new well construction continues to reduce.
Notwithstanding this generally lower investment climate for our oil and gas markets, we are committed, over time, to returning the business to the higher growth and margin levels previously delivered by the Group.
The lower oil price has focused our customers on the need to embrace smarter, more efficient technologies in driving down the cost of production, and encouraged the use of the latest predictive maintenance tools in Revenue minimising process downtime.
Rotork is exceptionally well placed to capitalise on these trends, and we plan to increase significantly our investment in innovative new technologies, 642.2m and expand our service capabilities.
This additional investment will be 8.8% funded by a reshaping of our sales and operating infrastructure, concentrating Adjusted operating profit resources to drive critical mass and upgrading our management systems.
130.2m Working in partnership with a number of external 7.9% consultants, we are engaged in a series of reviews to fully understand the impact of the changing market dynamics on our innovation funnel, and to examine ways to better align our commercial infrastructure to our customers needs and routes to market.
In addition we are also undertaking a detailed review of our operating footprint, global supply chain, IT infrastructure and talent base.
Outputs to date already provide considerable assurance around our long-term growth and margin ambitions.
These ongoing reviews are expected to contribute significantly to R RO OT TO OR RK A K AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT 2 T 20 01 17 7 0 04 4 overview StrateGic report Governance Financial StatementS company inFormation the growth acceleration plans being developed We also announced the appointment of Peter We expect the cost environment to be generally by our newly appointed Chief Executive, Kevin Dilnot to the Board as a non-executive director more inflationary with pressure on wages and Hostetler.
Initial opportunities arising from the with effect from 1 September 2017.
The pricing environment appears to early analysis are already being actioned, with member of the Audit, Nomination and have stabilised in most end markets albeit pockets consolidation of operations in Germany and Remuneration Committees of the Board.
Peter is of intense competition exist in more Italy presently underway.
Chief Executive Officer of Renewi plc, the commoditised product areas.
Together with international waste-to-product company significant value engineering activities and a more Financial highlights created in 2017 by the merger of Shanks Group integrated approach to procurement, we would Order intake increased by 15.6% on the prior plc and Van Gansewinkel Groep B. V.. We are expect to maintain the status quo.
year, or 8.2% on an OCC basis, reflecting an delighted to welcome Peter to the Board.
improvement in several of our end markets, Adjusted operating margins are expected to be with increased activity in upstream oil and gas The Board currently comprises two executive similar, with contributions from higher volumes and power and good progress in water and directors, four independent non-executive offset by increased investments in new products, industrial processes.
Midstream oil and gas directors and myself as Executive Chairman.
expansion of our service infrastructure, and remained challenging while downstream started Rotork has complied with the UK Corporate accelerated investment in our systems and IT to improve in the second half of the year.
Governance Code the Code in all respects, save capabilities.
These investments represent the first that, following Peter Frances resignation as Chief steps in our ambition to return the business to Revenue increased by 8.8% to 642.2m with Executive in July 2017, I have acted as Executive higher levels of underlying growth, with priority currency contributing 5.6% and the Chairman.
We are in compliance with our stated areas emanating from the strategic reviews contribution from acquisitions being 0.9%.
On aim that at least 25% of our independent undertaken to date.
an OCC basis, revenue increased by 2.3%, non-executive directors are women.
reflecting the traditional lag in order activity One off costs associated with the ongoing flowing through to revenue.
The annual performance review of the Board strategic reviews, and any initial rationalisation took place during February and March 2017: opportunities arising from those reviews, are likely Adjusted operating profit increased by 9.6m see page 60 of the Corporate Governance to be at similar levels in H1 to H2 last year.
We will to 130.2m OCC: up 3.0m with adjusted Report for further details.
update the market on likely costs for H2 in August operating margin 10 basis points lower at alongside more detail around our plans for 20.3%.
Although our gross margins held up Corporate governance growth acceleration and business transformation.
well, the increase in revenue was offset by The Board continues to be committed to the inflationary cost increases.
During the We expect 2018 to be a busy year for Rotork, year, the Board and Audit Committee were following the appointment of our new Chief Board composition and performance involved in work related to risk appetite and Executive, as we embark on our ambition to On 28 July 2017 we announced the resignation monitoring and disclosure of risk, building on return the Group to its former growth and of Peter France as Chief Executive.
The Board the work that was done during 2016. margin trajectory.
asked me to assume the role of full time Executive Chairman on an interim basis until a Further details of this work and its outputs, our MARTIN LAMB successor could be appointed.
approach to governance and our compliance Executive Chairman with the Code are contained in the Corporate 5 March 2018 The announcement followed a period of Governance Report on pages 56 to 61. reflection by the Board, together with Peter, on the steps required to foster a return to higher Employees References to adjusted performance measures growth and margin levels in what is likely to be I would like to thank all of our employees for throughout this document relate to statutory results a generally lower growth macro environment.
their continued high level of commitment and adjusted to exclude amortisation of acquired The Board thanks Peter for all his efforts and professionalism during 2017, particularly during intangibles and other adjustments see note 2. achievements throughout a long and this period of change.
I have been impressed References to organic constant currency OCC or successful career with the Company and by their ability to deal with the different underlying results throughout this document are the 2017 figures restated at 2016 exchange rates, wishes him every success in the future.
demands placed on them as we undertake this excluding the incremental contribution from series of reviews of different areas of our acquisitions.
We were delighted to announce in January the business, while still delivering the high levels of Order intake represents the value of orders received appointment of Kevin Hostetler as Chief quality and service that our customers expect.
Kevin joined the Board on 12 February 2018 and will assume the role of Dividend Chief Executive from 12 March 2018, when I will The Board recommends a final dividend of revert to my role as Non-Executive Chairman.
3.35p per share, a 6.3% increase over the 2016 final dividend.
Taken with the 2017 interim OUR PEOPLE Kevin has an impressive track record of dividend, the total dividend is 5.40p per share delivering profitable growth in a number of 2016: 5.10p, representing a 5.9% increase in highly respected and innovative global the total dividend on 2016.
The final dividend engineering businesses, with significant will be payable on 23 May 2018 to shareholders We aim to be a great place to work with experience in the flow control sector.
He on the register on 6 April 2018. adopts leading edge practices and processes strong, consistent values across all of our business units.
honed at Ingersoll Rand, and has delivered Outlook transformational growth for shareholders at Our revenue forecasts for 2018 currently reflect We invest in our people and encourage IDEX Corp, a flow control business with highly improving order momentum, pointing to mid internal development.
We are currently engineered products and strong customer to high single digit organic revenue growth service requirements serving similar end year-on-year.
However reported results will be engaged in a talent development programme to assess the needs of our markets to Rotork.
Kevin has recently impacted by currency movements.
Based on concluded a successful exit after leading a current rates we can expect a 4-5% headwind people and ensure we are providing the best career enhancement and support.
three year turnaround at FDH Velocitel, a on both revenues and profits compared with private equity backed telecoms business in the last year.
USA, and is in the process of relocating from Chicago to Bath, where he has received a See our ethics and values warm welcome from the whole Rotork team.
