Strategic report Chairmans statement An exceptional and transformational year In the year we disposed of properties valued Henry Klotz, at 158.9 million and acquired assets for Executive Chairman 238.5 million in aggregate, which will lead to a significant increase in our future underlying core profit.
Disposals generated proceeds of 241.9 million, and an aggregate gain of 43.7 million, primarily due to the disposal of Vauxhall Square for 144.1million, which had virtually no impact on rental income as the site was prepared for development and had few remaining tenants.
The properties we subsequently acquired in Germany for 187.7 million offer us multiple opportunities for asset management to drive further growth in the business.
You will find further information about our property portfolio in the Business Reviews.
People and culture The Board understands that as the Group grows, our culture must also evolve.
We have a diverse workforce from many nationalities whose hard work and dedication is at the heart of our success.
I am very pleased to report that as part of our commitment to our employees we have Performance implemented key initiatives brought about by our The Groups well-established strategy of longrecent staff survey, including the introduction term investment in commercial properties in the of a flexible and smart working policy and the three main markets of Europe has been reflected implementation of a Share Incentive Plan, both of once more in the excellent results for 2017 and which I expect will contribute greatly to our open, the strong financial position of the Group at the professional and entrepreneurial culture and further year end.
The year was both exceptional and align the interest of employees and shareholders.
transformational for CLS in many ways, with the disposal of our large development site in Vauxhall, Sustainability substantial acquisitions in Germany, and the Where opportunities present themselves, we introduction of dividends as a means of distributing invest across the Group in on-site renewable cash to shareholders.
These initiatives drove both and low-carbon technology, such as photovoltaic a market-leading TSR of 67.1% and our financial panels, ground source systems and combined results for the year.
Our focus on multi-let office heat and power plants.
We have a commitment properties, with a geographical diversification and to improving the built environment through our strong cash flows, delivered an excellent uplift operational management, and our impact on in EPRA NAV of 16.5%, and a profit before tax climate change is minimised and controlled of191.4 million 2016: 100.1 million.
The advantage of operating in different countries is that we Property portfolio have a wider base from which to learn.
We We continuously review each property in our have a committed in-house team dedicated portfolio to ensure that each asset is aligned with toenvironmental issues across all our core our medium to long-term strategy to achieve the markets and we are working hard to best return for our shareholders.
We focus on cash implement best practice in all areas.
flow and return on equity as the core components of stable growth, supported by the regeneration of our portfolio, which enables us to continue to generate value.
2 CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CLS Holdings plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 and we have seen new market entrants offering alternatives to traditional leases.
The CLS Group is comfortable with shorter leases and tenant breaks We are addressing the if required, and will continue to offer value for money to our occupiers.
changing needs of our The growth of major cities is advantageous to our customers and thereby locations as office-based corporate workforces expect to be in convenient locations with good enhancing our properties transport links.
As the office environment is changing, it is key that we adapt our designs and for the future.
layouts to ensure that spaces such as receptions, coffee shops and common areas are attractive and modern.
We are increasing our investment Board changes in information technology, conducting customer In March, Bengt Mortstedt, a co-founder of the surveys, and investing in smart meters and energy Company and holder of 6.89% of its shares, was management, all to address the changing needs reappointed to the Board as a non-executive director of our customers and thereby enhancing our in place of Philip Mortstedt.
In May, Joe Crawley properties for the future.
TSR 2017 stepped down as a non-executive director after nine years on the Board, and in December We have seen some uncertainties in occupier 67.1% Thomas Lundqvist also retired as non-executive demand and investors decisions in the UK KPI, see page 18 director.
Thomas had been on the Board for 23 years following the referendum on Brexit.
However, and served both as a non-executive director and in theGerman economy is performing strongly, and EPRA NAV uplift the early days as a member of the executive team.
we are seeing attractive investment opportunities despite increased competition.
In France, market 16.5% On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank sentiment has improved during the year.
Thomas, Joe and Philip for their commitment and Dividend uplift contribution to the Company, and to welcome back In summary, I sense that the long-term view for Bengt to the Board.
our markets is perhaps more positive now than ayear ago given the economic growth in evidence 10.1% Dividend around the world.
I remain convinced that it is In May, we subdivided each ordinary share of a strength for our portfolio to be spread across 25 pence into ten ordinary shares of 2.5 pence the largest cities in the UK, Germany and France each.
We also restored dividend payments as our as, fundamentally, the demand for office space distribution method, replacing tender offer buyis driven by a solid economy and the location of backs, and these will be paid twice-yearly.
Further expansion in Germany remains with the increased core profit, excellent cash flow one of our priorities and I expect that the Groups and a strong balance sheet, the Board is pleased to portfolio here will continue to grow.
propose a final dividend for 2017 of 4.30 pence per share, making a total for the year of 6.35 pence, Our balance sheet is robust and we have anincrease over last year of 10.1%.
significant liquid resources to enhance our business by investing in the right properties in Outlook our core markets, whilst continuing to maximise Last year, I said that I felt confident that the Group value-adding opportunities in our existing portfolio.
was well positioned to deliver long-term value Our strategy is clear and I am confident we will to our shareholders, and our 2017 results have continue to deliver value for our shareholders supported this view.
The future of our industry and how we work Henry Klotz israpidly evolving, with increased urbanisation Executive Chairman and changing requirements from customers, 3
