CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT PHILIP YEA, CHAIRMAN I am pleased to report to you for the first time as your Chairman, having been appointed in succession to Kevin Beeston who retired on 29 September 2017.
As Guy Wakeley explains in his statement, 2017 was a year of further progress for the Group.
The executive team continued to successfully implement our strategy and this was demonstrated by our financial results.
We grew revenue by 6.1%, reflecting solid organic growth and the benefits of our acquisitions.
Underlying EBITDA rose by 6.6% and underlying earnings per share increased by 7.0% to 16.9 pence.
The Group also maintained its strong cash flow performance, enabling us to further reduce leverage, which at year end benefitted from the rights issue related to the acquisition of the Wells Fargo A year Shareowner Services business WFSS.
However, profit before tax declined by 10.2% as a result of the non-operating charges related to the WFSS acquisition.
of further The Board has a progressive dividend policy, which aims to distribute c30% of our underlying profit attributable to shareholders each year.
The growth in underlying profit has enabled the Board to propose a final dividend of 2.73 pence per share, which although progress reduced on a per share basis compared to last year as a result of the timing of the rights issue, represents an increase of 6.3% in total dividends paid.
8 8 Equiniti Group plc Annual Report 2017 SECTION 01 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT PHILIP YEA, CHAIRMAN Equiniti is a robust business, providing nondiscretionary services in markets that are growing sustainably over time.
Since joining the Board, I have witnessed first-hand the strength of our leadership team, the depth of our long-standing client relationships and the opportunities targeted by our strategy.
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting Director effective from 1 April 2018.
Alison will become a AGM to be held on 3 May 2018, this will result in a full year member of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk dividend of 4.48 pence per share, including the interim dividend Committees.
Alison brings a wealth of experience in the of 1.75 pence per share.
The final dividend will be paid on 17 financial services industry.
May 2018 to shareholders on the register at close of business MANAGEMENT AND PEOPLE on 13 April 2018.
We have continued to offer a dividend Equiniti has an experienced and capable executive team, reinvestment plan and any shareholder wishing to participate with a deep understanding of the Groups markets and how should have submitted their election to do so by 25 April 2018.
Equiniti can best take advantage of the opportunities that The most significant event during the year was our proposed present themselves.
Serving the needs of our clients in a acquisition of WFSS which completed on 1 February 2018.
The complex environment is at the core of our business mission.
US market offers exciting growth potential for us, as we introduce Our leadership knows that to succeed we need to focus on Equinitis market-leading technology and services to WFSSs blue the continuous development and improvement of our controls, chip client base.
We were pleased that shareholders recognised processes and risk management, to ensure Equiniti adapts the benefits of the transaction, with 99.99% of the votes cast at to the ever-changing environment, in particular the growth in Septembers General Meeting in favour of the acquisition, and a regulation.
I want to thank the executive team and all of our 97.43% take up of the associated rights.
people for their hard work this year and their contribution to BOARD AND GOVERNANCE the Groups success.
On 4 July 2017, we announced that Kevin Beeston would Equiniti has a strong culture, supported by a clear set of values retire as Chairman having served six years on the Board.
These set out the way we wish to work, so we Kevins stewardship the Company has transitioned from a private look after the best interests of our clients, people and other company to listing on the London Stock Exchange and is now stakeholders.
More information on the Groups culture and part of the FTSE 250.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to values can be found on page 53. thank Kevin for his guidance, wisdom and stewardship over that time.
We wish him well for the future.
LOOKING FORWARD John Parker also retired from the Board, stepping down as a Equiniti is a robust business, providing non-discretionary non-executive Director on 30 September 2017.
John had been services in markets that are growing sustainably over time.
on the Board since 1 January 2014, having previously been Since joining the Board, I have witnessed first-hand the Managing Director of our Shareholder Solutions business.
I want strength of our leadership team, the depth of our longto thank John for his valued contribution to Equinitis growth and standing client relationships and the opportunities targeted development over an extended period.
On 5 March 2018 we by our strategy.
I believe the Group has an exciting future announced that Vicky Jarman would not be seeking re-election and I look forward to working with the Board to support as a non-executive Director at our next AGM, and that Darren our executive team in delivering further value to our clients, Pope would be succeeding her as Senior Independent Director, employees and shareholders.
having already succeeded her as Chair of the Audit Committee on 1 November 2017.
On behalf of the Board I should like to thank Vicky for her contribution over the four years she has been Philip Yea on the Board.
On 5 March 2018, we announced the appointment Chairman of Alison Burns to the Board as an independent non-executive 6 March 2018 9
