Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT The Group once again performed strongly in, our shares delivering a Total Shareholder Return TSR of.
We continued to add high-quality assets to the portfolio and put in place the equity and debt financing to support our continued growth, in a market which remains compelling.
We acquired investment assets during the year plus a As envisaged, we successfully invested the equity proceeds strategic land site, at a combined price of.
The requirement to exercise patience and excluding purchase costs.
These further diversified the only pursue the right deals meant many of the transactions portfolio by geography and building size, added new Customers completed towards the end of the six-month period, resulting and increased the number of income producing assets to in an element of cash drag on our earnings see below.
plus acres of strategic land at Dartford as at the year end.
The share issue also broadened our share register, through These were independently valued at.
billion: the like-forselective targeting of new long-term investors in the UK and like valuation uplift was.
Our rising market capitalisation, which stood at approximately.
billion as at December, has The Manager used its outstanding network and market helped increase our liquidity, which averaged approximately intelligence to source % of these investments by value off.
million per day during the year.
The Manager also continued to exercise robust capital discipline to ensure that we bought assets at attractive prices.
Debt financing In addition to acquiring further Foundation assets comprising The evolution of our debt platform was an important feature % of purchases by value, we also took the opportunity to of the year.
In December we issued million of senior purchase higher yielding Value Add and Growth Covenant unsecured loan notes, representing our first bond issue.
At the assets, with a view to using the Managers asset management same time, we agreed a million unsecured revolving skills to enhance value.
credit facility RCF and repaid the majority of our secured debt: in doing so we avoided any early repayment charges.
The bond During, we completed four further forward funded pre-let issue has opened up substantial pools of liquidity and was developments, taking the total to nine and making us one of delivered with an investment-grade credit rating of Baa stable the most active development funders in the subsector.
With the potential for rising interest rates we Shareholders approved an amendment to the Investment Policy decided to refinance before the year end, which now seems to allow us to buy strategic land.
We were therefore pleased to well-timed.
complete contracts in September to purchase acres of prime land at Dartford, in order to provide further high-quality Our ability to secure attractive debt reflects the Groups investments over the next few years, at an attractive yield quality, increasing maturity and scale and supports our growth on cost.
We will continue to control risk by only developing ambitions.
The majority of our interest costs are now fixed, buildings on a pre-let basis.
underpinning the security of our increasing revenues.
As described on pages -, our asset management Operating from a largely unsecured debt platform gives us programme delivered a number of successes, including a greater operational flexibility and speed of execution.
We have, sq ft extension of the Rolls-Royce Motor Cars facilities at also substantially increased our average debt maturity, which Bognor Regis, a lease extension for New Look in Newcastlenow stands at just under nine years, as well as broadening our under-Lyme and a pleasing rent review uplift for our property range of lenders.
leased to Marks & Spencer at Castle Donington.
At the year end our LTV was %.
We maintain our medium term Share issuance target of % when fully invested and geared, against a ceiling Shareholders continued to support our growth plans through of %.
an oversubscribed million equity raise in May.
The level of demand reflected the increased attractions, in uncertain Financial results times, of a prime portfolio which delivers low-risk and growing The Groups financial performance was strong in.
Operating income from our excellent Customers.
profit before changes in the fair value of investment properties Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION increased by.
Our Adjusted earnings The Manager per share EPS were.
pence, which The Board believes that the Manager continues to deliver strong substantially covered our dividends declared in respect of the performance, whilst investing in talent and resource which will period of.
The EPRA net asset value per share was benefit the Group.
Of particular note, the Manager appointed.
Sally Bruer as Head of Research and Charlie Withers as Director Total Shareholder Return was.
Continued cost discipline and economies of scale have helped The Manager is the Companys Authorised Investment Fund us reduce our EPRA cost ratio to.
This low Manager, under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers and transparent cost base continues to compare favourably Directive AIFMD.
To comply with the European Securities with our peers, offering good value to our Shareholders.
and Markets Authoritys guidance on performing delegated investment management functions the Company has delegated Dividends authority to the Manager to, among other things, conduct The Company switched to quarterly dividend payments from the portfolio management and risk management services on its start of, recognising the value to Shareholders of regular behalf.
As a result, the Manager will make final investment or cash income.
divestment decisions, with the Board continuing to play an important role by offering advice on potential transactions and During the year, we declared and paid three quarterly dividends monitoring compliance with our Investment Policy.
pence per share each, in respect of.
On March, we declared a fourth quarterly dividend of.
pence Outlook per share, for the three months to December.
This will We have a sector-leading portfolio of UK Big Box assets that be paid on March, to Shareholders on the register at are benefiting from structural change driven by increasing March.
Total dividends declared in respect of the year e-commerce penetration, and the operational and financial therefore totalled.
pence, in line with our target.
benefits which they can provide to our Customers.
The fundamentals of our market remain positive and are largely For, we are targeting a progressive total dividend of unaffected by current geopolitical and economic uncertainties.. pence per share, an increase of.
% over, supported Despite the uncertainties it brings, Brexit may provide a silver by anticipated growth in our income the Estimated Rental Value lining, since with increased border controls our Customers will ERV of our portfolio is.
% higher than our passing rental require more warehousing domestically, further supporting our income.
Board and governance Through the Managers excellent relationships, we see Stephen Smith resigned as a Non-Executive Director in June opportunities to acquire high-quality assets and forward-funded and the Board thanks him for his contribution.
Following developments to further diversify our portfolio.
The continued Stephens departure, Susanne Given became Chair of the imbalance between occupational supply and demand means Management Engagement Committee and was also appointed that we expect rental growth and values to remain robust in to the Nomination Committee.
The assets we acquired towards the end of will add pleased to announce the appointment of Aubrey Adams as a to our rental income in.
Coupled with our largely fixed cost Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee.
base, this will contribute to earnings growth and support our Aubrey has almost years experience and knowledge at progressive dividend target of.
board level in the real estate industry.
Richard Jewson Chairman March Tritax Big Box REIT plc Annual Report
