Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 04 Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement 2017 Overview Ian Davis After a very challenging few years, I believe Chairman that Rolls-Royce is building real and sustainable momentum.
Progress will not be smooth, given the nature of the industry and the number of new products we are in the process of introducing into the market, and I do not want to underestimate the risks.
But, the medium-term prospects look increasingly bright and the long-term opportunities for us remain significant.
Our near to medium-term priorities are: to improve operational performance, with the focus on product reliability for our customers and on cost competitiveness: and cash flow generation for our long-term prosperity.
Growth opportunities for us in our core industries are excellent.
We have to build customer satisfaction and cash flow and, as a consequence, strengthen investor confidence, to enable us to capitalise on these.
That is what we are determined to do.
Warren East, our Chief Executive, gives in his report a full explanation of major milestones and achievements in 2017.
I would like to highlight a few key developments.
There has been great progress in building the executive leadership team.
We have refreshed our strategy and long-term vision.
We have refined our capital allocation process.
We have delivered financial results ahead of budget and expectations and we have ramped up production in our Civil Aerospace business.
We have initiated a simplification of the Group into three businesses and are embarking upon a fundamental restructuring.
This will make for a simplified and more focused business.
At the same time, we have had to deal with some significant operational challenges, most notably with some in-service fleet Our focus on improving operational and financial issues on two of our Civil Aerospace large performance has been demonstrated in this years engine programmes.
We are acutely aware of the challenge this has created for some results.
Our new vision and refreshed strategy of our customers.
Our absolute priority is to overcome these.
Customer trust and lays a firm foundation for creating long-term confidence the bedrock of any business shareholder value.
is, and must be, our number one goal.
We are continually looking to inject pace and simplicity into our business operations, Chairmans Introduction to Directors Report page 64 even as we expand production to meet the growth in demand for our products.
We are well advanced in the complex process of overhauling our management information systems.
Our intent is to provide the data we need, not only to manage the business effectively, but to provide greater clarity on outcomes and progress progress in real economic, not just accounting, terms.
We are a long-term business with long investment cycles.
We have continued STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 05 Chairmans Statement our commitment to, and investment in, next An additional cultural priority is to build term, our focus is on generating cash to generation technologies and facilities that a more diverse organisation.
This is a meet the investment needs of the business will be crucial to competitiveness and value daunting challenge for us, and indeed and to strengthen our balance sheet and creation.
We have met our key technology for the whole sector.
Progress to date has credit rating.
I would draw attention to the fact been disappointing.
We have to do more Delivering on our financial commitments that we have sustained investment in capital and this remains high on my agenda and is fundamental to investor confidence and expenditure and R&D notwithstanding on my list of frustrations.
In addition, we are striving to reinforce short-term financial pressures.
an extraordinary brand and we are this with more open engagement with exceptionally well-placed to defy the We are putting increased emphasis on investors.
In addition to our regular traditional engineering industry norms.
I am strategic partnerships and collaborations.
interactions with investors, we have held hugely encouraged by the great work that These collaborations range across a series of governance events, including so many colleagues from Rolls-Royce across electronics, composite materials, gearbox a seminar in the spring of 2017.
We plan the world do to inspire the next generation technology, digital technologies and to continue this level of engagement.
in science, technology, engineering and services.
We are determined to be at the maths STEM careers.
I continue to be Improved transparency of financial results forefront of the next technology revolution inspired by the work done by our support plays an important role in investor built around artificial intelligence, data networks and employee resource groups confidence.
We are working hard to make analytics, machine learning and digital.
to stimulate and reinforce diversity.
I am also our accounts and, more importantly, our This will be crucial to our future very pleased that the proportion of women business economics, more intelligible and competitiveness as well as to our ability we recruit as apprentices and graduates accessible.
The implications of IFRS 15 and to attract and retain exceptional talent.
But there still IFRS 16 may complicate matters in the short remains much to be done to improve I would also like to draw attention to the term and we will work to clarify the impact diversity and inclusion and to accelerate, progress we have made on the management of these new accounting regulations.
The in particular, the advancement of talented of environmental impacts and the increased accounting regulation changes will, I believe, women and high potential younger emphasis we are giving to safety.
It is in everyones interest to executives into senior management roles.
foundational goals and responsibilities that better align the recognition of profit and This is a huge talent opportunity for us.
I, and the Board, monitor carefully.
Profitability, and return on capital in particular, are crucial strategic measures but As part of this focus on diversity in 2017, for the short term, cash flow is our dominant I introduced a new Board apprentice Governance and culture financial metric.
programme designed to give prospective In January 2017, the Group entered into leaders within the business insights and deferred prosecution agreements with experience into the working of the Board.
Conclusion the UK Serious Fraud Office and other authorities.
This has been a sobering I hope the preceding words have been Investor trust and confidence experience for all concerned.
The Board helpful in clarifying where we stand.
and executive team remain totally We are, I believe, building real momentum.
I am acutely aware that in recent years our committed to always acting with integrity Our short-term focus over the next two to credibility with investors has been damaged.
and to ensuring that the appropriate values three years is on meeting customer We are determined to restore it and we and behaviours are embedded throughout commitments and requirements whilst know that it is results, not words, that will the Group.
This is an ongoing and relentless generating substantial increases in cash flow.
This is a long-term business task and it is an absolute priority for the Longer term, our goal is to build and grow that needs shareholders with a long-term Board and management.
our business so that, in time, we are a perspective.
That perspective must be world-leading industrial technology based on a long-term confidence in the Culture, as always, is key.
There is much company focused on pioneering the power growth prospects of the industry, in the to cherish and to protect in the Rolls-Royce that matters.
This is not an industry sector value creation potential of the Company culture.
But we also have to develop and short of growth options.
Our long-term and in the strength of the management team.
We need to be more transparent aim is to capitalise on them, effectively and open, and to engage more externally.
Risk assessment is an important part of and responsibly.
Performance management, cost the Boards work.
This has been important competitiveness and operational delivery I would like to conclude this statement input into our viability statement, which we against commitments are as fundamental with a big thanks to all my colleagues in see as a lot more than a short-term liquidity to our longer-term aspirations and goals Rolls-Royce.
It has been another demanding assessment.
There are significant risks as are product innovation and technology.
year, but one marked by real progress.
most notably product reliability failure, The drive, dedication and ingenuity of a disorderly Brexit or an external global As a Board, we are determined to role our people and, indeed, of our former shock that would disrupt travel.
We have model these cultural ambitions.
We have, employees across the globe is extraordinary contingency plans to address these risks.
for example, introduced a Meet the Board and, I believe, the Companys single biggest We understand the importance of dividends initiative where employees have the asset.
I continue to be inspired by the to many of our shareholders, and also the opportunity to meet with and question the dedication and sheer decency of our importance of rebuilding a strong balance Board at an employee AGM style event.
people and their passion for Rolls-Royce.
I do not believe that, In addition as part of our focus on a in the long term, these are incompatible more open, inclusive culture I asked Ian Davis with our growth aspirations.
We will Irene Dorner, one of our Non-Executive Chairman talk more during 2018 about our capital Directors, to take on an employee champion allocation plans and priorities.
For the short role on the Board.
