Chairmans statement ANOTHER YEAR OF STRONG PROGRESS Managing volatility In many ways insurers are on the front Dear shareholders, The purpose of insurers in society is line of these changes.
We are deeply 2017 has been another year of excellent to help our customers individuals and engaged in harnessing technology and progress for RSA.
Our twin goals are businesses to better manage the threats deeper access to data to serve customers to deliver for customers and for and uncertainties that life produces.
In 2017 RSA achieved To do that, we need to be strong and become more and more accurate in both, though we are determined resilient ourselves, and to harness that pricing risk and so offering better value to do better again in future years.
strength in sustaining support for our products to customers.
RSAs market Premium income rose 4 percent, as more customers many of whom have been leading presence in the UK telematics customers both stayed with RSA and with us for decades.
market for young drivers is a fine case brought their business to us.
We seek to work closely with In 2017, our industry supported customers record underwriting results and a profit government and others on a range through many challenges.
These included after tax of 322m 2016: 20m.
At the of social questions such as greater some of the worst natural disasters on same time, we increased underlying apprenticeship training and opportunities record in the US and the Caribbean, as well earnings per share by 10 percent and for young people road safety campaigns as more prosaic threats to property, we delivered a 23 percent dividend and codes of practice in data usage.
transport and personal injury across increase for shareholders.
Board governance and composition As I reflect on your Companys progress This has been a year in which the topic Around 70 percent of RSA operates since 2013, it is gratifying to be able to of corporate governance has rarely outside the UK, and the Group is relatively report on a transformed RSA.
Our financial been out of the headlines.
In April, insulated from the potential impact of performance has gone from losses to very the Business, Energy and Industrial Brexit, with separate, locally regulated, strong levels of profitability.
Our capital Strategy Committee published its European subsidiaries.
We have created strength and resilience has built equally recommendations on corporate a subsidiary in Luxembourg as the strongly.
And behind these measures governance, remuneration and headquarters of our European Union sits huge progress in capability, culture boardroom diversity, and in parallel, EU branch business, thereby allowing and competitiveness which I believe the Government published its green our businesses to concentrate can drive our performance for customers paper, leading to proposed legislation on their core offering without and shareholders still further in the years to strengthen standards.
In December, experiencing any disruption from to come.
the Financial Reporting Council proposed the UKs exit from the EU.
a number of changes to the UK Corporate RSA has some 300 years of rich history, Governance Code, bringing it up to date Societal changes serving our customers in good times and Across society the pace of change is high.
and promoting continued improvement bad.
Today RSA looks forward to in the quality of governance.
This can be seen in the ways technology continuing and building on this record.
Our focus as a Company is on the pursuit It manifests in challenges relating to of outperformance.
In each of our three an aging population and growing life regions the UK & International, expectancy, as well as in the challenges Scandinavia and Canada we are seeing from uneven intergenerational and other many advances in customer service, forms of wealth distribution.
We see it too underwriting and cost efficiency.
in changing social attitudes across many We know that there is much more aspects of society.
that we can do, and we are dedicated in our efforts to drive RSA towards best-in-class capabilities and results.
4 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report After six years on the Board, Hugh Mitchell Continued progressive dividend will retire as a Non-Executive Director We know that one measure of the with effect from the Companys AGM in results we produce for shareholders May 2018.
Kath Cates, who has served as a is the dividend they enable us to pay.
Non-Executive Director of the Group since In that context, we are pleased to propose 2013, has succeeded Hugh as chair of the a final dividend of 13 pence per share Remuneration Committee, with Martin making a total of 19.6 pence for the year.
Strobel taking over from Kath as chair of This is a 23 percent increase versus 2016, the Board Risk Committee.
On behalf of the and reflects the strong advances we have Board, I would like to thank Hugh for his made and the Boards ongoing confidence contribution to the Group and to welcome in the Groups prospects.
Kath and Martin to their new roles.
Board Thanks Your Board is largely supportive of the Recognising the importance of diversity On behalf of the Board, I would like to underlying objectives of the proposed We see diversity, not only in the thank our more than 12,600 colleagues reforms, particularly around strengthening Boardroom, but across our entire around the world.
RSAs results and accountability, diversity and promoting company as an important business issue.
continuing progress would not be possible meaningful dialogue with investors and RSA is committed to promoting diversity without their dedication, professionalism the workforce.
I am pleased to report that of all types across all levels of our and commitment to the Group.
In particular, RSA was recently ranked as one of the workforce, and to creating an inclusive I would like to thank Stephen Hester for top 10 companies in the 2017 Institute environment that engages all of our his continued outstanding leadership in of Directors Good Governance Index, colleagues effectively.
The focus underlining our commitment in this area.
on serving our customers, the pride in As we progress these proposals, we are We are, for the first time, reporting on our work and the desire to improve, mindful that effective governance will our gender pay gap.
Whilst this gap is gives me great optimism for the future still require companies to make decisions predominantly driven by the structure of of our business.
in the context of their own individual our workforce, we have programmes and businesses.
Competitiveness of the initiatives in place designed to improve it Your Board is confident in RSAs ability UK as a place to do business should over time.
RSA is a signatory of the Women to deliver on its strategic objectives and not be eroded as an unintended in Finance Charter, and as such, we have to drive further value for customers consequence of significant and made a public commitment to achieving and for shareholders.
I would also like important governance reforms.
33 percent representation of women in to thank all our shareholders for the our Management Group by 2020.
Across continued support you have shown, our business, we continue to support and look forward to welcoming you to the promotion of talented colleagues, our Annual General Meeting on 11 May.
and have recently appointed a Group Head of Diversity and Inclusion to drive and implement our plans.
We are active Our focus as a participants in mentoring schemes such Company is on as the 30% Club in the UK, and our Group Martin Scicluna Technical Academy delivered over 7,000 Chairman the pursuit of training hours in 2017.
We are confident 21 February 2018 that men and women are paid equally outperformance.
for equivalent work across our business, and we undertake regular equal pay Martin Scicluna audits in line with ACAS Guidance.
Chairman RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5
