156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 14:03 Page 2 Chairmans Statement Review of 2017 performance Confounding many a sceptic, 2017 proved to be a positive year for returns from UK smaller companies.
The FTSE 100 Index gave a total return of 11.9%, while the return of the FTSE All-Share Index, which is heavily weighted towards large companies, was 13.1%.
By comparison, the Numis Smaller Companies Index excluding Investment Companies NSCI XIC, the Companys benchmark, produced a return of 19.5%.
The Companys net asset value total return was 22.1%, which reflects the return attributable to equity shareholders of 279.32p 2016: 65.82p, together with the effect of dividends received by them and reinvested.
The share price generated a total return of 22.6%.
The Managers Report expands in more detail on 2017s performance.
Dividends The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy.
In this context, the Board is pleased to propose a final ordinary dividend of 19.75p.
Total ordinary dividends of 28.80p for 2017 represent a 5.3% increment when compared with 2016 and a level 51.6% above the 19.0p that was declared for 2010 in the immediate aftermath of the financial crisis.
I have included 2010 dividend levels and subsequent growth to attempt to bring some context to what has undoubtedly been a golden period for dividends from small UK quoted companies.
To put this period into a historical context, long run data from the London Business School for the NSCI XIC would suggest dividends since 1955 have grown at 2.7% per annum in real terms.
In 2015 and 2016, alongside the ordinary dividend declared, the Company also paid a special dividend of 2.75p each year, thereby ensuring that the all-important minimum retention test imposed by HMRC was passed.
The Board adopted such a strategy to avoid the pitfalls of allowing non-recurring revenue streams to become embedded into the progressive dividend policy, especially since special dividends and non-recurring distributions have been more prevalent following the financial crisis.
In 2017, the Company was once again a beneficiary of special dividends and, in particular, the decision from one of our investee companies to declare five dividends in 2017.
This year, the Board will declare a special dividend of 6.70p per share alongside the total ordinary dividend of 28.80p to ensure the retention test is met.
The revenue return for the year was 41.59p 2016: 36.93p per Ordinary Share.
After adjusting for both the final ordinary and special dividends, the Companys revenue reserves will be 59.5p per share, circa 2.1x the ordinary dividend: in 2010, revenue reserves were circa 1.3x the ordinary dividend.
Strengthened revenue reserves, and prudent management of the non-recurring revenue streams of recent years, leave the Board optimistic that a progressive dividend policy can be delivered to Shareholders.
The ambition behind this strategy, and perhaps its acid test, will be for the Board to deliver dividend growth through the next downturn.
I would re-iterate my comments from previous years that the base level for the Companys progressive dividend policy in 2018 is on the total ordinary dividend of 28.80p, i. e. excluding the special dividend.
Share buy-in At the Annual General Meeting in March 2017, the authority to buy in up to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary Shares was approved.
During the year, 1,404,155 Ordinary Shares 1.5% of the issued share capital were bought in at a total cost of 18.1m.
Consistent with the Boards stated policy, those Ordinary Shares have been cancelled rather than held in Treasury.
Once again, the Board will be seeking to renew the buy-in authority at the Annual General Meeting on 1 March 2018.
Within the broader Investment Companies universe, the UK Smaller Companies sub-sector has languished in rating terms, with discounts stuck in the low to mid-teen range.
Currently, uncertainty about Brexit and politics appear to be trumping both economics and underlying corporate profitability.
Against such a backdrop, 2017 witnessed a higher level of buy-ins than in previous years.
At the margin, buy-ins provide an increase in liquidity for those Shareholders seeking to crystallise their investment and at the same time deliver an economic uplift for those Shareholders wishing to remain invested with the Company.
Gearing It has been the Companys policy to use gearing in a tactical manner throughout its 27 year history.
The 125m facility with The Royal Bank of Scotland has a term expiring in June 2020.
As has been the case in the past, the facility term dovetails with the three yearly continuation vote cycle.
The facility continues to provide the Company with access to liquidity for investment purposes and to fund share buy-ins as and when appropriate.
In an illiquid, and at times volatile, asset class such as small UK quoted companies, having access to immediate funds through a credit facility provides the Managers with enhanced flexibility.
2 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 156613 ASCOT AR Txt PRINT 156613 ASCOT AR Txt V11 26 01 2018 13:09 Page 3 Chairmans Statement Board changes David Jeffcoat, who has been a Director since July 2009 and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2011, will not be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
David has made a great contribution to the Board, and his colleagues and the Managers will miss his incisive questioning.
Shareholders can be grateful for his contribution over the past nine years.
The Board wishes him all the very best for the future.
A recruitment process, being run by the Board, is well advanced.
Outlook Since becoming Chairman in October 2014, my January statement to Shareholders has regularly referred to the uncertain political environment.
In this relatively short period, the Company has operated against a backdrop of two referendums and two general elections.
Regrettably, 2018 feels like more of the same as a minority government seeks to make progress with the Brexit negotiations.
In economic terms, the environment has been more conducive as, despite a slowing UK economy, we have witnessed an acceleration and synchronisation of global growth indeed, one might regard the biggest fear as being the extent of the consensus about the supportive conditions for further progress.
Around the world, we have seen several central banks shift gears and raise interest rates.
In financial markets, this has fuelled the debate between inflation and deflation to which I referred in last years statement.
As a consequence, the tension between equity and bond valuations remains at the forefront of asset allocators minds.
As with political uncertainties, I would envisage such tensions to be resolved over several years but their significance should not be underestimated for investment managers such as Aberforth Partners who follow a value investing style.
Over the past 12 months, the Company has produced a good result despite difficult conditions for the value investing style.
As an asset class, small UK quoted companies have perhaps missed out, owing to politics and Brexit, on the sort of re-rating witnessed in the broader financial markets.
As represented by the NSCI XIC, they look to be selling at around a 34% price earnings discount to their larger brethren.
Since the Companys formation in 1990, only the period during and in the aftermath of the Long Term Credit Management crisis in 1998 has this discount been meaningfully wider.
Driven by the Managers value investing style, the Companys portfolio provides additional valuation support.
There seems always to be the opportunity to comment on regulation, although in many years I resist the temptation.
This year, however, sees the noteworthy introduction of the Key Information Document under the Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products Regulation.
While this regulation is undoubtedly well intended, I share the concerns expressed by others that it may be some time before these rules achieve their intended objective, not least until the same rules apply consistently to open ended funds.
I look forward to the year when no comment on the regulatory environment is possible.
The Board looks forward with cautious optimism, cognisant of the uncertain times prevailing but reassured by the consistency of approach and professionalism of the Managers.
Finally, the Board very much welcomes the views of Shareholders and we are available to talk to you directly.
My email address is noted below and I extend my thanks to those of you who have been in touch with me over the past year.
Paul Trickett Chairman 26 January 2018 paul.
co. uk Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 3
