Chairmans statement Delivering sustainable growth Returns to our shareholders remain a key focus in this challenging market environment.
Cumulative dividends represent approximately 80% of the share price at the initial public offering.
Dear shareholders, In 2017, the Group delivered profit before tax of 539.0 The Boards ability to return a substantially higher regular million 2016: 353.0 million.
Continuing underwriting dividend to shareholders is despite the backdrop of a discipline, increasing operating efficiency, favourable claims challenging economic environment during the UKs ongoing results in the year and releases from prior year reserves have negotiations regarding its withdrawal from the European Union.
helped us achieve this commendable result.
Whilst the day-to-day operations remain substantially unaffected, the Group continues to monitor the consequences of the volatility of Sterling, inflation and uncertain financial markets.
Strategy The Groups mission is to make insurance much easier and Linking remuneration to performance better value for our customers.
The Board supports and challenges the Groups management to develop and execute We remain committed to ensuring that executive pay is aligned a strategy which is aligned with this mission and positions the with the Companys strategy of delivering long-term shareholder business to address the evolution of customers needs, including and customer value.
taking advantage of significant changes in technology.
The The Group achieved a return on tangible equity RoTE of effective execution of our strategy requires a substantial and 21.7% for 2017.
An increase of 3.3% 2016: a decrease of continuing change agenda to improve our digital offering and 9.4% in the share price over the year to 381.7 pence 2016: the agility of the organisation.
369.4 pence at 31 December 2017, together with dividend payments, provided a total shareholder return TSR of 8.1% Dividends for the year 2016: minus 1%.
Over the past five years, In August 2017, the Group announced that the regular shareholders have received a TSR of 152% compared to the dividend would be rebased upwards to reflect the Boards FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts of 62%.
The Group has confidence in the Groups earnings capability, its potential to continued to deliver very good results each year, which has generate strong cash flows, and the progress the business has enabled the Board to declare cumulative dividends, including made since the initial public offering IPO five years ago special dividends, equivalent to approximately 80% of the IPO when the Groups dividend policy was previously set.
with this, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 13.6 pence per share.
If approved, the total regular dividend Solvency II of 20.4 pence per share will represent 39.7% growth on The Group uses its partial internal model PIM to calculate its 2016s regular dividend 14.6 pence per share.
In addition, solvency capital requirement SCR.
Taking into account the the Board has resolved to pay a further special interim dividend final dividend and special interim dividend proposed to be of 15.0 pence per share to reflect the Groups strong paid in May 2018, the Groups 2017 year-end capital surplus performance in the year.
amounts to approximately 0.86 billion above its SCR 2016: 0.91 billion above its SCR.
This is equivalent to a solvency capital ratio of 162% 2016: 165%.
The Board considers the appropriate Group risk appetite range to be 140% to 180% of 8 DIRECT LINE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements its SCR and expects the Group to operate around the middle of John Reizenstein was appointed as a member of the Investment this range in normal circumstances where there is no material Committee in July 2017.
In November 2017, the Group opportunity or threat.
welcomed Penny James to the Board as an Executive Director and CFO-designate, following the announcement that Penny This is intended to enable the Group to meet all of its will become CFO with effect from 1 March 2018 and that operational, regulatory and rating agency requirements.
John Reizenstein will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 10 May 2018.
IT infrastructure I thank John very much for his outstanding achievements as CFO over the last seven years: his contribution to the success The Board continues to provide oversight of the programme of the Group to date has been significant and I wish him the of activity to upgrade and better integrate the major IT systems very best for the future.
within the Groups technology infrastructure aimed at improving the digital offering, customer experience and operational Andrew Palmer, independent NED and Chair of the Audit efficiency.
Whilst progress has been made in each of the three and Investment Committees, has decided to step down from areas, implementation and integration of a range of new IT the Board on 10 May 2018, having served as a Director systems is inherently complex and challenging.
His tireless work before and after the IPO has remains focused on building the right capabilities and will take been invaluable to the Board and to the Groups senior the time necessary to do so.
The Boards ongoing areas of management.
He leaves us with our deepest gratitude and focus include developing future capability for both customers our best wishes for the future.
and colleagues, and monitoring risks around the internal control environment, part of which is focused on the stability and My introduction to the Corporate Governance report and the security of the Groups IT systems.
Nomination Committee report provide further information on these changes.
Culture, conduct and regulation I would like to thank each member of the Board for their The Group maintains active relationships with its insurance significant contribution, commitment and service: and look regulators through constructive dialogue.
The Board promotes forward to working with them in 2018 as the Group continues an open and collaborative culture, and provides oversight of to build on its success to date.
the Groups conduct with customers.
It oversees the Groups culture and the conduct policy, which aims to ensure that fair Employees customer outcomes are achieved and that employees behave with integrity.
The Group also has a Code of Business Conduct The Groups employees are fundamental to the Groups which sets out standards that our employees are required to strategy and to ensuring a high level of service to our adhere to see page 60.
The Board recognises that customers.
I would like to thank each of them for their hard opportunities will arise to improve further the services offered work, initiative and commitment to our mission.
Their positive to customers: and it has therefore encouraged a range of energy, embodiment of the Groups values and unwavering customer experience initiatives which are designed to deliver dedication to our customers helped our businesses progress increased levels of customer satisfaction.
over these five successful years, and has put us in a strong position for the future.
Board and Committee membership changes Succession planning remains a key area of focus for the Board.
In February 2017, Danuta Gray was appointed as a NonExecutive Director NED and Mike Holliday-Williams was Michael N Biggs appointed as an Executive Director to the Board.
Danuta was Chairman also appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee in March 2017 and the Nomination Committee in August 2017.
Governance highlights Leadership Effectiveness Accountability Remuneration Relations with shareholders and Your Board seeks to The effectiveness Your Board provides Your Remuneration stakeholders ensure that decisions of your Boards shareholders with Committee ensures are of the highest and its Committees an assessment of a close correlation Your Board maintains standard.
It challenges performance is the Groups position between creating strong relationships and strategic proposals, considered annually and prospects.
We value for shareholders, regular interaction with performance delivery in an effectiveness monitor and review and remunerating shareholders.
See page 52. the effectiveness of Executive Directors continued support for responsibilities.
See the Groups risk and senior executives the strategic aims is page 49. management and appropriately.
See page internal control systems.
Your Board also See pages 22 and 56. has regard to the interests of stakeholders.
