2 Chairmans statement Annual Report 2017 National Express Group PLC Delivering shareholder value Progress made with opportunities ahead Our credentials as an industry-leading operator are strengthened every year.
Our achievement of the highest safety awards, attainment of the highest European Foundation for Quality Management five-star rating in three businesses and consistently high customer satisfaction scores are testament to a focus on the fundamentals of a transport Sir John Armitt CBE business that is geared for ongoing success.
Chairman Equally, however, when one stands back it is clear that we are in both a period of significant technological change and also an Dear fellow Shareholder era when the potential application of these myriad innovations is Introduction and overview presenting challenge, yes, but also exciting opportunities.
This is I am delighted that National Express has again delivered another now perhaps one of the most pressing challenges for a business year of such strong growth.
With revenue and profit both increasing like National Express: how we focus our investment and resources markedly and being converted to strong free cash flow, I firmly believe in the area of technological innovation to deliver the greatest benefit that under Deans leadership we have established a sustainable for our customers and shareholders.
Equally, I am repeatedly struck by the passion, From our industry-leading on-demand scheduling technology at commitment and expertise of our staff across the Group in delivering Ecolane, through our pioneering use of smart Lytx DriveCam safety the quality of services our customers rightly demand day-in, day-out.
cameras, to our sophisticated customer pricing and payment It is particularly pleasing that these Group results have been delivered methods such as Revenue Management Systems National Express through growth across all of our internationally diversified business.
has sought to invest to embrace the opportunities at an early stage.
North America and ALSA have both had particularly strong years With the promising results from these and other investments, delivering significant headline growth.
The performance of our UK the Board and executive team both believe we are at the start of bus and coach businesses to turnaround their significant challenges something exciting here.
of the first half of 2017, was impressive.
Our disciplined acquisition strategy also continues to prove successful, Our strategy of focusing on operational excellence, investing in as both high quality new businesses generating returns of at least technology and disciplined acquisition and growth in new markets 15% are brought into the Group, but also opening additional new has now been delivering for a number of years.
As Dean makes clear growth avenues.
As Dean again sets out in his report, the emerging in his report, while we have made important strides in each of these urban growth model in Geneva and in major cities in North America areas already, there are also significant opportunities to pursue.
As a has been driven by our recent acquisitions.
Board we are focused on working with and challenging the executive Our determination to continue to grow our existing businesses team to realise them.
through the excellence and technology agendas, and these new avenues for expansion, provide us with confidence and optimism for future growth.
Dividend It is with this in mind that the Board has again recommended a 10% Governance highlights increase in the final dividend, bringing the full year dividend to 13.51p.
The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of Subject to shareholder approval, this will be paid on 21 May 2018 to good governance, values and behaviours are in place and shareholders on the register on 27 April 2018. consistently applied in the boardroom and throughout the Group.
That is why: Finally, I would like to thank Dean and everyone at National Express for their continued hard work and commitment to the business and the effective stewardship and governance of the Group its core values.
remains a high priority for the Board, which comes up in many aspects of its work: and our Values, which are embedded across the business, represent the way we live and breathe our culture.
Read more, p42 Sir John Armitt CBE Chairman 1 March 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic report roadmap 3 A strategy rooted in our Vision and Values generating shareholder value Our Vision Our Vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by consistently delivering frequent, high performing public transport services which offer excellent value.
Our Values Underpinning this Vision we have a common set of values across the business Excellence Safety Customers People Community We constantly strive We only do what is We place them at the We develop the talents, We are active in to be excellent in all safe and stop any heart of our business reward the exceptional the communities we that we do unsafe behaviour and relentlessly meet performance and serve to generate their expectations respect the rights economic, social and of all our employees environmental value p30 How we generate and preserve value Our business model Strategy and priorities Our KPIs What we do and how it generates Our priorities and how How we measure our value for our shareholders we plan to deliver them progress and delivery p6 p10 p12 The environment we operate in Capitalising on opportunities Principal risks and uncertainties Environmental, social and The trends and factors impacting The risks faced by National Express Group employee issues development of our industry and how we manage them How we work with our principal stakeholders p4 p38 p30 Our performance in 2017 Group Chief Executives review Group Finance Directors review Divisional performance reviews An analysis of our strategy, performance A review of the key factors impacting A review of performance by our and results in 2017 our financial performance principal segments ALSA, North America and the UK p14 p19 p24-29
