Chairmans statement One of the key roles of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board members possess a range of complementary skills which are relevant to Bodycotes business.
I have spent time with all of my Board colleagues and am confident that I have joined a well-balanced Board that, in terms of governance, is functioning effectively.
A. C. Quinn CBE Chairman I am pleased to be contributing to the annual report for the first time as Bodycotes Chairman, having taken up the position on 1 January 2018.
A. C. Quinn CBE Overview Chairman The Group delivered a good set of results for 2017 and I am very pleased that the management team, under the leadership of Stephen Harris, has been able to demonstrate the strength and strong market position of Bodycotes business once again.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 12.1p, an increase of 12%, which will be paid on 1 June 2018, subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
This brings the total ordinary dividend for 2017 to 17.4p 2016: 15.8p costing 33.1m, which represents a year-on-year increase of 10.1%.
This increase in the level of dividend underscores the Boards view of the Groups excellent future earnings and cash flow potential.
Furthermore, recognising the strong net cash position of the Group at year end, the Board is recommending a supplemental distribution by way of a special dividend, also payable on 1 June 2018, amounting to 25.0p per share, costing 47.9m.
Board and governance My predecessor, Alan Thomson, stepped down as Chairman at the end of 2017.
On behalf of the Board, and the Company as a whole, I thank Alan for his significant contribution to Bodycote during his ten years of Chairmanship and previously as a Non-Executive Board member.
I think that it is fair to say that Bodycote has undergone a wholesale transformation during Alans tenure as Chairman and the development of the Groups share price over that period is a testament to the progress that has been made.
One of the key roles of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board members possess a range of complementary skills which are relevant to Bodycotes business.
06 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 The Board has been further strengthened by the appointment of Shareholders Lili Chahbazi, who joined as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January During the year, as usual, meetings were undertaken with a 2018.
Lili is an experienced strategy consultant and, since 2008, a number of Bodycotes shareholders and positive feedback was global partner in the London office of Bain & Company.
Lili currently received from them.
I have already had the opportunity to meet heads the oil & gas practice and consults to a range of international some of our shareholders and look forward to meeting more of you clients.
Lili brings a wide range of experience in businesses during the coming year, as well as at this years AGM in May 2018. including those in the engineering, aviation and transport industries.
Summary Another one of the key responsibilities of the Chairman is to The Group is starting to show the results of the increased promote effective governance across the Group, thus ensuring investment programme that has been ongoing for the last few that we remain a successful and sustainable entity with good years.
This programme has been designed to generate superior governance procedures practised across all 23 countries in growth in what until recently has been a weak macroeconomic which the Group operates.
We are committed to conducting environment.
The results of these investments, together with the business responsibly.
By maintaining high standards of corporate continued diligence in operational efficiency and a more benign governance, we enhance performance underpinned by our business macro environment all combined to deliver another good set of model.
Our approach to governance is set by the Board, and our results for the Group in 2017.
Bodycote remains well placed to Executive Committee ensures that the approach is effectively capitalise on the value generating investments available to it and implemented across the business.
Effective and robust governance the prospects for the Group are excellent.
I am confident that in remains central to the ongoing success of the Group.
the coming years Bodycote will deliver an attractive return for our shareholders and commensurate reward for our employees.
People As part of my induction to the business, I have had the chance to visit a good number of facilities, as well as to engage with A. C. Quinn CBE much of the Groups senior executive management.
I have been Chairman impressed by the commitment, knowledge and passion that I have 6 March 2018 experienced from employees across the business, and at all levels.
I can see how the talented workforce creates a clear competitive advantage for Bodycote, which is so vital for the long-term success of the business.
com 25695 19 March 2018 3:29 PM Proof 7 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
