STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement The Groups 2020 Strategy is well established with good momentum and considerable further benefits to come The Groups core values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability underpin our culture along with our key objective of doing business responsibly.
Summary 2017 has been another year of good profit growth.
Core values remain leadership, excellence, .
14% increase in earnings per share reflecting continuing strength of theMarshalls brand.
Strong balance sheet and prudent capitalstructure.
Full-year dividend of 10.20 pence up 17% andadiscretionary supplementary dividendof4.00pence.
Overview new improved defined contribution pension scheme for employees during the year with a larger pension contribution made by the This is my last report to you as your Chairman and I am pleased to Company.
We encourage share ownership and sharing in success, beleaving your Company in good shape, with 2017 having been another year of profitable growth.
Cash performance has been strong andwe place a high priority on employee engagement, training and development, building successful careers for our people, and health and andwe are again ableto propose an increased dividend and a further safety.
Many of our businesses and our people play a strong role in their supplementary dividend, whilst continuing to invest in the business and maintain a prudent capital structure.
The Groups 2020 Strategy local communities.
In 2017 over 50,000 was raised by employees for MIND which was the Groups chosen national charity and the Company iswell established with good momentum and considerable further benefits to come.
Theacquisition of CPM Group Limited CPM during has matched this contribution.
As you will see from this report the Board is committed to the highest standards of environmental, sustainability the year was an important step forward.
Doing business the right way and governance practice.
The Group has maintained its Fair Tax Mark has always been important to Marshalls as we seek to ensure we balance the interests of all our stakeholders and make a full and proper status in 2017.
Taking account not only of corporation tax but also of PAYE and NI paid on our employee wages, aggregates levy, VAT, fuel contribution to society.
duty and business rates Marshalls has funded total taxation to the UK Contribution to Society economy of 96million, some 22 per cent of Group turnover.
Our products transform the built environment Results and dividends whether public spaces or private driveways and patios through strong Group revenue for the year was 430.2 million, an increase of 8 per cent aesthetics and fit for purpose.
We target very high levels of customer on 2016.
Excluding the contribution from CPM, like-for-like revenue was service.
New product development and digital are important elements of our strategy and we continue to invest strongly in the business.
The Domestic end market performance was again strong with revenue growth of 12 per cent during the year.
Weemploy over 2,600 people, many of whom have been with Marshallsfor very long periods.
We are a Living Wage company and Profit before tax of 52.1 million 2016: 46.0 million is stated after ourpay is positioned at the top end for the industry.
We established a charging 1.2 million of operational restructuring costs and 0.8 million of acquisition costs.
EBITDA has grown by 12 per cent to 67.9million and the Groups earnings per share, at 21.52 pence, is up14per cent.
MARSHALLS PLC 06 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Marshalls continues to have strong cash generation with year-end The Boards priorities for 2017 included the continuing promotion netdebt of 24.3 million 2016: 5.4 million net cash, after funding ofthe2020 Strategy, the development of Marshalls corporate culture theacquisition of CPM of 41.2 million.
andgood practice, and succession planning, both at Board and senior management level.
These initiatives are explained in more detail in the The Groups policy is to pay a progressive dividend aimed at achieving Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 41. up to 2 times cover over the business cycle.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 6.80 pence per share 2016: 5.80 pence per share During 2017, an internal evaluation of Board performance was which, together with the interim dividend of 3.40 pence per share undertaken to follow the external evaluation in 2016.
No areas 2016:2.90 pence per share, makes a combined dividend of 10.20 ofmaterial concern were highlighted during the 2017 evaluation.
pence per share 2016: 8.70 pence per share, an increase of 17 per cent Board changes for the year.
Mark Edwards retired from the Board following the Annual General The Board is also recommending a supplementary dividend Meeting in May 2017 having served as Non-Executive Director and of4.00pence per share for 2017 2016: 3.00 pence per share.
Chairman of the Audit Committee since May 2010.
Following Marks Thissupplementary dividend is discretionary.
The payment of a retirement Graham Prothero was appointed Non-Executive Director supplementary dividend recognises the Boards objective of maintaining andChairman of the Audit Committee.
Graham has a strong financial an efficient and prudent capital structure and providing increased background with significant sector experience.
returns for shareholders whilst at the same time retaining flexibility In October 2017, I announced my intention to step down as Chairman forcapital and other investment opportunities.
and retire from the Board after nearly 8 years as your Chairman and 15 Strategy years as a Non-Executive Director.
I will step down immediately after the Our vision is to establish Marshalls as a world-class hard landscape AGM when my successor will take over.
business and to grow our emerging businesses.
The Groups strategic People objective is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value whilst During my time at Marshalls I have visited our operations on numerous taking into consideration the interests of all our stakeholders and the occasions and have met and talked to large numbers of our people wider contribution we make to society.
The Groups 2020 Strategy is across the organisation.
It is clear to me that our people are the firmly aligned with this vision and our strategy is already focused on enduring strength of the business.
There is a real passion for what sustaining the delivery of our core objectives beyond this time horizon.
wedoand a high level of decency that pervades everything.
The Marshalls brand remains central to our strategy and we have again I would like to thank all our staff for their commitment, hard work received Superbrand status for 2018.
Our emphasis on customer andcontinuing dedication to Marshalls and also for their considerable service, the provision of new and innovative quality products and support to me.
integrated solutions, the development of our digital strategy, and focus on those areas of the market with good growth potential all underpin Outlook the continuing development of the Marshalls brand.
The Group has again delivered strong profit growth year-on-year.
Goodprogress has been made in the year executing the 2020 Strategy, Culture notably the acquisition of CPM, and the ongoing self help programme The Board fosters an open and transparent culture that is responsive to drive organic growth is progressing well.
The underlying drivers have tothe expectations of stakeholders and the external environment.
remained positive in our main end markets and our sales and order Corporate culture remains a priority and the Board is working with the intake have been strong in the first 2 months of 2018. help of external consultants to define clearly its vision of good company culture and to embed this successfully into its operations in 2018.
We remain well placed to deliver continued growth and operational profit improvements.
The Groups core values of leadership, excellence, trust and sustainability underpin our culture along with our key objective of doing business responsibly.
The aim is to promote sustainable operations, minimise Andrew Allner adverse environmental and social impacts and achieve high standards of Chairman customer service and health and safety.
This is embedded in management and employee reward schemes, where achieving customer service and health and safety targets remain key performance parameters.
Marshalls won the Corporate Social Responsibility Award at the prestigious PLCAwards in March 2017.
Governance We continue to comply with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code as outlined in our Corporate Governance Statement on pages 36 to 41.
The Board remains committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and to operating in accordance withstrong ethical and corporate social responsibility principles.
A large proportion of managements remuneration is in shares which must be retained for up to 5 years.
This ensures a strong alignment between the interests of management and our shareholders.
The Group continues to enhance its Annual Report disclosures to ensure they give a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
MARSHALLS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 07
