Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 04 Chairmans Statement A significant year for RB Business performance RB made substantial The acquisition of Mead Johnson RBs top line performance was Nutrition MJN represented affected by a number of issues in a step change in the scale 2017, notably a sophisticated cyber progress with its strategy and geographic spread of our attack, which originated in the consumer health business, while Ukraine, in June, which had a during 2017. the disposal of the non-core significant impact on our supply Food business continued RBs availability in the third quarter.
We transformation into a global leader also saw the residual effects of the in consumer health and hygiene.
Humidifier Sanitizer HS issue in Food has exceptional brands and Korea and the underperformance people, and was an excellent of the Scholl Amop Wet & This is my final report to you as Chairman of investment during RBs ownership.
Dry Express Pedi, which we launched in 2016.
The HS issue RB and as I pass on the Chairmanship I am Against a backdrop of a changing was tragic and we continue to immensely proud to have been a part of this global business environment, make both public and personal these important changes to the apologies to victims, as we exceptional company.
The transformation Group, and in particular the continue to work to resolve it.
of the Group from a household cleaning acquisition of MJN, have given us the opportunity to consider Conditions were also challenging business to a world leader in consumer where we want RB to be in the in some markets with, for example, health has been an ongoing journey: one medium to longer term.
We have more difficult trading conditions in therefore created two end-toEurope and India and geopolitical that took a significant step forward in 2017, end, fully accountable business uncertainties affecting the Middle leaving RB even better placed to achieve its units Health and Hygiene East.
Consumer behaviour is Home to position RB to deliver changing rapidly and products purpose of healthier lives and happier homes superior Shareholder returns for are being purchased through a in the years ahead.
More information broader range of channels, such on all these strategic moves can as e-commerce and value-oriented be found in Rakeshs statement niche retail formats.
Retailers are on the following pages.
responding and we are seeing the impact in a number of ways, including payment terms, inventory management and pricing.
The Board believes that in these conditions, RB has demonstrated resilience and commitment, although we did not outperform our markets.
Net Revenue from continuing operations rose by 21% in 2017, including the initial contribution from MJN and the benefit of positive foreign exchange movements.
Net Revenue for the RB base business see page 39 for definition was flat, while MJN delivered pro-forma revenues which were up 2% during the period of our ownership, in line with our expectations.
Reported Operating Profit from continuing operations was up 21% in actual currency and 14% in constant currency.
Adjusted Operating Profit from continuing operations Adrian Bellamy rose by 18% in actual currency Chairman and 12% inconstant currency, resulting in a70bps decrease in our Adjusted Operating Margin.
As described on page 140, RB recorded a provision of 296 million within discontinued operations, relating to ongoing discussions with the USDepartment of Justice about Indivior PLC, formerly RB Pharmaceuticals, which we demerged in 2014.
This Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 05 Strategic Report Governance contributed to reported Diluted Moving forward, as part of the Financial Statements Earnings Per Share of 867.9 reorganisation of RBs business, pence, up 238%.
Adjusted Rakesh Kapoor has become Diluted Earnings Per Share President of the Health business increased by 7% to 324.6 pence.
unit, in addition to his role as Chief Executive Officer of the Message from The growth in adjusted earnings Group.
The Board believes that enables us to reward Shareholders Rakesh is the right person to Chris Sinclair through rising dividends.
The lead Health as it establishes Directors have proposed a final itself in the new structure of the dividend of 97.7 pence per share, Group.
We are also pleased that up 3%.
When added to the interim Rob fide Groot, who has nearly dividend of 66.6 pence per share, three decades of experience this gives a total dividend per share in our business, will lead the of 164.3 pence, an increase of 7%.
Subject to Shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on In addition, during the year, we 24 May 2018 to Shareholders on completed anumber of changes to the register at 13 April 2018.
Board Committee responsibilities, with Andr Lacroix becoming RB continues to be highly cash Chair of the Audit Committee and generative, with free cash flow as Mary Harris becoming Chair of the a percentage of continuing Remuneration Committee.
More Adjusted Net Income of94% in information on these changes is set I would like to thank Adrian for his extraordinary 2017.
The Group has a robust out in my statement on Corporate contribution as Chairman and to add my thanks to Ken financial position, following the Governance, starting on page 58.
Hydon and Judy Sprieser for their wise counsel during acquisition of MJN and the receipt their time on the Board.
RB is an outstanding company of the $US4.2 billion of proceeds The Board completed an internal and it is an honour to follow Adrian as Chairman.
Immediately evaluation of its effectiveness following the completion of the in 2017.
This showed that As I take on the mantle of Chairman of the Board, MJN purchase, we raised $US7.75 the Board and its committees Isee a number of priorities for RB as I look forward.
billion in bonds, with the level of are successfully guiding and Our main priority is to reignite our Powerbrands.
The investor interest and good timing overseeing the business.
Further competitive landscape and transformation of retail put enabling us to achieve very details can be found on page 64. a premium on companies who can innovate and build attractive rates.
The reorganisation is Risk remains a key focus for central to achieving this.
Strategy the Board and we have taken Every year, the Board formally a number of steps to further We need to ensure that MJN is extremely well reviews RBs strategy.
The enhance the Groups risk integrated, so we capture the true value in the Board remains convinced that management, as described business while combining its capabilities within RBs.
the strategy is working well on page 42.
The Corporate We will consider further inorganic opportunities to and that this years significant Responsibility, Sustainability, add to the portfolio in line with our strategic goals, strategic moves will position Ethics and Compliance CRSEC particularly in Health, but we will exercise discipline RB well in this changing market Committee supports the Boards and only make acquisitions where we believe they will for future outperformance.
oversight of risk and is well create value for Shareholders.
Innovation and investment in The Committee, with Pam Kirby When it comes to the people elements of the strategy, brand equity remain at the as its Chair, was established in we will continue to build the talent and depth of RBs heart ofthe Group strategy.
2016 and has made an important management team, while sustaining RBs culture.
Differentiated products with contribution this year.
TheBoard and management are keenly focused on strong brands areessential effective governance and risk management and this for expanding our categories, AGM resolutions will be increasingly important as we move further into driving top line growth and The AGM is on 3 May 2018.
resolutions that Shareholders will vote on are fully explained in the In summary, RB is well positioned in growing, Governance Notice of Meeting.
high-margin sectors, with a powerful arsenal of In September 2017, we announced brands, excellent management and a culture built on my decision to retire as Chairman Conclusion high performance.
RBs clear vision and commitment and as a member of the Board, I would like to thank my fellow to its purpose are also crucial.
These factors combine from the 2018 Annual General Board members, Rakesh Kapoor to guide every action we take and give everyone Meeting AGM.
I am delighted and his executive team and in RB a strong sense of who we are and what we that Chris Sinclair will take on the everyone in RB for their significant can achieve, by working together towards a common role of Non-Executive Chairman efforts this year, and throughout goal.
They are the strengths that make RB a global at that time.
Chris has served my time on the Board.
It has been powerhouse and I am excited about its future.
on the Board since 2015 and a privilege to be Chairman of RB, is an exceptionally strong and and never more so than during this Chris Sinclair experienced business leader, with recent period when the Group has Chairman-elect adeep knowledge of consumer been transformed.
I am confident 19 March 2018 goods and international markets.
that RB has the right strategy, Ken Hydon and Judy Sprieser will people and culture to deliver also be retiring as Non-Executive outperformance in the years Directors at the AGM in May.
They have been outstanding members of the Board and great Adrian Bellamy Chairpersons for two of our Chairman committees.
On behalf of the 19 March 2018 Board, I thank them for their many years of exceptional service to RB.
