DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION CHAIRMAN'S INTRODUCTION DEAR SHAREHOLDER of our strategic and business goals, providing leadership to the As reported in the Chief Executive Officers review, Intertek has business on culture, values and ethics, affording strong oversight delivered good results as we have continued to pursue our ofrisk management and making certain there is alignment with strategy focused on Total Quality Assurance.
In line with our shareholder interests and effective shareholder relations.
progressive dividend policy of sustainably growing the dividend The aim of this report is to provide shareholders with a clear each year whilst maintaining minimum dividend cover of 2.5 times perspective of your Boards approach to corporate governance, how earnings, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 47.8p we have complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 'Code bringing the total for the year to 71.3p, up 14.3% and increasing and the work of the Board and its Committees during 2017. the dividend payout ratio to circa 50% in 2018.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS The Company remains focused on strong free cash flow 2017 has been a year of particular focus on corporate generation with the result that net debt at the year end of governance in the UK with scrutiny from businesses, the 544.1m was 26.8% lower than at the end of 2016.
With the government and the wider public.
The Board have paid close aimof increasing shareholder value, as well as organic growth, attention to these developments including the Governments wecontinue to pursue a disciplined approach to capital allocation.
Corporate Governance Green Paper, the BEIS Select Committee Our strong financial position means we have the flexibility to inquiry into corporate governance and the FRCs consultation on consider strategic acquisition opportunities in new niche and proposed amendments to the Code.
We noted the proposals with emerging areas as well as pursuing acquisitions in the core interest and are reviewing these to ensure any changes can be businesses whilst investing in laboratories and equipment to implemented in due course and strengthen the governance support future growth.
framework as we continue to operate in an ever-evolving To underpin the successful delivery of long-term sustainable environment.
growth and shareholder value, your Board is committed to high We remain strongly supportive of the principle of boardroom standards of corporate governance.
The Board is responsible for diversity and have continued to be mindful of the ensuring the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups recommendations by the Hampton Alexander Review, which management and control framework in order to support the delivery builds on the Lord Davies Review into 'Women on Boards'.
The Group also supports the Parker Review Beyond One by 21 recommendation in respect of ethnically diverse director representation on boards.
More details about the diversity of our Board can be found in the report of the Nomination Committee on page 74.
SUCCESSION PLANNING The Board is committed to the successful Succession planning has continued to be a key focus for the delivery of long-term sustainable growth Board.
The Nomination Committee maintained its focus on the and shareholder value which is NED refreshment programme and on evaluating the composition of the Board and its Committees.
We have reviewed the necessary underpinned by the highest standards skills required to address the evolving and changing needs of our ofcorporate governance.
It is my intention to continue to ensure that we maintain a Board that works effectively and cohesively under my leadership.
The Nomination Committee deliberated on a broad range of candidates to ensure individuals with wide-ranging experience, expertise and attributes were considered to support the existing skills on the Board and to support the continued growth and success of the Group.
More information on the role and activity of the Nomination Committee is detailed on pages 72 to 74.
As announced on 2 March 2017, Alan Brown stepped down from the Board on 24 May 2017 after completing six years service as a Non-Executive Director.
We further announced on 27 July 2017 that Michael Wareing, after serving for over six years as the Chair of the Audit Committee and as the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director would step down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank both Alan and Michael for their dedicated service and valuable contribution since joining the Board in 2011.
On 1 July 2017 we welcomed Gurnek Bains and Jean-Michel Valette to the Board as Non-Executive Directors and members of the Nomination Committee and Audit Committee respectively.
Gurneks Sir David Reid expertise is in the areas of culture change, executive coaching, Chairman board and strategic talent development while Jean-Michel brings 62 INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT tothe Board experience in branded consumer goods, US corporate governance, strategic planning and finance.
Graham Allan joined the IN THIS SECTION Board on 1 October 2017 as our new Senior Independent NonExecutive Director and as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
His background in Asia and consumer goods, and particularly food and beverages will prove invaluable.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION In the context of the Board changes during the year and in The Code provides guidance on accordance with the requirements of the Code, we undertook an internally facilitated assessment.
I am pleased to report that the five key areas: Leadership, evaluation concluded that each Director is making significant Effectiveness, Accountability, contributions to debate and discussion and that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
Further details on the Remuneration and Relations outcome of the evaluation and its process can be found on pages 71 and 72. withShareholders.
This report CULTURE provides an insight into how, Corporate culture is continually moving up the agendas of investors, through its actions, the Board and our clients and other stakeholders.
As such, we believe that the Board should give sufficient time not only to discussing its Committees have fulfilledtheir performance and results, but also to understanding the culture and values that underpin a collaborative culture.
We are focused on governance responsibilities ensuring that our strategy and culture provides our people with the throughout 2017. right platform to grow and develop their careers, but also allows them to be involved in activities which are socially responsible and enables them to engage with the communities in which they live and work.
LEADERSHIP During the year, the CEO and his Executive Management Team spent considerable time and energy on embedding Interteks values PAGE 64 within the organisation, and reinforcing the levels of communication and behaviour that are expected of everyone.
As an example, the values supporting the Group and the new brand identity exercise, which was rolled out during the year, were developed using the EFFECTIVENESS input from the business and, in conjunction with the 5x5 strategy PAGE 70 for growth, have provided the platform to energise our people to enable us to get closer to our customers.
The Board will continue to focus on our culture and promoting good governance to support openness and accountability throughout the business.
ACCOUNTABILITY More detail can be found in the Strategic report on pages 2 and 3.
PAGE 75 SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our engagement with shareholders is outlined on pages 97 and 98 and also in the Remuneration report in the letter from the REMUNERATION Chair of the Remuneration Committee on page 81.
I am PAGE 81 interested in hearing the views of our shareholders.
Your feedback helps us to ensure that the Board takes these into account when considering the strategic direction of the Group.
Finally, I would like to thank the Board, our Executive SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Management and all our employees for their endeavours and PAGE 97 commitment during 2017.
Sir David Reid Chairman INTERTEK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 63
