| Chairmans statement Ian Tyler range of factors including the extent to People which the dividend is covered by underlying People, remain a key priority and we are earnings and free cash flow, the prevailing continuing to invest more in training and strength of the balance sheet and general development than ever before.
We have economic circumstances, with particular established the Bovis Homes Training regard to the cyclicality of the industry.
Centre and developed a range of training opportunities for all our employees The Board is pleased to recommend a final and subcontractors.
ordinary dividend of 32.5p FY16: 30.0p per share bringing the total ordinary Acknowledging the skills shortage in our dividend for FY17 to 47.5p FY16: 45.0p industry, we are pleased to have signed per share, representing a 6% increase.
the HBFs Home Building Skills Pledge, Reflecting the Boards confidence in the committing us to working with others in outlook for the business, it intends to the industry to recruit and train increase the ordinary dividend for FY18 by more people to the highest industrya further 20% to 57 pence per share.
We also remain I am pleased to report that very committed to our Bovis Homes In addition, the Board intends that surplus the Group starts the new Apprenticeship Scheme and welcomed capital will be returned to shareholders year in a much stronger 20 new recruits in the year.
via special dividends totalling a minimum operational position.
of 180m or c. 134 pence per share in the In what has been a very challenging three years to 2020, with the first special period, the extraordinary passion and 2017 commenced with a difficult period dividend payment of 60m, equivalent to commitment shown by our employees, for the business managing a high level of c. 45 pence per share being paid towards which I have witnessed first hand, has customer issues.
After 18 years service the end of 2018. been outstanding.
On behalf of the Board, David Ritchie stepped down as Chief I would like to thank all of them for their Executive in January and we announced The Group expects to continue to be dedication, hard work and enthusiasm in our intention to slow production during strongly cash generative over the next delivering quality houses to our customers the year to enable the business to reset.
two years and the Board is committed to and driving operational change.
I would In early March the Board acknowledged reviewing the capacity for further returns also like to extend my thanks to our that it had received written proposals from to shareholders over time.
subcontractors and suppliers who are such Redrow plc and Galliford Try plc outlining an important and valued component of their rationalisation for a potential merger.
Having reviewed each approach in detail I would like to thank my Board colleagues the Board concluded that neither reflected for another year of support and positive The housing market the underlying value of the business and challenge.
We are pleased to have been both were rejected.
The fundamentals of the new build joined in November by Mike Stansfield housing market remain positive with strong who brings strong housebuilding industry We were delighted to welcome Greg demand across all our regions.
Interest experience spanning three decades.
Fitzgerald as Group Chief Executive in rates remain low by historical standards Mike is also a member of the Nomination April 2017.
The Group is benefitting from and the mortgage market continues to Gregs extensive housebuilding experience, Committee, the Remuneration Committee be competitive.
Increasing the supply operational focus and hands on approach and the Audit Committee.
As previously of new homes in the UK remains a key to management.
announced Alastair Lyons will step down priority for Government and their support from the Board at our AGM in May.
for purchasers, in particular through the Customers Alastair has been on the Board since Help to Buy Scheme, is enabling them October 2008 as Deputy Chairman and Returning our customers back to the to access the housing market through Senior Independent Director, and as centre of everything we do and delivering affordable mortgage finance.
Whilst the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a significantly improved level of customer supply of labour in our market remains since May 2014.
My colleagues and I satisfaction was our number one priority challenging, the planning environment would like to acknowledge the valuable for 2017.
There has been a step change in continues to be positive, supporting a contribution Alastair has made to the our approach to customer experience and rational market for housing land.
Ralph Findlay, I am very pleased to report that since the non-executive director, will take the start of the HBF year 1 October 2017, Ordinary dividends and position of Senior Independent Director the Group is trending at a 4 star capital return plan on Alastairs retirement at the 2018 AGM HBF Customer Satisfaction score.
and it is proposed that Nigel Keen, nonThe Board intends to continue the strategy Delivering our customers quality new executive Director, will take the Chair of homes and a high level of customer service set out in 2017 of maintaining an efficient the Remuneration Committee.
balance sheet and delivering sustainable that meets their expectations throughout dividends to shareholders.
In setting the their entire journey with Bovis Homes, level of dividends the Board considers a remains one of our core strategic priorities.
| | 4 Strategic report Business overview Strategic report | Business overview The future We have set out our clear medium term targets to be achieved by 2020 which will return Bovis Homes Group to being a leading UK housebuilder and deliver significantly improved Building returns to shareholders.
I continue to spend a lot of my time with Bovis Homes in the regional offices and on site with the leadership team.
on strong The team are driving change through the business and allowing the positive culture that evolved during 2017 to flourish which gives me confidence in the Groups ability to deliver foundations quality housing and service to our customers and improved returns to our shareholders.
In the year ahead we expect to deliver a controlled increase in completions volume, maintain our Delivering improvements high level of customer service, complete our balance sheet optimisation and drive forward our across the business profitability and return on capital employed.
Ian Tyler Chairman Williams Gate, Bovey Tracey || Bovis Homes Group PLC Bovis Homes Group PLC 5 5
