Chairmans Statement Due Diligence Visit to Zurich Vivian Bazalgette has been the Chairman of Fidelity European Values During the reporting year, the Directors visited a selection of PLC since 12 May 2016. companies, some of which are among the Companys portfolio holdings, to hear about their business strategy and prospects.
This is a due diligence oriented exercise, which the Board conducts every second year, and typically also includes meetings with a local market economist or other specialist.
The due diligence trip, which in 2017 was to Zurich, is important for providing the Board with useful context about continental European markets in which Aiming to capture the diversity of Europe, across a range of the Company invests.
It also gives perspective on the Portfolio countries and sectors, Fidelity European Values PLC looks beyond Managers analysis and investment approach.
the noise of market sentiment and concentrates on the real-life progress of European listed businesses.
It researches and selects stocks that can grow their dividends consistently, irrespective of the economic environment.
Performance I am pleased to report that the Companys net asset value NAV per share total return was 20.0% for the year ended 31 December 2017, outperforming the Benchmark Index, the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which returned 17.5% on the same basis.
With the discount ex-income narrowing from 11.1% to 7.0%, the share price total return over the period was 26.2%.
Performance over three and five years also remains ahead of the Benchmark Index as shown in the table below.
Markets in 2017 were supported by strong earnings growth as The Boards visit to Flughafen Zurich.
well as expansion in company valuations.
Investor sentiment was boosted by fading political worries, with Emmanuel Macrons Outlook victory in the French presidential election a pivotal moment in European stocks have benefited from a rise in both earnings and reversing the recent populist surge in Europe.
In addition, investors valuations in 2017.
While there is scope for companies to deliver shifted their attention to economic and corporate factors, ignoring more in the way of earnings growth, there is limited room for some of the unfavourable political developments elsewhere in market earnings multiples to expand further.
This may increase the world.
Overall, the European economic picture has been vulnerability to any disappointments when company results are strengthening with improvements seen in consumer confidence announced, while geo-political shocks could have a similar effect.
and wage growth, reflected in a rising Purchasing Managers Overall, markets have been aided by liquidity injections from global Index.
The continued accommodative monetary policy stance of central banks and may be impacted by liquidity withdrawal as 2018 the European Central Bank also helped markets.
unfolds, particularly if this happens more quickly than expected.
In such an environment your Portfolio Managers concentration on Performance over one, three and five years and since fundamentally strong businesses should help performance.
launch to 31 December 2017 on a total return basis % 1 3 5 Since Naturally the continuing process of Brexit represents an additional Total return % year years years launch uncertainty at present.
While the first stage of negotiations focused NAV per on the UKs financial liability has concluded, the more complex OrdinaryShare 20.0 50.8 90.1 3,148.5 discussions about trading relationships in the future are only just getting under way.
It is quite possible that the arrangements will Share Price 26.2 48.5 94.9 2,930.0 vary by sector, and they may yet fail to be agreed in their entirety.
Benchmark Index 17.5 48.2 85.8 967.1 Your Portfolio Manager remains alert to the potential implications Sources: Fidelity and Datastream for individual European companies, particularly those in the Past performance is not a guide to future returns portfolio, while the Euro could weaken or strengthen further against UK sterling depending on the outcome.
In Note 17 to the accounts on pages 55 and 56 there is an analysis of the sensitivity of the portfolios value to currency movements.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 3 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Chairmans Statement continued OTHER MATTERS of the capital and revenue elements of total return experienced historically over the longer term.
This will take effect in the 2018 Investment Objective financial year.
The current practice, for the years up to and I would ask you to note that the Board is proposing to amend the including the 2017 financial year, has been to charge these costs investment objective of the Company from: in their entirety to revenue.
The change is a matter for judgement The investment objective of the Company is to achieve long term and the result of the Board reviewing its policy on the allocation capital growth principally from the stock markets of continental of fees.
Total return is not affected whichever route is followed, Europe though relative rates of taxation of income and capital gains may be a consideration for investors.
to: Management Fees The Company aims to achieve long term growth in both I am pleased to report that, following a review of the capital and income by predominantly investing in equities and management fees payable to Fidelity, it has been agreed that their related securities of continental European companies.
the existing flat fee rate of 0.85 per cent will only apply to the first The detailed proposed Investment Policy is set out in the Appendix 400 million of funds under management and that a new rate of to the Notice of Meeting on pages 62 and 63, the key aspects of 0.75 per cent will be applied to funds in excess of 400 million.
which are summarised as: This starts from 1 April 2018 and at the current size of the Trust this is equivalent to an overall rate of approximately 0.79 per cent and The Investment Manager will typically focus on larger companies will represent a useful saving for shareholders.
which show good prospects for sustainable long term dividend growth.
The Investment Manager is not restricted in terms of size, The Board also welcomes Fidelitys decision to absorb the cost of industry or geographical split.
The Company may also invest into external investment research, which under the rules established other transferable securities, investment companies, money market by the latest Markets in Financial Instruments Directive of the instruments, cash and deposits and is also able to use derivatives EU MIFID II can no longer be recovered from broker dealing for efficient portfolio management, to gain additional market commissions.
This would otherwise have resulted in an additional exposure gearing and for investment purposes.
The Investment expense to your Company.
Manager must work within the guidelines set out in the Investment Dividends Policy.
The Board has not sought to influence the Portfolio Manager by Although the change to the Companys investment objective imposing any income objective in any particular year, although the and the consequential changes to the investment policy are not investment focus on companies capable of growing their dividend considered to be material changes, the Board has decided, has seen the Companys dividend payments rise over time.
for good order, to put these to shareholders for approval.
The The Board recommends a final dividend of 4.35 pence per Appendix to the Notice of Meeting on pages 62 and 63 details share for the year ended 31 December 2017 for approval by the the changes proposed.
shareholders at the AGM on 14 May 2018.
The dividend will be I should emphasise that the change in investment objective does payable on 18 May 2018 to shareholders who appear on the not imply any change to the way in which your Portfolio Manager register as at close of business on 23 March 2018 ex-dividend invests on your behalf.
Rather, it is acknowledged that income as date 22 March 2018. well as capital growth are components of the performance which The increase in the proposed final dividend for 2017 over the he seeks to achieve.
The key aspects of the Investment Policy summarised above are Discount Management and Treasury Shares consistent with the phraseology of the Key Information Document The Board continues to adopt an active discount management KID which is a new regulatory requirement as of the start policy.
Whilst the primary purpose of this policy is to reduce of 2018.
This is as a result of the introduction of the European share price volatility in relation to NAV, buying in shares at Union Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products a discount also results in an enhancement to the NAV per PRIIPs Regulation.
The format of the KID is largely prescribed ordinary share.
In order to assist in managing the discount, the and it is available on the Companys website.
Board has shareholder approval to hold in Treasury ordinary Allocation of Fees shares repurchased by the Company, rather than cancelling Consistent with the changes in objective outlined above, the Board them altogether.
These shares are then available to re-issue has elected under the Statement of Recommended Practice: at a premium to NAV, facilitating the management of and Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture enhancing liquidity in the Companys shares.
The Board is seeking Capital Trusts SORP issued by the Association of Investment shareholder approval to renew this authority at the forthcoming Trust Companies, to charge in future 75% of management fees and Annual General Meeting AGM.
finance costs to capital, and 25% to revenue, reflecting the balance 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 As a result of the widening of the discount in the first quarter FTSE 350 Company, all Directors are subject to annual election and of 2017, the Company repurchased 150,000 ordinary shares re-election by shareholders and put themselves forward for election into Treasury.
Since then and as at the date of this report, the and re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Biographical details of Company has not repurchased any further ordinary shares.
each Director are shown on page 21.
Gearing Annual General Meeting The Company continues to gear through the use of derivative The AGM of the Company will be held at midday on Monday instruments, primarily contracts for difference CFDs, and the 14May 2018 at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street, London Manager has flexibility to gear within parameters set by the EC4M5TA nearest tube stations are St Pauls or Mansion House.
As at 31 December 2017, the Companys gross gearing Full details of the meeting are given on pages 59 to 63. was 13.2% 2016: 3.0% whilst net gearing was 3.6% 2016: 3.0%.
This is our opportunity to meet as many shareholders as possible, In the reporting year, gearing made a positive contribution to and I hope therefore that you are able to join us.
In addition to performance, as can be seen from the attribution analysis table the formal business of the meeting, Sam Morse, your Portfolio on page 10.
Manager, will be making a presentation on the years results and The Board monitors the level of gearing and the use of derivative the outlook for 2018. instruments carefully and has set a risk control framework for this purpose and this is reviewed at each Board meeting.
Board of Directors The Board was pleased to welcome Paul Yates as a non-executive Director on 6 March 2017 and he was subsequently elected by Vivian Bazalgette shareholders at the AGM on 15 May 2017.
Following this, and after Chairman serving fifteen years as a Director, Simon Fraser stepped down 14 March 2018 from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 15 May 2017.
The Board thanks him for his invaluable contribution to the Company.
The Board is also pleased to welcome Fleur Meijs who joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 1 September 2017.
As previously reported, Fleur is a continental European national, a Chartered Accountant and a former Financial Services Partner at  LLP.
She is a non-executive Director of Invesco Asia Trust plc and Ruffer LLP and she serves as Audit Committee Chair for both.
She is a Director of Bridge to the Future the endowment fund for United World College Mostar.
She was a member of the Dutch Parliamentary committee in 2013 for the structure of banks in the Netherlands.
After serving on the Board for over ten years as a non-executive Director and nearly eight years as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, James Robinson will step down from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of all the Companys stakeholders for everything he has accomplished, for his unfailing dedication and attention to detail, and his wisdom and good humour.
He will take with him our very best wishes for the future.
Accordingly, with effect from 14 May 2018, James will be succeeded as Audit Committee Chairman by Fleur Meijs and as Senior Independent Director by Marion Sears.
We continue to review Board composition and Directors succession on a regular basis to ensure that we have a Board with a mix of tenures and which provides diversity of perspective together with the range of appropriate skills and experience for your Company.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and being a Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2017 5 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
