CHAIRMANS STATEMENT NEIL JANIN CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholders, 2.
Many healthy and developing sectors, in line The proof of this economic progress lies in with Government policies: the fact that we were able do the first ever This is expected to be the last BGEO annual a.
The financial sector, of which we are part Lari Eurobond issuance and that Moodys has report.
The forthcoming demerger of the Group, b. Infrastructure development, especially in upgraded both Georgia and Bank of Georgia announced in July 2017, reflects both the end the power sector to a level two notches below investment grade.
of an era and the start of a new one.
The Board c. Healthcare, where we participate in the The strategy of creating a mini Singapore and management team are convinced that universal healthcare access policies of within the region is moving forward day by day.
we are on the right strategic path.
In fulfilling Government Singapore was not created in one day.
our fiduciary duties to you, the Board regularly d. Finally, and more long term, the examines strategic options.
We elected to split Government has a programme to Politically, things are as calm as they can be the Group into two independent businesses: improve education, and to make the with Russia.
The New York Times reported the Bank and an investment vehicle, which public sector more efficient.
last year on Russias attempts to provoke we call Georgia Capital.
Georgia on the boundaries of Abkhazia and 3.
Good Government South Ossetia all true: but we also see that If we do it right, we could be at the eve of a.
According Russia is doing more business with Georgia, a major jump in value creation.
We will have to Transparency International, Georgia specifically in terms of transport links and created three large groups, all quoted on the has maintained its ranking as a low increased tourism flows.
Elsewhere, Turkey London Stock Exchange, each with their own bribery environment on a par with remains Georgias largest trade partner, whilst Board, management, and strategic logic.
It is many European Union member states the development of trading links with Iran an opportunity to deliver better service to our b. Georgias ease of doing business ranking are likely to take more time than we originally clients, better development to our employees, was 9th out of 190 countries in the world, thought.
At the same time, Georgia signed a more growth of the corporate sector of the in 2018, up from 16th last year.
Here free trade agreement with China and now has country, and finally significant financial return again an excellent result access to a market of 1.4 billion consumers, to our shareholders.
Each management team c. Fiscal development.
The corporate tax with zero tariffs, without additional customs and the Boards will focus on the development reforms, effectively eliminating corporate fees and without any transition period.
income tax for all re-invested or retained earnings, started at the beginning of Internally, it is important to remember that In my letter, I have traditionally followed a the year and have already yielded GEL Georgia is still a pluralist and free country.
First, a few words on Georgia: 600-650 million cash buffer for corporate taking the habits of democracies, albeit with then on the strategy of the Group: and then re-investment in the first year on the one party dominance: historically the UNM on people Board and top management.
The reform efforts also party, and Georgian Dream now.
We have a Irakli Gilauri, our CEO, and others will expand envisage capital market development Government which is supportive and has very on the detail of the businesses.
Georgia is on the competent public servants.
Finally, investors right path, and these are developments should not forget that the United States and Economically, Georgia is doing exceptionally which take time the European Union exercise strong external well in a difficult region and world.
I believe d. Reduction of the fiscal deficit.
The checks and balances they do not want to three key factors make the Georgian situation Government is determined to reduce lose Georgia as a rare democratic success positive in the long term: its fiscal deficit, on the back of reducing story.
They showed their confidence in the non-essential current spending.
The country by granting Georgia visa-free entry 1.
Prudent monetary 2018 draft budget is an illustration to the 26 countries of the Schengen Area.
and fiscal policies have led to almost 5% that Government delivers on its real GDP growth during 2017.
This has commitments: as was the case allowed the first ever issuance of offshore in 2017. local currency bonds by Bank of Georgia.
06 Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC The thinking behind our decision to break-up leave the Group and the Bank, to head this training programmes which teach both the Group into two separate businesses, each company as Chairman and CEO.
The Board is self-development, how to give and receive expected to be quoted on the premium segment made up of old hands, such as David Morrison feedback, as well as how to dialogue rather of the London Stock Exchange, deserves to be and Kim Bradley and a number of new recruits: than impose.
All this will not be enough if good explained.
Caroline Brown, William Huyett, Massimo behaviour is not encouraged and bad behaviour Salvadori and Jyrki Talvitie.
The Board and I take a particular It did not come from the analysis of a interest in seeing this through.
conglomerate discount, and the expectation The healthcare company, GHG, is a stand-alone that we would see a valuation bump because of entity today, with its own Board and separate Before closing, I would like to thank Irakli Gilauri the transaction.
The value creation boost for the stock market listing.
It has much potential that for his leadership as Chief Executive Officer.
two entities is derived from our belief that we will you can read about in its own annual report.
During his tenure at BGEO, Irakli has taken run them better with higher ROE and higher a Georgia quoted bank and transformed it growth.
The logic is simple: first, complexity Board quality and composition have been into the organisation with multiple businesses creates confusion, simplicity creates focus.
one of my main preoccupations: we have an which we have today.
Second, each entity will be freer to pursue its opportunity to build a new Board for Georgia He attracted and developed many executives own growth strategy without worrying about Capital and to reinforce the Boards of the Bank who all lead their own businesses today, and the Group.
We can already see the effects and the healthcare company.
We have tried to are developing in turn a set of new leaders.
One example is our insurance prioritise skills and experience as well as gender His final act will be to achieve the break-up subsidiary which has already signed a number diversity.
We need Board members who will successfully.
The Board of Directors and I are of distribution agreements with banks other spend time on the ground in Georgia.
We have truly grateful for his leadership over the years than the Bank of Georgia.
This might not have attracted Cecil Quillen to the Banks Board and he has been with the company.
happened if we had decided to stay in the are actively seeking an additional member.
of our Board members are T-shaped, capable In closing, I would like to thank our investors.
of broad judgement and all bring a speciality to It is because of your trust that we were able to Both entities have substantial potential of the company.
The composition of the two new achieve all that has been achieved.
You will now earnings and sales growth.
Boards and the experience and qualifications have a choice of which parts of the business of their members are set forth on page 19 of you will hold I hope that you will continue to The Bank is repositioning its portfolio away from this Report.
straight lending to corporates which require capital and see their margins diminishing.
It Unfortunately, at the outset, we will still have behooves us to find innovative ways to serve only one woman on each of our boards.
Our Neil Janin the corporate segment much more profitably.
goal is to correct that yesterday.
We are still Chairman We are also moving into the high net-worth seeking to achieve the diversity targets at board 7 March 2018 segments, where we can attract wealth level expected of a company of our size, and as from the region.
We will continue to reduce chairman, I make this a personal priority.
Finally, digital technologies offer us an been a war for talent.
opportunity that we have not yet exploited.
The Bank has a very good management team Corporate culture and human capital have with Kaha Kiknavelidze as its leader, and they increasingly become the cornerstone of our are at work on this strategy.
We would not be able to breakup Chairman of the Bank and this will be my if we had not developed capable leaders to only Board appointment.
One of the key components of our talent or human resource development strategy The non-banking business within BGEO will has been our incentive system.
Its intent is become an investment company Georgia to incentivise management to create value Capital which will include real estate, energy, on a long-term basis: more than 85% of utility, beverages, and insurance.
It will also have managements compensation is in shares listed stakes in the healthcare business and the that vest over a three-to-five-year period Bank.
The value proposition to investors is the discouraging quick earnings temptations.
best vehicle for emerging growth opportunities in Georgia, selected by people with unsurpassed This year we have moved further into changing understanding of the local landscape, and our corporate culture in every one of the entities.
Georgia Capital We want to go from solo performance executives will be run like a private equity fund with one to executives who thrive on teamwork.
The interest of its investors will be instituted personal development programmes aligned with those of its Partners.
In fact, its starting at the very top and cascading to the CEO will be paid exclusively in shares vesting lower level of the hierarchy.
Meritocracy and trust over six years, and his executive team will have are what we aim to achieve.
This starts with top a similar compensation structure.
Irakli Gilauri will managers behaviour and talk.
It is reinforced by Annual Report 2017 BGEO Group PLC 07 Additional Financial Governance Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategic Report Information Statements Performance Strategy Overview
