COM STRATEGIC REPORT | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Board composition My Board colleagues and I are very pleased As previously reported, Paul Forman joined that Tommy Breen, who joined the Board the Board as Chief Executive with effect as a Non-Executive Director in 2015, will from 1 January 2017.
Pauls proven track assume the role of SID following the 2018 record of international experience at AGM and will bring significant experience senior level in particular in strategy and to the position.
Replacing Terry as our new acquisitions has already shown itself to Audit Committee Chair will be Mary Reilly.
be extremely relevant and beneficial in With her extensive accounting, finance restoring widespread stability to Essentra.
and international management Paul has provided a clear and data-driven background, we have no doubt that Mary Paul Lester, CBE strategy which he and his team have will prove an excellent successor to Terry Chairman developed and communicated, which will and build further on the important work deliver sustainable, long-term shareholder of the Committee which he led with value, excellent customer service and a considerable skill and expertise.
I would In my first full year as Chairman, motivated and engaged workforce.
like to wish both Tommy and Mary every I am very pleased to report that 2017 success in their new roles.
saw stability being restored to Essentra In July, as the result of a robust selection after a year of challenge and change in process led by the Nomination As previously advised, Peter Hill and Colin 2016, with our new corporate strategy Committee, my colleagues and I were Day retired from the Board following the being unveiled by Chief Executive, Paul delighted to welcome Mary Reilly and Ralf Companys 2017 AGM.
Forman, at the time of our HY 2017 K. Wunderlich to the Board as independent results.
The Board was extensively Non-Executive Directors, both of whom Strategic review engaged in the strategy review process have extensive international experience While there was significant focus on and fully supports the future direction across a wide range of industries.
Mary stabilising the Company during 2017 not set out by Paul, which provides the was a Partner at Deloitte LLP for more least those handful of manufacturing sites roadmap for future sustainable growth than 20 years and has served on a number where we have previously experienced across the Group based on the highest of Boards in a non-executive capacity operational issues at the same time, standards of business ethics and best since 2000, while Ralf who is currently we simultaneously developed a clear practice governance.
based in Singapore has an extensive and objective assessment of the various knowledge of the packaging industry, businesses within the Essentra organisation and has lived and worked across together with their future potential.
have only just started upon this path, but the review has confirmed that Essentra is Separately, in December, Terry Twigger a fundamentally strong organisation with advised the Board that he will be retiring many positive features to build upon.
as a Director and from his current roles as Senior Independent Director SID Such a detailed evaluation of any business and Chairman of the Audit Committee, potentially results in tough decisions.
following the Companys 2018 Annual This was indeed the case with our folding General Meting AGM.
Terry joined cartons site in Newport where, having Essentra as a Non-Executive Director and given a number of strategic options careful Chairman of the Audit Committee in consideration, the Board regrettably 2009, and was subsequently appointed as concluded that the proposal to close the SID in 2014.
On behalf of the Board, I would facility was the most appropriate route like to thank Terry for his dedication and given that it was not anticipated to make significant commitment to Essentra during a realistic improvement to profitability in his nine-year tenure.
He has been unfailing the near, or even long, term.
The decision in his support and guidance throughout, was in no way a reflection on the quality and I and my fellow Board members will or dedication of our employees there, and miss both his financial insight and wise my fellow Board colleagues and I would counsel.
We wish him all the very best like to acknowledge the supportive and for a long and healthy retirement.
professional way in which they engaged in the consultation process.
8 STRATEGIC REPORT | CHAIRMANS STATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2017 | WWW.
COM In conjunction with the strategic review, Separately, I attended the leadership A stronger company the Board evaluated the appropriate conference in June, during which the Last year saw substantial change at deployment of capital in the business output of the strategic review was Essentra, and restoring the Company including the amount which is returned discussed at length with approximately to sustainable, profitable growth will take to shareholders by way of dividends.
100 of our senior management team.
However, while there is much still While our financial Key Performance The lively debate and contribution over the to do, we made significant progress Indicators will focus on all value drivers, three-day offsite was hugely encouraging, and widespread improvement during further to the strategy review there is as was the positive energy for change.
2017 so we are already well underway.
a clear and increased emphasis on cash generation and returns.
These financial Consistent with Paul and the senior and capital allocation priorities have been management team, the Board is PAUL LESTER, CBE aligned to new metrics for both short committed to making Essentra a great Chairman and long-term management incentives, place to work, where talent can thrive.
We 2 March 2018 upon which we have already consulted therefore whole-heartedly support his focus with shareholders and are subject to on building employee engagement and, in approval at the 2018 AGM.
particular, on his priority of creating a safe, respectful and diverse environment for our People and culture people.
While we are coming from a low Change for the better is still change, which base in certain aspects of morale and can be disconcerting for those involved.
motivation following a challenging 2016, Accordingly, on behalf of the Board, I would my Board colleagues and I are nevertheless like to thank all our employees for their encouraged by the improvement in continued commitment to building a better engagement which has been reported in Essentra together.
We are proud of our our 2017 surveys, and the focus which is international presence in 33 countries and being given to following up and implementing we recognise the vital contribution which post-survey action plans in a timely manner.
Indeed, during the course of the year, I had the pleasure of visiting The Board is committed to achieving a number of our facilities from our head and maintaining the highest standards offices in Milton Keynes, UK and Chicago, of occupational health and safety and US and our Health & Personal Care environmental protection, as well as Packaging sites in Portsmouth, UK and making Essentra an exemplary workplace Charlotte, US, to our Components with regard to diversity and inclusion.
Each European manufacturing hub in Kidlington, Board member is required to visit one of the UK and our Filter Products joint venture in Essentra sites each year and to undertake a Dubai and can testify to the skill, passion health and safety walk around the site to and hard work of our employees.
In focus on these important matters.
The particular, my fellow Board members and Board thus fully endorses the priority which I would like to pay tribute and give our these critical workplace practices are now sincere thanks to our 345 colleagues in being given under Pauls stewardship, which Puerto Rico who, in the face of significant is expanded upon in the Chief Executives personal challenge following hurricane Review on pages 10 to 17.
Maria, have shown incredible fortitude and dedication in attending work and supporting our customers, many of whom were facing similar hurricane-related issues.
