Strategic Report Chairmans Statement The Board On 2 January 2018 we were delighted to announce that Mark Johnstone Chairmans will join the Board as Group Chief Executive on 1 April 2018.
Mark has a deep understanding of the Group and the right strategic and operational experience, having held a number of senior roles at BBA Aviation over the Statement last ten years.
Mark takes over from Wayne Edmunds, who stepped into the role on an interim basis on the departure of Simon Pryce in June 2017.
I would like to thank Wayne and Simon for their respective contributions.
Simon led BBA Aviation for a significant period and played a key role in 2017 was another successful year managing the Group through the downturn and in the transformation for the Group.
that has taken place in recent years.
Wayne will continue to be a member of the Board but will not be regarded as an independent director and will The US B&GA market grew strongly during the year and we have not be a member of Board Committees.
David Crook joined the Board continued to lay the foundations for further growth and value as Group Finance Director on 1 June 2017, replacing Mike Powell.
creation across the Signature network through investing in our On 1 January 2018 we welcomed two new non-executive directors, Amee infrastructure and customer offer and successfully negotiating Chande and Emma Gilthorpe, to the Board.
Amee and Emma bring highly revised commercial terms with many of our customers.
relevant experience for the next stage of the Groups development and I We made further investments in Ontics IP-protected licence look forward to working with them.
We also announced that Peter Ratcliffe portfolio in 2017 and the business performed very strongly, with will step down from the Board at the 2018 AGM.
I would like to thank Peter good contributions from new licences and growth from military for his valuable contribution to the Board over the past nine years and parts programmes.
There was a much improved operating thank each of our non-executive directors for their counsel during the year.
performance at ERO despite challenging markets.
Outlook During the year we undertook a comprehensive review of BBA The Board is pleased with the performance of the Group and progress Aviations capital structure and, as a result, have increased our made in 2017.
We have started to capture the value of Signatures targeted leverage range.
This enables us to maintain a capital unique network and Ontic is performing very well.
ERO has stabilised efficient balance sheet, based on the strong and robust cash flow and we have recently commenced a strategic review of this business.
fundamentals of the Group, and provides us with the flexibility We have also ensured that we have an appropriate capital structure going required to meet investment opportunities to fund organic and forward.
Recent investments at Signature are all focused on delivering inorganic growth and enhance shareholder value.
continued market outperformance in terms of our earnings growth.
We will continue to look to expand our FBO network and our offering Results of non-fuel services to ensure that we remain the market leader with Continuing Group revenue increased by 10% to $2,370.6 million.
Our growing portfolio at Ontic offers Flight Support revenue was up 13.8% and Aftermarket Services significant opportunities and the business has a strong pipeline.
The revenue grew 3.1%, driven by Ontic which offset the decline at ERO.
Board remains confident of good growth in 2018.
Continuing Group underlying operating profit was $360.6 million 2016: $302.6 million and continuing Group underlying operating profit margin increased to 15.2% 2016: 14.1% reflecting underlying margin growth at both Flight Support and Aftermarket Services.
Underlying continuing profit before tax increased to $298.5 million 2016: $238.7 million and adjusted continuing underlying EPS was up 24% to 24.0.
We delivered free cash flow of $220.6 million 2016: $224.1 million and, as a result, the Group fide-levered to 2.6x net debt to underlying EBITDA on a covenant basis.
Return on invested capital ROIC was up 90 basis points to 11.0% 2016: 10.1%.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.59 per share, taking the full year dividend to 13.40, an increase of 5%.
This reflects the Boards progressive dividend policy and its continued confidence in BBA Aviations future prospects.
