Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Chairmans introduction During what has been a landmark year in the history of the Group, we have continued to deliver for shareholders Richard Burrows Chairman A strong set of results Quarterly dividends Our approach to governance Welcome to our combined Annual Report The dividend in respect of 2017 is 195.2p, Good governance has long been a key priority andForm 20-F for 2017.
During what has being an increase over 2016 of 15.2% for the Group.
Continuing to meet all our been a landmark year in the history of the 2016: 169.4p.
obligations under the various frameworks Group, we have continued to deliver for with which we are bound by is not only about As announced in April 2017, the Group shareholders and I am very pleased to report compliance with the law, but also about has moved to quarterly dividends with a strong set of results, with market share, ensuring that the Group is delivering results effect from 1 January 2018.
In order to revenue and profit all growing.
effect the transition to quarterly dividends, In a year when the Group became truly we committed to ensuring shareholders With the Reynolds American acquisition global following the acquisition of Reynolds would receive an equivalent cash amount now complete, not only are we a stronger American, we are now in an even better in 2018 under the quarterly dividend business, but we are also subject to further position to shape the future of our industry approach as they would have done under requirements under US law.
Whether through during a period of profound change which theprevious methodology.
increased reporting transparency under the can deliver benefits for consumers, society Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or through the Foreign As part of this process, a second interim and investors alike.
Corrupt Practices Act, we have new legislation dividend of 43.6p equivalent to 25% of the with which we have to comply.
cash dividend paid in 2017 was declared in Acquisition of ReynoldsAmerican December 2017 and paid in February 2018.
As a result of these new requirements, our The deal to acquire Reynolds American The Board has declared an interim dividend Annual Report encompasses our obligations not only creates a stronger, global tobacco of 195.2p per ordinary share, payable in under the UK as required by the Companies and Next Generation Products business, four equal dividend payments of 48.8p per Act, the FCA Handbook, the Financial Reporting committed to delivering sustained long-term ordinary share, to shareholders registered Council and London Stock Exchange Rules, profit growth and returns, it also enables us on the UK main register or the South Africa South Africa as required by the Johannesburg to leverage the complementary skills from branch register and to ADS holders, each on Stock Exchange and US as required by US our new, enlarged workforce.
The Group the applicable record dates.
The dividends securities laws, the Securities and Exchange nowhas a balanced presence across emerging receivable by ADS holders in US dollars will Commission rules and the New York Stock markets and developed markets, including becalculated based on the exchange rate Exchange regulations.
All of these requirements theattractive US market.
have been brought into this consolidated We are committed to transforming tobacco Annual Report and Form 20-F. Further information on dividends can by using our enhanced resources following be found on page 37 of the Financial Outlook the acquisition to deliver even greater Review and page 241 in the Shareholder choice for our adult consumers across This is a very exciting time for the tobacco information section.
the combustible portfolio as well as those and nicotine industry, and for the Group in potentially reduced-risk products like vapour, particular.
The advent of new, potentially Board changes heated and oral tobacco.
reduced-risk products that can satisfy We were very pleased to welcome Lionel consumers means there are new growth Additionally, increased access to a significant Nowell, III, Holly Keller Koeppel and Luc opportunities for the business.
proportion of Group cash flows provides Jobin who joined our Board as Non-Executive further support to the Companys continued Directors from Reynolds American and I look While challenging conditions persist, the commitment to a dividend payout ratio of forward to the insights that they will provide Groups approach of placing the consumer at at least 65%.
We will also retain a strong to the Board.
the centre of its strategy, along with a multifinancial profile, with the Group targeting a category portfolio of products designed to I would like to thank Ann Godbehere and solid investment grade credit rating through address their varying preferences, ensures that DrPedro Malan, who will be retiring from the progressive deleveraging.
our business is in an even stronger position Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming todeliverlong-term, sustainable growth.
Ms Godbehere has served as a Non-Executive Director since Richard Burrows October 2011 and Dr Malan has served as a Chairman Non-Executive Director since February 2015.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 07
