STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement RAPID AND ENCOURAGING PR O G RE SS Continued strong growth despite a tougher environment for our customers Overview Resilient UK performance is a testament I am pleased to report that Dominos has achieved another year of good growth, despite tothe quality of our franchisees a more challenging market environment.
The UK remains one of the leading franchises International expansion provides growth across the Dominos network worldwide, potential on many fronts and our franchisees are rightly considered to be among the very best anywhere in the Your Boards approach to capital world.
Between them, theyincreased our UK network by a record 95 outlets and at the allocation balances immediate returns end of 2017 we traded from 1,045 stores with investment in the longer term inthe UK.
We also took the opportunity toacquire a majority stake in the largest sustainability of growth franchisee in the London area.
This will bea platform for more rapid growth in the currently under-developed London market, and for the development of innovation in technology, pricing and menus.
Outside our home market, progress has been encouraging.
In the Republic of Ireland, weopened our first stores for six years inresponse to the strong economic recovery in that market.
We are seeing anacceleration in growth in Switzerland, driven by changes to menu pricing and avery strong online performance.
02 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS our franchisees continue to excel both against their competitors and their peers around Our franchisees continue the world.
Their commitment to our customers, and to continuous business toexcel both against their improvement, is as outstanding as ever.
I would also like to acknowledge the huge competitors and their peers support of the global Dominos network, and the benefits of knowledge sharing and around the world.
brand visibility it brings: our suppliers, for the quality and reliability they bring to our partnership: and of course our customers, who remain as enthusiastic as ever about Dominos pizza despite the increasing choices available to them.
Corporate social responsibility reportpage 28 In our newer markets we took majority To support these uses of capital and to ownership in Iceland, Norway and Sweden establish a more efficient funding structure, Conclusion during the year, and accelerated our growth the Board also raised the Groups leverage 2017 has been a year of significant evolution plans in Norway by acquiring Dolly Dimples, target to 1.752.5 times net debt to EBITDA.
and progress, despite a weaker consumer the number three player.
Just before the year Given that the Group was in a net cash environment in our core market.
This reflects end we announced plans to move to 95% position only two years ago, this is clearly our belief in the strength of the business ownership in Iceland.
In Germany, where we asignificant development of policy, but we model and our determination to manage for are a 33% shareholder, Dominos agreed believe it gives us the necessary flexibility the long term.
Where we see opportunities terms to acquire the largest remaining to pursue attractive growth opportunities, to invest for growth, we will continue to independent pizza chain, Hallo Pizza.
We while maintaining a degree of conservatism take them, and I remain optimistic about are confident of the prospects for all of should the environment deteriorate.
these markets, which offer a further exciting stageof growth for Domino's shareholders.
Our stakeholders The enduring success of Dominos owes Group at a glancepage 04 Stephen Hemsley much to the strength of its relationships Non-executive Chairman with its key stakeholders.
First and foremost, Capital allocation and 7 March 2018  One of the most distinctive aspects of the Dominos business model is its strong cash generation.
The Board has a rigorous approach tocapital allocation making sure that existing businesses are invested in to maintain and Tveita, Oslo, grow competitive advantage, appraising new Norway: sell growth opportunities, and returning cash morepizza, have to shareholders, all within an appropriate more fun.
In this regard, 2017 has been a notable year.
In respect of organic investment, we substantially completed our single biggest ever capital project, the new supply chain centre in Warrington, with a total budget of nearly 40m.
In terms of expansionary growth opportunities, we made or announced 57.7m of acquisitions to strengthen and accelerate our ambition in several overseas markets, as described above.
Cash returns to shareholders during the year totalled 77.0m, including 36.6m of share buybacks.
We maintained our strong growth track record for the ordinary dividend, raising it by 12.5% to give a total dividend for the year of 9.00p.
The proposed final dividend of 5.25p per share will, subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 19th April 2018, be paidon 24th April 2018 to shareholders on theregister at the close ofbusiness on16thMarch 2018.
Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dominos Pizza Group plc 03
