6 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement A responsible business Introduction On behalf of your Board, I am delighted to report that we have made good progress on both our financial and operational metrics and delivered another year of growth in shareholder returns, with 451 million returned to shareholders in 2017 in total dividends.
Group revenue for the year increased by 7.9% to 3,965.2 million 2016: 3,676.2 million and we were pleased to report an operating profit of 841.2 million, an increase of 10.1% year on year 2016: 764.3 million.
More detailed information on our financial performance can be found on pages 42 to 45.
During the year, we completed 14,541 much-needed new homes in the UK, which represents a 4.8% growth on last year, whilst also continuing to make a significant contribution to the communities in which we operate, where we invested over 400 million through planning obligations.
I am proud to report that since we implemented our strategy outlined in 2011, Taylor Wimpey has delivered nearly 87k new homes across the country and returned 1.2 billion to shareholders.
The housing cycle Trading performance and customer demand remained resilient throughout the year and in our core geographies.
You can find more perspective on market conditions on pages 10 and 11.
We recognise that the outcome of the General Election, combined with the on-going Brexit negotiations, has resulted in greater political uncertainty.
We maintain and welcome an open Kevin Beeston and active dialogue with the Government and the main political parties.
We Chairman are pleased to note that all the main parties understand the importance of housebuilding to the country.
Whist we have not seen any adverse impact on the new build housing market or consumer confidence, we are monitoring We are delighted to have both the consumer and political environment.
We remain confident that our deliveredanother year of growth strategy, with a robust balance sheet, high-quality landbank and a highly experienced management team, provides the resilience and flexibility to inshareholder returns in 2017. enable us to deal with changing market conditions, as required, and to perform well through changing market conditions.
More information on our strategy can be found on pages 20 and 21 and you will see the key themes reflected throughout this document, and importantly in our general approach to business.
Health and safety Health and safety will always be our non-negotiable top priority and continues to be the first item discussed at every plc Board and regional board meeting throughout the business.
It also remains one of the highest rated questions inour annual employee engagement survey, with 98% of employees believing Taylor Wimpey takes health and safety in the workplace seriously 2016: 98%.
We are pleased to note our Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR for reportable injuries per 100,000 employees and contractors was a record low of 152 in 2017 2016: 211 and our efforts and level of focus on health and safety will of course continue.
More information can be found on pages 28 to 30, including details of our own internal review following the tragic events at Grenfell Tower, London, in June 2017.
Customer service Customer service continues to be a key priority for all Taylor Wimpey employees.
You may recall that in last years Annual Report and Accounts, Iadvised that during 2016 we implemented several changes to our customer service approach.
These included enhancing the structure of our customer service teams, through the creation of a new role of Head of Customer Service in each of our 24 regional businesses, which has helped our overall performance.
During 2017, we worked hard throughout the business to instil Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 and embed these new initiatives into our standard operating processes and we implemented, on a voluntary basis, the Taylor Wimpey Ground Rent culture.
It is here that I would like to take the opportunity to thank each and Review Assistance Scheme, to enable us to work with the relevant freeholders every employee on behalf of our shareholders and the Board for all their efforts who own the leases, in order to convert our customers ten-year doubling in this area.
I have been impressed by the hard work and commitment shown ground rent clauses to leases based on RPI, should they elect to participate by all of our teams.
While we recognise that we dont get everything right and inthe Scheme.
there is still, of course, more work to do, it has been very pleasing to see a As part of our review, we also stopped selling houses on a leasehold basis significant improvement in our customer satisfaction scores in recent months, on our new developments with effect from the start of 2017, other than in which validates the investments and efforts we have made into enhancements exceptional circumstances such as where Taylor Wimpey does not own in this area.
We will be prioritising further improvements in customer service the site on a freehold basis.
It is, however, equally, if not more important, to acknowledge, reflect on and Charities and local community groups address situations where we have not always got it right.
Following concern We believe that as a responsible business, we must actively contribute to expressed by some customers, during 2017 we carried out a review of helping others whether financially, with our time, energy or expertise.
We historic lease structures and, in particular, ten-year doubling ground rent remain highly committed to supporting charities and local community groups clauses, which we had stopped using on new developments from late 2011. in the areas in which we operate, and I am extremely proud to see the Whilst Taylor Wimpey implemented these leases in good faith and the terms personal commitments our employees continue to make to our charitable were clearly set out in the relevant leases, it was clear from our review that partners.
We aim to be an aspirational housebuilding brand that is recognised the impact of these doubling rent review clauses was causing some of for the good that is given back to our local communities by both our our customers understandable concern, particularly from a mortgageability employees and our business as a whole.
Our primary goal is to genuinely and saleability perspective.
We acknowledge that the introduction of these improve the position of the causes that we support.
The other goal is to doubling clauses in 2007 was not consistent with our high standards of engage our employees in these activities as we recognise it is good for their customer service and we have quite rightly apologised to customers for personal development and self-awareness.
During 2017, it was pleasing to the unintended consequences and concern that we caused.
In our Annual see many of our employees participate in our volunteering scheme, which General Meeting trading update of April 2017, we announced that we allows employees to take paid time off to volunteer at one of our national would make a provision, before tax, of 130 million in the first half accounts charities.
We hope to see an increasing number take advantage of this to allow us to put things right for our affected customers.
At the same time, opportunity in 2018.
Total shareholder return TSR 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 1 Jan 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Taylor Wimpey Housebuilders Index FTSE 350 This graph shows the value of 100 invested in Taylor Wimpey plc on 1 January 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 and in the average of the Housebuilder Index introduced for the 2012 Performance Share Plan awards onwards and as varied subsequently for the 2014 and 2016 awards.
Read more about TSR on page 85. taylorwimpey.
co. uk Value rebased 8 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement continued In addition to our planning obligations during 2017, we donated and Corporate Governance fundraised over 1 million for registered charities 2016: over 875k.
We are and remain committed to good corporate governance and believe Inaddition, a further c. 90k was donated to other organisations 2016: that integrity and transparency are key to attaining this.
Corporate governance c. 159k, sponsoring community events, local sports teams, social clubs and is embedded at every level within the business and is a reflection of our core many other initiatives.
More information can be found within our Sustainability values and culture, policies, and relationships with all of our stakeholders.
Report 2017 which will be available on our website in March 2018.
A key part of good corporate governance is ensuring the Board which governs has the necessary balance and skills which are both relevant and Dividends complementary, and can benefit the Board and the business with their A key part of our investment proposition is our commitment to a reliable experience, background and diversity.
More information about each Director dividend stream for our investors through the housing market cycle.
can be found within the biographies on pages 46 and 47.
I was delighted to Subject to shareholder approval each year, the Company will pay an ordinary announce in January that after a rigorous process, we appointed Gwyn Burr dividend of approximately 5% of Group net assets which will be at least to the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director, with effect from 150 million in dividends per annum.
This is intended to provide a reliable 1 February 2018.
Gwyn has excellent and relevant experience gained from minimum annual return to shareholders throughout the cycle.
This Ordinary both her previous executive experience, primarily focused on customer Dividend Policy was subject to prudent and comprehensive stress testing service, and also from her more recent non-executive roles and we very much against various downside scenarios, which also included a reduction of 20% look forward to working with her.
We also announced that Rob Rowley will in average selling prices and a 30% reduction in volumes.
stand down from the Board following the AGM on 26 April 2018.
I would like to again express both my and the Boards gratitude for Robs long and valued The payment of ordinary dividends will continue to be supplemented by contribution to the Board over the past eight years, including both as the additional significant special dividends at appropriate times in the cycle.
Companys Senior Independent Director and as Chair of the Audit Committee.
Our Special Dividend Policy will pay out to shareholders the free cash Dame Kate Barker will succeed Rob as the Boards Senior Independent generated by the Group after land investment, all working capital, taxation Director, following the AGM, and as planned, Humphrey Singer succeeded and other cash requirements of the business in executing our strategy in Rob as the Chairman of the Audit Committee in January 2018. the medium term, and once the Groups ordinary dividends have been met.
The annual Board Evaluation is an important exercise and one that your Subject to shareholder approval the 2017 final ordinary dividend of c. 2.44 Board as a whole and individually takes very seriously.
In line with the UK pence per share will be paid on 18 May 2018 to shareholders on the register Governance Code, we ensure that the Evaluation is externally facilitated at at the close of business on 6 April 2018 2016 final dividend: 2.29 pence least once every three years, and is conducted internally in intervening years pershare.
In combination with the interim dividend of 2.30 pence per share and formally facilitated by myself and the Company Secretary.
The 2017 2016interim dividend: 0.53 pence per share this gives a total ordinary Evaluation was externally facilitated by Manchester Square Partners MSP dividend for the year of c. 4.74 pence per share 2016 ordinary dividend: and I am pleased to report that the outcome of the review concluded that the 2.82pence per share.
Board is still functioning well, with a high degree of mutual trust, respect and This dividend will be paid as a cash dividend, and shareholders are once again integrity whilst being open, straight-talking and challenging in nature.
It was being offered the opportunity to reinvest all of their ordinary dividend under the also pleasing to note that MSP found that the Board operated with first class Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP, details of which are available from our governance.
There were inevitably some areas for improvement and additional Registrar and on our website.
Elections to join the Plan must reach the focus and these are already being addressed by the Board.
Further details of Registrar by 26 April 2018 in order to be effective for this dividend.
Further the outcome of the Evaluation and how it was conducted are set out in the details can be found on our website www.
co. uk corporate Corporate Governance section of this report on page 61.
In addition, on 14 July 2017, we returned 300.5 million to shareholders I would also like to touch on executive remuneration: last year, following by way of a special dividend, equating to 9.2 pence per ordinary share.
our usual constructive consultation with our shareholders, our Remuneration As previously announced in August 2017 we intend to return c. 340 million Policy received very strong support at the 2017 AGM, for which we are very to shareholders in July 2018, equating to 10.4 pence per ordinary share, grateful.
This enabled the Company, via the Remuneration Committee, to take subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
This is into account a number of views and perspectives to put in place an proposed to be paid on 13 July 2018 as a cash dividend to all shareholders appropriate remuneration framework having regard to a number of factors on the register at close of business on 1 June 2018.
Shareholders will be including: the overall economic and market environment as well as the offered the opportunity to reinvest all of their 2018 special cash dividend under Companys strategy and targets.
the DRIP, for which elections to join the Plan must reach the Registrar by During 2017, we published our first Modern Slavery Statement in line with 22 June 2018. statutory requirements, and we will publish our second statement in 2018.
The Board confirms its intention to keep the mechanics of how the Company We strongly support the legislation and do not tolerate any form of slavery, will pay special dividends, including the merits of undertaking a share buyback forced labour or human trafficking in our business or in our supply chain.
I am at some point in the future should it become appropriate to do so, under pleased to confirm that our risk assessment found that in general the risk of regular review.
modern slavery occurring in our business or supply chain is low.
However, there are some higher risk areas in the supply chain and we will be engaging with the suppliers in these areas to make sure they have the right policies and Corporate governance is embedded strategies in place to mitigate these risks.
We have a Modern Slavery Act at every level within the business and working group, chaired by our Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, which oversees our approach.
is a reflection of our core values and culture, policies, and relationships with all our stakeholders.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 Board diversity Group Management Team Employee diversity 3 3 1,639 3,544 7 7 Note: As at 31 December 2017.
Male Note: Includes Gwyn Burr who joined on 1 February 2018.
Female Read more about our Board of Directors Read more about our Group Management on pages 46 and 47.
People Diversity We believe in investing in our people and in developing our internal bench We value diversity in every sense at Taylor Wimpey and aim to be an inclusive and future pipeline of talent as this is key to ensuring their future success and, employer attracting, retaining and promoting employees from all backgrounds.
in turn, that of Taylor Wimpey.
The Nomination Committee plays a key role in This contributes to creativity and innovation in our workforce, widens our talent the oversight of our progress in this regard.
An important part of our approach pool, boosts employee engagement, helps us to better reflect our customer is a continued investment in the skills and development of our employees base and ultimately improves our decision-making.
Whilst we have made across the business, as we work to ensure that Taylor Wimpey attracts and great strides since setting up our Diversity and Inclusivity Steering Committee, retains the best people in the industry through the cycle.
It was therefore we recognise there is more to do and we are committed to improving further.
particularly pleasing to be ranked as one of Glassdoors Top 20 Best All our senior leaders have attended our Open Minds diversity training course Companies To Work For in the UK.
This is based solely on employee and and from 2018, we will extend this further and all new employees will former employee feedback and is therefore an important external benchmark.
complete an e-learning module on diversity and inclusion as part of their induction.
During 2017 we also held networking sessions for senior women in In 2017, we undertook an employee engagement survey with an our business to meet with Group Management Team members and share encouragingly high participation rate of 72%.
We were impressed with the experiences and insights.
overall results and very high level of engagement across the whole business.
We were pleased to see improved scores in customer service, flexible Outlook working, as well as training and benefits package.
Perhaps more importantly, We are confident that we can adapt to changing market conditions from a it also identified areas, such as better collaboration between some functions, position of strength and perform well, underpinning our value proposition to where further work is needed and we will of course prioritise these areas shareholders and other stakeholders.
Reflecting on the good progress made in2018.
in 2017 and the lessons learnt, the Taylor Wimpey team is looking forward to As part of the Governments welcomed employee voice initiative, during the challenges and opportunities that 2018 will bring.
2017 we established our National Employee Forum NEF with elected I have already thanked all of our employees earlier in this Statement, so I representatives from across the business.
The main objective of the NEF, would like to end by thanking all of our customers, shareholders and other which has already met on two occasions, will be to gather employee feedback stakeholders for their ongoing support.
on individual topics important to the business and share it with the relevant members of the senior management team and of course vice versa.
The NEF will build upon the existing regional Employee Consultative Committee structure to enhance the dialogue between the Board, Group Management Team and our employees.
Kate Barker, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and I will be attending the Forum from time to time, in addition to the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, the Group HR Director and other senior management.
