Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 08 INVESTMENT REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Strong results JULIAN CAZALET CHAIRMAN Much of the performance was delivered by a small number of holdings.
It is pleasing tosee that the overall portfolio has generally appreciated in line with profits and has not been rerated.
I am delighted to report that Heralds net asset value per In previous years, we have commented on the high level of share appreciated 26.9% during 2017.
This equates to a total takeover activity.
In 2017, takeovers and bid approaches have return of 203m.
During the year, 27.6m was spent on continued 13 in total with an aggregate value of 52m, the share buy-backs: this equates to 3.8% of the outstanding largest of which was SQS c. 18m.
Six of these were in the shares at the start of 2017.
UK, six in North America and one in Asia.
But unlike previous years, 2017 has also seen a much healthier level of IPOs and The share price appreciated by 32.7%, more than the 26.9% secondary offerings.
There have been a few US IPOs, but appreciation in the net assets, reflecting a narrower discount there have been more takeovers, so in the US the number of to the net asset value per share.
The discount was 14.8% at listed technology companies continues to shrink.
market in the UK, on the other hand, has been relatively vibrant.
The manager has participated in IPOs and follow-on 2017 was an exciting year for the technology sector with a fundraisings to an aggregate value of 55.6m.
Out of a total new phase of internet disruption emerging, and concepts of 67 of these fund raising events, six were IPOs, and 50 that had previously caused excitement now coming through were in the UK.
AIM has proved to be a healthy market for in positive financial results.
In particular, the quality of the development capital, but when companies become cash internet network has improved sufficiently to enable a mass generative they are often taken over by private equity migration to centralised processing in the data centre.
New houses or trade buyers.
demand has led to capacity shortages in hardware including ASICs as well as NAND and DRAM memory.
This has The Company has again generated a small amount of net satisfactorily benefited a number of small companies.
revenue, but we arenot proposing to pay a dividend.
While the board acknowledges that dividend income is welcome The UK portion of the portfolio performed strongly in 2017 for some shareholders, our strategy and our strength has with a 35.2% IRR total return compared with 21.9% in the been todeliver capital appreciation.
The Company repaid its Numis Smaller Companies Index including AIM and ex 25million sterlingterm loan on maturity at the end of investment companies.
The smaller European portion December and now has no outstanding debt, although we performed even better, returning 52.1% IRR, in sterling haveretained a 25 million multi-currency facility terms : while Asia appreciated by 24.3% IRR, in sterling currentlyundrawn, term expiring inDecember2019, in terms.
The North American part of the portfolio lagged case opportunities arise.
somewhat, appreciating only 18.2% IRR, in sterling terms, although this significantly exceeded the sterling total return of the Russell 2000 Technology Index of 7.6%.
There was a drag on the portfolio from net cash and cash equivalents held mainly in US dollars including short dated US treasuries.
A significant proportion of the positive performance was derived from a small number of our holdings, 24 of which appreciated in value by more than 100%.
Between them, they accounted for only 8.2% of the Company at the start of the year, but they contributed 63% of the aggregate return.
IQE was the star performer by value, appreciating by nearly 30m.
Herald Investment Trust plc Annual report & financial statements 2017 09 The board has decided to increase the target size limit of NET ASSET VALUE PER SHARE investee companies from below $2bn to below $3bn market PENCE capitalisation.
It has always been the policy to make 1400 investments below the size limit, but the manager has continued to hold some positions that rise above the threshold.
Following strong performances, 15 companies 1200 had a market capitalisation exceeding $2bn with an aggregate value of 79.5m, which is higher than previous 1000 years.
This limit has not been changed for a number of years, and a higher limit offers more flexibility as the size of the Company grows.
The board has also reviewed the 800 performance comparator that we have used historically, which has been expressed as a blend of 2 3rd the Numis Smaller Companies Index plus AIM ex.
investment 600 companies and 1 3rd the Russell 2000 small cap Technology Index in sterling terms.
We believe that it is 400 now more meaningful to describe them as two comparative indices rather than an artificial blend benchmark, and will do so in the future.
200 The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund.
Its manager, HIML, has to comply with MIFID II rules governing 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 access to research.
The manager has been concerned about the ramifications of this fundamental legislation for our remit focused on smaller companies globally.
The manager is paying for research out of the management fee, and is paying significantly more than has ever been paid by the Company in commissions.
Over 70 brokers have been signed up, which accounts for a significant proportion of research historically consumed.
However, although the coverage from global players is a little improved, there is likely to be access to far fewer brokers, who cover small companies, than has been available in the past.
The challenge is that in the small company world our competition is largely from investors local to the companies, who are in turn dealing with numerous smaller regional brokers.
The second concern is that commission levels seem to have been cut to uneconomically low levels for transactions in smaller companies where orders may take days or weeks to execute, and often require active endeavours by brokers to generate the other side of the The share price appreciated bargain.
This may further diminish liquidity.
I hope the market will adjust in the medium to long term, but the short-term uncertainty this has caused is extremely by 32.7%, which was more unwelcome.
than the 26.9% appreciation 2017 proved a remarkably good year for the Company.
While the TMT market continues to be exciting, the financial in the net assets, reflecting a markets are in less rude health.
We are optimistic that this may prove a time for more market inefficiencies, and hence an opportunity for profitable investing.
narrower discount to the JULIAN CAZALET CHAIRMAN net asset value per share.
