CHAIRMANS STATEMENT As I reflect on the first year following the launch of the new strategy to Reignite Growth at Elementis, I am pleased to report a year of strong strategic progress, solid earnings growth and good cash flow generation.
The acquisition of SummitReheis, disposal of the Surfactants business and far reaching supply chain initiatives are a few examples of the significant change taking place at Elementis.
I continue to be impressed by the commitment and hard work of all our employees.
They are focused on enhancing our customers product performance through the application of expertise and innovation.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the entire team at Elementis.
FINANCIAL RESULTS In 2017, revenue from continuing operations rose 27% to $782.7m and revenue from total operations, including the discontinued Surfactants business, increased 26% from ANDREW DUFF, CHAIRMAN $659.5m to $830.3m.
Operating profit for the year increased by 7% from $85.1m to $91.4m, however this excludes the impact from discontinued operations and adjusting items.
Adjusted operating profit for the year grew 32% to $128.1m compared to $97.0m in 2016, and profit after tax grew 73% from $68.1m in 2016 to $117.6m in 2017, reflecting the contribution from the newly acquired SummitReheis business and underlying growth across all of our 3 business segments.
Group adjusted diluted earnings per share rose 12% from 17.4 cents in 2016 to 19.5 cents.
BALANCE SHEET Following the acquisition in March 2017 of SummitReheis for $362m, Elementis has moved from a net cash position of $77.5m at the end of 2016 to a net debt position of $291.1m at the end of 2017.
One of the Groups core strengths is its cash flow generation and 2017 was no different, with adjusted operating cash flow of $107.1m, up 12% on prior year.
The positive results and significant strategic progress made in 2017 are strong evidence The IAS 19 deficit, on the Groups post retirement benefit plans, declined from $30.1m at the end of 2016 to $10.5m at the end that the Group is strengthening the of 2017.
This was driven by the UK pension plan, which moved foundations to Reignite Growth at Elementis.
The scheme accounts for the majority of the Groups pension obligations.
DIVIDEND POLICY Under the dividend policy introduced in 2012, the Board undertook to pay approximately one third of earnings, after adjusting items, each year in a combination of interim and final dividends.
In addition, a special dividend was paid each year of up to 50% of the net cash balance at the end of the year, provided there were no immediate investment plans for that cash.
Following the acquisition of SummitReheis in 2017, and the movement from a net cash to a net debt position, the Board has revised its dividend policy to reflect our view of the long term earnings and cash flow potential of the Group.
Going forward: It is our intention to pay progressive ordinary dividends, normally with a dividend cover of at least 2 times adjusted earnings The interim dividend paid each year will normally be one third of the prior full year dividend We look to maintain balance sheet flexibility and strength in the context of the Companys investment plans.
Taking that into account, when net debt is structurally below one times earnings EBITDA we will seek to make additional returns to shareholders.
2 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information This year the Board is recommending a total ordinary dividend of 8.80 cents per share 2016: 8.45 cents per share, reflecting Related material its confidence in the Groups business model and ability to Corporate governance report page 45 generate cash, the medium term prospects and the levels of Corporate social responsibility report page 26 investment required over the short to medium term to deliver the Reignite Growth strategy.
The final dividend will be paid on 1 June 2018 in pounds sterling at an exchange rate of 1.00:$1.4035 equivalent to a sterling amount of 4.3463 pence per share to shareholders on the register at 4 May 2018.
The Board declared an interim dividend at the time of the Interim Results announcement of 2.70 cents per share 2016: 2.70 cents.
GOVERNANCE In February 2017 and March 2017, the Board appointed Sandra Boss and Dorothee Deuring respectively as Non-Executive Directors.
Their appointments have contributed strongly to the quality of Board discussions and, reflecting their areas of FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS expertise, brought new insights and a diversity of perspective Q. to the strategic conversations taking place.
Andrew Christie What does a good Board culture mean to you?
resigned from the Board at the AGM in May 2017, having A. served for 9 years.
I would like to thank Andrew for his As Chairman I am responsible for developing a high performing contribution both as a Non-Executive Director and as Chairman Board to drive effectiveness and Company performance.
Steve Good has succeeded The Board culture that I foster is founded on the principles Andrew as the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
of integrity, respect, transparency and openness.
I expect Directors to demonstrate exemplary standards of propriety, The interactions and communication flows between executives diligence and accountability so that this permeates throughout and Non-Executive Directors have been strong and as a result the organisation.
the new Board is well placed to challenge, guide and support the executives in the delivery of our Reignite Growth strategy.
How has the Board enhanced its understanding The Board considers that it has applied fully all of the principles of the SummitReheis business?
and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during A.
More information is provided in the Corporate Following the acquisition of SummitReheis in March 2017, governance report.
the Board visited our SummitReheis sites in New York, US and in Ludwigshafen, Germany.
We met with members of the In January 2018, we welcomed our new Company Secretary, SummitReheis leadership team and staff.
Engaging with both Laura Higgins, replacing Wai Wong who has stepped down leadership and the front line employees helps myself and the after 10 years service.
Laura brings significant company Non-Executive Directors understand the operations and any secretarial experience to us gained from roles in UK and challenges staff may face so that we can best support them internationally quoted companies.
I would personally like to in the Boardroom.
thank Wai for his contribution and commitment over many years.
PEOPLE What are the Boards 3 key priorities for 2018?
Ensuring that we have the right people and talent for the future A. needs of our business is critical to our continuing success.
To receive regular updates from Paul and Ralph and the As a Board we spend considerable time on succession Executive Leadership team on the Reignite Growth strategy planning, and talent development across our business.
Led and to consider progress being made against the 4 strategic by Paul Waterman, there have been extensive changes in the pillars, supporting and challenging as required.
structure and composition of the Executive Leadership team 2.
An external Board evaluation will be held during 2018 and and we now have a strong executive team in place to take the I will be working with members of the Board on both the Reignite Growth strategy forward.
evaluation approach and the improvement areas identified during the 2017 internally held evaluation.
Enhancing relationships with our investors, including holding The positive results and significant progress made by the Group a governance roadshow with our top investors.
in 2017, combined with a strong financial position, are strong evidence that the Group is adopting the right strategy and strengthening the foundations to Reignite Growth at Elementis.
Our priorities in 2018, the second year of the strategy, are to maintain this momentum.
We have seen encouraging signs in 2017 and are confident of delivering continued progress in 2018.
ANDREW DUFF Chairman Total operations both continuing and discontinued.
After adjusting items see note 5.
3 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2017
