12 Strategic report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRENGTH OF OUR BRAND Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 13 Phil White Chairman In 2017, the business continued the The recent success of the business is Board priorities positive performance of recent years.
founded on a consistent strategy and we The highlights of the year included: Building on the strength of our brand will continue to focus on delivering its main - Deepening our University and our reputation with customers elements: providing a great service for our partnerships and Universities, we entered our first students and University partners: delivering - Continually improving our on-campus University partnership with quality buildings designed around student customer service Aston University and secured two further needs: and generating high-quality - High-quality portfolio aligned development-led University partnerships earnings and maintaining a strong to the strongest Universities with Oxford Brookes University and in capital structure.
- Invest in recruiting, retaining and London with planning support from developing quality people Kings College, London.
The outlook for our market remains - Focus on long-term, sustainable positive, with ongoing structural growth earnings growth Financial performance has again being generated by the strength of the Read more about been strong, with a total accounting world-renowned UK Higher Education Building on our core principles on p20 return of 14% and growth in EPRA earnings, sector, increasing participation rates, the up 12% to 70.5 million.
Profit before tax internationalisation of Higher Education was 229.4 million, which includes property and the shortage of housing in the UK.
revaluations and disposal profits of 169.2 Whilst the ongoing Brexit negotiations million 2016: 201.4 million and 136.3 and political landscape in the UK present million respectively.
As a result of this a backdrop of some uncertainty, these performance, we are declaring a final sector fundamentals, together with dividend of 15.4p to deliver a total dividend our high-quality portfolio, University of 22.7p for the full year, an increase of 26% relationships and market-leading year on year.
operating platform, position us to continue performing well in the Unite Students is a service brand and the years to come.
strong performance we have delivered for our customers, University partners and Given our confidence in the sector and shareholders is only possible because of the sustainability of our business model, the talent and hard work of our teams the Board has agreed to increase our across the business.
On behalf of the dividend pay-out ratio to 85 per cent Board, I would like to thank them for of EPRA earnings in 2018 onwards.
Phil White I would also like to take this opportunity to Chairman pay tribute to one of our Directors, Manjit 21 February 2018 Wolstenholme, who sadly passed away last November.
Manjit was a friend and colleague and her judgement, insight and humanity will be greatly missed.
THE UNITE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
