6 intu properties plc Annual report 2017 Chairmans statement Our motivated and experienced staff ensure our centres remain vibrant and enticing to both customers and retailers in a fast-changing environment As I come towards the end of my first In Spain, we enhanced our platform with year in the role of Chairman, I have been the acquisition of Madrid Xanad and phenomenally impressed by the business advanced our plans for the world-class and the people who are the driving force intu Costa del Sol shopping resort.
In the behind its success.
UK, we continue to see encouraging levels of pre-lets on our exciting pipeline Spending more time in our centres and of development projects.
meeting staff, as I have done first as a non-executive director and this year The disposal of 50 per cent of intu as Chairman, has confirmed these Chapeleld at a price in line with the impressions.
Our vibrant centres are the December 2016 valuation underwrites best in their regions and are continuously our property values as well as recycling changing to meet new customer and capital into our development pipeline.
retailer needs created by todays multichannel retail world.
This constant Innovation is engrained in our business, evolution is directed by our experienced and using our experience and expertise in and ambitious management team the shopping centre industry, we continue whose drive is shaping the shopping to define the future of the shopping mall.
intu Accelerate is just one example of this, testing out a range of pioneering ideas for The last 12 months both customers and retailers.
Online, our The last 12 months have been an premium content publisher and shopping interesting time in our industry platform, intu.
co. uk, continues to see capital markets have been concerned strong growth with sales through the by perceived headwinds in retail, from website increasing by 50 per cent.
Our vibrant centres Brexit in the UK to structural issues in the US, as well as the impact of online.
Corporate responsibility are continuously Yet throughout this period we have I have always believed that behaving changing to meet new outperformed against our responsibly is fundamental to the best operational benchmarks.
It is customer and retailer especially vital for a retail property needs, all directed by Our success has come from ensuring our business such as ours where our centres centres are the places where people want play a pivotal role at the heart of their our experienced and to be.
Our purpose is to make customers communities.
As a long-term investor ambitious management smile, leading to strong footfall, increased inthe UK and Spain, we focus on people dwell time and higher spend, and this, in and placemaking, and ensure our team whose drive is turn, helps our retailers ourish resulting initiatives, measured through key shaping the shopping in high occupancy and near record levels performance indicators, align with of lettings and tenant investment.
John Strachan Chairman Like-for-like net rental income Reduction in carbon emissions growth in 2017 intensity since 2010 0.5% 58% 2016: 3.6% Strategic report Chairmans statement 7 I am pleased to report that the measure Our people of our community investment, gross I would like to convey my warmest value added, remains stable on a like-forthanksto my colleagues on the Board like basis at 4.6 billion this year, and we and to all our staff for their commitment have reached our 2020 target for a and creativity.
As I said in my introduction, 50 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas I am remarkably proud of our people, emissions three years early.
from apprentices to senior managers, who day in and day out deliver the As a long-term business and a major intudifference that sets us apart from employer in many of the regions where thecompetition.
we operate, we have an important role inthe future and the wellbeing of our Dividend communities.
We take our responsibilities Your Directors are recommending seriously, whether thatis ensuring we a naldividend of 9.4 pence per share, reduce our environmental impact or bringing the total amount paid and helping local people by working with payable in respect of 2017 to 14.0 pence, a charity to provide prom dresses for unchanged from the 2016 dividend.
Recognising the importance A scrip dividend alternative may In December we agreed a recommended of locally created and relevant projects, be offered.
all-share offer for the company by my Chairmans prize for 2017 has gone Hammerson.
The boards of Hammerson to TheBus Shelter MK, a project to Looking to 2018 and intu believe that there is a compelling provide short-term accommodation As David discusses in his Chief Executives strategic rationale for the acquisition, for homeless people in Milton Keynes review, we are refocusing our strategic whichwill bring together high-quality in a converted double-decker bus.
They are to deliver growth in retailproperty portfolios and combined like-for-like net rental income, building expertise to create a leading European further on the previous three years of retail REIT with a strong income prole growth, all underpinned by operational andsuperior growth prospects.
Our development programme, focused onagship Both boards believe that, following the destinations and nanced through acquisition, the enlarged group will be astutecapital recycling and allocation, better placed to enhance its position in will add further organic growth.
itsgeographic markets and across its retailformats, with a more efficient and adaptable platform allowing it to respond to fast-changing consumer preferences andretail trends.
The transaction is subject to certain approvals and is not expected to complete until late 2018.
TheBus Shelter MK This unique partnership with intu Milton Keynes raised money to convert a bus to provide short-term accommodation for homeless people in Milton Keynes
