Strategic Report Chairmans Statement A year of significant progress Overview mix and successful Incotec integration delivered a stronger operating margin I am pleased to report another year in Life Sciences, whilst Performance of significant progress for Croda, strong Technologies increased profit and sales growth and a record profit, good moved towards more technology-driven cash generation and excellent returns markets and applications.
This performance was driven by Our strategy is delivering investment in faster growth markets, We have a clear strategy that is focused new technologies, enhanced Research on providing unique performing ingredients & Development R&D capabilities and satisfying the unmet needs of our a significant capital spend programme.
customers, driving increased value for We continued to focus on delivering the our shareholders.
Alongside sales growth highest standards of health and safety, across all types of customer, large and and in driving sustainability.
small, we delivered a total shareholder Our people contributed significantly return of over 40% in 2017 through share to Crodas success in 2017 with their price growth and an increased dividend.
Another year of significant dedication and creativity.
I had the privilege Our model is to generate strong profit progress for Croda, with of meeting many of them during site visits margins through innovation and focused I made in the last twelve months.
I am strong sales growth and capital investment, which drives a superior impressed by Crodas very special culture, return on capital and generates cash.
where great emphasis is placed on doing We reinvest this cash to develop new the right thing at all times.
On behalf of the Anita Frew technologies, create greater R&D, increase Chairman Board, I would like to take this opportunity our manufacturing capability and develop to thank all our employees for their hard our people.
In 2017, we invested over work and commitment.
30m in acquiring new capabilities in faster growth niches, adding three new exciting Strong sales and a record profit technologies in skin care, novel surfactants Sales for the year increased by 10.4% to and static electricity protective polymers.
1,373.1m 2016: 1,243.6m, with growth We invested nearly 40m in R&D, in all of our sectors.
Adjusted profit before increasing the proportion of sales that tax grew by 11.1% to 320.3m 2016: come from patented and protected 288.3m.
On a statutory basis, profit products, and expanding our Open before tax rose to 314.1m, up 13.9%.
Innovation programme to almost 400 The Board was particularly pleased by partners in universities and technology the performance in Personal Care, where enterprises across Europe and Asia.
We sales are now growing in addition to profit, invested over 150m in new capacity, reflecting a successful improvement notably our first to market bio-surfactant programme implemented under the new plant in North America, which we expect sector management team.
A richer product to commission early in 2018.
Case study Global Employee Culture Survey internally to test the elements of our culture across departments.
Employees that are important to us and that we believe also shared that they have a good Since it was introduced, the Croda Vision set us apart from our peers.
Three sections understanding of the purpose and has become an important part of directly related to our culture: Who we are, goals of the organisation.
describing our company, our people How we work together and How we and the values, behaviours and attitudes A great deal of work is now being manage our work.
These values, undertaken to review the results of the behaviours and attitudes are often referred The survey was translated into 15 survey at every location and business unit.
languages and we were delighted with an overall response rate of 80%.
The To understand if the Croda Vision results of the survey have been pleasing: was experienced across our global 80% employees rated their relationship with organisation, we launched a Global their immediate supervisor positively and response rate to the employee survey Employee Culture Survey, the first for presented a good picture of team work over ten years.
The survey was designed Croda International Plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Croda has a long held commitment to as Croda continues to grow and acquire.
Dividend sustainability and we are accelerating the We were pleased with the overall positive We have a clear capital allocation policy capture of new sustainable technologies.
results, with the majority of employees with profits reinvested for growth: a These technologies are increasingly understanding the main goals of the regular dividend paid to shareholders: important to our customers, who are Company.
In 2018, we will implement organic growth supplemented by excited by our new ECO range of biothe resultant Culture Plan in each global selected acquisitions: and an appropriate based ingredients from our new biosector and region.
balance sheet maintained, with excess surfactant plant in North America, which capital returned to shareholders.
We believe that diversity across Croda will replace petrochemical products Following the strong performance in drives better performance and a stronger without loss of performance.
As well as 2017, the Board is recommending an company.
Our leadership development helping customers meet their consumers 9.5% increase in the full year dividend to programmes comprise employees from needs, Croda is also committed to 81.0p, covered 2.2 times 2016: 2.1x by different cultures, backgrounds and reducing its own environmental impact.
We have adopted a Diversity Our Sustainability Report has exciting the payment of an interim dividend of and Inclusion programme across our news on our progress.
35p in October 2017, shareholders will workforce and are taking action to receive a final dividend of 46p, subject encourage more women into leadership Governance, culture and values to approval at the AGM.
As a Board we have 25% female With the Board, I lead our programme to representation, with a policy to achieve The Board has reviewed the leverage of ensure the highest standards of corporate 33% in the medium term.
the business, which is at the lower end governance and integrity right across Croda, of its target range.
It will consider further We completed our latest externally which is critical to our continued success returns to shareholders in the event that facilitated Board evaluation.
Our work in 2017 included leverage falls below this range.
result was very positive, in particular on ensuring that we maintain strong risk how we encourage a culture and management, health and safety, and ethical Outlook environment that enables candid debate.
We have entered 2018 with good Effectively managed succession is critical to We also continue to recognise the momentum and a strong platform on delivering successful leadership and, after importance and value of Crodas unique which to deliver long term growth.
In the serving nine years on Crodas Board, Nigel culture to its continued success.
In 2017 year ahead, we will continue to invest in Turner will retire at this years AGM.
I would the Board spent time visiting our overseas fast growth technologies, R&D, improved like to thank Nigel for his dedication and operations and meeting our employees, operating capabilities and our people.
Alan Ferguson will engendering a common understanding We are confident of delivering continued take over from Nigel as Senior Independent of the business goals and identifying progress in 2018.
Alan has been on opportunities for future growth and the Board since 2011 and acts as Chairman development.
We conducted a Global of the Audit Committee, bringing a wealth Employee Culture Survey, to examine our of relevant experience, having served as culture, ensure that it is aligned with our Senior Independent Director with other core values and understand how we can Anita Frew listed companies.
protect this critical competitive advantage Chairman Action plans are being developed including Summary of results by survey section to improve knowledge sharing around the Group and flexible working practices.
77% Who we are These are regularly shared with the 23% Executive Committee and Board, who have 68% How we work appointed Keith Layden as the Board together member with primary responsibility for 32% ensuring that the survey results are 71% How we manage considered and followed through.
our work 29% 57% General engagement 43% To read our full Global Employee Culture Survey feature go to our 2017 Positive Neutral & negative Sustainability Report Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 03
