CHAIRMANS STATEMENT T he 34th consecutive year in which the Company has raised its annual dividend payment.
The Managers Review on pages 5 to 8 sets out some of PERFORMANCE the main themes driving both portfolio construction and I have commented for a long time about the protracted performance during the year, including comments on some of timescale in which the Value investing style has been out of the positive and negative contributors to performance at an favour relative to other styles.
There have been brief periods individual stock level.
during which the tide appeared to be turning in favour of Value but these rallies have thus far proved to be fairly short DIVIDEND lived and, consequently, the underperformance of Value There have been three interim dividend payments during continued into 2017.
As our portfolio manager is a disciplined the year each of 8.33p per share and the directors are now adherent of the Value investing style this has had a negative recommending a final dividend payment for the year ended impact on the short to near term performance of Temple Bar 31 December 2017 of 17.48p per share, to be paid on 29 March compared with its nominated benchmark, the FTSE All Share 2018 to those shareholders on the register as at 9 March Index.
During the year the total return on the net assets of 2018.
The ex-dividend date for this payment is 8 March 2018.
Temple Bar was 9.7%, underperforming the total return of the If approved this would give an increase in the total dividend FTSE All Share Index of 13.1%.
We attach greater signi cance payment for the year as a whole of 5.0%.
The dividend has to the longer term performance and in this context I am been increased in light of the signi cant accretion to revenue pleased to report that Temple Bar continues to outperform reserves in recent years and the availability of income in the its benchmark over both five and ten year periods on the current year.
This would be the 34th consecutive year in which same basis.
the Company has raised its annual dividend payment.
The Board is proud of the Companys record of generating long term dividend growth, such consistency being re ected in Temple Bars status as one of The Association of Investment Companies Dividend Heroes.
GEARING In recent years the Companys xed long term borrowings have largely been offset by a fairly high cash or near cash position on the portfolio pending the emergence of attractively priced investment opportunities.
The position was unchanged throughout 2017 such that at the year end, net gearing calculated net of cash and related liquid assets, including our investment in a UK short dated gilt was -3.0%.
From a long term gearing perspective, however, I am pleased to be able to report that the Companys expensive 25m 9.875% debenture matured on 31 December 2017 and was duly repaid in full on that date.
In advance of its repayment the Board took the decision in October to replace it with an additional private placement loan in the same amount but with a much more attractive coupon of 2.99%.
The loan, which covers a xed 30 year period extending to 2047, was provided by the Prudential Insurance Company of America, who also provided funding for the existing 4.05% private placement loan undertaken in 2013.
It may seem somewhat anomalous that the Company has taken out a new borrowing facility at the same time that the Manager has highlighted a lack of attractive investment opportunities in the market.
I should, therefore, emphasise that an important factor in taking out this additional loan was to secure attractive xed rate funding for the purposes of pursuing the Companys investment objectives over a very long period, mindful of the likelihood of future interest rate increases and the potential for future investment opportunities.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 2 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
indd 2 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION A project to re-design the Temple Bar website was undertaken and the new site will go live early in 2018. be standing down as Chairman this summer.
It has been SHARE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT a privilege to serve on the Board as both a director since Temple Bars shares traded at a modest discount 1992 and as Chairman for nearly 15 years.
A decision on my throughout most of the year and at the year end the successor as Chairman will be made in the coming months discount stood at 5.3 %.
The Board is prepared to undertake and noti ed to shareholders in due course.
Temple Bar share buy backs if the discount widens both in absolute has historically bene ted from a strong Board and I am terms and relative to the Companys peer group.
While no con dent that this will continue into the future.
share repurchases took place during the year, the Board nonetheless recommends that the existing authorities to Every year the Board undertakes a thorough evaluation of issue new ordinary shares and to repurchase shares in the each director, including myself as Chairman.
In line with market for cancellation or to hold in Treasury be continued.
best practice in this regard, all directors are subject to Accordingly it is seeking approval from shareholders to annual re-election by shareholders.
renew the share issue and repurchase authorities at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
PACKAGED RETAIL AND INSURANCE-BASED INVESTMENT PRODUCTS PRIIPS THE BOARD New EU originated regulations require investment entities In November of last year Richard Wyatt was appointed such as Temple Bar to prepare Key Information Documents as an additional director of the Company.
Richard brings KIDs that are available to be perused prior to making an a wealth of broad based business experience to the role investment decision.
The intention is that investors are including valuable insight gleaned from the technology able to make comparisons between different products sector.
I am con dent that he will add a great deal to the based on highly prescribed information, as set out in the Boards discussions in the coming years.
Accordingly, Temple Bar has prepared its own proposing to make a further appointment, for which an KID, which is available on its website and has also been independent recruitment process is already underway.
disseminated to various platform providers and investment Shareholders might reasonably enquire about the rationale allocators.
However, the Board believes that there are for this expansion in the size of the Board.
I can con rm aspects to the way that some of the information is required that these additional appointments are being made in to be calculated and presented which cast signi cant anticipation of three or four existing Board members doubts over the validity of comparisons, particularly with retiring over the next two years and are designed to ensure non-investment trust products.
As but one example, the an orderly transition and the refreshment of the Board.
The KID rules require investment trusts to include as part of first such retirement has already taken place, with David an ongoing cost calculation the cost of their borrowings.
Webster stepping down as a director on 31 December These borrowings are designed to enhance shareholder 2017.
David made an outstanding contribution to the Board returns over the longer term: however, the costs of such over the nine years that he served as a director and we borrowings are required to be included within total costs wish him the very best in his future life.
indd 3 22 02 2018 14:16 22 02 2018 14:16 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Our preference is to focus on individual companie s financial strength and performance rather than seek to predict the direction of markets.
shown on the KID, without corresponding recognition of OUTLOOK the potential bene ts of such gearing, while ungeared It may be something of a statement of the obvious to investment vehicles have no such costs, thus distorting cost recognise that we face a number of political and economic comparisons.
Furthermore, investment trusts are required risks over the short to medium term, such as the rami cations to show portfolio transaction costs while UCITS vehicles can of Brexit negotiations, the consequences of attempts by currently exclude them, rendering comparisons meaningless.
certain central bankers to reverse experimental policies The Board also has signi cant reservations about the relating to ultra-low interest rates and the accumulation on prescribed methodology for the calculation of performance balance sheet of vast quantities of xed interest securities, projections in the KID, which, it believes, does not provide and the possible impact of developments in US domestic and a reliable guide to investors and should not, therefore, be foreign policy under President Trump.
However, over the long taken as an indicator of future performance expectations.
90 year existence of Temple Bar there have been numerous As a result of these and other concerns the Board believes even more perilous events that it has successfully negotiated that more helpful and comparable information about Temple to provide good long term returns to its shareholders, not Bars costs and performance can be obtained both from the least by exploiting value opportunities arising from such monthly factsheet published on the Temple Bar website and dislocations.
from information contained in the Annual Report.
In these circumstances our preference is to focus on WEBSITE individual compan ies financial strength and performance As the permanent representation of the Temple Bar brand rather than seek to predict the direction of markets.
Through and investment philosophy and the primary source for upmaintaining our approach of investing in a diversi ed to-date relevant information, the ef cacy of the website for portfolio of mainly UK domiciled companies and with strict shareholders and other key users is paramount.
A review adherence to a Value based approach we believe that of competitor websites revealed that the majority of Temple Bar can continue to thrive notwithstanding future independent investment company websites felt somewhat uncertainties.
Furthermore, Temple Bar is well positioned to dated from both a design and technology perspective, maintain its policy of paying a high and growing dividend for and adopted a very similar corporate online experience.
As such, we believe there is an opportunity to make our website more modern looking, technologically advanced and easier to navigate, with the ultimate aim of improving John Reeve the online experience for users.
Consequently, a project to Chairman re-design the Temple Bar website was undertaken and the new site will go live early in 2018.
20 February 2018 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM this year will be held once again at 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on Monday 26 March 2018 at 11am.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting the portfolio manager will, as usual, make a presentation reviewing the past year and commenting on the outlook.
He will also be available to answer questions alongside the directors.
Shareholders who are unable to attend are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 4 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 247986 TBR AR 01pp-33pp.
