1 12 2 Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OUR FLEXIBLE, LOW-CARBON AND CUSTOMER-FOCUSED APPROACH WILL DELIVER HIGH QUALITY EARNINGS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR GROWTH PHILIP COX CBE CHAIRMAN, DRAX GROUP INVESTMENT CASE 1 Critical to decarbonisation ofthe UKs energy system 2 Underlying growth in the core business and attractive investment opportunities 3 Increasing earnings visibility, reducing commodity exposure 4 Strong financial position and clear capital allocation plan Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dr Drax ax Group Group plc plc A An nnu nual al repor report t and and ac acc co ount unts s 2 20 01 17 7 13 13 In 2017 we made significant progress This increase was principally from producing strategy.
We greatly value the contribution withthe strategy we announced in high levels of renewable power from made by our Non-Executive Directors NEDs December 2016. sustainable biomass.
We also benefited from and during a time of transition their role is especially important.
our growing B2B Energy Supply and Pellet First, we completed the acquisition of Opus Production businesses.
Through these Energy a leading challenger brand in the activities we are improving the visibility of We indicated last year that we were seeking UK Small and Medium-sized Enterprise our earnings.
additional NEDs with experience in SME energy market: second, we acquired sustainability and energy supply to athird biomass pellet plant LaSalle In June we announced a new dividend complement our already experienced Board.
Bioenergy, which signicantly increases policy.
This policy is to pay a dividend which I am therefore delighted to welcome two ourpellet production capacity: and third, we is sustainable and expected to grow as the new NEDs to the Drax Board.
Firstly, David continued to develop options for flexible gas implementation of the strategy generates an Nussbaum, whose in-depth knowledge of generation at four sites around the UK.
increasing proportion of stable earnings and sustainability will support our continued cash flows.
In determining the rate of growth focus in this area: and secondly, Nicola We also began developing longer-term in dividends the Board will take account of Hodson, whose experience in technology, options for growth, with the exploration contracted cash flows, the less predictable business transformation and energy, will ofcoal-to-gas repowering at Drax Power cash flows from the Groups commodity provide real value as the Group delivers Station, as we look to provide new sources of based business and future investment itsstrategy.
flexible generation backed up by long-term opportunities.
If there is a build-up of capital capacity contracts.
To support our strategy, the Board will consider the most appropriate Sustainability remains at the heart of the we completed a renancing in May and mechanism to return this to shareholders.
business, both the specic sustainability of announced a new dividend policy in June.
biomass and more broadly the long-term At the 2017 half year results we confirmed an sustainability of the business.
As such I am At the same time, we have continued to interim dividend of 20 million 4.9 pence per pleased to note that alongside this years provide a significant amount of the UKs share representing 40% of the full year annual report and accounts the Group has renewable electricity.
With conrmation of expected dividend of 50 million 12.3 pence published a a comprehensive overview of Government support for further biomass per share 2016: 10 million, 2.5 pence per our sustainability progress in 2017 on our generation at Drax Power Station we plan share.
Accordingly, the Board proposes to website www.
tocontinue our work to develop a low-cost pay a final dividend in respect of 2017 of solution for a fourth biomass unit 30million, equivalent to 7.4 pence per Full details of our corporate governance can be found on page 64. conversion, allowing us to provide even share.
In addition, the Board has decided morerenewable electricity, whilst toannounce a 50 million share buy-back supporting system stability at minimum programme, which will take place during OUR PEOPLE costto the consumer.
2018, which is consistent with our capital As the Group grows I would also like to allocation policy.
welcome colleagues from Opus Energy andour other developments.
On-boarding is Opus Energy performed well, delivering onthe plans we set out at the time of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE proceeding well and by working together in acquisition and, in North America, LaSalle In September, Dorothy Thompson CBE our common goal to help change the way Bioenergy is successfully commissioning.
announced her intention to stand down as energy is generated, supplied and used, we This performance alongside safety, Group Chief Executive officer CEO.
I would are creating real value for all stakeholders.
sustainability and expertise in our core like to thank Dorothy for her enormous markets acts as a strong base from which contribution to the Group over the last I must thank all the employees and the business can grow and deliver long-term 13years.
During her tenure Dorothy ledthe contractors who have worked so hard to sustainable value.
transformation of the business and leaves help the Group succeed in the last 12 the Group in a strong position with a clear months.
It is through their skill, expertise We have a major role to play in supporting strategy that lays the foundations for further andhard work that we are able to deliver the UK energy system, as it becomes success in a changing energy sector.
increasingly ambitious in decarbonising, first the electricity sector and subsequently Dorothy is succeeded by Will Gardiner, who My sincere thanks to colleagues for their transport and heating.
In doing so, through was previously Group Chief Financial officer commitment and hard work.
our flexible, low-carbon and customerCFO and a key architect of the strategy.
His focused approach we aim to deliver higher appointment follows a thorough review of It only remains for me to say that your quality earnings, with a reduction in internal and external candidates and is a Boardremains totally committed to the commodity exposure alongside natural progression after two years working complementary aims of delivering opportunities for growth.
alongside Dorothy developing a strategy sustainable long-term value for the Group, which I am confident will create significant and of helping our country build a lowOur people employees and contractors benets for all Draxs stakeholders.
remain a key asset of the business.
Their safety remains at the centre of our A process to appoint a permanent CFO operational philosophy and we have isunderway and Den Jones has been performed well in this regard, although appointed as Interim CFO.
Den is highly wecontinue to work to improve our experienced, having previously served as performance across the Group.
CFO of both Johnson Matthey and BG Group.
Drax remains committed to the highest RESULTS AND DIVIDEND standards of corporate governance.
The PHILIP COX CBE EBITDAin 2017 of 229 million was Board and its committees play an active role CHAIRMAN signicantly ahead of 2016 140 million.
in guiding the Company and leading its
