Strategic Report Chairmans Were reporting on a challenging year, butone in which ITV has made Statement signicantprogress.
ITV delivered a strong operating performance with great on-screen and online viewing.
Against this, net advertising revenue NAR reacted to political and economic uncertainty, contracting by just under 5% though, as we report, this trend improved towards the end of the period.
Our rebalanced company saw continued growth in non-NAR revenues from sponsorship, from digital and from production, both at home and abroad.
Wethank our former Chief Executive, AdamCrozier, along with the executive team for these important advances.
AndIm very grateful to Ian Grifths, whoadded the role of Chief Operating officer toGroup Finance Director.
ITVs mass commercial audience is at theheart of our offer to viewers and advertisers.
We own the only such mass audience in the UK.
Weve now grown our share of television viewing for two years ina row.
And our broadcast schedule offers the most trusted medium of brand advertising: where an impact is watching an entire, full screen, advertisement with the sound up: where noimpacts are fake: where a brand is guaranteed adjacency totrusted content: and where theres noad-blocking.
Meanwhile, ITV Studios now produces forover 200 channels in 11countries around theworld.
This underlines the enduring strengths on which well build our new revenue streams in the future.
So with our strong balance sheet were able to deliver good returns toshareholders while also investing in that future.
In line with our dividend policy and reflecting the Boards confidence inthe business and the outlook for 2018, the Board is proposing a final dividend of5.28p, which equates to a full year dividend of 7.8p, up 8%.
Sir Peter Bazalgette Chairman 6 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Chairmans Statement Dividend As we work hard on ITVs next chapter of Our award-winning daytime shows, thriving growth, we are thinking about our digital soaps and major dramas are a vital part of Dividend per share p ordinary competitors.
And we see just as many Britains national conversation, exploring 7.8p opportunities to seize as threats to ward off.
topical social issues that define our culture.
Netflix and Amazon may compete withus for And as a major employer of creative talent viewers, but they also buy our programmes in Manchester, Leeds and London, our role and co-produce major newseries.
inthe nations growing creative economy 8% isvery important to us.
YoY Talking of that future, we were delighted towelcome Carolyn McCall as our new Id like to thank my Board colleagues for ChiefExecutive at the beginning of 2018. theirvaluable support and input during 2017.
Investors will be familiar with her background We welcome Margaret Ewing as our vastly 7.8p increase in media, her experience of direct to experienced new Chair of the Audit and Risk on 2010 consumer relationships and use of consumer Committee.
And we shortly bid farewell 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 data, herability to design and implement toAndy Haste and John Ormerod, each of astute strategy and her understanding of them having committed ten fruitful years what it isto run an international company.
We have aclear plan to Inshort, shes someone with a track continue toimprove the diversity of the recordof delivering value to shareholders.
At the time of writing, our gender As she explains, shes already started her balance is now 40% female and 60% male.
And we intend inthemedium term also towiden our ethnicdiversity beyond our Today, theres quite rightly a growing current one BAMEmember.
emphasis on company culture and social purpose.
These are qualities ITV, as a Public Finally, on behalf of the Board, I want to Service Broadcaster, has always kept front thankall ITV colleagues for their excellent ofmind hand in hand with entertainment.
With that quality of Butnow theyre in even sharper focus.
As a commitment, well prosper in the future.
producer of trusted, sourced national news, regional news and current affairs in an age offake news, we take our contribution to Sir Peter Bazalgette afunctioning democracy very seriously.
Chairman Joanna Lumleys India was a three-part documentary broadcast on ITV in 2017.
7 1.6 2.6 3.5 4.7 6.0 7.2 7.8p Strategic Report Investor ITV continues to make significant progress in growing and strengthening the business Proposition creatively, commercially and nancially.
As an integrated producer broadcaster, ITV is in a unique position A strong tocreate and own world-class content, broadcast it on one of the platform biggest marketing platforms in the UK and distribute it globally fordelivery through its international network.
ITV is an increasingly global and diversied organisation, with significant non-advertising revenue streams reducing its dependency on UK advertising.
ITV has delivered a strong operational and financial performance over many years and is in a good position to continue to do this, underpinned by its strategic assets and competitive advantage.
ITVis currently undertaking a strategic refresh to ensure it has a clear strategy and priorities which reflect what ITV needs to be in three, five and ten years time.
The Broadcast & Online business is robust.
Our on-screen and online Strong market viewing performance is strong and we continue to deliver unrivalled position audience scale and reach for advertisers as well as more targeted demographics on our digital channels and on the ITV Hub.
Online, Pay & Interactive is a material, fast-growing and profitable part of the business and we are building our digital business throughour direct to consumer SVOD services BritBox, Cirkus andthe ITV Hub.
ITV Studios, our international content business, is now a global player of scale, creating, owning and managing rights and we will continue to grow in key creative markets, driving value from the strong demand for quality content.
99% 54% of all commercial audiences of total ITV Studios revenue was over 5 million were on ITV from outside the UK in 2017 8 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional information Investor Proposition Highly cash We are a highly cash generative business and our disciplined approach to cash, costs and capital gives us a strong balance sheet generative and enables us to continue to invest across the business.
Investment In line with our strategic refresh and key priorities, we will explore investment opportunities to develop and grow the business opportunities andenhance shareholder value while maintaining capital discipline.
Compelling The Board is committed to a long-term sustainable dividend policy.
Ordinary dividends will grow broadly in line with earnings, targeting shareholder dividend cover of around 2x adjusted earnings per share over the returns medium term.
8% growth in the ordinary dividend year-on-year Clockwise from top left: Tokio Myers, winner of Britains Got Talent in 2017: England versus Slovakia in the World Cup Qualiers: newITV Studios drama, Bancroft.
