Strategic Report: Chairmans statement Chairmans statement On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all the 9,600 people at Admiral for their continued hard work and contribution to a record-breaking set of results for the Group in 2017.
In 2018 we celebrate 25 years since the I am delighted and honoured to have taken 2017 Overview launch of the company in January 1993.
The over the helm as the Chairman of Admiral Admiral Group has delivered another record core of the companys success remains the at the AGM in April 2017.
My predecessor, set of results in 2017: record turnover and distinctive Admiral culture which drives Alastair Lyons, who ably steered the ship for profit, strong return on capital, strong the way that our people work and serve our over 16 years, has left some large shoes to solvency ratio and record customer numbers.
customers in the UK, Italy, Spain, France and fill.
I would like to thank him for his service the US.
The Group has continued to grow strongly with turnover increasing by 15% to 2.96 As Chairman of the Group I will focus my billion.
Customer numbers increased 11% to efforts on: over 5.7 million.
Continuing to build on the remarkably The Groups share of pre-tax profit increased special Admiral culture and in so doing by 43% to 405.4 million.
Earnings per share putting our people and customers at and return on equity both increased by 49% the heart of what we do to 117.2 pence and 55% respectively.
The Continuing the history of growth, Groups solvency ratio remains very strong profitability and innovation at 205%.
Investing in the development and In UK Insurance, there was another strong growth of our people performance from the Groups core UK Ensuring excellent governance Motor business where the number of insured and the highest standards.
vehicles grew by 8% to 3.96 million.
In line with usual trends, profitability benefited from significant prior year reserve releases.
es launched Admirals first non-UK insurance brand, based in Seville, Spain.
2006 2007 Admiral joins FTSE 100 Becoming only the 2nd ever Welsh business to join the FTSE 100 index.
04 04 A Adm dmi ir ra al l G Gro roup up p pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 6 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Whilst we devote time and resources to 2017 saw the successful launch of our inAs a result of Brexit, we are exploring exploring new opportunities outside of car house underwritten van insurance product establishing an insurance company and an insurance we also recognise that this remains and, most recently, the launch of our new insurance intermediary business in Spain to our core focus.
We continue to invest heavily travel insurance product.
in improving our core skills as evidenced Most significantly, we have launched In our Price Comparison PC businesses, by our continuing growth in premiums and personal loans, firstly unsecured, then car Confused.
com in the UK continues to face a profit.
We also have a range of innovations finance as part of our new Admiral Financial competitive and challenging market, whilst including car sharing insurance, learner Services business.
We expect this to be an it implements its new Drivers Win strategy: driver insurance and we remain the largest increasingly significant part of our business this is offset by encouraging growth in telematics provider in the UK.
com in the US and record profits at There is still a backdrop of uncertainty in Rastreator and LeLynx, with all PC businesses We are continuing to invest in our overseas our largest business, UK Car, due to the delivering an improved customer experience.
insurance businesses, bearing fruit with continued deliberations over the Ogden rate Our joint venture Preminen PC business reduced losses overall despite the impact of affecting large personal injury claims.
We continues to explore new opportunities Hurricane Harvey in the US and another year expect to see some conclusions on the way and has recently established operations in of profits in ConTe.
Turnover and customer forward in 2018.
In the meantime, we have Mexico and is soon to be in Turkey.
numbers are continuing to grow materially taken a prudent approach and reflected the by some 23% and 20% respectively and we current discount rate in our reserves.
now have 0.5 billion of combined turnover Household Insurance continues to grow and over one million customers outside apace.
Turnover is now 107.1 million and the UK.
We believe we are on the cusp of properties insured have increased by 41% delivering long term profit for the Group.
Customers buy from us either using price comparison sites, directly and, increasingly, using our MultiCover offering, building on the success of MultiCar.
Rastreator and Elephant Auto launched The Groups second price comparison website Rastreator and US car insurer Elephant Auto.
it LeLynx and launched Lolivier launched Our Italian direct Price comparison insurance brand, website and car insurance based in Rome, Italy.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05 Strategic Report: Chairman's Statement Chairmans statement continued What makes Admiral different?
Dividend Corporate governance and Board changes Our successful model which has been The Directors have proposed a final dividend maintained since launch is definitely worth of 58.0 pence per share 2016: 51.5 pence for The Board recognises the need for a strong a further mention.
It can be distilled into the year to 31 December 2017, representing corporate governance framework and the following areas: a distribution of 97% of our second half supporting processes across the Group and earnings.
This included a normal dividend believes that good governance, with tone Highly talented team David Stevens 65% of post-tax profits of 39.5 pence per set from the top, is a key factor in delivering leads a strong, capable and experienced share and a further special dividend of 18.5 sustainable business performance and management team which engages the pence per share comprising earnings not creating value for all the Groups stakeholders.
whole business required to be held in the Group for solvency The Board and I feel that the Board has Focus targeted diversification building or buffers.
a good balance of experience, skills and on our core skills This will bring the total dividend for the year knowledge to support and challenge the Pricing data analysis lies at the heart to 114.0 pence per share, an overall increase management team and it is supported by of what we do of 11% excluding the additional return effective governance and control systems.
Prudent reserving continuing our of surplus capital in 2016 and the 13th During the year the Board undertook a conservative approach to claims reserving consecutive year that Admiral has paid review of its effectiveness.
Further details Claims management consistent positive an increased dividend.
This represents a are provided in the Governance Report on feedback from customers on the service payout ratio of 97%.
pages 46 to 81. they receive The business has delivered a Total Admirals incentive schemes remain Controlled test and learn organic growth Shareholder Return TSR of 382% over distinctive, as every employee is a shareholder.
with measured expansion steps the last 9 years as illustrated in the chart They are designed to ensure that decisions Low-cost approach constantly on page 79. are made by management to support longchallenging ourselves on how we can term growth, that the right behaviours are do things more cost effectively rewarded and that our peoples interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
Our Shareholder returns we believe in core belief is that over the long-term, share returning excess capital to shareholders.
appreciation depends on delivering great Overall we believe that people who like what outcomes for our customers.
Further details they do, do it better.
are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 81.
Qualitas Auto and UK Household T Admiral opened Insurance launched The Groups new Our second car insurance headquarters, T Admiral, brand in Spain and household was officially opened by insurance in the UK under members of the Welsh the Admiral brand.
com launched Our fourth price comparison site, Compare.
06 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Introduction Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Penny James stepped down from the Board for them to develop their careers.
We are Thank you effective from 8 September 2017 following a proud to continue to be one of the leading On behalf of the Board I would like to thank change in her Executive role, and I would like places to work, not only in the UK but in all everyone at Admiral for their continued hard to thank her for her valuable contribution.
the countries in which we operate, and were work and contribution to the Groups results Owen Clarke was announced as taking the delighted to be recognised for the first time in 2017.
This coming year is an exciting one Remuneration Committee chair in April, in the Great Place to Work 25 Worlds Best as we hope to continue the Groups growth subject to regulatory approval.
We are in Workplaces 2017, being placed 23rd.
What a trajectory, building on our fledgling loans the process of seeking additional Board fantastic achievement!
business and other businesses in UK motor, members, and in February 2018 appointed UK non-motor and overseas insurance and Andy Crossley to the Board as a Nonprice comparison businesses.
Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee.
We have an amazing, distinctive culture Annette Court at Admiral that values agility and Our role in society entrepreneurial drive, rigour and depth of Chairman Admiral takes its role in society very seriously thought and a collaborative team approach 27 February 2018 and has an active corporate responsibility that puts customers first.
We invest in our programme more information in Corporate people and provide exciting opportunities Social Responsibility Report on pages 38 to 41.
We are proud to be Wales only FTSE 100 headquartered company.
Our staff play an active part in the communities in which First underwritten Van policy we operate.
com celebrated its 15th birthday with a big party!
Personal loans launched Admiral Group was named the 6th Best Multinational Workplace in Europe 5 million customers globally 2016 2017 David Stevens takes over as CEO Henry Engelhardt retires.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07
