Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to introduce the Companys Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017, a year in which the Group has continued to drive towards its longer term targets, but has also needed to react to an increasingly uncertain macro-economic climate in the UK.
The Group is striking a balance between investing for future growth and delivering positive short term financial performance, and it is pleasing to see our businesses perform well in .
Group sales grew by 3.5% to 6.4 billion and The Wickes business continued to outperform its direct by 3.3% on a like-for-like basis.
competitors, but in a market that became increasingly difficult as consumers saw their disposable income tighten through the Continued investment in the Groups businesses to improve course of 2017 as higher inflation levels outpaced wage growth.
customer service and propositions and build a sustainable The Toolstation business continues to mature quickly, with advantage over competitors, combined with significant operating like-for-like growth increasing throughout 2017. cost inflation over the course of the year led to a 7% reduction in adjusted operating profit to 380m.
Adjusted earnings per share The review of the Plumbing & Heating business carried out in reduced to 110.4p compared with 120.4p in 2016. the first half of the year led to a wide ranging restructuring plan, and much has been achieved in the second half of the year.
The performance of the Groups businesses results from a Early signs are encouraging and significant improvements have combination of the strength weakness of their end-market been made in customer propositions, supply chain structure and performance and the level of investment in the business.
customer relationships which are showing an improvement in The three Contracts businesses, Keyline, BSS and CCF sales, and a significant reduction in the cost base has formed a performed particularly strongly, extending market share and solid foundation for the recovery of this business going forwards.
The Travis Perkins general merchant business was impacted by a more challenging repairs, maintenance and improvement market than in recent years, combined with the increased costs of extending the heavyside range centre network across all of England and Wales, and increasing investments in digital capabilities, both of which will be of great benefit to the business in the future.
6 Strategic Report Travis Perkins plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategy Board of Directors The Group outlined a five year strategic plan in December 2013 In November 2017, Robert Walker retired as Chairman of the setting out its ambition to deliver long-term, sustainable value to Board of Directors after eight years.
On behalf of the Board, shareholders through four levers of value creation.
The Group has the Management team and the wider Travis Perkins family, we invested in recent years in its proposition to offer market-leading thank Robert for his diligent service to the company, and for his service to its customers.
While the long-term fundamental drivers guidance throughout his Chairmanship.
remain favourable, the current macro-economic climate means I joined the Board in September 2017, and succeeded Robert as we must be even more focused on where we invest to deliver Chairman in November 2017. growing returns.
We have therefore set even tougher hurdles for investment and would expect capital expenditure to slow further Alan Williams joined the Board as an executive member as in 2018.
Chief Financial Officer on 3 January 2017.
Tony Buffin remains on the Board, but changed roles to become Group COO.
During 2018, we will focus on refining the Groups strategy to create value for shareholders and will update the There were no other Director changes in 2017.
a review of Board composition at the Nomination Committee during 2018 in order to plan the evolution of the Board and to ensure that we continue to have the right balance of skills, Dividend experience and diversity into the future.
The Board is taking a balanced view between the on-going level of uncertainty and the resulting low growth environment in the Outlook UK economy, and therefore the Groups end markets, and the continuing strong cash generation of the Groups businesses.
The UK economic environment continues to be challenging, with Although absolute profitability declined modestly in 2017, the the individual markets in which our businesses compete primarily Board recommend an increase of 2.2% in the full year dividend.
driven by the sentiment and financial spending power of UK consumers.
It remains difficult to predict how these markets will A final dividend of 30.5p, payable on 11 May 2018 to progress in 2018. shareholders on the register on 6 April 2018, will give a full Our management teams are highly experienced in operating year dividend of 46p 2016: 45p.
This moves the Group to just in a variety of market conditions and have taken appropriate outside its target dividend cover range of 2.5-3.25x, but reflects steps for their businesses to react to and take advantage of any the confidence in the on-going positive cash generation of the marketchanges.
Group even whilst funding the investment capital and reducing the Groups net debt position.
The core foundations of long term demand for building materials remain solid, with continued unmet demand for housing, and a large and ageing housing stock requiring renovation.
The majority Employees of our businesses also operate in fragmented market structures.
Our people are our greatest resource: at Travis Perkins we have Against this backdrop, the investments we have made and will around 30,000 employees across the UK and we take our continue to make to improve our customer propositions, optimise responsibility to our colleagues very seriously.
We continue to our property network and modernise our legacy IT systems will be recognised by the Great Place to Work Institute, a significant give us the base on which to build our profitable growth plans.
acknowledgement of the hard work and commitment of all our colleagues, particularly across our branch network and the supporting HR teams.
We strive for continuous improvement in Stuart Chambers the Groups programmes which focus on colleague health and Chairman safety, career development, diversity and flexible benefits.
27 February 2018 I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Board, to thank all our colleagues for their commitment, energy and hard work during the course of 2017.
