The Weir Group PLC 06 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Chairmans Statement Generating value for all our stakeholders While 2017s market trends provided a welcome tailwind, they were anticipated by the Group and Weir was well positioned to act quickly and take full advantage of the upturn in both North American oil and gas and global mining markets.
This led the Group to outperform these markets and in doing so reaffirmed the strength of its business model, the clarity of its strategy and quality of our near 15,000 people around the world.
The Board experienced this directly on a visit to South Africa, where the benefits of Weirs culture and commitment to being an active partner in local communities Charles Berry was a real highlight.
Chairman You can read more about the Boards visit on page 81.
On behalf of the Board, I wish to record our gratitude to all Weir employees for their efforts throughout the year in delivering for our shareholders, customers and communities.
Dear Shareholder, Financial results I am pleased to report a strong year 2017 saw the Group take full of growth for your Company.
Reported revenues increased to 2,356m, up 28%.
advantage of the improvement On a constant currency basis, revenues were 19% higher year-on-year.
Pre-tax in our main markets by leveraging profits from continuing operations, before exceptional items and intangibles our business model and effectively amortisation, of 250m represent delivering our strategy to produce a 47% increase on the previous year.
Reported profit after tax of 162m increased value for our stakeholders.
You can read more in the Financial Review on page 24.
Shareholder returns We are proposing a final dividend Corporate Governance payment of 29.0p per share, making 44.0p for the full year.
Corporate Governance Report 68 You can read more about how we comply with the UK Our Board of Directors 70 Sustainable growth Corporate Governance Code By definition, Weir, with its heritage Our Group Executive 72 in the sections opposite: stretching back to 1871, has proven Nomination Committee Report 85 itself to be a sustainable business.
Audit Committee Report 88 This has been achieved, amongst other things, by aligning the interests of the Remuneration Committee Report 95 Group with those of the communities Directors Report 116 in which we operate.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The Weir Group PLC 07 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Our culture and values Everything we do as a company stems from our Think Delight our Deliver Do the Explore core values: safety first customers quality right thing and innovate The Board recognises that the business Clare Chapman and Barbara Jeremiah will be more successful if it partners joined the Board as Non-Executive The Board recognises that with stakeholders and makes a positive Directors in August of 2017.
Clare is contribution to society.
The Group does the former Group People Director of the business will be more this in a variety of ways from supporting BT Group plc and succeeded Melanie successful if it partners with local employment and suppliers to Gee as the Chair of the Remuneration working with governments and local Committee.
Barbara, who is a former stakeholders and makes a communities to help educate the next Executive Vice-President of Alcoa, joined positive contribution to society.
the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In January 2018, Stephen Young, former In the UK, this includes the Primary CEO of Meggitt plc, joined the Board and Engineer programme that aims to he will succeed Alan Ferguson as Audit encourage young pupils from all Committee Chairman from 28 April 2018. backgrounds to consider a career inscience, technology, engineering Looking ahead to the rest of 2018, the or mathematics.
Board will focus on continuing to support CEO Jon Stanton as he executes our The Group is also promoting greater strategy and builds an even more diversity and inclusion in a sector that sustainable business.
The best ideas come from a variety of perspectives and, as a company that relies on the innovation and ingenuity of all our people, we need to be a workplace that allows everyones talent to flourish.
Charles Berry Chairman The Board will reach its aim of ensuring 28 February 2018 Members of the Board that at least a third of its members are visited customers as female following the 2018 Annual General part of its meeting Meeting AGM, two years ahead of our in South Africa.
You can read more in While this is welcome progress, we Governance must increase diversity throughout the in Action on organisation, from those starting out in page 81. their careers to senior leaders, and each business has plans in place to help them achieve this aim.
Governance and Board changes As previously announced, there were some significant changes to the composition of your Board in 2017.
On 30 September, Melanie Gee stood down as a Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, having served for six years.
John Mogford and Alan Ferguson also announced during the year that they would not be seeking re-election at the 2018 AGM, having served ten and seven years respectively.
I would like to formally record the Groups thanks to Melanie, John and Alan for their exceptional service to Weir during their terms.
