Strategic report CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Dividends to shareholders the IPO and served as Chairman of the Jupiters progressive dividend policy Remuneration Committee from May 2011 targets an ordinary payout of 50% to June 2017 and Senior Independent of our underlying earnings per share.
Director from September 2014 to July 2017.
In order to provide shareholders with On behalf of the Board, I would like to a smoother flow of returns, we express my gratitude to Lorraine for rebalanced the dividend this year her support and significant contribution towards the interim.
We increased it during her eight years on the Board.
to 6.8p per share from the 4.5p paid Lorraine has brought energy, commitment in 2016.
The Board is now declaring a and a different perspective to the Board fullyear dividend of 10.3p per share and this has been invaluable to Jupiter 2016: 10.2p, to give a total ordinary as the business has grown and dividend of 17.1p, up 16%.
Her experience and insight will be missed.
In addition, the Groups financial results and strong balance sheet allow us to During the year, we completed a announce a special dividend of 15.5p full external Board evaluation, which per share for 2017 2016: 12.5p per confirmed that the Board and its share, giving a total dividend of 32.6p.
committees continue to function well.
DEAR FELLOW SHAREHOLDERS This will be paid at the same time as The Board was very pleased with People and culture the fullyear dividend.
Special dividends the Groups performance this year.
We Jupiter has good gender balance at enable us to deliver returns to our maintained strong levels of investment Board level but this is not replicated in shareholders sooner rather than later, outperformance for our clients after all areas of the Group.
While we ensure using cash we do not need to hold all fees, which is our primary aim.
This we pay men and women the same for for other purposes and we remain strong investment performance enabled performing the same roles to the same committed to this policy.
us to retain existing clients and attract performance levels, the high percentage new ones.
New clients came from Taking the ordinary and special of senior fund manager and sales across an increasingly broad distribution dividends together, shareholders will positions held by men is the driver of network of partners with wider receive a total of 32.6p.
This represents our gender pay gap.
We expect the geographical reach.
This resulted in a 20% increase on last year, and a gender pay and bonus gaps between significant net inflows of 5.5bn into distribution of 95% of our underlying female and male employees to gradually our increasingly diversified range of earnings.
decline as we recruit and develop senior investment strategies and products.
female talent across the business.
The increase in assets under A consistent strategy management to 50.2bn contributed Under Maarten Slendebroeks leadership, Jupiter has a strong culture and a to a 13% rise in statutory profit before Jupiter has followed a consistent strategy, set of values that are central to our tax to 192.9m on an underlying basis with investment outperformance for our business.
They ensure we put clients this was 193.8m.
clients at its heart, which has successfully first, collaborate effectively and remain diversified and grown the Group.
Our people embody Investment outperformance During the year, the Board reviewed these values and I want to thank During the year, a significant amount the strategy in detail in the context of everyone at Jupiter for their contribution of hard work was undertaken to Jupiters evolving markets, our success to to the Groups success this year.
ensure that we can continue to deliver date and the environment of significant investment outperformance for clients Looking forward change around us.
The Board reaffirmed and thus financial results for shareholders.
There are undoubtedly challenges in the the strategic direction of the Group.
This included investing in our business external environment, most specifically It is confident that Jupiters position by recruiting and developing existing the uncertainties surrounding Brexit.
The as an active fund manager focused employees in the fund management Board believes that Jupiter has a robust on investment performance after all strategy teams to broaden and deepen and sustainable business model and is fees can support its continued growth.
It also included confident that, with the delivery of value substantial changes to our operating Board and governance for clients, Jupiter can continue to thrive.
platform in preparation for all the We were delighted to welcome Roger requirements of MiFID II.
Yates as a NonExecutive Director in October 2017.
Roger led Hendersons Earlier in the year we announced successful global expansion and has LIZ AIREY changes to pricing for our UK unit trusts over a decade of nonexecutive Chairman and that Jupiter would meet the cost of experience on the boards of UK financial research used in our fund management services companies.
His insights will be process.
Both of these changes benefit invaluable as we move forward.
clients and increase transparency, enabling them to more easily assess the Lorraine Trainer has decided to retire investment performance after all fees.
from the Jupiter Board and will not be seeking reelection at the Companys AGM on 18 May 2018.
Lorraine joined the Board in May 2010 at the time of 4
