JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 James Fisher had another good year in 2017 producing an underlying profit before tax of 50.3m, an increase of 10% over the prior year.
Charles Rice, Chairman Chairmans statement Group revenue for the year grew by 9% to STS transfer business from 2007: the This is the last year that I shall 505.4m 2016: 466.0m.
An increase in development of a market-leading position be writing this statement as the Groups underlying effective tax rate in submarine rescue and hyperbaric Chairman and therefore I am to 17.2%, 2016: 15.4%, held back the engineering since 2012 and more recently, increase in underlying diluted earnings the growth of a completely new activity particularly pleased to be able per share to 7% at 81.4 pence per share.
in offshore renewables have enabled the to report that James Fisher Group to absorb these external shocks and Statutory diluted earnings per share were and Sons plc James Fisher 79.5 pence 2016: 78.7 pence.
This growth in turn has built an ever wider international presence, had another good year in 2017 With a number of major projects so that the Group is not dependent on underway, careful attention has been paid producing an underlying profit any one geographical market.
With a to managing cash flow this year in the before tax of 50.3m, an increase stable management team in place and a face of the expected increase in working of 10% over the prior year.
This continued commitment to a decentralised capital.
This build-up squeezed our cash management structure which keeps reflected the strength of the conversion rate to 56% in 2017 and decision-making close to our customers despite this, the year-end balance sheet Groups business model with its and markets, this track record of change gearing remained at a conservative 47% broad spread of activities across and innovation is set to continue.
2016: 41% with the ratio of net debt the marine sector, its strong excluding bonds to underlying earnings All four of our divisions are well placed for the future.
Marine Support is benefiting before interest, tax, depreciation and international presence and its amortisation at 1.6 times 2016: 1.4 times.
from the opening of new markets for STS, ability to innovate and grow new such as in Brazil, from the development The underlying strength of the Groups businesses.
of its subsea project businesses, and performance and the positive outlook from its expanding presence in offshore for the year ahead has led the Board to Three of our four divisions improved their renewables.
Specialist Technical has results with Marine Support leading the propose an increase in the final dividend to market-leading positions in both its 19.3 pence 2016: 17.6 pence per share way with a 17% improvement in profits hyperbaric and submarine rescue niches generated by new markets in Brazil, the making a total for the year of 28.7 pence and in its reactor decommissioning per share, an increase of 10% compared Middle East and offshore renewables.
business in the nuclear sector.
While this Specialist Technical delivered another with 2016. division will always be project driven and strong performance making good progress Strategic overview therefore lumpier in terms of turnover with the delivery of its project pipeline and and working capital, it has an attractive Over the last ten years, with the exception the Indian submarine rescue contract in of 2015, James Fisher has increased its pipeline of medium-term prospects.
Tankships continued its run of Tankships continues to perform well in a profit and dividends every year, normally profit increases generated by high vessel by more than 10%: this despite external relatively stable market: this position will be utilisation levels and careful attention to underpinned by the introduction of more events such as the financial crisis of costs.
Offshore Oil managed a result only 2007-8, the fall in oil prices in 2014 modern tonnage on some routes.
Offshore marginally below the prior year: demand Oil is now positioned for recovery: our and most recently, Brexit.
Key to this began to firm in some sectors towards year performance has been the Groups ability businesses and management teams have end while the division was also successful done well both in terms of reducing their to innovate and to build new businesses.
in opening new opportunities in the Middle The rapid growth of our ship-to-ship East, Asia and in subsea decommissioning.
2 JAMES FISHER AND SONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 COBRA JFDs new diver breathing system JFD has successfully completed its first deep-water commercial dive project with its new diver breathing system COBRA Compact Bailout Rebreathing Apparatus, a sophisticated system that was designed and developed to provide divers with an emergency supply of breathing gas in the event of a primary failure.
The COBRA system provides divers with 20 minutes of air at a depth of 270 metres or 45 minutes of emergency life support at a depth of 120 metres.
This is compared to current alternative systems, which can only provide 3 minutes of air at 270 metres, and 7 minutes at 120 metres.
The extended operation time significantly improves the likelihood of a successful rescue in the event of an emergency.
Charles Rice, Chairman costs and in opening new markets for their Non-Executive Director.
He will bring the to work in very challenging environments services in the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
right balance of continuity and change to and all have to show a high level of this role going forward.
professionalism worthy of the confidence The strength of our balance sheet our customers place in us.
On behalf of the enables us to invest in development Effective 1 February, I was also pleased Board and from me especially in my final projects alongside a full capital investment to announce that Justin Atkinson had year, I would like to thank all our employees programme.
With the focus mainly on agreed to join the Board as an Independent for their hard work and commitment shown organic growth, we nevertheless remain Non-Executive Director.
He will succeed to the James Fisher Group.
alert for acquisition opportunities to help Malcolm as chairman of the Audit speed the development of our businesses.
Justin was until recently the Outlook The purchase of Rotos 360 Limited in CEO of the Keller Group plc, a FTSE 250 Our Marine Support division has March 2017 for an initial consideration business in the international construction commenced the year with good prospects of 1.5m and EDS HV Group Limited in sector.
He will bring experience of in its offshore renewables and marine December 2017 for 9.0m have further successfully managing a group on a similar project activities, as well as firm demand extended our range of market-leading growth path to James Fisher.
in the STS transfer business.
Specialist services to the offshore renewables sector.
With the development of James Fisher in Technical continues to work through its recent years and the increasing spread of strong order book and has a good pipeline The Board its international operations, the Board has of active prospects.
The timing of the After fourteen years on the Board and been giving careful thought as to when it award of these new projects will determine nearly six as Chairman, I announced would be appropriate to strengthen the whether this division is able to deliver a in January that I will stand down at the central executive team.
In January 2017, further step up in profits in 2018.
Tankships conclusion of this years Annual General Fergus Graham joined the Group having continues to operate well in a stable Meeting AGM.
It has been a privilege to worked previously at fide La Rue plc and market.
Sentiment amongst our Offshore have been part of James Fisher during other international companies in both Oil divisions customers has turned more an exciting period in the history of the operations and cross-border business positive in recent weeks and, while it is Company.
The Groups success is development.
He has played a senior role still too early to assess any general trend, generated by the hard work and dedication in our Marine Support division during the this has begun to be reflected in orders of staff and management throughout the past year.
The Board has now agreed to received for repair and maintenance work Group and it has been a great pleasure appoint Fergus as an Executive Director in particular.
We therefore have a positive to meet and work with so many of them with effect from 1 March 2018.
He will take view of the year ahead and are confident during my time with James Fisher.
responsibility for all of the Marine Support of the Groups potential to provide further The Board has chosen Malcolm Paul to division which generated 47% of the growth and value for our shareholders in become Chairman at the conclusion of the Groups turnover in 2017.
This will free up the future.
Malcolm has extensive experience in more time for Nick Henry as CEO to lead managing decentralised and international the Groups further development.
Charles Rice companies similar to James Fisher and 26 February 2018 has been an Independent Non-Executive Staff Director since 2011.
He has a deep The continued growth and success of the knowledge of the Company having chaired Group owes everything to the dedication the Audit and Remuneration Committees of our staff who now work in many different as well as being the Senior Independent countries across the globe.
Some have 3 FINANCIAL ST FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
