Chairmans statement Overview functioning of markets and to ensure continuity of The Group remains During 2017, London Stock Exchange Group continued service for the benefit of our customers, shareholders to make good progress executing its growth strategy, and other stakeholders.
With a strong global footprint well positioned for delivering another year of strong performance.
The and significant infrastructure in a number of Group has also addressed several strategic corporate, geographies across the UK, Eurozone, US and Asia, the opportunities macroeconomic and political events.
the Group is extraordinarily well placed to adapt to the consequences of the eventual exit terms.
On ahead and remains In the early part of the year, the Group navigated the behalf of all our stakeholders and partners, the termination of its attempted merger with Deutsche Group continues to argue strongly for a defined confident of delivering Brse following the European Commissions implementation period and the minimisation of the prohibition decision.
We worked hard to find the fragmentation of systems and processes designed to further success and appropriate solutions to the competition review.
make the financial markets more efficient, stable and LSEG has always been committed to maintaining safe.
We also firmly believe that enhanced regulatory value for shareholders.
excellent relationships with all of its stakeholders, supervision and regulation on a global scale will far including the regulators in its significant markets, outweigh any short term political benefits of location Donald Brydon CBE and taking into account all of the relevant factors, based policies for financial markets infrastructure.
Chairman the Board concluded that it could not meet the late stage request from the EU Commission for Throughout the year, a key focus for the Group was divestment of a key Italian business.
planning to ensure that our systems and processes were ready for the major changes resulting from Throughout the merger discussions, the executive the implementation of MiFID II, which took effect management remained focused on the performance immediately after the year end.
All venues went live of our business divisions, through organic and in January 2018 in one of the most extensive inorganic growth, as was evident from the acquisition technology roll-outs the Group has ever undertaken.
of The Yield Book and Citi Fixed Income Indices David Warren discusses the opportunities that business.
The transaction, which completed at the MiFID II presents for the Group as the only financial end of August, enhances and complements the markets infrastructure business operating on Groups Information Services data and analytics an Open Access basis elsewhere in this Report.
offering and will allow FTSE Russell to capitalise further on key industry trends.
Governance The final quarter of the year saw the announcement Following the UKs decision to leave the EU, the Group of a process for succession of the Chief Executive.
continues to ensure that our businesses are well In early October, the Board and the Chief Executive, prepared for any eventual outcome.
As a systemically Xavier Rolet, confirmed an agreement that he would important financial markets infrastructure business, leave the Group by the end of 2018 to ensure a the Group has a responsibility to ensure the orderly smooth transition.
Shareholders will recall that Xavier 4 London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 Strategic Report Chairmans statement was interrupted by restructuring ahead of the Full year dividend possible merger with Deutsche Brse.
The Group 1 Final dividend of 37.2 pence per share to be paid on 30 May 2018 2016: 31.2 pence per share is also a signatory to the UKs HM Treasury Women in Finance Charter to improve gender diversity within 51.6p 2017 senior leadership teams and we have set ourselves a stretching target of 40% female representation 2016 43.2p in senior roles by the end of 2020.
36.0p 2015 2 2014 28.4p Corporate Social Responsibility The Group is in a privileged position at the heart 2 27.2p 2013 of the financial markets and we are pleased to support corporates, issuers and investors integrate Dividend policy sustainability and diversity as a core part of their We operate a sustainable, progressive dividend policy, aiming to operate in a target range of 2.53.0x capital raising and investment decisions.
continue to work closely with global and regional charities in the communities in which we operate.
Subject to shareholder approval at our AGM The selected charities focus on helping young 2.
For years ending 31 March people to develop vital life skills and we encourage 3.
Ratio of earnings per share divided by dividend per share employees to become actively involved in their work through paid volunteering days.
In 2017, the Groups Foundation donated 1.4 million to various charities.
Financial Performance The Group has continued to deliver a strong financial performance across its business divisions.
Total Rolet had offered to step down in order to smooth the shareholders delegate decisions to a Board.
The income grew to 1,955 million, up 18%.
Adjusted path for the planned merger.
As a result, following returns that result from these decisions are not operating profit was 812 million, while adjusted the end of the merger process with Deutsche Brse achieved risk free.
Boards are not committees, but are EPS was 148.7 pence, an increase of 19%.
in March 2017, it was clear to the Board that the Group real risk taking bodies providing oversight of executive needed clarity over succession.
Unfortunately, one management and guiding the strategic direction Consistent with the Groups capital allocation shareholder requisitioned a General Meeting to seek of the company.
I share my further thoughts on framework, we conducted an on-market share to undo the agreed plan.
The Chief Executives corporate governance later in this report on page 56. buyback of 200 million, an amount broadly departure was, as a consequence, accelerated, and a equivalent to the return we would have made had the motion to remove your Chairman proposed by the The events of the last quarter of 2017 challenged the merger with Deutsche Brse proceeded as planned.
Regrettably, this Board to think deeply about its role, the culture of the process disrupted the organised succession process Company and the actions it takes in the best interests Reflecting the Groups strong performance and our and caused considerable diversion of time and of all stakeholders collectively.
I am enormously commitment to sustainable, progressive dividends, energy.
The process of appointing the new Chief grateful for all the time and effort expended by the the Board is proposing a final dividend of 37.2 pence Executive is now advanced with a strong field of high Board members during this period.
The UK Corporate per share, resulting in a 19% year-on-year increase quality candidates.
When the new Chief Executive is Governance Code demands that attendance at the in the total dividend to 51.6 pence per share.
The final announced and appropriately integrated into the Board and its committees are logged.
In addition to dividend will be paid on 30 May 2018 to shareholders Group, I will step down at the AGM in 2019, Board and Committee meetings, the Non-Executive on the register as at 4 May 2018. to allow a new team to take the business forward.
Directors of LSEG attended many more meetings during both the possible merger with Deutsche Brse Conclusion The Board firmly believes that it followed appropriate and the process of preparation of the notice of the I would like to thank Board members and all of our governance principles, considering shareholders and December General Meeting than are recorded in our excellent employees for another successful year in other stakeholders interests at all times, but it is Governance report.
the development of this great company.
The Group important that our actions are reviewed and remains well positioned for the opportunities ahead consideration is given to any lessons to be learned.
At the end of the year, the Board was joined by Val and remains confident of delivering further success An external review is being conducted by Simon Rahmani whose strong technology and business and value for shareholders.
Collins, a former UK Chairman and Senior Partner of background will provide valuable expertise as we KPMG, who has the deep experience and technical continue to grow our global business.
As noted, in expertise to undertake this work.
The Board will share November, Xavier Rolet stepped down from his role as the summary of key conclusions with shareholders a Director and CEO.
My colleagues and I acknowledge in due course.
the immense contribution he made to the development of your Company.
There have been no Donald Brydon As I said at the General Meeting in December, Boards other changes to the Boards composition in 2017.
Chairman must take into account all relevant information in 2 March 2018 making their decisions.
It will never be possible for all As detailed in the Governance Report on page 56, of that information to be in the public domain, much the Board remains committed to further restoring as some may wish it to be.
That is one reason why the gender diversity of the Board, a process that London Stock Exchange Group Annual Report December 2017 5
