6 MEGGITT PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 f SItr nan ate cI g al Ic S r t e a p te Or m t entS Our third priority is to target value accretive Chairmans statement acquisitions in attractive markets where we have or can develop a strong competitive position.
The Board meets regularly to review the Groups strategy and has a clear view on the areas of capability we should grow by acquisition.
This list is refined on an annual DRIVING VALUE basis and potential targets are assessed against a rigorous set of criteria including both financial metrics and more qualitative CREATION assessments, including cultural fit.
Finally, in the absence of any compelling investment opportunities for a prolonged period, our fourth priority is to maintain an efficient balance sheet in line with the Boards guideline range of 1.5x to 2.5x Net 1 debt:EBITDA, designed to ensure clear headroom against our covenants.
Board Changes In November, we announced that Stephen Young would step down from the Board and his role as Chief Executive in December 2017 before retiring in April 2018.
Stephen has served as our Chief Executive for five years and prior to that, for nine years as Finance Director.
During this 14 year period, Group revenue grew fivefold, profitability increased by nearly 460% and total shareholder returns grew by 420%.
We thank Stephen for the significant role he has played in the development of the Group and we wish him well in his retirement.
Stephen has been succeeded by Tony Wood Sir Nigel Rudd who joined Meggitt in December 2016 as Chairman Chief Operating Officer.
With over 30 years of experience in senior aerospace roles, both at Rolls-Royce and Safran, Tony brings a wealth In last years report I talked about the significant increases in of industry knowledge, skills and extensive operational experience that will make him content Meggitt had secured on new generation aircraft an excellent successor.
Further details on during a period of unprecedented product renewal by the the process to appoint Tony is included in the Nominations Committee report on page major airframe and engine manufacturers.
As reported last year, Nancy Gioia joined supply products as a sole source provider, we are the only the Board in April 2017, replacing Brenda Reichelderfer who retired after serving six provider of spare parts on these platforms that will be in years as a Non-Executive Director.
operation for decades to come.
People I was pleased to be able to visit a number With products installed on over 69,000 civil growing customer programmes and build of our sites in 2017 and I continue to be and military aircraft, increased content on further capacity for growth.
impressed by the skills and commitment our new aircraft and consistent growth in air employees demonstrate.
This, combined travel, Meggitt is well positioned for growth Our second priority is to grow our ordinary with our specialist capabilities and leading over the medium to long term.
dividend in line with earnings through the positions in our core markets, is at the centre cycle.
Over the past five years we have of everything we do.
I would like to thank all of Having passed the peak of investment grown our dividend by 6.1% p. a, during a our employees for their hard work this year.
in research and development, the focus period of significant reinvestment.
During In 2018, I will ensure the Board continues of the business is now on building the this period, we have delivered free cash to focus on culture, inclusion, diversity capability and capacity to deliver these new flow of more than 140% of our dividend, and employee engagement, in support of programmes to our customers and driving demonstrating the cash generative nature executive managements ambition for Meggitt operational efficiencies that will enhance of our business model.
to be an employer of choice.
our competitiveness and accelerate growth in shareholder returns.
Reflecting the continued confident outlook for the medium term, the Board is proposing a 5% increase to the full year Capital Allocation dividend to 15.85p per share for 2017 To deliver this sustainable growth in 2016: 15.10p per share.
shareholder returns over the medium to long term, the Board has outlined a series of Dividend growth p. a. over 5 yrs Sir Nigel Rudd priorities for capital allocation.
Chairman Our first priority is investing in the organic growth and operational efficiency of the % business.
In 2017, we have continued to make significant investments to develop 6.1 1 Calculated on a covenant basis new technologies, fund our participation in
