STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 11 CHAIRMAN'S STATEMENT The Group made substantial financial progress, returning to strong overall organic revenue growth of 5%.
Geoffrey Howe I am pleased to present the Groups JLT Re achieved organic revenue growth INCREASED DIVIDEND Annual Report for the financial year of 4%, with a trading margin of 20% The Directors have recommended ended 31 December 2017. which reflected its continued investment a final dividend of 21.8 pence per share in the business.
2016: 20.6 pence for the year to JLT has delivered a strong set of 31 December 2017.
The dividend will be financial results in 2017.
The Group The UK and Ireland Employment Benefits paid on 8 May 2018 to shareholders who made substantial financial progress, businesses saw a return to growth in are on the register as at 3 April 2018. returning to strong overall organic 2017.
Trading profits increased by 40% revenue growth of 5%.
from 2016 with organic revenue growth This will bring the total dividend for of 8%.
the year to 34.0 pence per share, During the year we carried out a an overall increase of 5.6% and the re-examination of the Groups strategy, In the year, the Group completed three ninth consecutive year that JLT has and we have made some important acquisitions, for a total consideration of paid an increased dividend.
decisions which we believe will position 61.2 million, as it continued to build the Group for continued success.
further scale in its existing businesses The business has delivered a Total and geographies.
Shareholder Return TSR of 328% PERFORMANCE over the past nine years, as illustrated The Group is making investments to Total revenues increased by 10%, in the chart on page 87. strengthen its representation in continental or 6% at constant rates of exchange Europe.
These investments support CRE, to 1.39 billion.
CORPORATE ACTIVITY the Group's preparations for different HIGHLIGHTS Brexit scenarios.
The Groups underlying trading profit increased by 10% to 213.7 million Our Risk & Insurance businesses In light of the investments being made and by 7% at CRE.
Underlying profit delivered organic revenue growth of and the preparatory work that has been before tax increased by 11% to 5% in the year, with strong client retention undertaken, we do not anticipate that 191.5 million.
The Group's trading and new business in JLT Europe delivering Brexit will materially impact our ability to margin was maintained at 15.4%.
good performances from most divisions in serve clients and access markets in the challenging market conditions.
Our reported profit before tax European Union.
increased by 35% to 181.6 million, The build-out of our US Specialty which includes the impact of net platform continues, with revenues exceptional items of 9.9 million.
The net investment losses peaked in Reported diluted EPS increased to 2016 and reduced in 2017 and we 54.7p and underlying diluted EPS remain fully focused on achieving increased to 58.5p.
1.39bn 10% 34.0p TOTAL REVENUE INCREASE ON 2016 TOTAL DIVIDEND 12 STRATEGIC REPORT During the year, the Board and its Committees undertook RE-EXAMINATION OF GROUP STRATEGY reviews of their effectiveness.
The conclusions from these During 2017 we carried out a re-examination of the Groups reviews provided useful feedback to each body on its strategy, in order to ensure that it remains appropriate to performance.
Further details are provided in the Corporate support and enable our future growth plans so we can continue Governance Report on pages 57 to 66. to create long-term value for our stakeholders.
The review resulted in a number of key conclusions in respect of the future JLTs share incentive schemes are designed to ensure that shape of the Groups strategy, recognising the importance of decisions are made by management to support long-term JLTs distinctive identity and culture and deep specialist strength growth, that the right behaviours are rewarded and that as key differentiators between JLT and its larger competitors: managements interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
and the importance of consistent and coordinated collaboration Further details of the operation of these schemes can be found across divisions, regions and industry practices.
in the Directors' Remuneration Report set out on pages 78 to 90.
The review also recognised JLTs international development The strength and support of Jardine Matheson has been, and needs and opportunities, including in the US, where our will continue to be, an important factor in the success of JLT.
representation now creates the opportunity for us to move from Since 2014 a Relationship Agreement has been in place with an international to a global business.
As a result of the review, Jardine Matheson, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the the Group reformulated its mission during the year: To become Financial Conduct Authority FCA, which require shareholders the leading global specialist risk adviser and broker.
with a 30% or more shareholding to comply with certain independence provisions set out in a written and legally To progress towards our mission, the Group is undertaking a binding agreement.
More detail on the relationship with number of strategic initiatives, including: Jardine Matheson is set out on page 66. the simplification of our business and management structure.
As we announced in January, from 1 April 2018, BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT our regional insurance broking operations will be brought DEVELOPMENTS together into an integrated Specialty division.
The Groups businesses will then be structured into three divisions, There were a number of Board and senior management Reinsurance, Specialty and Employee Benefits: changes during 2017.
Two Directors stepped down from the Board: Bruce Carnegie-Brown retired on 14 June 2017, the implementation of a Global Transformation Programme following his appointment as the Chairman of Lloyds of London, to streamline the operational processes we use to serve and Jonathan Dawson retired on 3 October 2017.
I should like clients in each of our divisions, to deliver global consistency to record the Boards thanks to Bruce and Jonathan for their and eliminate duplicated costs: respective valuable contributions to the Board and building on the firm foundation we have already established its Committees.
in the US through continuing organic revenue growth, complemented by targeted acquisitions: and We were pleased to welcome Andrew Didham and Richard Meddings, who both joined the Board on 2 October coordinating the marketing and operation of our Employee 2017.
Richard has become Chair of the Remuneration Benefits activities worldwide.
Committee and Andrew has become Chair of the Audit & Risk Further details regarding the strategy review and these key Committee.
Annette Court has succeeded Jonathan Dawson initiatives can be found in the Chief Executives Review on as the Companys Senior Independent Director.
pages 14 to 17 and in the Reviewing & Delivering Our Strategy As we announced on 28 February 2018, Lynne Peacock will section on pages 22 to 24. also join the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 May 2018.
Lynne brings with her a broad range of board CORPORATE GOVERNANCE skills and extensive experience gained in the financial services The Board continues to recognise the need for a strong industry over many years.
Lynne, along with our existing corporate governance framework and supporting processes Directors, will be proposed for election at this year's Annual across the Group and believes that good governance, with General Meeting and Lynne's biographical details will be set out tone set from the top, is a key factor in delivering sustainable in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
business performance and creating value for the Group's At a senior management level, and following the re-examination stakeholders.
The Board feels that it has a good balance of of our strategy, Lucy Clarke was appointed as Chief Executive experience, skills and knowledge to support and challenge of the Groups worldwide insurance broking activities with effect the management team, and that it is supported by effective from 1 April 2018, with the title Global CEO of JLT Specialty.
More information on these The remit of this new role covers all the Groups business systems can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on activities except Reinsurance broking and Employee Benefits pages 57 to 66.
In addition, the Directors Report on pages 91 and reports to the Group Chief Executive, Dominic Burke.
to 98 reports on JLTs compliance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code during 2017.
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2017 13 Jonathan Palmer-Brown stepped down from the Group Our Diversity Committee has defined our diversity agenda on the Executive Committee at the end of the year and continues to basis of three pillars: Networking, Sponsorship and Involvement, act as an Adviser to the Group Chief Executive.
while ensuring that all of our activities are inclusive, whether externally or internally focused.
In 2017, JLT supported a number Leo Demer retired as CEO of our Australia and New Zealand of initiatives, both internally and at public events in the London business at the end of 2017 and has been succeeded by and other markets, to help drive a more diverse and inclusive Nick Harris.
Nick joined the Group Executive Committee with business and to play our part in addressing diversity challenges effect from 1 January 2018.
Leo assumes the new role of in our industry.
Head of Global Public Sector Specialties.
We are also keen to ensure that we minimise our environmental With effect from 26 February 2018, Mike Rice became impact and we take a number of steps to reduce our carbon Executive Chairman of JLT's US Specialty business to focus footprint, such as encouraging the use of teleconferencing facilities on M&A and to continue to play a leading role in driving new where possible, instead of travelling to face-to-face meetings.
Pat Donnelly, formerly President and Deputy CEO, assumed the role of CEO of that business.
Further details can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 46 to 55.
In view of the changes to the Group business and management structure, the Group Executive Committee will be reconstituted from 1 April 2018.
The members of the Committee will SHARE BUY-BACK AUTHORITY comprise: Dominic Burke, Mark Drummond Brady, Charles We will be seeking renewal of our standing share buy-back Rozes, Lucy Clarke, Ross Howard, Mike Methley, William authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, up to a Nabarro, Jim Pierce, Mike Reynolds and Bala Viswanathan.
maximum of 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
OUR PEOPLE As in previous years, we will not be seeking shareholder On behalf of the Board I would like to thank everyone in JLT for approval for a dispensation under Rule 9 of the Takeover Code their continued hard work and contribution to the Groups results in relation to this authority.
This means that if the Directors in 2017.
I would also like to welcome all our new colleagues who were to initiate a buy-back, then in order to avoid triggering have joined JLT during the year.
Whatever part of the Group I visit a mandatory offer obligation on Jardine Matheson Holdings I always see evidence of the distinctive culture at JLT that values JMH under Rule 37 of the Takeover Code, JMH would need agility and entrepreneurial drive, rigour and depth of thought and to be able to participate in those buy-backs so that its overall a collaborative approach that puts customers first.
There is further percentage holding which as at 22 February 2018 was 40.16% information about our colleagues and culture on page 7. did not increase following the buy-back.
Although the Company has not utilised the authority to buy OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY back shares since 2008, the Board believes it would be in the JLT takes its role in society seriously and has an active interests of all shareholders for the Company to have the right Corporate Responsibility programme.
JLTs approach is to purchase its own shares in the market in the appropriate coordinated by a Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee, circumstances.
We would only exercise this authority if we which has Board, Group Executive Committee and senior believe it is in the best interests of the shareholders and would management membership.
result in an improvement in earnings per share.
JLT supports the charitable efforts of colleagues around OUTLOOK the Group.
We currently focus on three strategic partners aligned to our own areas of business, sharing the social Overall the Group is in very good shape and well placed to take benefits of knowledge, wellbeing and resilience.
Our current advantage of the current market environment.
We enter 2018 partners on these strategic themes are Udaan Foundation looking forward to continuing strong organic revenue growth knowledge, Alzheimer's Society wellbeing and RedR and further financial progress.
We manage the majority of our charitable giving business-by-business, with a central fund to provide greater support to our strategic partners.
We regularly engage clients in joint fundraising activities and see this as an important part of client relationship building.
We match pound-for-pound money raised by UK staff in Geoffrey Howe fundraising activities and all UK staff are entitled to take one Chairman Charity Day per year, when they can spend company time helping 28 February 2018 a charity.
The Group Charities Committee considers the many requests we receive from charities and takes a particular interest in those charities connected to communities local to our offices.
