Chairmans statement Paul Manduca A customer-focused Group delivering long-term sustainable returns I am pleased to present Prudentials 2017 Annual Report.
Prudential has produced another well balanced performance while making a number of important changes to our business.
Alongside our 2017 results, the Board announced its intention to demerge M&G Prudential, our UK and European business, from the Group.
The Board has always considered it The Board believes this demerger is in the Performance and dividend important to create optionality within our interests of all our stakeholders.
Customers We have delivered another broadbased corporate structure.
After a rigorous will receive greater focus, employees will operating and financial performance, review, which considered all options be more closely aligned with their driven by all of our business units and in including the status quo, we have businesses and we believe shareholders particular by our growing Asia businesses.
concluded that it is in the best interest of will benefit from investments in both In view of this performance and our the business to operate as two separately companies.
confidence about the outlook for the listed companies, able to focus on their Our strong full year results demonstrate Group, the Board has decided to increase distinct strategic priorities in their chosen the positive momentum across all our the fullyear ordinary dividend by geographies.
This will unlock the potential businesses.
8 per cent to 47 pence per share.
In line for enhanced value creation in both with this, the Directors have approved a businesses, as each benefits from strategic Our impact second interim ordinary dividend of focus and capital allocation policies aligned Throughout the demerger process, we will 32.5 pence per share 2016: 30.57 pence to its market opportunity.
On completion of continue to hold ourselves to the highest per share.
the demerger, shareholders will hold standards to ensure that both businesses interests in both companies.
Governance All our stakeholders benefit from the Board M&G Prudential is one of the leading As ever, our customers remain our key taking an active role in the development retirement and savings businesses in the priority.
We help customers make plans for and execution of our strategy, ensuring it is UK and Europe.
As a standalone entity, it the future by reducing the risks they face.
fit for today and for the future.
The Boards will continue to drive its transformation into Whether they are saving for the family, decision to separate M&G Prudential was a more capitalefficient and customer protecting their health or managing their not taken lightly and we took significant focused business, targeting growing retirement, Prudential enables them to time to consider the benefits for customer demand for comprehensive manage uncertainty.
We also turn their shareholders and customers and the financial solutions in these markets.
In line capital into a source of stable investment in impact on our wider stakeholders.
We took with this strategy M&G Prudential agreed companies and countries across the world, an important step towards this decision in in March 2018 to the partial sale of its driving economic growth and improving August 2017 when we announced our shareholder annuity portfolio.
Changing the structure of intention to merge our UK asset manager, other changes to the business, our priority our business will not reduce our M&G, and our UK and Europe life is to ensure these customers are treated commitment to delivering on these insurance business to form fairly.
The combined business The international Group will combine the 1 Our customer focus means actively now manages 351 billion in assets for exciting growth potential of our Asia, US engaging with the critical issues facing both more than seven million customers and is and Africa businesses, meeting the our businesses and the wider world.
In well placed to thrive as an independent growing needs of customers in these 2017, the Group published its first business.
These businesses will form a environmental, social and governance The Board now has a vital role to play leading international Group focused on the ESG report, demonstrating how we stewarding the separation process, largest insurance markets globally with approach all our stakeholders, from our working with management and ensuring significant growth prospects.
suppliers and employees to the wider that every part of the Group continues to communities in which we operate, with the Both independent groups will be deliver for customers.
This task makes same sense of responsibility and headquartered in London, which we ensuring a strong and diverse Board more commitment that we apply to our regard as the preeminent city from which important than ever.
There were a number customers, and how we engage with to operate global financial service of changes to the Board in 2017 in both investors and regulators around the risks businesses, and both are expected to meet nonexecutive and executive roles, and impact of issues such as climate the criteria for inclusion in the FTSE100.
reflecting the strength of our succession change.
We will publish our next ESG planning.
02 Prudential plc Annual Report 2017 www.
