We established TBC Bank in 1992, shortly after Georgia had CHAIRMANS STATEMENT restored its independence following the collapse of the Soviet Union.
We have since grown side-by-side with our country throughout its economic and political development.
As Georgia lacked a functioning financial system at the time of TBC Banks inception, we became true pioneers in establishing a well-run banking institution with a long-term perspective.
We set ourselves a challenging task: to build a banking business that would earn trust and credibility with our customers.
For that reason, from the outset, we adopted a customer-centric approach in our business.
To help achieve our goal, we have sought to employ people who share our mindset and have created a strong, committed team with common values.
Over the past 25 years, TBC Bank has been growing together with its customers, supporting them in meeting their financial needs, helping them to achieve success and contributing to the entire countrys development.
Today, we take pride in being the largest privately-owned bank in 1 the region.
In addition to our strong team spirit, we attribute our continued success to having one of the most recognised brands in Georgia, a superior customer experience, the best multichannel network and a full range of innovative services and products.
Strategy We believe that TBC Banks future success depends on its digital competence, as customers are increasingly shifting towards digital banking.
The banking industry is entering a digital era and we need to stay abreast of upcoming changes.
Last year, we announced an updated strategy to become the best digital financial services 1 company in the region.
We remain committed to this strategy.
We are also focused on our customer experience.
We have made significant efforts to anticipate our customers needs and offer them the best products and services.
We measure customer satisfaction regularly to identify areas that need improvement, Dear shareholders, and we work diligently to enhance our offerings.
We pride ourselves on having the highest customer satisfaction scores in It is with great pleasure that 2 the Georgian banking sector, as well as on holding leading I present our 2017 annual report.
positions in the countrys broader retail industry.
As the year also marks our 25th We will continue to use our strengths to keep growing with the market and more actively engage with our customers by creating anniversary, I would like to reflect innovative, value-added solutions for them.
At the same time, we will remain focused on operating efficiency and automation to on where we started and how far become more agile in our fast-changing environment.
we have come over this past quarter Key achievements of a century.
In May, we successfully completed the integration of Bank Republic, well ahead of schedule.
As a result, we have expanded our distribution network and increased our client base by around 380,000 customers, all of whom now have full access to our innovative range of products and services.
Mamuka Khazaradze Chairman Another significant development in 2017 was the inclusion of our shares into the FTSE 250 Index, reflecting the improved liquidity of our shares and the increased valuation of our business.
Since then, we have begun to benefit from a more diversified shareholder base and are seeing greater interest from potential investors.
1 Region in this context comprises Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia 2 Based on surveys conducted by independent research companies: IPM and ACT 3 According to data as of 31 December 2017 published by the National Bank 10 TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 of Georgia Strategic Report Strategic Rreport Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Overview Strategy & Performance Over the past year, we made good progress towards our updated I would like to thank all our Directors for their active involvement strategy of becoming the best digital financial services company in and valuable contribution towards our achievements in 2017.
1. the region The number of transactions and sales conducted in I firmly believe that, together, we are well positioned to realise remote channels continue to grow rapidly, as do internet and mobile our strategy of becoming the best digital financial services 1 banking penetration levels.
We also launched the first Georgiancompany in the region.
speaking chatbot, Ti Bot, which allows customers to conduct simple banking transactions via Facebook Messenger.
It also provides As already announced, two non-executive Directors, Stefano useful information about our products, as well as entertainment Marsaglia and Stephan Wilcke will be leaving TBC Bank and events and weather forecasts.
The chatbot has been well received stepping down from the Board as and when suitable replacements by our customers and has become a highly popular channel, are found during 2018.
I would like to extend the Boards thanks attracting more than 124,000 users since its launch in March 2017. to both Stefano and Stephan for their important contributions to TBC Bank and we wish them every success in the future.
Our strong operating performance during 2017 translated into robust financial results.
For 2017, TBC Bank recorded an underlying net Acting responsibly profit of GEL 369.2 million, up 35.1% year-on-year.
In addition, our Corporate responsibility has always been one of our overriding underlying return on equity and return on assets stood at a respective values.
During the past 25 years, TBC Bank has actively supported 21.4% and 3.2%.
In terms of our loan book, our loan portfolio grew by culture, sports, young talent and other important social projects.
3 16.2% year-on-year, leading to a market share of 38.2%.
We continue to hold a firm belief and commitment to supporting the community, the environment, the human rights, and our wider Operating environment stakeholders, including our shareholders, employees and 2017 was another remarkable year in Georgias continued customers.
We also aspire to conduct business in a way that development.
The countrys citizens were granted visa-free access promotes high ethical standards, values and encourages our to the Schengen zone, which is a significant advancement and will employees to act with integrity and responsibility towards each support our deeper integration with the EU countries.
Visa other and our customers, partners and community.
liberalisation would also have a positive impact on tourism, leading to increased awareness about Georgia and greater tourist inflow This year, we launched an innovative platform, statusdonates.
The country is already being promoted as one of the which focuses on supporting success and features short videos 4 best places to visit, including by many reputable magazines, which about individuals and organisations that need financing, enabling have named it in their lists of the top 10 tourist destinations.
people to select a specific cause that they would like to promote and support.
In 2017, Georgia recorded strong economic growth with GDP 5 reaching 5.0%, which is one of the largest increases among We remain long-term partners with the Georgian Rugby Union and countries in the CIS and Eastern Europe.
This improvement was are the title sponsor of the national rugby team.
In 2017, Georgia mainly driven by high tourism income and an increase in net hosted the World Rugby Under-20 Championship and we actively exports.
Another positive factor was the improvement in the current promoted the games using our social and media channels, helping 6 account deficit, which decreased to 7.1% of GDP for 9M 2017, to attract many fans to the stadiums.
This championship put compared with 11.2% a year earlier, indicating that the country is Georgia on the international sports map and introduced world experiencing more sustainable economic development.
rugby fans to the country from a different angle.
Other important developments in 2017 included the official opening Outlook of the long-awaited Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railway and the beginning of While we have achieved significant success over the past 25 years, a new phase of development at Anaklia Deep Sea Port, where we continuously seek ways to improve our business.
We remain construction work started in December.
These projects will eager to go further after achieving each new accomplishment.
We strengthen Georgias position as a regional tourism and will continue to innovate and offer unbeatable digital solutions, a transportation hub, as it offers the shortest route to connect the superior customer experience and tailor-made financial products.
economies of China and countries in Central Asia to those of In 2018, we will progress towards our strategy of becoming the European countries.
These transportation links, coupled with free 1. best digital financial services company in the region trade agreements with the EU, China and all major economic powers in the broader region, will further support the growth of On behalf of the Board, I would like to express my deep gratitude Georgias economy and diversify trade exports.
to our management team, employees and partners for their continued hard work and dedication.
I am confident that our joint Finally, Georgia regained its position among the top 10 countries in efforts will enable us to achieve success in all our undertakings the World Banks Doing Business 2018 ranking, moving up by seven and create maximum value for all our stakeholders over the next positions to ninth place to become the best performer in Europe 25 years.
This outstanding performance in these rankings highlights the governments continued efforts to improve the business environment and to make Georgia one of the worlds most attractive places to do business.
Mamuka Khazaradze Governance Chairman TBC Bank is committed to the highest standards of corporate 28 March 2018 governance and business transparency.
Our experienced Board of Directors takes the leading role in framing our strategy, overseeing our risk management and challenging our performance.
With their diverse and unique skillsets, our Directors help to guide our strategic development and create sustainable value for our stakeholders.
4 Conde Nast Traveller, Vogue, and Lonely Planet 5 Source: Geostat 6 Source: NBG, Geostat TBC Bank Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11
