BAE Systems 10 Annual Report 2017 Chairmans letter The year in review There is no doubt that 2017 was a successful year and, most importantly, a year in which the leadership baton was smoothly and efficiently passed over to Charles Woodburn as Chief Executive of the Group.
The Companys long-term health and growth were further underpinned by contracts successfully secured during the year on major programmes in our principal and international markets.
Notably, these included contracts to supply frigates and submarines for the Royal Navy, new and upgraded land vehicles for theUS, M777 howitzers for India, and strong global demand for our world-class defence and commercial electronic systems capabilities.
In December, we entered into a contract tosupply Typhoon aircraft to Qatar, subject tofinancing conditions, and we remain cautiously optimistic of securing further aircraft sales to international customers.
Our cyber and intelligence capability remainsin high demand from government and commercial customers around the world, There is no doubt that 2017 in a challenging market environment.
It is equally critical in ensuring best-in-class cyber protection for our own defence platforms, was a successful year.
In recent years, we have leveraged our capabilities into the Sir Roger Carr Chairman commercial sector, where on occasions increased volume has been achieved at theexpense of value.
This has now been addressed through a change of management and by refocusing the business into markets where specialised skills provide competitive edge and attractive returns.
During the second half of the year, our organisation structure was simplified and aligned with the demands of the business today.
8 p 2015 20.9 2014 20.5 2013 20.1 2% Strategic report Governance Financial statements BAE Systems Annual Report 2017 11 Alternative performance 06 measure definitions Our strategy Our culture These changes acknowledge the increasing requirement for in-country production by Whilst market conditions may fluctuate, As a company, we focus not simply on how ourcustomers, the need to continuously hone ourstrategy remains clear.
We are an much money we make but, more importantly, our competitive edge in all markets and the international defence company operating in how we make money.
The tone is set at the emphasis that must be placed on efficient the domains ofair, maritime, land and cyber top and cascades throughout the organisation.
execution of a strong order book.
with major businessinterests in the UK, US, We are proud of what we do and committed the Kingdomof Saudi Arabia and Australia.
For my part, as Chairman, I have been pleased to serve and equip those that serve and to witness the Companys ability to manage We manage a balanced business of products protect us.
We aim to inspire and excel in the structural and leadership change in a and services, employing world-class skills work we do and the technology we develop.
intechnology and engineering to meet our The management ethos is to work with customers current and future needs.
We It has been made clear to me by customers, customers in the spirit of partnership, usethese capabilities primarily in the defence shareholders, employees and partners that strivingto go the extra mile in the products sector but, where appropriate, extend our allhave valued the preservation of seasoned we make and the service we offer, reach into related and adjacent commercial executive experience with the introduction recognisingthat we must earn everything market areas.
offresh thinking and renewed energy in andare entitledto nothing.
themanagement team at a time of We develop the skills necessary to supply As Chairman, I believe we should place geopolitical turbulence.
ourcustomers by a commitment to safetyabove profit, people above process, apprenticeships, graduate training and Relationships and reputation are, of course, key andethics above outcomes, in an environment life-long learning.
to the success of any business.
In this context, that promotes merit and values diversity.
it is pleasing that close liaison with governments The cash we generate from the business OurCorporate Responsibility Committee in the UK, US, the Gulf, Australia, India and isused to pay our people, pay ourtaxes, monitors performance in these areas.
many other key international markets, continues meetour pension obligations, invest in the Our Remuneration Committee focuses on to ensure the strength of our relationships at the business through research and technology theimportance of rewarding management highest levels and underline our commitment andcapital expenditure, reward shareholders commensurate with performance and to contributing to national priorities across and make acquisitions, whenappropriate.
creatinga structure that is fair, transparent theglobe.
This will be particularly important To deliver this strategy, we have a well-defined andinclusive in recruiting, securing and in2018 in the pursuit of major business operational framework, underpinned by a retaining the best talent.
opportunities in air, maritime, land and strong culture which seeks to be trusted, cybercurrently under negotiation.
We believe it is only by adopting these innovative and bold.
principles that we can win the backing of The year ahead, therefore, remains ourstakeholders and the support of society demanding, both in delivering the order atlarge.
bookwe have and building an even strongerbacklog for the long-term future The Audit Committee continues to be the ofthe business, but we approach it with check and balance that we have to ensure confidence and enthusiasm.
weaccount conservatively, manage prudently and manage risk effectively.
In discharging , the Committee works closelywith management, internal audit andthe external audit team to gather theirperspectives and ensure the integrity, accuracyand veracity of our financial reportingto a high standard.
BAE Systems 12 Annual Report 2017 Chairmans letter continued Summary At the heart of the business are the people weemploy and the talent we build from In summary, we have been pleased to deliver apprentice to boardroom.
As an international another year of good performance with sales leader in engineering and technology, we of 19.6bn and underlying earnings per share believe we have a responsibility to develop of 43.5p, underpinned by an order backlog adeep pool ofexpertise through high-quality of41.2bn.
training and apprenticeships, with some Against the background of a strong Board, 2,000apprentices and 500 graduates and a refreshed and committed management currently in training in the UK.
team, we are both content with the years Board and Executive Committee performance and positive about our future prospects.
With effect from 1 July, Charles Woodburn succeeded Ian King as Chief Executive.
The Board therefore has recommended a final Ianretired after a career spanning more than dividend of 13p for a total of 21.8p per share 40 years at the Company, including leading for the full year.
Subject to shareholder BAE Systems as Chief Executive since 2008. approval at the May 2018 Annual General Meeting, thedividend will be paid on 1 June Building a pipeline of talent and managing 2018 toholders of ordinary shares registered succession at all levels in the business is, of on 20April 2018. course, an essential part of strategic planning.
Our Nominations Committee consistently reviews membership of the Board and Executive Committee.
In this respect, in 2017, we were fortunate to recruit Revathi Advaithi as a non-executive director bringing wide international operational experience with strong engineering and digital credentials, Sir Roger Carr Chairman andKarin Hoeing as Group Human Resources Director and member of the Executive Committee.
As we look forward, beyond thecurrent year, we will continue to refresh the Board andExecutive Committee to ensure our experience and skillset is fit for purpose inachanging world.
To avoid complacency and in the pursuit ofexcellence, we conduct rigorous annual reviews of the Board with the employment ofan external advisor every other year.
The key findings of the 2018 Independent Board Evaluation are outlined in the Chairmans Governance letter on page 72 of this report.
As a Board, we debate and review our cultureeach year to ensure we continue to treat everyone respectfully, trade responsibly, act with integrity and govern scrupulously.
