Strategic Report Chairmans Statement ENHANCING our business Our Group has historically focused on the benefits gained from a Results overview decentralised operating model, but to better serve our customers, In my first year as Chairman of Spectris, it is pleasing to see we have started to evolve our operating model to increase the the Group deliver a 6% increase in constant currency, organic co-ordination between companies across key business functions 1 like-for-like, LFL sales, driving an 8% LFL increase in adjusted and to leverage our scale.
In support of this transformation, our operating profit.
Reported sales increased 13% in 2017 to Project Uplift programme is now in progress to optimise efficiency 1,525.6 million and reported operating profit increased to and effectiveness both within and also across our operating 182.4 million resulting in operating margins of 12.0% companies.
In turn, by increasing efficiency and reducing on a reported basis and 14.7% on an adjusted basis.
Cash complexity, we will free up the resources that will accelerate 2 conversion was 75% of our adjusted operating profit following the implementation of our strategic ambition.
a material step-up in growth capex in our Test and Measurement division.
Adjusted earnings per share EPS increased by 14% to Our people 145.1p with reported basic EPS at 197.0p.
Integral to the success of Spectris are the skills, experience and The Group continues to make good progress on the delivery of its technical know-how of our employees.
As we move forward with strategy and during the year, we made a number of changes to our the delivery of our strategy, it is inevitable that the way in which portfolio, including bolt-on acquisitions and a divestment.
Following we work together will evolve.
I thank all our employees for both the these transactions, the Groups financial position is robust, with net contribution during the year and also for their support in driving the debt at 50.5 million at the year end.
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 37.5 pence per To ensure the delivery of our strategic objectives, we have share which, combined with the interim dividend of 19.0 pence, made a number of key appointments to lead the more significant gives a total of 56.5 pence per share for the year, an increase of Group-wide initiatives.
In particular, appointments have been 9%.
This is consistent with our policy of making progressive made to deliver a new digital platform, key account management, dividend payments based upon affordability and sustainability.
lean initiatives, human resources management and improved supply The dividend will be paid on 29 June 2018 to shareholders on the chain management.
These will all help to develop best practice register at the close of business on 25 May 2018.
The ex-dividend and, in combination with a talent management programme, date is 24 May 2018. will ensure we have both the right skills and capabilities in Following the sale of Microscan in October 2017, post-tax cash place across the Group.
proceeds of approximately 91.9 million have been received.
The Board has, therefore, approved a share buy-back programme of 100 million to take place during 2018 and into 2019.
The Group has considerable financial flexibility and will continue to target acquisitions in support of its strategy.
Clear strategic direction As a leading supplier of  instrumentation In remembrance and controls, we provide a combination of highly-specialised Dr John Hughes CBE measuring instruments, software and services for some of the most In June 2017, Dr John  industrial applications.
We aim to enhance Hughes, the former Group our profitable growth by providing our customers with key insights Chairman, sadly passed alongside our instruments and, to this end, we are progressively away.
John joined the Board adding further software and analytical capabilities and test services as a Non-executive Director to our product offerings.
This will be focused on key industries and in June 2007 and became will provide customers with insights and solutions focused on their Non-executive Chairman of Spectris in May 2008.
These competencies will be added to our his tenure, John played a pivotal role in the Companys operating companies by organic investment, software and services development.
He made a significant contribution to the acquisitions and the deployment of data capture and connectivity Groups strategic progress, offering great insight, intellect technology as part of our digital strategy.
We will be well placed to and robust challenge.
The Board is deeply grateful for his offer the information and insights to enhance the productivity and commitment to the role and to the legacy that his leadership regulatory compliance of our customers.
has left in terms of the Companys clear strategic direction.
2 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2017 has been a positive year, both in terms of operational performance and strategic delivery.
We will continue our strategic evolution to offer customers increasing insights and solutions alongside our world-class instruments.
Mark Williamson Chairman Alongside this, our ethics and values are central to Spectris, guiding Summary our decision-making and ensuring that we always comply with the 2017 has been a positive year, both in terms of operational highest standards.
Our Code of Business Ethics is fundamental to performance and strategic delivery.
It was particularly pleasing the effective and responsible management of the business and to record strong organic growth this year.
Our aim is to continue for the delivery of shareholder value over the long term and I am to deliver organic growth and further improve the Groups pleased to see such a strong commitment to this across the Group.
profitability, while maintaining a robust financial position.
We will continue our strategic evolution to offer customers increasing Board update insights and solutions alongside our world-class instruments.
The I am delighted to have joined your Board as Non-executive strategic initiatives that we have launched have positioned us for Chairman in May 2017.
Since joining the Board, I have visited the delivering value both to our customers and to our shareholders, majority of our operating companies and have seen an open and and this provides the Board with confidence that the Company is transparent culture with a strong set of values that are in evidence well placed for the future.
There is a clear sense of doing the right thing Mark Williamson and the discussion and debate at all levels of the Group is Chairman engaging, constructive and appropriately challenging.
During the year, we made two appointments to the Board.
In January 2017, Kjersti Wiklund joined as a Non-executive Director and has brought significant knowledge of the international telecommunications sector to the Boards deliberations.
In July, Karim Bitar was appointed as a Non-executive Director.
Karim is chief executive of Genus plc, an agricultural biotechnology pioneer, and has extensive experience of leading international, technology-focused organisations, in particular in the pharmaceutical sector.
I also express my thanks to Russell King, Senior Independent Director, for assuming the Chair earlier in the year following the illness of my predecessor, Dr John Hughes.
Adjusted performance measures represent the statutory results excluding certain non-operational items.
Like-for-like LFL measures are stated at constant exchange rates and include acquisitions and disposals on a comparable basis.
For a definition of the item and a reconciliation to the closest IFRS equivalent, see Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
