06 Strategic Report | Chairmans statement Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Continuing to deliver ANDREW SUKAWATY We remain well placed CHAIRMAN to access future growth opportunities We have seen solid progress in 2017 towards our objectives of building a significant new mobile broadband business with our new Global Xpress constellation, as well as investing in establishing a leadership position in the largest growth opportunity in the commercial satellite sector, In-Flight Connectivity for the commercial aviation sector.
In our core business overall, particularly in Maritime, Aviation and Government, we have seen solid steady performance in the face of growing competition.
OUR RESPONSE TO SECTOR HEADWINDS However, we have been hit with headwinds as well, which have negatively affected our share price.
Some of these derive from issues in the sector we are in.
Firstly, there is growing overcapacity in the fixed satellite space, derived from declining video and telecoms revenues, markets we are not in.
Secondly, companies in the sector who are financially stressed have dropped prices.
licensing and sales of our soon to be launched That brings me to the Boards decision on the As a result of these factors, fixed satellite European Aviation Network.
We have built up dividend going forward.
During 2017, particularly in operators are attempting to enter the higher our presence and costs in aviation so that we the second half of the year, two elements started growth mobile satellite space where we operate.
are in a position to successfully support and to become clearer.
Firstly, the Boards conviction We believe these trends were predictable and grow that business in the years ahead.
around our opportunity to build our position in the known.
It was contemplated as we invested further, emerging and substantial In-Flight Connectivity While certainly there were operational and sector over the last few years, so as to maintain leadership segment continued to grow and, secondly, challenges in 2017, overall the management in the mobile satellite sector of commercial the continued lack of visibility and uncertainty team has executed well and achieved our primary satellites.
The mobile satellite sector is around the future cash contribution from Ligado strategic objectives for positioning the business fundamentally distinct from the fixed sector and Networks.
With these factors in mind, particularly for growth.
This will be laid out in more detail on the the services needed to address this market will take their potential impact on our short to medium-term following pages of this report by Rupert Pearce, many years for competitors to develop.
Our moves cash flow profile, the Board took the decision in his CEO review and in the strategy section.
in broadband mobile satellite are made from a to reduce the level of annual full year dividend position of strength in the maritime and aviation payments to shareholders to 20.00 cents $ sectors, where we have had a presence and been a BALANCING INVESTMENT per share.
These are healthy and growing IN GROWTH WITH Inmarsat is pleased that it has paid over $2.1bn to segments in the commercial satellite sector and SHAREHOLDER RETURNS shareholders in dividends since our IPO in 2005. our moves in 2017 and leading into 2018 uniquely In light of this years share price performance, However, given the magnitude of solid growth position us to lead and accelerate growth in these we have also stood back and assessed our plans opportunities before us and the other reasons emerging opportunities in the years ahead.
We have met extensively with stated, adjusting our dividend to address this capital shareholders and listened.
It is clear from this requirement is in the Companys best interest.
OVERVIEW OF OUR feedback that there is growing concern about the PERFORMANCE IN 2017 The dividend will remain at these levels until impact of our medium to long-term investments our cash flow grows sufficiently, to make future on the short-term financial performance of the The management team has been following the increases in the dividend appropriate.
Whilst business and the implications for our financial strategic plans outlined in our previous annual this was an extremely difficult decision for strength downstream.
It is important to emphasise reports and commented on in our quarterly the Board to take, we had to ensure the right that our business remains on a solid footing reporting and in 2017 executed well on those balance between providing our shareholders financially and the Board remains supportive of the plans to drive future growth opportunities.
with attractive cash returns and doing what is investment path we are on.
However, we will continue Major accomplishments for the year include right for the business in particular, by supporting to assess various paths to enhance our progress two successful satellite launches, a set of our growth prospects with a clear and targeted over the short term, as well as the long-term, new service launches across land, sea and air, investment programme.
to address the concerns which have been raised.
as well as tremendous progress on the build, Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Chairmans statement 07 is part of the hiring process.
We have recently 2017 AWARDS THE INMARSAT published our Gender Pay Report which looks INVESTMENT THESIS across our business to ensure there is no SMART4SEA Standing back from all of this you can see that unconscious bias in any of our decision making Category: Excellence Award 2017 we are investing with the belief that broadband and we report separately our UK employee statistics Winner: Fleet Xpress connectivity will greatly expand in the markets to the UK Government.
A copy of the report can we serve, those with little or no terrestrial wired be found on our website.
There has been much work or wireless connectivity.
This of course is at sea, done during 2017 on our talent management Mobile Satellite Users in the air and in remote, less densely populated and internal succession planning and we are environments.
This is broadly our investment Associations 2017 Mobility delighted progress has been made on these key thesis and supports our purpose of enabling Innovation Awards areas to support opportunities for our staff.
We believe we are best Category: Top Government Mobility We would like to assure our shareholders that we positioned to be a leader in this often overlooked Satcom Innovation strive to meet the highest standards in terms of global opportunity.
Translated to more specifics, Winner: Wideband Streaming L-band the governance standards we utilise to conduct this means that we believe more consumers on our business.
Last year, while our Remuneration aircraft will demand connectivity on their smart Policy received a solidly supportive vote, the phone or laptop.
We believe that ship owners Seatrade 2017 implementation of that Policy however received and mariners will have greater increased need Category: Digital Technology Award significant opposition.
In light of that, we have for high speed connectivity for ships generally Winner: Fleet Xpress consulted with shareholders and reviewed our and also in what is being referred to as Smart or remuneration implementation.
As a result we automated ships.
We believe that government have listened to the comments received and and aid workers in remote environments, will IMC Golden Shield Excellence made significant changes which are highlighted demand the same kind of connectivity they Awards 2017 UK Chapter in our Remuneration Report on page 76. experience everywhere else, in order to stay Category: Maritime Security Services Provider connected and function.
Our resources are Your Board continues to function well and we Winner: Inmarsat focused on investments that ride this trend.
completed our annual assessment of this during the course of 2017.
More details are provided BOARD DEVELOPMENTS in the Governance Report on page 56.
Inflight Magazine Asia Early last year, two of our long-standing Directors Pacific Awards SUMMARY retired from the Board, with one having been Category: Connectivity Enablement appointed at the time of our IPO in 2005 and Winner: GX Aviation We believe Inmarsat is on the right course the second in 2006.
We would like to thank to continue to grow profit and prosper for our Stephen Davidson and Kathleen Flaherty for customers, staff and shareholders.
We have their significant contributions to the success maintained our leadership in maritime and APEX Awards 2017 of Inmarsat over more than a decade.
aviation while making significant unprecedented Category: Best Inflight Connectivity Innovation investments to allow us to focus in those sectors Joining the Board during 2017 is Warren Finegold.
Winner: European Aviation Network we believe we can profitably grow.
Despite these Warren has tremendous experience in the forward looking investments, we remain solid telecoms sector, having recently retired financially.
However, we need to be mindful of as a senior executive with Vodafone, as well as Civil Aviation Administration financial market concerns for the sector and the significant experience in investment banking.
of China growing investments required to capitalise on these His biography can be found on page 61.
Category: Product Innovation growth opportunities and the Board is focused Winner: GX Aviation We have asked Sir Bryan Carsberg, a long-standing on these areas as part of its 2018 priorities.
Director at Inmarsat, to stay on the Board, while We would like to thank our customers for recognising he is no longer deemed independent continuing to trust and rely on us for their Airline Public Communication due to his tenure with us.
Bryan will continue often mission critical connectivity.
We take our to participate in the Audit and Remuneration Alliance China commitment to reliability and quality deeply Committees, but no longer as a formal member.
Category: Product Innovation seriously, not only for the safety services He will remain as a member of the Telecoms Winner: GX Aviation we provide at sea and in the air, but also for our Regulatory Committee.
The Board however, commercial services.
We also would like to thank still maintains significantly more than a majority our staff for their dedication and commitment of its Directors as independents.
We believe that World Travel Awards 2017 which allows us to continue to succeed.
Lastly, Sir Bryans contributions and insights continue Category: Worlds Leading Inflight I would like to thank our shareholders who have to be extremely valuable for the Inmarsat Board.
Internet Service Provider supported the continued evolution of our business Winner: Inmarsat Our Board is diverse in experience, gender and into new and essential growth opportunities.
For a global technology business we believe this is essential to achieving a high level performance for the Board, as well ANDREW SUKAWATY as the Company as a whole.
When we review CHAIRMAN Board succession, and the appointment of new 9 March 2018 Non-Executive Directors, diversity consideration
