Chairmans letter Dear fellow shareholder, In 2017, the global economy continued to be strong and to grow while concerns around the geopolitical environment increased.
For BP, as a global business, this was the backdrop to our operations.
Against this background we have had a strong year.
A year in which there was delivery and growth across all our businesses as Bob describes later in his letter.
This was achieved with continued strong focus on safety.
Its an impressive performance from a great team.
They are now fully into their stride and are performing very well.
All of this gave us confidence to continue the dividend at 10 cents per ordinary share through 2017 and shareholders can still take dividends in shares rather than cash.
In the fourth quarter we restarted share buybacks to offset the dilutive effects of the scrip shares.
Our goals aim to balance societys need for more It remains the boards policy to grow sustainable free energy with our clear ambition of playing our cash flow and distributions to shareholders.
part in the transition to a lower carbon world.
We So, a strong year and an important first year in the delivery of the commitment we made in 2016 to are investing for the future in both hydrocarbons shareholders.
So, Id like to take stock and reflect on and in technologies which will be important in where BP is now and the progress that weve made over the past eight years.
BPs path We were faced with a crisis in 2010 that could have threatened the very being of the company.
A crisis that should never have happened.
It required resolute action on many fronts to see us through and it is a great tribute to everyone in BP that the foundations were laid for our recovery.
This involved doing things differently and thinking differently.
We had to act simultaneously on many fronts.
We had to address the issues in the US while restructuring our investments in Russia and all the while ensuring that we had a clear strategy for delivering value for our shareholders.
All of this in a world that is looking towards a transition to lower carbon.
In addressing these challenges, BP showed a deep resilience.
With the leadership of Bob and his team the whole organization was engaged with the board playing a full role.
It is from this resilience that we have been able to set a clear strategy with goals out to 2021.
A strategy which will grow BP and be responsive to the many changes that are happening in the world around us.
Our challenge for the future Our goals aim to balance societys need for more energy with our clear ambition of playing our part in the transition to a lower carbon world.
We are investing for the future in both hydrocarbons and in technologies which will be important in that transition.
The world is changing quickly, quicker than we have seen before.
There is no one solution and no one right way ahead.
Our approach is clearly aimed at being flexible and responsive.
Above: Meeting with investors at the 2017 annual general meeting.
6 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 Strategic report overview Whatever scenario we look at, whether from BP or the IEA, there will need to be investment to ensure that $7.9 bn sufficient hydrocarbons are available during the transition total dividends distributed for the years to come.
The world will continue to need to BP shareholders supplies of hydrocarbons.
We need the understanding and trust of society to make these investments to meet this global demand.
Renewables cannot be developed quickly enough to meet the increasing need for energy.
This is not a choice between two investment approaches, both are needed for the world to be able to 5.7% grow.
Our strategic priorities address this.
We are ordinary shareholders committed and we demonstrate that commitment in annual dividend yield reports that we will soon publish.
Remuneration Melody Meyer was elected to the board at the 2017 Executive remuneration remains a clear issue of focus AGM.
Melody has an extensive career in global oil and for shareholders and society.
I would like to thank our gas at Chevron.
The board is proposing that Dame Alison 5.7% shareholders for the support which you gave to our new Carnwath be elected as a director at the 2018 AGM.
remuneration report at the 2017 AGM.
This was an Alison has extensive financial experience both as an ADS shareholders annual dividend yield important step forward in regaining your confidence.
She has worked with As is clear from Dame Ann Dowlings letter later in this global organizations and will bring a broad range of skills report, we are implementing this policy in a considered to the BP board and to the audit committee which she way.
As is the case with the way remuneration works, will join upon appointment.
Both these appointments there are awards maturing which are governed by our emphasize the boards commitment to diversity.
We have carefully considered the impact continue to enhance independent thinking and healthy of these.
Working with the executives, the committee challenge.
has exercised appropriate discretion to reflect your experience as shareholders over the past three years.
Our purpose Ann will be standing down from this committee at the BP has a clear purpose.
Our role is to produce energy AGM after three years in the chair.
I would like to thank which can power economic growth and lift people out her for all the work that she has done in leading the of poverty.
We need to do this in a way that responds to committee through some very difficult times.
Paula the ambition of a world for a low carbon future.
We have Reynolds will take the chair of this committee.
It has been a great year, but we must not be complacent.
We are in a competitive environment in a quickly changing world and The board our business needs to be ready to meet those demands.
The board has continued to work with Bob and his team Bob and his team have once again done an excellent job on many issues relating to our strategy, our oversight of in steering BP through this year and setting a course for the risks that BP faces and our understanding of the the future.
Thank you to Bob and the team, to my evolving challenges of the lower carbon transition.
colleagues on the board and to all our employees for all Our oversight of these risks is principally carried out their work during the year.
My thanks also go to you our through the work of our committees.
However there are shareholders for your support of BP.
certain risks, such as cyber security, where it is important I will be standing down during 2018 at some time after that it is considered by the board.
the May AGM and as I look back I feel good about the As a board we know that we can only bring long-term company.
Its in a great position to grow.
I am sure that I value to our shareholders if we understand the needs of will have the opportunity to thank you for the support you and serve the communities in which we work.
We need have given me in due course.
to listen to and be responsive to the voices of those communities and of our own employees.
Membership of the board continues to evolve.
Paul Anderson will be retiring at the AGM in May.
Paul joined the board two months before the Deepwater Horizon Carl-Henric Svanberg accident.
He has very deep experience of the energy Chairman industry and has been a major source of advice and 29 March 2018 counsel to me and to the board over these years.
Paul has made a great contribution to the board and its committees over some difficult times.
I thank him on my own behalf and on behalf of the board.
Above: Visiting Akers Tranby technology centre near Oslo.
More information Corporate governance Page 59 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2017 See Glossary 7 7
