02 Chairmans introduction Today Balfour Beatty is clearly focused on its chosen markets, winning new business on terms and conditions that balance risk and reward.
Projects are monitored rigorously and regularly, with consistent processes and systems.
Philip Aiken AM Chairman Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 03 This is the third occasion, as Chairman Markets We are fortunate to work on some of of your Board, that I have written to In the UK, US and the Far East, themost impressive and exciting projects you at the start of our Annual Report.
governments are taking action to renew in the world and I am always delighted at When we embarked on the Build to and improve essential infrastructure the level of passion and pride I nd every Last transformation programme our work which Balfour Beatty is well placed time I visit a site.
commitment was to make Balfour Beatty to deliver.
Safety is at the heart of the culture which a strong and sustainable company and Notably, in the UK we were selected to the leadership team is creating at Balfour thesectors leading performer.
deliver two Lots of the new high speed Beatty.
Much of the work we undertake Today Balfour Beatty is clearly focused on railway HS2 and won orders to construct is inherently dangerous: taking measures its chosen markets, winning new business the marine tunnels at the Hinkley PointC which eradicate risk or mitigate it where on terms and conditions that balance nuclear power plant.
In the US, we secured it cannot be completely removed is vital risk and reward.
Projects are monitored work to reconstruct and improve the if we are to ensure that everyone who rigorously and regularly, with consistent Southern Gateway an 11-mile stretch comes into contact with Balfour Beatty is processes and systems.
The legacy of road in Dallas, Texas and the 4.7-mile kept safe.
contracts, which did so much damage Green Line rail extension in Boston, It is, therefore, with deep regret that I have toyour company, are largely completed.
to report that three people died during 2017 The business continues to work whilst working on our projects, two in the This transformation has been constructively with industry bodies and the US and one in the Far East.
As a Board, we achieved whilst maintaining one of the UK Government to identify and manage review each serious accident in detail and strongest balance sheets in the sector, any challenges caused by the UKs exit seek actions to prevent a reoccurrence: maximising value in our Investments from the European Union.
Whilst we have however I realise that this is of little comfort portfolio and paying a sustainable and not seen an impact on our markets, any to the families of those who lost their progressive dividend.
restrictions on the movement of workers lives and I use this letter to send formal It has been a long road, and we still have a would be likely to exacerbate the current condolences to the bereaved on behalf of distance to go: but returning the Group to shortages of skilled labour in our sector.
the Board and everyone in our business.
industry-standard margins is now within Every time someone is injured, it reinforces sight.
I am proud of the progress we have We continue to see opportunities for our why we must always strive to do more to made so far.
As we look forward with Investments business to finance and make our industry safer.
confidence to the rest of 2018 and beyond, deliver projects.
In early 2018 we entered we will continue to Build to Last and our first major public-private partnership Dividend strengthen Balfour Beatty.
P3 in the US civil infrastructure market The results for 2017 demonstrate further forthe Los Angeles World Airports progress in restoring Balfour Beatty to Performance Automated People Mover.
sustainable financial strength and stability.
Underlying profit from operations more As a result, your Board has felt able than doubled to 196 million in 2017: The Board to recommend an increase in the final with all of our earnings-based businesses Barbara Moorhouse and Michael Lucki dividend to 2.4p per share, bringing the reporting improved profitability.
joined your Board in the summer of 2017. total dividend for the year to 3.6p per share.
The Groups cash performance was strong.
Barbara has over 30 years of business and During the year we had average net cash management experience in the private, Conclusion of 42 million compared to 46 million public and regulated sectors.
Michael has As we have all been reminded, contracting average net debt in the previous year and worked with construction and infrastructure is a business that demands constant focus reported year end net cash excluding providers for 40 years and has extensive and control.
Risks must be managed and non-recourse borrowings of 335 million.
knowledge of the US market.
processes and governance must be t Balfour Beatty has a number of outstanding I consider a balanced spread of disciplines, for purpose and continuously applied.
debt instruments: as a result of our strong diversity and experience essential to the Delivering this requires quality leadership financial performance we were able to pay Boards effectiveness and we will continue and a systematic approach to creating a down some debt at the end of 2017 and to take this into account when considering culture which embeds this as our way we intend to reduce gross debt further additional appointments.
Very sadly, during the year, SteveMarshall, As you read this report, you will see many The Investments portfolio maintained its my predecessor as Chairman, passed away.
examples of how Balfour Beatty has learnt Directors valuation at 1.2 billion, post I would like to express our condolences to from the past and is embracing these disposals.
The partial sale of our holding his family and recognise the leadership he disciplines.
Today we look to the future in the M25, Londons orbital motorway, gave Balfour Beatty at a very challenging with confidence and excitement.
demonstrates our commitment to time for the Company.
maximise shareholder value, with the Balfour Beatty is ready for the challenges sale price considerably higher than a ahead.
Our people comparable market transaction from 2016.
The transformation of Balfour Beatty to We have continued our practice of only date could not have been achieved without bidding for work on appropriate terms the energy, dedication and enthusiasm of and for those projects best aligned to our employees.
On behalf of the Board ourcapabilities.
Our year end order book Iwould like to thank all of our employees Philip Aiken AM was 11.4 billion.
for their commitment once again this year.
