10 Strategic report Chairmans statement Rupert Robson Our Information and Risk Management Dear shareholder, Chairman Services businesses showed pleasing growth, and wecontinued to build capabilities We started the year as TP ICAP plc and our andrevenues in our most recently formed task was clear: to progress the integration division, Institutional Services.
ofthe Tullett Prebon and ICAP businesses and to maintain our focus on enhancing The underlying operating profit margin in theservices we offer to our clients.
I am 2017 of 15.0% was 0.8 percentage points pleased to report that, on both targets, higher than in 2016 on a pro forma basis.
statutory operating profit margin in 2017 of 5.8% was 4.9% lower than in 2016 on a pro Trading and dividend forma basis.
Basic earnings per share was Reported revenue of 1,757m in 2017 was 15.8 pence and underlying earnings per 4%higher than in 2016 on a pro forma basis share for 2017 of 33.3 pence was 0.7 pence 1% higher at constant exchange rates with lower than 2016 on a pro forma basis.
underlying operating profit increasing by 1 10% to 263m compared to pro forma 2016.
The Board declared an interim dividend of On a statutory basis operating profit 5.6 pence per share paid on 10 November decreased by 44% on a pro forma basis 2017 and is recommending a final dividend to102m reflecting the costs to achieve of 11.25 pence per share to be paid on 17 May synergies arising from the integration.
Our 2018 witha record date of 6 April 2018. underlying performance reflected improving levels of activity in our rates business, as Board and governance thelong period of near-zero interest rates The Board is committed to high standards appears tobe coming to an end, and a ofcorporate governance and to instilling strong performance in our oil businesses.
theright culture, behaviour and approach tohow we do business.
I said in the Annual Report for 2016 that we were seeking to expand the Board.
In the last six months, we have appointed Edmund Ng and Michael Heaney to the Board as Independent Non-executive Directors.
Edmund brings many years of experience of the Asian financial markets having worked in the asset management and investment bank sectors in Hong Kong.
He also held a senior position at the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
Michael brings expertise of the USmarkets, having held senior positions atMorgan Stanley inNew York.
He is also Chairman of the FixedIncome Market Structure Advisory Committee at the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
TP ICAP Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 11 We will invest to ensure we can thrive in a changing regulatory and political environment.
The Board has a wide range of relevant We continued to engage withour expertise, perspectives and insights.
The Board Our task was clear: to also recently achieved greater diversity.
All staysabreast of the development of this will prove invaluable given the greater shareholder views on governance, progress the integration complexity of our Group following the remuneration, and other key issues.
and to maintain our focus acquisition andthe fast pace of change in During 2018 we will examine how the Group the sector in which we operate.
It will also be on enhancing the services engages with the many other stakeholders important as we look to take advantage of we offer to our clients.
who are part of the TP ICAP network and the wider opportunities available to TP ICAP.
how we ensure we understand their This latter task will rise up the Boards perspectives in the decisions we take.
agenda as the integration process reaches itsconclusion.
Outlook Throughout 2018 we will continue to focus on During 2017, we held our June board achieving the synergies of the combination of meeting in New York and our September Tullett Prebon and ICAP, and the optimisation meeting in Singapore.
We used those and transformation of our business model.
occasions to spend a number of days meeting our employees at many levels in We will invest to ensure we can thrive those regions.
This has enhanced the Boards in a changing regulatory and political understanding of the TP ICAP business and environment, and look for other Ihope has also increased the visibility and opportunities to deliver our objectives accessibility of the Non-executive Directors.
tobuild revenue and raise the quality Ithas enabled us to gain greater insight andquantity of earnings.
intothe behaviour, beliefs and values thatunderpin our organisation and how Rupert Robson weshould shape and embed our culture.
Chairman Ihave addressed this matter in more detail 13 March 2018 on page 49.
1 Underlying operating profit excludes 161m ofacquisition, disposal and integration costs andexceptional items.
A reconciliation of underlyingoperating profit to statutory is givenonpages 28 and 29. www.
