Strategic Report Chairmans Statement 2017 has seen further progress in implementing the strategy presented to shareholders in 2015.
The transformation of the business continues apace and is delivering significant improvements in our efficiency and competitiveness.
Three achievements in 2017 underline the progress I am delighted that we have delivered a Serco is making.
First, we had very strong order intake, trading result in line with expectations in at 3.4bn.
This represents a book-to-bill ratio the value 2017, as well as over 3bn of order intake of how much we add to the order book compared to and a further improvement in employee how much revenue we are billing our customers of engagement.
We have also added further over 100%, the first time this has been achieved since skills and diversity to the Board, with strong 2012.
The strong order intake, with very large contracts governance being a key focus of the business won in Health and Justice, underlines the progress we have made developing our customer propositions and at all levels.
Whilst trading conditions are business development skills.
currently difficult in several of our markets, we have over the last three financial years Second, the work we have done transforming the delivered on the plan set out in 2015: having business enabled us to meet our target of reducing the already stabilised the business, we have run-rate of our overheads by over 100m by the end of been improving our operating efficiency 2017.
We expect to gain further cost efficiency benefits in 2018, notably from merging the UK operations into through our transformation programme.
a single entity, as well as further reducing our other Importantly, as we now look ahead, we central support costs.
expect profits to start to grow over the next two years.
Thirdly, Serco employs over 50,000 people, including those at our joint venture operations, the vast majority Sercos mission is to be a trusted partner of of whom are responsible for delivering on a daily basis governments, providing superb public services that critical and sensitive frontline services for Government.
transform outcomes and make a positive difference for Our success therefore is dependent on how well we our fellow citizens, whilst delivering attractive returns select, manage, organise, motivate, develop and engage to our shareholders and rewarding careers to our the people who work for Serco.
Every year we run a employees.
Our aspiration is to be the best-managed detailed Viewpoint employee survey to gauge how well company in our sector, and our method to achieve this our colleagues think we are doing, and I am delighted to is through concentrating on doing four things really say that, for the fourth successive year, the aggregated well: winning good business: executing brilliantly: measure of employee engagement improved again in being a place people are proud to work: and being 2017, with some 31,000 people responding.
2017 has produced tangible evidence of performing well against these objectives.
You can read more about all of these points in the Chief I am proud of the work we do and of the continued Executives Review on pages 32 to 43. progress being made.
Achieving our financial targets Delivering our strategic plan Our initial guidance for 2017 Underlying Trading In 2015, we set out a three-stage plan for Serco: Profit was between 65m and 70m, with the result of Stabilisation, Transformation, Growth.
Stabilisation was 69.8m therefore coming in at the top of that range.
largely completed in 2014 and 2015 with the recruitment Supporting this, we achieved our targeted cost of a new management team, recapitalising the business savings through the delivery of operational efficiency and delivering the corporate renewal programme.
Furthermore, we have continued to Transformation then started in earnest, and will reduce the burden of loss-making contracts, which is continue through 2018 and 2019.
In 2018 we expect to also paramount to ensuring sustainable profitability.
also start delivering the third phase Growth.
06 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements After exceptional items, net finance costs and tax, Our Board the profit for the year was 0.1m.
Sercos Board has seen considerable change since I became Chairman in July 2015.
In considering new Net Debt at the year-end was 141m, also better than members of the Board, we have been determined to our guidance at the start of the year.
This equates to have a mix of backgrounds and experience to ensure EBITDA leverage of 1.4x, well within our medium-term that we have a balanced, dynamic and effective Board.
target range of 12x and comfortably below the 3.5x debt covenant requirement.
During the year, Ralph Crosby and Angie Risley stepped down from the Board, both having joined Serco during You can read more about the drivers of financial 2011.
I would like to extend my sincere thanks to both performance in the Chief Executives Review, with Ralph and Angie for the sterling service they have further detail provided in the Divisional Reviews on given the Company through some very difficult times: pages 44 to 49 and the Finance Review on pages 50 in particular I would like to thank Angie for her expert to 68. leadership of the Remuneration Committee.
Targeting further progress I was delighted to welcome three new Non-Executive As we look ahead to 2018, we expect Underlying Directors Lynne Peacock, Ian El-Mokadem and Kirsty Trading Profit to grow to around 80m on revenues of Bashforth each of whom bring highly relevant and 2.82.9bn.
Since the second half of 2016, we have been complementary skills.
Lynne Peacock has assumed making progress on increasing our profit margin a key Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
The deliverable of successfully implementing our strategy background and experience of each are detailed in the and in 2018 we expect that further margin and profit Directors Report on pages 86 to 87 and details of the progress will be driven largely by transformation savings.
selection process to the appointments are set out in the Nomination Committee Report on page 102.
Looking further ahead, we expect 2019 to be a year of further good growth in Underlying Trading Profit, which Ed Casey, our Chief Operating Officer, left Serco at is again likely to be driven by additional transformation the end of 2017 after 12 years of dedicated service savings.
As we have said previously, the rate of growth to the Company.
For the last four years, Ed had been thereafter will be more dependent on our ability to commuting weekly across the Atlantic, and we quite grow revenues.
The Strategy Review announced in understand his desire to return to the US, where he is March 2015 set out a long term ambition that the taking up a senior role with a company in a different business could grow in line with a market which was sector.
I would like to express the Boards appreciation expected to expand at a long term trend rate of 57% a for Eds significant contribution, particularly in year and deliver margins of 56%.
Our margin ambition supporting the stabilisation phase of our strategy and was predicated on three conditions: first, reducing developing our plans for the transformation phase.
costs as a percentage of sales: second, containing We do not currently intend to seek a replacement losses on onerous contracts and converting a number for Ed as Chief Operating Officer, but will distribute of them into profitable contracts on rebid: and, thirdly, his responsibilities amongst members of the Sercos increasing margins by growing revenues whilst bearing Executive Committee, reflecting the strength of the down on overheads.
We remain broadly on track on established senior leadership of Serco.
costs and onerous contracts, but some markets, and in particular the UK, are currently challenging and We have continued in 2017 to further develop the therefore growing more slowly than their former trend effectiveness of our governance, operational resilience rate.
We can and will partly compensate for a weaker and organisational change processes.
Your Board has organic revenue outlook through increased actions also been actively involved in evaluating individual bids on the cost base, and our ambitions of 57% revenue containing a particular concentration of risks, as well growth and 56% margin remain intact, but the timing as meeting regularly with management responsible of achieving this will be dependent upon when demand for the delivery of the Companys key operations and reverts to trend in our target markets.
for the development of new business.
Board members regularly visit contracts and meet with members of the wider management team: in particular, Non-Executives participate in our Oxford Sad Serco Management training course, which is attended by around 30 managers and runs four times a year.
07 Strategic Report Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that we have fully complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with the exception of conducting an external-led Board evaluation, which, considering that our three new Non-Executive Directors joined in the second half of 2017, the Board considered would be more appropriate to defer to 2018.
As in previous years, the Board conducted an internally-led evaluation, as detailed on page 92.
The Board believes that strong governance is a vital component in the long-term success of the Company: further detail on our structures and processes are set out in our Corporate Governance Report on pages 86 to 109, as well as the Committee reports.
Securing our future success Your Board is absolutely focused on long-term, sustainable shareholder value creation, and doing so by promoting the best interests of shareholders alongside those of our employees, customers, and the societies and communities in which we work.
Serco has a clear strategy to transform the business and position it for long-term success in attractive markets, and is on track to achieve this through a highly effective executive management team and a committed workforce that cares passionately about public service delivery.
We will continue to transform the business and expect good profit growth in 2018 and 2019.
Beyond, our longterm ambitions for margins and revenue growth remain intact, but the timing of achieving these remains subject to seeing improvements in the trading conditions across our markets.
The current challenges in some of our markets are covered in the following section on Our Business, together with the Chief Executive's Review: importantly, these also cover the strong progress Serco is already making, the opportunities that are expected to arise for us, and the long-term effectiveness of the markets that remain in place.
I would like to thank all colleagues in the business for their efforts in achieving a successful 2017, and for their continued support in helping Serco to be a superb provider of public services that everyone will be proud to be associated with.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairman 08 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
