Strategic Report | Chairmans Statement Chairmans Statement 2017 was a difficult year for Centrica and, to my deep regret, forourshareholders.
We are in the midst of a necessarily All the while ensuring that the fundamentals They offered explanations, not excuses, ambitious transition: from a diversified ofchange our purpose, our new values and forthe performance issues in our Business company, back to its core: to a customernew ethical standards are fresh, relevant division.
Above all, they sought to reassure focused provider of value-added services and deep rooted, with safety, compliance investors that, through our changing and solutions: to a digital partner, providing andconduct at the top of our agenda.
portfolio, cost efficiency and divestment data-led insights into the whole energy options, Centrica has a strengthening The strategic transition is being delivered well experience of our customers: to an offering resilience to uncertainty.
and all of our declared financial targets have that provides products, expertise and been met.
But there have also been areas of As ever, we recognise that the good guidance, not simply molecules and weakness, particularly in our North American governance of the Company is essential to electrons: to a business model in which we power book during the second half of the the delivery of our strategy.
So, in that spirit, can control our own destiny to a far greater year.
The impact of competitive and pricing let me offer a window into the business of degree than in the past.
pressures here was exacerbated by a your Board in 2017: the issues which will This would be a tough undertaking even in a seasonally weak performance from our dominate our agendas in the coming year benign and supportive political environment.
North American gas business and the and our plans to build further on the new As it is, the pressures we have faced from discovery of an historical accounting issue.
governance approaches to risk mapping, this quarter in our important home market stakeholder engagement and board Our control systems are being enhanced have raised the degree of competitive development that we have implemented andimproved and the accounting issue difficulty and created an air of uncertainty inrecent years.
wasverified as having been a one-off.
that weighed heavily on our share price Butnot before deep damage had been The first and key question we revisit at each in2017.
I am disappointed that the many doneto confidence in the Company and meeting, and in the round each October, is actions we have taken to help vulnerable itsprospects, with commensurate harm to whether we are pursuing the right strategy.
customers, bring old tariff models to an ourshare price layered on top of the impacts Itcan be tempting to alter course in the face endand reward loyalty have received little of the current political uncertainty.
And this has been the recognition from politicians.
wasan understandably strong reaction subject of renewed challenge by your Board Our response has been to strive to make frominvestors and doubts emerged since our trading update in November.
Centrica more resilient to our external aboutthe detail and deliverability of the Our strong and shared contention is that environment.
This requires a fundamental Centrica strategy.
strategy is not about short-term adjustments: repositioning of our organisation, processes I hope that our Executive team went a long it is about staying true to our purpose and and systems, integrating a hitherto way to addressing these concerns at the aligning ourselves with the fundamental fragmented structure, always in the service Preliminary Results in February.
They forces consumer power and choice, of our customers.
This must all necessarily reminded our stakeholders that the first decentralisation and digitisation in particular be executed at pace, because to stand phase of our strategic repositioning has been that are changing the energy world, stillinour fast-moving sector is to invite successfully completed.
They reinforced the affecting both our customers and the planet.
obsolescence, and because our employees point that our Consumer division remains So, we believe the answer to be clear.
understandably want to get to the other side stable and profitable, with the prospect of Nothing has happened to invalidate the as quickly as possible.
There is a palpable real growth, and that there is further scope strategy which we set out in 2015. desire within Centrica to find new ways of for cost efficiency gains.
accelerating cultural change, building innovative capabilities and better meeting our customers expectations at a lower cost.
Accordingly, the business is being rebuilt ona firm foundation.
Underlying everything, andessential to long-term value creation, Our vision is clear, has been the considerable work done by our determination is IainConn and his senior leadership team in unshakeable, our focusing on our core businesses of energy supply and services, and the propositions governance is robust which our customers expect today and and we are confident desire tomorrow.
that we will return Centrica to real and sustainable growth.
Rick Haythornthwaite Chairman 4 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In 2018, our focus is very much on strategy Our current Remuneration Policy would We bade farewell to Lesley Knox who delivery and performance management.
haveresulted in significant annual bonuses, stepped down after six years of much Weare concentrating on those things which though considerably less than last year, even appreciated service as a Non-Executive we can control and we are prioritising the after adjustment for the effects of weather Director, for which she has our sincere performance of our existing businesses over and commodity prices.
The impact of the gratitude.
We are in the process of seeking expansion.
We are confident that the shape painful shareholder experience of 2017 asuccessor who will bring, not only digital of the business we now have is the right one would have had little impact on the insights into customer segmentation and to deliver growth over time and achieve our calculated outcome.
The newly proposed journeys, but also the voice of the customer strategic goals.
Remuneration Policy goes some way to into the boardroom, ensuring that we avoid redressing this mismatch.
But, pending its circularity and insularity of thinking.
Meanwhile, we have continued to revise and adoption, your Board decided that discretion refresh our approach to risk management to To that end, we in particular need to focus should be exercised under the current policy ensure that we have a stronger framework in more on our weakest performance if we are to reflect recent events, even though a place as we pursue our strategic objectives.
truly to improve customer experience levels significant portion of the impact was beyond In 2017, we focused on embedding our and open up the powerful possibility of our the control of the Executive team.
The risk management customers becoming our advocates.
This framework makes a positive contribution to Accordingly, no annual bonuses or pay isthe most reliable route to dealing with the good decision-making and business growth riseswere awarded to the Executive trust gap that confronts business as a whole and will be even stronger for the lessons Directors for 2017 and, provided the new and the energy supply sector in particular.
Your Board discussed all Remuneration Policy is adopted, stock awards AsBoard members, we all have personal aspects of our perceived risk exposure, under the forthcoming Long Term Incentive experience of handling complaints from withparticular emphasis on process safety, Plan will bereduced.
This reinforces the customers who contact us directly.
We political pressures, strategic delivery, cyberbroad and collective accountability of the cannot help but be affected by what we security, capability development and Executive leadership.
But the flow is still too leadership succession.
anecdotal to be helpful in holding the In other matters, your Board spent much Executive team to account on its drive to Inextricably linked to leadership succession time over the past year ensuring that the improve service.
So, once recruited, I will be is our approach to the attraction and business has the right teams in place with asking our new Non-Executive Director to retention of key people, a component of the right leadership style to achieve our consider how best to keep our boardroom which relates to their remuneration.
The future of our dialogues deeply connected to our we are putting a new Remuneration Policy to Company depends on having the best customers, their needs and our responses.
the vote at our Annual General Meeting and talentand on the motivation of that talent.
havesought, through extensive dialogue, Once again, our people have surpassed In summary, what we are trying to achieve tounderstand and reflect the evolving myexpectations and I would like to thank atCentrica is not easy.
In fact, it is one of the consensus of the body of our investor base.
them for all their hard work.
most ambitious changes attempted by any We recognise in our recommended Policy company in one of the most competitive and But we, as the leaders of this business, anincreasing investor discomfort with challenging sectors of the economy.
But we mustdo more to support our own people.
reward for input if and when performance are not doing this out of ambition.
We are Employee engagement levels fell again in outcomes are lagging.
doing this because it is absolutely necessary 2017 as the transition process continued.
for the future of this business that we adapt So, we are proposing that annual bonuses Our Gender Pay Statement showed that to the changes in the energy landscape and women at Centrica are paid on average 12% should be more closely tied to shareholder that we find new ways to meet the changing experience, regardless of the quality and less than men, although we have a strong needs of our customers.
intensity of the Executive team efforts.
Longertrack record of equal pay for equal work.
term reward remains very much aligned to the Thisgap can be explained in part by the We believed this in 2015 when we set out our fortunes of shareholders, with deferred stocklegacy of traditionally male-dominated field new strategic direction.
engineering roles in our business.
But it must based schemes ensuring that only sustained Our future is in the hands of our customers performance and growth is rewarded.
But to be closed and we are committed to doing so.
and, by extension, our own hands.
We may strengthen this link further, we are proposing occasionally stumble on the road and be So, I have asked our Non-Executive Director, to add a Total Shareholder Return measure jostled by powerful external forces.
But Joan Gillman, to undertake a review of key tothe Long Term Incentive Plan.
More details ourvision is clear, our determination is employee matters and how we might assure are set out in the revised Remuneration Policy unshakeable, our governance is robust ourselves that the voice of our people is on pages 90 to 97 of this report.
andwe are confident that we will return being heard loud and clear in the boardroom.
Centrica to real and sustainable growth.
Throughout 2017, our Executive team Joan has wide-ranging experience in the worked tirelessly to deliver the first phase of media and communications sector, with the strategic transformation and, in the eyes avery evident empathy towards the of your Board, exceeded our expectations importance of engagement, teamwork and Rick Haythornthwaite intheir ability to close difficult divestments, diversity.
Her review will allow her to bring Chairman navigate complex changes in the more Centrica-specific content to her 21 February 2018 organisation in a very sensitive manner and boardroom contributions and challenge.
bring home promised efficiency gains three Read more about Corporate Governance years ahead of schedule.
But that good Pages 67 to 77 strategic work was overshadowed by the disappointed expectations of short-term performance and the impact of UK government pressure, with the net result of asignificant fall in the value of your Company.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 5
