06 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Chairmans introduction 2018 is a pivotal year for Pearson it is the first in several when Pearson is expected Sidney Taurel to return to underlying profit growth.
Chairman A key tenet of the strategy is investment In the latter part of the year, Pearson also Dear shareholders, in content and technology to ensure agreed the sale of two of its direct delivery This has been an important year in the Pearson has the skills and platforms to keep businesses GEDU and Wall Street English.
companys transformation and significant its products relevant, to become more agile Pearson has raised 2.4bn from strategic progress has been made in 2017.
On an in its digital capabilities, and to provide a disposals since 2015, which has helped operational level, the company has robust infrastructure to deliver efficiencies.
Pearson greatly strengthen its balance stabilised and, for the first time in several In turn, these will help Pearson win market sheet, reinvest back into the business years, Pearson has met both internal share with products that deliver better and return excess capital to shareholders.
We are still in outcomes, provide better customer In October 2017, Pearson commenced a the midst of a transformation and the experiences and deliver sustainable share buyback programme, completed on environment in our largest business, long-term growth, driving greater value 16 February 2018, repurchasing a total of US higher education courseware, remains for shareholders.
You can read more 42.8m shares at an average price of 700p.
However, we continue to about these priorities on p1321.
take action and have a good handle on Shareholder returns these challenges, as well as on the growth Our simplification journey It is my job to ensure that capital is allocated opportunities in other parts of our business, Pearson enters 2018 in a strong financial appropriately on behalf of our shareholders.
leaving us well placed to meet our long-term position because of tight management of I know that shareholders are disappointed aspiration to be the leader in digital learning.
costs, actions to simplify the portfolio and a about the reduction of the dividend in 2017.
From a Board perspective, management is sharper focus on the biggest opportunities This was not a decision the Board took faithfully executing on our strategy, as seen areas that are consistent with our previously lightly and it reflects a continued focus through the actions taken to simplify the announced simplification strategy.
In July on maintaining a strong balance sheet, company, focus our portfolio, invest in our 2017, the Board sanctioned the sale of investing in Pearsons digital transformation digital capabilities and invest in growth a 22% stake in the Penguin Random House and sustaining a solid investment-grade opportunities that will drive the future of venture to Pearsons joint venture partner credit rating.
2017 performance provides a Bertelsmann, and the recapitalisation of its solid foundation from which to build, remaining 25% stake in the business.
with Pearson aiming to return to underlying profit growth in 2018.
Overseeing our strategic progress The Pearson strategy must meet the Governance at Pearson evolving demands of learners while delivering sustainable returns to shareholders.
Pearson meets those Leadership and effectiveness Accountability demands by combining world-class content Board members challenge and debate Detailed risk assessment and management and assessment, powered by services strategy, performance, responsibility and information shapes all strategic and and technology, to support more effective accountability to ensure that the decisions operational decisions, with clearly defined teaching and personalised learning at we make are robust.
Board activity and Board and management responsibilities performance are assessed annually.
To deliver on the strategy, Pearson is focused on three priorities: 1.
Grow share through the digital transformation of our courseware Engagement Remuneration and assessment businesses Building strong relationships with our Our remuneration policy aligns with diverse stakeholders is crucial to our strategy and adapts to market conditions 2.
Invest in the biggest structural sustainable success.
We aim to engage and performance.
growth markets through many forums, and channels, See our Remuneration report to build trust.
S implify the company, becoming on p90105 See our Governance report on p61110 more efficient and delivering better customer experiences.
Section 1 Overview 0 07 7 Chairmans introduction Key performance indicators Deliver sustainable returns Total shareholder return Five years % change Dividend per share in scal year pence 82.6 52p 52p.
% 51p p 48p 70.0 63.0 57.2 17p -20.9 STOXX FTSE AllFTSE FTSE 100 Pearson 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 600 Media Share Media All-Share Five-year TSR in 2017 was -20.9% which compares with a 57.2% return on the We cut our dividend in 2017 to reflect portfolio changes, increased product FTSE 100 Index of large UK listed companies.
Our recent share price performance investment and challenging market conditions in our largest business.
Our intention has been disappointing but we are confident that the plans and strategy laid out in is to pay a sustainable and progressive dividend that is comfortably covered by this report will continue to make Pearson a simpler, stronger company, and that the earnings of our ongoing business, excluding any contribution from our stake they set the company up for a sustained period of growth and value creation.
Our stated objective in the long term is the remuneration section of this report on I believe we have a strong and experienced to rebuild our payment to shareholders, p90105, and I would like to thank those Board, fully engaged with the business and reflecting the Boards long-standing who helped us refine our proposals.
focused on helping guide Pearson back confidence in the strong future cash to growth.
All across Pearson, there is a More broadly, our Board members generation of Pearson.
At this stage, we are focus on developing necessary skills and have been engaging with educators, focused on striking the right balance capabilities to ensure Pearson has the learners, community and thought leaders, between short-term shareholder reward right talent, building a market-leading, and other stakeholders in a variety of and investing in the long-term success of digital-first business.
This remains an ongoing area of the business.
As a result, the proposed final focus for us you can read more about our Looking ahead dividend payment for 2017 is 12p per share, engagement in the governance section taking the full year dividend to 17p per share.
Pearson has an important role to play on p61110.
in supporting customers across the Board engagement with our investors and Investing in world-class talent globe to make progress in their lives company stakeholders through learning.
This encapsulates A company that is moving to a digital-first The 2017 financial year has been one of our work to build a more digital and model needs to have the best and brightest significant engagement with our sustainable business.
talent to help guide it through the transition.
I have enjoyed spending I am pleased that in 2017 we made a 2018 is a pivotal year for Pearson it is the time throughout the year with many of number of significant hires at Board first in several when Pearson is expected you to ensure that we maintain an open, and Executive level, as well as across the to return to underlying profit growth.
The transparent dialogue, keep you updated entire company.
Board is confident management has a good on our strategy and receive your inputs.
plan to deliver on this guidance and that Over the last few years we have further Since May 2017, Elizabeth Corley, who chairs the strategy is working.
Longer term, we are strengthened the composition of our the Pearson Remuneration Committee, excited about the significant growth Board through the addition of more has led our work to engage with investors in opportunities globally and about delivering technology knowledge, more international connection with Pearsons remuneration sustainable long-term growth to drive experience and greater depth regarding policy and to listen to your concerns.
For example, Michael clear that shareholders and other Lynton joined us as an Independent Thank you for your ongoing support stakeholders would like our approach to Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2018. of Pearson.
remuneration to be simple and transparent, Michael was formerly Chairman and CEO closely linked to our strategy and the of Sony Entertainment, and CEO of Sony companys performance.
He is We have worked hard to develop an currently Chairman of Snap Inc. the owner approach that the majority of our of messaging start-up Snapchat, and brings Sidney Taurel Chairman shareholders can support.
Elizabeth a wealth of experience and expertise.
explains our approach in more detail in
