Strategic Report 4 Chairmans Statement I am delighted to report another year of progress in 2017.
Jock Lennox Chairman Overview In my first statement as Chairman, I am delighted to report another After the year end, on 1 January 2018, we completed the small year of progress in 2017.
Our focused strategy of developing bolt-on acquisition of D Gibson Road & Quarry Services Limited for businesses with market leading positions in international growth a cash consideration of 0.3m.
Supplying road signs and ancillary markets continues to deliver good organic revenue and profit products into UK contractors, the business has been absorbed into progression and improved capital returns.
In 2017, organic revenue growth of 4% helped lift our total revenue We welcome the employees of the acquired companies, which by 8% to 585.1m 2016: 540.1m.
Underlying operating profit provide exciting growth opportunities for the Group.
increased by 15% to 81.3m 2016: 70.6m, or 12% at constant currency.
Underlying operating margin improved by 80 basis points Dividends to 13.9% 2016: 13.1%.
Underlying earnings per share of 75.9p were In view of the strong performance the Board is recommending 15% higher 2016: 65.9p.
Reported operating profit increased by an increase of 15% in the final dividend to 20.6p per share 2016: 43% to 74.1m, resulting in a reported operating margin of 12.7% 17.9p per share making a total dividend for the year of 30.0p per 2016: 9.6%.
Basic earnings per share of 68.6p were 60% higher share 2016: 26.4p per share, an increase of 14% on the prior year.
Return on invested capital was Underlying dividend cover remains a healthy 2.5 times 2016: 2.5 20.2% 2016: 19.4%.
Reported dividend cover is 2.3 times 2016: 1.6 times.
Continuation of our proven strategy of active portfolio management Our performance gives us confidence to maintain a progressive resulted in us completing two acquisitions, one disposal and the dividend policy which has resulted in fifteen years of uninterrupted closure of one non-core business during 2017: dividend growth.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 2 July 2018 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business In March, we completed the acquisition of the trade and on 25 May 2018. assets of Kenway Corporation Kenway for an aggregate cash consideration of 6.1m.
Kenway is a specialist in technologically Governance and the Board advanced composite design, manufacturing and field service Honest, open and accountable management of our businesses is work across a broad range of industries including marine, key to the effective governance of the Group, which underpins our power, pulp and paper, transportation and renewable energy.
strategy and the sustainability of our performance.
Integrated into our existing composite business, Creative In this years Annual Report we set out explanations of our business Pultrusions, Kenway is trading in line with our expectations.
model, strategy, viability statement, risk management and activities In August, we completed the acquisition of the trade and of the Board and its Committees.
We also discuss within our assets of Tower Tech Inc. Tower Tech, a manufacturer of Corporate Responsibility report how our businesses are encouraged modular build, high efficiency composite cooling towers which to contribute within the communities in which they operate.
offer ease of installation, low operating costs and longevity.
It is the responsibility of every Board to ensure that there is an Cash consideration of 2.4m was paid at completion.
Tower appropriate succession planning process in place across the business, Tech is performing as expected and is being integrated into including the Board of Directors.
During the year, both the Board our composites business, a long time supplier to Tower Tech.
and the Nomination Committee reviewed their plans for succession The acquisition furthers our strategy of enhancing our product planning.
As previously announced, in May 2017, Bill Whiteley offering to end users within infrastructure markets.
retired and I was appointed as your Chairman.
On 3 October 2017, In April, we completed the disposal of CA Traffic Limited, a nonAlan Giddins joined the Board as a Non-executive Director and core traffic data collection business, to TagMaster AB for a net became the Groups Senior Independent Director.
board experience he is already providing a valuable and additional perspective to the Board.
In December 2016, following a review of the returns available, we announced a plan to close and exit our roads business in India.
Following the execution of a licensing agreement with a local manufacturer, the closure process was completed in the third quarter of 2017. www.
com | Stock Code HILS Strategic Report 5 Brexit market conditions remain favourable and we expect our businesses It remains too early to assess with any certainty the impact of the to consolidate their strong market positions and continue to take decision by the United Kingdom to leave the European Union.
have not experienced any material positive or negative impact since In the UK, the implementation of the Department of Transports Road the referendum result and we are confident that our strategy of Investment Strategy is entering the fourth year of the initial five year international diversification along with market leading positions in plan, which provides certainty of funding through to 2019 20.
We key infrastructure investment markets will help limit any potential are encouraged that recent announcements by Highways England negative impact on the Group.
However, we are not complacent, indicate further investment plans through into 2025 are under remain vigilant and will react with our customary speed as necessary.
We therefore have confidence the Groups road product AGM portfolio will continue to benefit from increased investment in the We will hold our AGM on 17 May 2018 and it is an excellent UKs road infrastructure.
opportunity for shareholders to meet the Board and certain senior In the US, the administration has prioritised spending on US executives of the Group.
If you can attend, my colleagues and I will infrastructure, including building and repairing roads and bridges, be delighted to see you.
and our businesses are well positioned to benefit from any increased People investment.
Good results can only be delivered through the efforts and dedication Overall, despite political and macro-economic uncertainties, we of a loyal and strong workforce.
In my time on the Board, and latterly remain well positioned to again deliver another year of progress.
as Chairman, I have been immensely impressed by the skill and dedication of all our employees.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their continued hard work and for rising to the Jock Lennox opportunities and challenges they meet.
Chairman Outlook 7 March 2018 The industrial and geographical spread of the Groups markets and businesses not only provide a resilient base, but also opportunities for growth.
With 80% of revenue and 85% of underlying operating profit deriving from its UK and US activities, the Group mainly operates in niche infrastructure markets with positive outlooks.
In Utilities, our UK and US activities continue to benefit from the significant investment in replacing ageing infrastructure and new infrastructure projects in those countries.
In Galvanizing, wider Culvert Structure and VSoL Walls spanning the River Carron on a residential development for Stewart Milne Homes North, Carron Den, Stonehaven, Aberdeenshire.
