Chairmans statement Board changes As recently announced, I will be stepping Interim dividend As a Board we have consistently focused down as Chairman at the forthcoming on succession planning as one of our Annual General Meeting in May 2018. most important activities.
I have greatly enjoyed my time guiding the Group in its first years as a listed business.
2.6p In October 2017, we announced that However, following my appointment as Wayne Sheppard, Group CEO, had Chairman of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc, Paid on 22 September 2017 notified the Board of his intention to retire and in the interests of good corporate in 2018 and that Joe Hudson would join governance, I have taken the difficult Final dividend the Board as CEO designate in early 2018. decision to step down from the Board of Wayne has been instrumental in Ibstocks Ibstock plc.
Following the conclusion of success.
As CEO, he has led the Group our Annual General Meeting, our Senior through a successful IPO and delivered Independent Director Jonathan Nicholls, 6.5p strong growth.
I wish him well in his will be appointed Chairman of the Board.
retirement and on behalf of the Board Tracey Graham will be appointed as the To be paid on 8 June 2018 and the shareholders I thank him for his Senior Independent Director.
In addition efforts and significant achievements.
to her current role as Chair of the I am absolutely delighted that we have Remuneration Committee and Justin managed to secure the appointment of Read will be appointed Chair of the someone of Joes calibre and experience.
His track record of performance at Shareholder returns and dividends Aggregate Industries and Lafarge Holcim We paid our interim dividend on has been outstanding and we look forward 22 September 2017 of 2.6 pence per to him leading Ibstock through the next ordinary share and propose to pay a final stage of its development.
dividend in respect of 2017 of 6.5 pence In addition to the CEO change, the per share, making a total dividend of 2018 has been another year composition of our Non-Executive 9.1 pence.
The Board proposes to pay Directors also altered during 2017. our final 2017 dividend payment on 8 June of progress with the Group 2018 to shareholders on the register on performing in line with the As reported in last years Annual Report 11 May 2018.
During 2017, we clarified our and Accounts, Justin Read joined our Boards expectations.
dividend payment policy such that our Board as an independent Non-Executive interim dividend equated to one-third of Overview Director from 1 January 2017.
Since his the full year dividend for the prior year.
The demand for our products has again appointment, Justin has provided a wealth The Board believes that this clarification been strongly supported by good activity of experience that has been of great provides greater certainty to shareholders.
levels across the UK new housebuilding benefit to Ibstock as we continue to The Board has also determined a market.
Market-wide demand has been develop our business.
supplementary dividend policy as part of such that our customers have on occasion Matthias Boyer Chammard and Michel the Groups wider capital allocation policy.
faced extended waiting times for some of Plantevin, who were representatives of This is discussed in more detail within the our products, especially soft mud bricks Bain Capital Europe, resigned from the Financial Review on page 40. and roof tiles.
This reduced availability Board in May 2017 and did not seek underpins the Groups strategy to increase Colleagues reappointment at the 2017 Annual General capacity and highlights the importance of Employees are our greatest asset and the Meeting.
I wish to thank both Michel and the Boards decisions to invest in our new progress made during the year has only Matthias for the constructive and thoughtful soft mud brick factory in Leicestershire been possible due to their effort and contribution they have made to the Board and roof tile line in Leighton Buzzard.
On behalf of the Board, and the Company during our time as I would like to thank all our employees for The Board is responsible for the a listed company.
governance of the Group, and we In December 2017, Lynn Minella who has recognise its crucial role in helping Ibstock been an independent Non-Executive deliver our longterm success.
I should Director since February 2016, resigned Jamie Pike draw your attention to my Corporate from the Board following her relocation to Chairman Governance statement on page 44, the United States.
As well as being Chair 5 March 2018 which summarises our progress in this of our Remuneration Committee, Lynn has area during 2017 when we achieved served as a member of our Audit and compliance for the full year with the UK Nomination Committees.
I wish to thank Corporate Governance Code.
However, her for the contribution she has made to the I am conscious of the ever evolving Group since the time of her appointment regulations and guidance surrounding and wish her every success in her new corporate governance, and so we have role.
Lynn will be succeeded as Chair of sought to enhance our disclosures the Remuneration Committee by Tracey within the Strategic Report in light of Graham, an experienced Chair of such these changes.
committees, and who has served on the Groups Remuneration Committee since February 2016.
Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 06 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Demand for our products has again been strongly supported by good activity levels across the UK new housebuilding market.
Jamie Pike, Chairman Governance overview Nomination Committee at a glance Audit Committee at a glance Remuneration Committee at a glance Four Committee members Three Committee members Four Committee members What we achieved in 2017 What we achieved in 2017 What we achieved in 2017 Ran an effective recruitment process for, Oversaw the transition of the new auditors Oversaw the preparation of the Groups and selection of, the CEO designate.
following the tender process held in 2016. first gender pay gap reporting.
Find out more on pages 55 to 56 Find out more on pages 59 to 64 Find out more on pages 66 to 83 Jamie Pike Jonathan Nicholls Tracey Graham Nomination Committee Chair Audit Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Chair Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07
