esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 Chairmans statement A year of positive momentum Strategic Report Governance Financials esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 has been a year of positive In the near term, we remain on track momentum for the Group.
We to achieve our three million in-force esure is a great have delivered for our customers, policy target by 2020 through our business today and I am colleagues and shareholders, footprint expansion programme in Motor, while positioning the business supported by our Home account.
excited about the many for the future.
opportunities we have to As we look to the future, it is clear that Full year dividend per share the world is changing at an increasing ensure we continue to be a pace, with advances in digital and data great business in the future.
analytics, shaping customer expectations of all businesses.
Today, the Board has recommended a 13.5p The Board and Stuart Vann agreed that final dividend of 9.4 pence per share, he would step down as Chief Executive taking the full year dividend to 13.5 2017 13.5 Officer on 18 January 2018.
This will allow pence per share.
This represents a 2016 13.5 new leadership, steeped in digital and payout ratio of 70%, inclusive of a data experience, to take the business to 20% special dividend.
Excluding the Solvency coverage the next level.
Our search for a successor contribution from Gocompare.
com in 2016, has commenced and we are looking this represents a year-on-year increase for a leader with significant expertise in the dividend of 31%, underpinned and experience in a broad spectrum of by a strong solvency coverage ratio of % customer-facing businesses.
This demonstrates the Groups 155 capital generative operations and the I worked closely with Stuart throughout Boards commitment to returning excess 2017 155 his 17 years with the Group and he has capital to shareholders, while maintaining 2016 152 been instrumental in helping to create sufficient capital to fund its growth the great business we have today and the ambitions.
The 2017 solvency coverage is estimated, value we have created for shareholders unaudited and after allowing for the final over the years.
In the interim period, In summary, we have a great business dividend.
while we find a successor, Darren Ogden, today and I am excited about the many CFO, will be Interim CEO, subject to Five years on from the Groups listing opportunities we have to ensure we have regulatory approval, and I will be taking on the London Stock Exchange we are a a great business in the future.
a more active role in the business.
I have bigger and better business.
The Group worked closely with Darren for many has grown in this period to 2.4 million years and have no doubt that he is the in-force policies and delivered gross right person to lead esure through this written premiums of over 800m in 2017. interim period, providing the continuity In addition, over a five-year period we and experience we need to press on with will have returned just under 300m our positive momentum.
to shareholders through dividends and created significant value for our The Board continue to demonstrate the shareholders through the acquisition and value they add and with the addition of subsequent demerger of Gocompare.
Alan Rubenstein and Peter Shaw in March Customers have been at the centre Sir Peter Wood 2017, the business has benefited from of what we do throughout our history Chairman their wide breadth of skills and insight.
and it is encouraging to see our service Mara Dolores Dancausa will not be metrics continue to improve and we were seeking re-election at the Annual General recently ranked the third most customerMeeting in May.
I would like to thank friendly insurer by Insurance Times.
Mara for her enormous contribution to the business in the four years she has However, that is all in the past and we been with the Group.
are focused on staying at the forefront of our industry to deliver for all our stakeholders in the near and long term.
