Vesuvius plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans Statement W e have outperformed the market and delivered a strong set of results John McDonough CBE Chairman Overview New Chief Executive 2017 was a year of good progress for The appointment of our new Chief the Group as we saw improvements Executive, Patrick Andr, was a key event in our trading environment following for Vesuvius this year.
It was the result of the challenging market conditions a rigorous process, during which both experienced in 2015 and 2016.
We also internal and external candidates were completed a successful transition of considered.
We are delighted that the Chief Executive, with the appointment best t for the role came from within of Patrick Andr to the role as part of our own ranks.
I would like to take this a planned succession process.
Global opportunity to thank Patricks predecessor, steel production growth exceeded our Franois Wanecq, for his many years of expectations and pleasingly our overall dedicated service to the business and his See the Chief Executives Strategic sales growth outperformed the global diligence in ensuring a smooth transition.
We also experienced We look forward to the years ahead See more about our Markets on p8-9 positive momentum in the majority of under Patricks executive leadership.
See our Financial Review on p26-31 foundry end markets.
Overall, despite experiencing headwinds relating to Market Dynamics and Strategy See more about our Governance in the signi cant raw material price increases Governance Section on p74-121 During the year, we saw global steel and some temporary increased production increase by 5.3% with inter-company sourcing costs, the Group production in the majority of major steel saw a 24.2% increase in reported trading countries up year-on-year.
In our Foundry pro t 16.1% on an underlying basis, Division the overall trading environment and a 20.2% increase in reported and demand for our products was revenue 12.5% on an underlying basis, positive across the majority of our key with cash generation strengthening end markets.
The Group continued to make good progress with the restructuring Throughout the year we faced notable programme and we remained focused in ationary pressures from signi cant on the delivery of our strategy and its price increases in several key raw execution priorities.
These initially impacted our we strengthened our balance sheet, Advanced Refractories business, but repaying existing borrowing with the subsequently price rises were also issuance of debt in the US Private experienced in the Steel Flow Control Placement market.
We responded proactively to the pressure placed on our business making good progress in recovering cost in ation through higher selling prices by year-end.
Our Performance 17 Against this backdrop, we continued to 31 December 2017 2016: 11.4 pence, for Board attention, with the Board focus on the execution of our strategy which would result in a total dividend fully recognising the importance of and made good progress on our five for the year of 18.0 pence per share developing talent and maintaining key execution priorities see page 10.
2016: 16.55 pence, an increase of a cadre of diverse and highly capable We remain con dent that these will 8.8%.
If approved at the Annual General people throughout the business.
enable us to create value and deliver Meeting, this final dividend will be paid The need for greater diversity sustainable pro tability for our on 25 May 2018 to shareholders on the throughout the business is a goal upon shareholders.
We continue to recognise register at 13 April 2018. which the Board remains focused.
the fundamental importance to the As ever, I continue to be impressed by Group of the capabilities of our people.
Board and Governance the way in which our leadership teams Our highly talented leadership teams and and our people go the extra mile to In April 2017, we appointed Holly operational staff ensure that we are able Koeppel as a Non-executive Director, exceed our own, and our customers to drive our strategy forward, with quality expectations, as evidenced by our 2017 replacing Nelda Connors, who resigned underpinning not only the premium from the Board in late 2016.
On behalf of the Board, I thank promise of our products, services and them all.
more than 35 years industry and solutions, but also our overall approach financial experience, and has worked to business excellence.
with businesses in Australia, China, the Annual General Meeting UK and the US.
We are delighted to Performance and Dividend The Annual General Meeting will be have her signi cant experience around held on 10 May 2018.
The Notice In 2017, reported sales were 1,683.9m, the Board table.
of Meeting and explanatory notes an increase from 2016 of 20.2%.
The Board continues to place great containing details of the resolutions to Our margins improved to 9.8%, delivering importance on furthering our be put to the meeting accompany this reported trading pro t of 165.5m.
understanding of the Vesuvius business Annual Report and Accounts and are Whilst we experienced some headwinds by visiting key operations and engaging available on our website www.
throughout the second half, over the year with as many of our people as possible.
I and all my Board colleagues plan we outperformed our markets in terms of This year, the full Board visited our to attend the Annual General Meeting growth.
These results serve to emphasise Foundry operations and customers in and we look forward to the opportunity the strength of our management team Brazil, meeting management from all to meet with as many shareholders as and their ability to operate effectively business lines and gaining a broader possible on the day.
against the backdrop of a volatile understanding of the overall South market.
Vesuvius remains an intrinsically John McDonough CBE Chairman American business.
As Chairman, cash-generative business and we saw I personally visited our operations in 28 February 2018 strong cash generation throughout 2017, China in May and, during the year, ending the year with a stronger balance other Non-executive Directors visited sheet than in previous years.
operations in Skawina in Poland, The Group continued to make good Cleveland and Pittsburgh in the US, progress in delivering the previously and Borken in Germany.
The Board will announced restructuring programme continue to visit sites across the Group, which focused mainly on our Flow increasing individual knowledge and Control business.
We also commenced ensuring that we remain connected a completely new programme focusing with our operations, management on the Foundry Division in Europe and teams and people around the world.
NAFTA, the Advanced Refractories The 2017 externally facilitated Board business unit in Europe, and Group evaluation con rmed that the Board corporate functions.
Our Headline PBT was 152.9m, 27.6% We believe it remains well balanced, higher than last year on a reported basis.
setting the right tone from the top, with Including amortisation of 19.5m and a strong mix of relevant experience restructuring costs of 36.3m, our PBT and skills, ensuring that a collaborative of 97.1m was 22.3% higher than 2016. yet challenging culture is embedded Statutory EPS is 14.1p.
Our dividend policy aims to deliver Our People long-term dividend growth, provided this is supported by cash ow and In 2016, I noted that to secure the underlying earnings, and is justi ed in current and future performance of the context of our capital expenditure the Group, the Board had widened its requirements and the prevailing market focus on succession planning issues, outlook.
With this in mind, the Board additionally reviewing the management has recommended a final dividend of level immediately below the Board.
12.5 pence per share for the year ended This continues to be a critical area
