12 | Chairmans statement Maintaining strong leadership This is my last statement as Chairman as I shall be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May.
I was appointed as Chairman to guide the Company through the IPO and its early years as a listed entity, and to establish a strong Board to underpin the Companys future growth and development.
Whilst no formal timeframe was set for my tenure, I feel that having successfully achieved those objectives, it is now the right time for me to retire as Chairman.
As announced in January this year, Gary Hoffman who joined the business as Chief Executive Officer in November 2012, will succeed me as Non-Executive Chairman of the Board.
Succession planning has been high on the Boards agenda as it seeks to sustain the Groups growth and development.
The Board therefore prioritised various considerations as part of the succession process: primarily continuity and stability, together with the need for strong independent governance and effective strategic leadership.
The Board is aware of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in that a Chief Executive should not go on to be Chairman of the same company but, after full and careful consideration, the Directors agreed unanimously that Garys transition from Chief Executive Officer to Chairman would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Gary has been a key individual in the Groups success, not only in the years leading up to the IPO, but in the period since, which has seen nine successive quarters of profitable growth.
The Board therefore regarded retaining Garys services as critical to the Groups continued success.
Gary has extensive experience of chairing various boards, notably having served as Vice-Chairman The changes to the of Barclays plc, Chairman of Barclays UK Banking division and Barclaycard, and currently serves as Non-Executive Chairman Boardleave the Company of VISA Europe.
Gary will not chair or be a member of any Board Committees and Tom Colraine, Senior Independent Director, in very safe hands to will be appointed as Chairman of the Companys Nomination Committee from 1 March 2018. enable its continued success for thebenefit ofallstakeholders.
Mike Fairey Chairman Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information | 13 Final dividend Full year dividend Discover more about our 8.5p per share 12.6p per share corporate governance 58105 In anticipation of Garys appointment The diversity of the Board was also Optimising shareholder value as Chairman, Toby van der Meer, who reviewed by the Nomination Committee dividends has been the Managing Director of and a detailed explanation ofthe The Board remains confident in the the Companys UK trading subsidiary, Board approved policy on diversity is Groups long term prospects and is Hastings Insurance Services Limited set out in that Committees report on pleased to propose a final dividend of since 2011, will be appointed to the page 79.
As announced on 2 February 8.5p per share.
This dividend will be Board with effect from 1 March 2018 as 2018, Malcolm Le May tendered paid on 31 May 2018 to shareholders Chief Executive Officer.
Toby has played his resignation as a Non-Executive on the register on 4 May 2018 with an a pivotal role in the significant growth Director of the Company following his ex-dividend date of 3 May 2018.
This and development of the Groups retail appointment as Group Chief Executive is the Companys second dividend for business over the past six years and is a Officer of Provident Financial plc.
The the year having paid 4.1p per share in well respected leader within the Group.
date on which Malcolms resignation will November, taking the full year dividend I congratulate both Gary and Toby on become effective has yet to be decided to 12.6p per share.
This final dividend is their appointments.
and the Company is in discussions subject to shareholder approval at the regarding an appropriate period Annual General Meeting to be held on In my statement last year, I explained ofnotice.
24 May 2018. that on 1 March 2017, Rand Merchant Investment Holdings Limited RMI, When the Company listed on the Farewell a South African investment holding LondonStock Exchange in 2015, it was It has been a pleasure to serve as company acquired 29.9% of the not fully compliant with the Code due to Chairman of the Company and to Companys issued share capital.
Under the composition of the Remuneration oversee its early years as a publicly listed the terms of a relationship agreement Committee.
This non-compliance was as company.
The changes to the Board between RMI and the Company, as a result of the requirement of the major will leave the Company in very safe long as RMI holds at least 15% of the shareholders at the time of the IPO hands to enable its continued success Companys issued share capital, RMI is to be represented on this Committee: for the benefit of all stakeholders.
entitled to appoint one Director to the this stipulation was part of the Ithank Gary, his management team Companys Board.
Herman Bosman, relationship agreement between and all of the colleagues at Hastings Chief Executive Officer of RMI was the Company and these shareholders.
for their hard work, commitment appointed as a Director of the Company The Board agreed that the independence and dedication contributing to the on 14March 2017 and at the same time: of the Remuneration Committee was profitable and sustainable growth of Michele Titi-Cappelli representative of not compromised as it has had an the Group to date.
I would also like the Goldman Sachs Shareholders and independent Chairman and a majority to thank our shareholders for their Edward Fitzmaurice representative of of Independent Non-Executive support throughout my tenure.
I remain the Founder Shareholders, resigned Directors.
Following discussions with confident that the Group will continue to asDirectors.
the shareholders in question, I am deliver long-term value and returns for pleased to announce that they have shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, I welcome no longer nominated Directors to the Herman as a Director who brings a Remuneration Committee and the wealth of experience in the insurance composition of this Committee is Mike Fairey and banking sectors.
In August this year, now fully Code compliant.
Chairman Richard Brewster, also a representative of 28 February 2018 the Founder Shareholders, resigned as a Further information on the changes Director.
He was succeeded by Founder to the composition of the Board and Shareholder nominee, Selina Sagayam in its Committees are covered within the August this year.
I express my gratitude Corporate Governance section later on to Michele, Edward and Richard for their in this report.
contribution as Directors of the Company and welcome Selina.
Annual Report 2017 Hastings Group Holdings plc
