Chairmans statement Governance Welcome to TI Fluid Systems plc Sound corporate governance structures have always formed part of the culture of TI Fluid Systems.
The business is run by an experienced and well respected management team including a historic year.
Bill Kozyra, Chief Executive Officer and President, and Timothy Knutson, Chief Financial Officer.
Together they have advanced the business through changing markets.
The Corporate Governance report on pages 32 to 43 sets out and explains the processes we have put in place that will assist the Board in the delivery of longterm, sustainable value to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
Becoming a listed company has necessitated some governance enhancements, including changes to our Board.
We were pleased to strengthen the Board with the appointment of two new Independent NonExecutive Directors, John Smith and Jeffrey Vanneste.
Dialogue with shareholders Manfred Wennemer I would like to thank all our shareholders for their support during Chairman and following our IPO.
This is our first Annual Report as a public company and over time our reporting will evolve to encompass a broader range of issues related to your Company.
Dividend The Board has adopted a dividend policy that targets a dividend payout ratio of approximately 30% of the Groups Adjusted Net Income.
Accordingly, the Board is recommending an initial dividend of 1.31 euro cents per share, to cover the period from the date of listing on 25 October 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Subject to shareholder approval, the dividend will be paid on 1 June 2018 to shareholders on the register on 27 April 2018.
Our people Dear Shareholder, The progress we made in 2017 was due to the commitment of I am pleased to report we delivered strong operational and all our employees.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank financial performance during a year of important strategic all of our employees for their hard work and contribution to this initiatives.
In addition to our successful listing on the London years performance.
We are proud of our record of investing in Stock Exchange, we continue to make progress against our our people, giving them the skills they need to deliver for our strategic objectives.
Our continued focus on strong customer customers and advance their careers.
relationships, engineering excellence and growing our business in markets where we have deep experience and capabilities lies Outlook at the heart of our success.
While still relatively early in 2018, we are encouraged by the continued progress of the Group.
TI Fluid Systems has a strong 2017 performance overview track record of delivering sustained growth, strong profitability The Group has delivered positive annual results for 2017, and cash flow generation.
As the megatrend of hybrid electric which were fully in line with the Boards expectations.
Reported vehicle HEV and electric vehicle EV growth begins to revenue grew by 4.2% to 3,491 million 2016: 3,349 million accelerate, we expect success addressing those markets with and by 5.4% at constant currency.
Profit for the year grew by our existing and new product offerings.
Global markets continue 71 million to 115 million 2016: 44 million.
Adjusted Free to be strong and the Board is confident about our prospects Cash Flow was 119 million 2016: 83 million.
for continued success in 2018 and beyond.
Corporate developments We were extremely pleased with the success of our Global Offer and the listing of our shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Manfred Wennemer The Global Offer raised net proceeds of approximately 360 million, Chairman which together with positive free cash flow generation were used to reduce financial leverage to facilitate achievement of a 1.8 x net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio and reduce the cost of financing.
Our strengthened balance sheet positions us well to continue delivering our strategy and strong stakeholder returns.
For more information about our governance go to page 32 TI Fluid Systems plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glycol coolant lines Our history and quick connectors Used for glycol liquid TI Fluid Systems plc traces transfer for the thermal management of vehicle its heritage back to the Bundy interior cabin heating, Corporation, which was founded as HEV EV battery, power electronic and motors Harry Bundy & Company in Detroit, Michigan, in 1922 and supplied fuel lines for the Ford Model T. 1929 2002 Bundy introduces Bundyweld tube, a TI Automotive acquires the fuel pump doublewalled steel tube using brazed copper operations of Pierburg GmbH Germany rather than solder to join the tubing seams 2003 1930-1987 TI Automotive acquires a 73% interest in Bundy expands its fuel and brake line business, Hanil Tube Co. Limited Korea, a manufacturer including through various joint ventures in of brake and fuel line products Europe and Asia 2008 1987 William Bill L. Kozyra appointed President TI Group plc acquired Armco International and Chief Executive Officer.
Timothy Knutson, Corporations European tubing business Chief Financial Officer, joined the Group in France and the UK 2009 1988 TI Automotive awarded an Automotive TI Group plc acquires the Bundy Corporation News PACE Award for its partial zero USA emissions ShipinaBottle manufacturing method for plastic fuel tanks 1991 TI Group plc acquires Huron Products 2010 Industries Inc USA, manufacturer of fuel lines TI Automotive awarded an Automotive and quick connectors News PACE Award for its Dual Channel Single Stage Pump Technology 1996 TI Group plc acquires Technoflow Tube 2014 Systems GmbH Germany, manufacturer TI Automotive awarded an Automotive of plastic extruded multilayer fuel lines News PACE Award for its Tank Advanced Process Technology for doublemoulded 1998 plastic fuel tanks TI Group plc acquires S&H Fabrication & Engineering Inc USA, manufacturer of air 2015 conditioning tube and hose assemblies TI Automotive acquired by Bain Capital 1999 2017 TI Group plc acquires Walbro Engine TI Automotive awarded an Management LLC USA, manufacturer of Automotive News PACE Award plastic fuel tanks, fuel pumps and modules for its innovative Port Fuel Direct 1999 Injection System in collaboration TI Group plc acquires Marwal Systems with Ford and Bosch SAS France, manufacturer of fuel pumps and modules Global Offer and Listing of 2000 TI Fluid Systems plc on the TI Group plc and Smiths Industries plc merged London Stock Exchange to form Smiths Group plc 2001 Demerger results in TI Automotive Limited acquiring the automotive business of Smiths Group For more information about our company go to www.
com TI Fluid Systems plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
