Annual Report & Accounts 2017 14 Hochschild Mining plc Chairmans statement Fit for an exciting future of growth I am delighted with the progress made operationally and geologically in 2017 as well as with our long-term goal of balance sheet optimisation.
This has been demonstrated with our enviable track record of meeting our production and cost forecasts, as well as the delivery of our ambitious brownfield exploration programme which we believe is now starting to bear fruit.
Over the course of a mines life, geological conditions and mining methods may change but our commitment to safety remains constant and is one of our values which we are not willing to compromise.
Eduardo Hochschild Chairman Whilst a complex permitting situation in Peru cost local Peruvian debt.
We are now in and unpredictable precious metal prices have an advantageous financial position with a 21% at times impacted both the management of our manageable debt profile and the firepower to core assets and our ability to execute our drilling meet the requirements of our brownfield and increase in dividends campaigns, Hochschild Mining has maintained a greenfield programmes, consider acquisitions consistent strategy over the last few years which and continue to return capital to shareholders.
places geological expertise at the heart of how Towards the end of the year we started to we manage our deposits and how we generate receive some positive results from our further low cost organic growth in the long-term.
In particular, The Board is pleased, therefore, to be able to Iwould like to mention the geological recommend an increased final dividend of developments at Inmaculada which have Jan 2018 $1.965 cents per share.
confirmed our long-held confidence in the Operationally we were able to continue to grow prospectivity of the district and I look forward early redemption our output, reaching another Company record in tothe team continuing to add high quality of high yield bonds 2017 with key contributions from Inmaculada resources in 2018 and beyond.
The majority of and San Jose both production records and a our assets are still underexplored and following vastly improved performance at Pallancata.
With positive changes to the permitting process in a positive gold price performance, we were still Peru, I believe that our organic growth able to generate solid cash flow throughout the programme is beginning to gain real momentum.
year despite a fall in profitability due to a rise in Furthermore, it is pleasing to see an increasing overall costs.
With regards to our balance sheet, number of greenfield targets come through the we took a decisive step in January 2018 with the pipeline as well as some earn-in joint venture early redemption of the high yield bonds, issued opportunities being evaluated.
in 2014 to finance the construction of Inmaculada, using existing cash and lower Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Hochschild Mining plc 15 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Further information Safety and environment Our people As mentioned in my statement last year, an Our employees are pivotal to the Companys Where we are accident at the Inmaculada mine early in 2017 performance and, to them, I wish to express my Hochschild has grown its production resulted in two fatalities.
With great regret, we gratitude for their contribution in making 2017 since 2012 by almost 90% and in that disclosed that a second accident occurred at the a record year of profitable production.
I also wish time we have reduced our costs by Arcata mine in July 2017 which also claimed the to thank my fellow Board colleagues for their over 40%.
We are still focusing on lives of two colleagues.
On behalf of the Board, support over the year.
I am delighted that organic growth whether through our Iwould like to again convey our deepest Dionisio Romero Paoletti joined the Board at the ambitious brownfield exploration condolences to the families of the victims start of the year as a Non-Executive Director, programme at our current mines or involved.
Our resolve to make Hochschild Mining bringing a wealth of business experience in Peru through greenfield prospects spread a safe place to work is as strong as ever and and internationally.
Finally, I wish to express the across the Americas.
management has responded by instigating a Boards utmost gratitude to Enrico Bombieri wide-ranging programme to reinforce our safety who, having served as a Non-Executive Director We made solid progress in 2017 with our culture which: includes senior management since 2012 and as Senior Independent Director brownfield aims undertaking mapping reviewing all high-risk activities: involves even for four years, retired at the end of 2017. and geophysics studies, securing surface more frequent training: focuses on initiatives drilling permits from the Peruvian tomotivate and incentivise safe working: and Outlook government and subsequently starting implements the most up-to-date safety risk After an encouraging year for metal prices in our drilling campaigns at Arcata, management information systems.
Over the 2017, particularly for gold, the prospects for Inmaculada and San Jose.
course of a mines life, geological conditions precious metals in 2018 remain strong with and mining methods may change but our robust global equity markets and inflation on the Our drilling exploration plan commitment to safety remains constant and rise.
We are aiming to continue our long-term is one of our values which we are not willing growth strategy based around low cost 17 18 19 20 21 tocompromise.
brownfield investment, selective greenfield exploration and a targeted approach to Arcata Our focus on environmental performance acquisitions.
Safety, operational excellence continues to be one of our key priorities.
During Inmaculada and cost control will remain of paramount 2017, we introduced a new environmental importance and we will also continue repaying corporate objective as part of the Companys Pallancata debt as and when the opportunity arises.
overall Performance Objectives Plan the base San Jose for calculating employee bonuses, which has historically been only based on production, Ares Eduardo Hochschild safety and financial indicators.
We believe that Chairman this new objective will help us in further Underground Surface drilling 20 February 2018 promoting a strong environmental culture, and surface drilling achieve our goal of operating with the least environmental footprint possible and generate Production at our four mines long-term value for our stakeholders.
Inmaculada 47% Arcata 14% Pallancata 20% San Jose 19%
