04 04 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT TEN YEARS OF CREATING VALUE THROUGH GROWTH AND RETURNS WE END OUR FIRST DECADE OF OPERATIONS AS WE STARTED IT FIRM IN OUR COMMITMENT TO GROWTH AND RETURNS, ENERGISED BY THE SUCCESS OF OUR STRATEGY AND CONFIDENT ABOUT OUR FUTURE PROSPECTS.
ALBERTO BAILLRES NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Although the Group has a history stretching back over a century, Fresnillo KEY POINTS only became a listed company in 2008.
Adjusted revenue 9.2% Today, as we stand on the brink of our second decade, we can look back on Increased profitability gross our achievements with justifiable pride.
profit 4.9%, profit for the Despite a changing market environment period 32.0% and pressures affecting the mining Dividends paid in 2017 of industry as a whole, we are delivering US$236.6 million, up 168.2% on our long-term commitments and continuing to create value Strong corporate governance through growth and returns for our Increased gender diversity at stakeholders.
Over the last decade, Board level we have paid close to US$2.5 billion in dividends, invested over US$4 billion to Further growth and returns sustain and expand our operations and anticipated develop new projects, and increased attributable silver and gold production by over 55% and 245%, respectively.
FOR MORE DETAILS ON OUR 2017: A YEAR OF PROGRESS ACHIEVEMENTS IN BOTH FINANCIAL 2017 has again proved the importance AND NON-FINANCIAL TERMS SINCE of a consistent, conservative long-term THE IPO IN 2008 SEE PAGES 12, 26, 52, 72 strategy based primarily on organic growth, developed and implemented While we remain confident about our by a committed professional team future and growth potential, we do and fully supported by the Board.
This not ignore the challenges faced by the provided the foundation for another mining industry.
These include lower year of record silver production and grades, access to land, environmental stable gold production.
The commitment demands, social pressures and to exploration across precious metals growing complexities in the permitting price cycles continues to be the processes, among others.
Managing key to our success, growth and these pressures requires increased long-term prospects.
focus and expertise to avoid excessive delays to projects and to maintain our social licence to operate.
FRESNILL FRESNILLO O STRA STRATEGIC TEGIC CORPORA CORPORATE TE FINANCIAL FINANCIAL T TO OD DAY AY REPORT REPORT GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE ST STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS 05 05 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 Against a backdrop of relatively stable MEETING OUR OPERATIONAL GOALS We have a well-established record of precious metals prices and an upward At the time of the IPO, we set ourselves replenishing reserves and resources, trend of by-product base metal prices, two demanding targets for our first and 2017 again saw good progress in we have delivered sound financial results.
Our target for this respect.
Exploration results for the gold production of 750 koz was reached year were positive.
Overall, our resource The Group generated over US$2,230 in 2015, three years ahead of plan, base has expanded significantly.
Silver million in adjusted revenue in 2017, while the 65 moz objective for silver resources have grown from 2,171 moz a rise of 9.2% over the prior year, is on track to be achieved in 2018. in 2016 to 2,320 moz in 2017, while gold with a 32.0% increase in profit for the resources remained stable at 38.5 moz.
Cash and other liquid funds at There were a number of key Gold reserves increased by 22.7%, year end were US$896.0 million versus operational developments during the mainly due to the Herradura mine, US$912.0 in 2016 and debt remained year, but here I would like to focus on while silver reserves showed a decrease at US$800 million.
Firstly, the second of 5.4%, with an increase at Saucito phase of our silver-gold San Julin offset by falls at Fresnillo and Cinega.
FOR OUR MARKETS project was commissioned.
This new Exploration remains a key pillar of our SEE PAGES 14-17 mine, discovered by our exploration Company as we move towards achieving team, is a cornerstone of our future our 2018 goals and further success in FOR THE FINANCIAL REVIEW prospects and opens a promising, the years beyond.
SEE PAGES 104-115 remote district to further growth.
Several Board members visited the OUR WORKFORCE CONSISTENT DIVIDEND POLICY site during 2017 and saw at first-hand Health and safety remain the paramount Fresnillo plcs dividend policy is how the plans of the Board and priority of our Board.
I regret to report closely aligned with our focus on management have become reality.
that one fatal accident occurred in early creating value through growth and 2017.
While the trend of the broader returns, and is based on paying out Secondly, despite falling short of our safety indicators continued to improve, 33-50% of profit after tax each year, expectations due to several operational supported by our drive towards a more with certain adjustments made to issues, performance at the Fresnillo systematic approach to incidents, this exclude non-cash effects in the income mine continued to improve.
We have fatality is unacceptable.
Dividends are paid in the taken a number of corrective steps is one too many, and our sincere approximate proportions of one-third to address these issues, including: condolences and support have been as an interim dividend, with the balance strengthening our operational leadership conveyed to the family of the victim.
team: improving contractor efficiency: and eliminating bottlenecks caused by We will never sacrifice the health and Before declaring a dividend, the Board inefficient working practices.
safety of our people or the long-term carries out detailed analysis of the sustainability of our business for profitability of the business, underlying We expect the construction of the short-term gain, financial or otherwise, earnings, capital requirements and cash new Pyrites plant to significantly and strive to implement best-in-class flows.
Our aim is to maintain sufficient advance towards commissioning in systems and practices throughout the flexibility to respond to movements in 2018, improving the gold and silver Company.
However, it is clear that there precious metals prices and other factors recovery from the tailings at both remains much work to do, particularly that could impact our business.
the Fresnillo and Saucito mines.
In where contractors are concerned.
addition, we started construction of the Contractor staff do not always display We declared an interim dividend of second line at the Dynamic Leaching a consistent focus on safety and lack 10.6 US cents per share, with a final Plant at Herradura, which will improve sufficient training due to frequent dividend of 29.8 US cents per share, gold recovery, particularly as we rotation of personnel.
During the year bringing the total for the year to encounter increasing quantities of we took decisive steps to engage them US$297.7 million.
The Board in our health and safety culture.
This expects to approve the development new approach has already borne fruit of our joint venture with Mag Silver at and will be extended in 2018.
Juanicipio in the first half of 2018, and we anticipate the start-up of production in the first half of 2020.
Juanicipio is the next major project for Fresnillo and management is committed to ensuring that the mine fulfils its true potential.
1 Cash and other liquid funds are disclosed in note 31 c to the financial statements.
06 06 FRESNILL FRESNILLO PL O PLC C ANNUAL REPORT AND A ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The Boards Health, Safety, STRENGTHENING OUR Corporate culture is a key agenda item Environment and Community Relations CORPORATE GOVERNANCE for every Board meeting, with updates HSECR Committee continued to The most important function of on the cultural programme provided review our culture and values as part the Board is to ensure strong and as part of the CEOs report.
These of its work and will be monitoring effective corporate governance.
regular bulletins are supported by progress in the coming year.
We again We have continued to identify and, an annual presentation by the Head increased our HSECR activities during where appropriate, implement best of Sustainability.
2017, supporting a large number of practice in line with the UK Corporate new and established programmes Governance Code and evolving CHANGES TO THE BOARD which underline our commitment to stakeholder expectations in both In May, I was delighted to welcome the wellbeing of our people and their the UK and Mexico.
Dame Judith Macgregor as an communities.
Please see the Social Independent Non-executive Director.
and Sustainability Report on pages I have set out details regarding the Dame Judith was the British 74-103 for more details.
major developments in my introduction Ambassador to Mexico from 2009 to to the Corporate Governance section on 2013 and has been the President of page 117.
In summary, these include: the Foreign and Commonwealth Office FCO Womens Association since 2006, New anti-bribery and corruption overseeing a significant increase in legislation in Mexico.
The work the number of FCO women in senior we have undertaken over the past grades.
Dame Judith is the third female THROUGHOUT 2017, few years to ensure compliance appointment to the Board in the past five OUR PEOPLE AGAIN with UK legislation enabled us to years, and is currently one of two female SHOWED THE SKILLS accommodate the requirements members.
With women continuing to of the new Mexican legislation be under-represented on our Board AND PROFESSIONALISM with ease.
and in our workforce, during the year NEEDED TO OVERCOME Continued support for greater we developed a new policy which aims CHALLENGES.
gender diversity at Board level, to encapsulate our commitment to in line with our commitment to greater diversity and inclusion.
align Fresnillo more closely with expectations relating to diversity OUTLOOK FOR 2018 AND BEYOND on FTSE 100 boards.
We will continue to maintain our Evolution of the independent disciplined approach to investment SUPPORTING OUR EXECUTIVE TEAM representation on the Board.
in order to support the key Explore, The Board plays an active role in The continued support of over 99% Develop, Operate and Sustain setting Group strategy and supporting of our independent shareholders for elements of the business model.
We regularly our executive remuneration policy.
focus will once again be on efficiency review progress versus plan, ensuring and cost control to underpin projects, that the business has the required As we approach the tenth anniversary ongoing performance improvements at flexibility to respond to changing of our listing on the London Stock Fresnillo, increased production at San market conditions while at the same Exchange, I am pleased to report Julin, development of Juanicipio and time fulfilling our commitment to that, while our business model has the continued evaluation of the Orisyvo continuous investment across remained essentially the same, gold project.
we are also continuing to learn and evolve particularly in the areas of Human Capital is key to our ability During 2017, we again ensured that sustainability, the application of IT and to create value through growth capital allocation was balanced by corporate governance.
Throughout 2017, our growth, shareholder returns, financial our Code of Conduct was reviewed and people again showed the skills and strength and flexibility, within the benefited from updates during the year, professionalism needed to overcome context of our commitment to reflecting our commitment to building challenges as well as the commitment sustainability and risk management.
and maintaining an ethical culture to deliver results.
On behalf of the across all our operations.
Based on Board and shareholders I want to Familiarity with the business is key for our values of Responsibility, Integrity, express my gratitude for their efforts.
I encourage Board Trust and Loyalty, this culture is the members to gain practical knowledge cornerstone of our past achievements The Board and I reiterate our about our activities, and over the course and the platform for our future success.
confidence in the established and of the year my colleagues visited a 2017 again saw us complement regular proven strategy and in the capacity number of operational sites.
For example, workshops and master classes with of the Executive Committee to execute six Directors visited San Julin to online training in order to ensure it.
While volatility in exchange rates or gain first-hand understanding of that all our people are aware of the precious metals prices may present the importance and challenges importance we attach to our values.
short-term challenges, we anticipate of the operation.
further growth and returns over the longer term.
