Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report Chairmans introduction On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present Fidessas directors and corporate governance report.
This report is intended to provide readers with an understanding of Fidessas management structure and its governance and control framework.
Despite the ongoing economic and political uncertainty, we are pleased to announce that the strength of Fidessas business model delivered revenue of 353.9 million and, subject to shareholder approval, Fidessa will pay a final and special dividends totalling 79.7p per share.
The Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and agrees that good governance is essential in promoting the long-term success of Fidessa.
This section of the Annual Report sets out how we have applied the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards Committees function.
The composition and stability of the Board have continued to be a key focus during 2017 with Richard Longdon joining the Board on 1st March as Senior Independent Director and Ishbel Macpherson joining the Board on 1st May 2017.
Both Richard and Ishbel became members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
As previously announced, Elizabeth Lake retired from the Board on 31st December 2017 after serving just over nine years as a non-executive director, and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank Elizabeth for her wise counsel and support during that time.
Following an internal evaluation and review process, I am pleased to confirm that no significant issues were raised and our conclusion was that the governance structure, together with the Board and its Committees, all continue to operate effectively in a positive and open environment.
Finally, the Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
John Hamer Chairman Introduction The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2017.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 26th April 2018.
The Strategic Report is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
All sections of the Annual Report contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Corporate governance statement The following sections explain how the Company applies the main provisions of the Code set out in the 2016 Code as required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The sections cover: Board composition and its effectiveness Board committee reports including the Directors Remuneration Report relations with shareholders risk management and internal controls details of the principal risks and uncertainties are described in the Strategic Report diversity Fidessa group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Fidessa is committed to high standards of corporate governance and is subject to the principles of the Code which is published and regularly updated by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The latest applicable update was published by the FRC in April 2016 and is available on the FRC website.
In respect of the year ended 31st December 2017 Fidessa has complied with all of the provisions of the Code.
The Board of directors For the majority of 2017, the Board comprised a Chairman, six independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
Currently there are five independent non-executive directors following the retirement of Elizabeth Lake on 31st December 2017.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 58, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Chris Aspinwall age 54, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined Fidessa in 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Andy Skelton age 46, Chief Financial Officer Andy Skelton joined Fidessa in October 2015 as Chief Financial Officer.
He was previously Deputy Chief Financial Officer at CSR plc, a global fabless semiconductor company that was listed on the London Stock Exchange and on NASDAQ, before its acquisition in 2015 by Qualcomm Incorporated.
Prior to joining CSR, Andy held a number of senior finance positions at Ericsson and Marconi, including two years as Chief Financial Officer of Ericsson Nikola Tesla in Zagreb, Croatia.
He has a BA in Accounting and Finance from Heriot-Watt University and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1994.
Richard Longdon age 62, Senior Independent Director Richard Longdon was appointed to the Board in March 2017.
Richard has had a highly successful executive career in the technology sector having spent 33 years with AVEVA Group plc AVEVA.
Richard was chief executive officer at AVEVA for 17 years and retired from that role and as a director of AVEVA in December 2016.
Richard is currently the senior independent non-executive director at Alfa Financial Software PLC, Chairman of Process Systems Enterprises Ltd and a non-executive director of Prometheus Group Enterprises LLC.
Ron Mackintosh age 69, Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was Chief Executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He has been Chairman of each of CSR plc, SmartStream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc, Differentis Limited and Alertme.
com Limited and is a former director of Gemplus SA.
Fidessa group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued John Worby age 67, Independent Non-Executive Director John Worby was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in May 2014.
John is a chartered accountant who is an experienced executive and non-executive director.
In 2013 he retired as Group Finance Director of Genus plc, having previously been Group Finance Director and Deputy Chairman at Uniq plc formerly Unigate PLC.
John is the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit Committee at both Carrs Group plc and Hilton Food Group plc and has held a number of other non-executive positions including at Connect Group PLC formerly Smiths News PLC and Cranswick plc.
John is a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Ken Archer age 66, Independent Non-Executive Director Ken Archer joined the Board as a non-executive director in November 2014.
He is Chairman of Gresham Technologies plc formerly Gresham Computing plc, where he has been a non-executive director since 2010.
Ken was Chief Executive Officer of SmartStream Technologies until 2009 and prior to that, the President, European Business Development of Computer Sciences Corporation where he managed the sales team responsible for large scale outsourcing projects across Europe.
Ken has also worked at J. P. Morgan, where he served as VP, Information Services and subsequently at Mercantile Information Services and The Savings Corporation.
Ishbel Macpherson age 57, Independent Non-Executive Director Ishbel Macpherson joined the Board as a non-executive director in May 2017.
She has a background in investment banking and a broad range of non-executive plc board experience.
Ishbel is currently senior independent director and chairman of the remuneration committee at both Dechra Pharmaceuticals plc and Bonmarch Holdings plc where she also chairs the audit committee.
She has previously served as a non-executive director and chaired various board committees at Galliford Try plc, Dignity plc, Synthomer plc, Speedy Hire Plc, May Gurney Integrated Services plc, Hydrogen Group plc, Game Group plc and Mitie Group plc.
Prior to her non-executive directorships, Ishbel worked for over 20 years in investment banking specialising in UK mid-market corporate finance with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, Hoare Govett and Barclays.
Board independence The Board formally reviews non-executive directors independence on an annual basis to determine whether they are independent in character and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, a directors judgement.
Following such review the Board concluded that Richard Longdon, John Worby, Ken Archer and Ishbel Macpherson are independent in accordance with provision B.
In 2013 Ron Mackintosh completed nine years of service as non-executive director of Fidessa.
Following consultation in October 2013 with the largest 13 shareholders holding over 60% of Fidessas shares at that time the Board reappointed Ron and he has been re-elected by shareholders at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Board undertook a rigorous review of Rons independence and contribution to the Board and continues to conclude that he remains independent in character and judgement.
The Board believes that Rons considerable experience within the technology sector in UK listed companies is both rare and very valuable and given recent changes in other parts of the Board it is beneficial to the Company to retain Rons services as an independent non-executive director.
The Board further considers his valuable contribution to, and in-depth understanding of, Fidessas business together with his fair and transparent participation in Board discussions as beneficial and valuable to the Board and Fidessa as a whole.
Re-election to the Board The directors are appointed and removed in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of the Companies Act.
7.1 of the Code all the directors offer themselves for election or re-election as appropriate at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board recommends all such elections or re-elections.
Fidessa group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Interests in shares Directors interests in shares and share incentives in Fidessa group plc are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Indemnification of directors At the date of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report, indemnities are in force under which Fidessa has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by Fidessa group plcs Articles of Association in respect of losses arising in their capacity as officer of any member of the Fidessa group.
In addition, Fidessa has purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and officers.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting can be found in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanying this Annual Report, and can also be found on Fidessas website at www.
Board and committee attendance At 31st December 2017 the Board comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and five non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Skelton Chief Financial Officer Member Richard Longdon Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Member Member Ron Mackintosh Independent Non-Executive Director Member John Worby Independent Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Member Elizabeth Lake Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Member Member Ken Archer Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Member Ishbel Macpherson Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Member Member As previously announced Elizabeth Lake retired from the Board and its Committees on 31st December 2017.
The Board meets formally on a regular basis to monitor operating issues, risk and trading performance, to review forecasts, strategy and policy, to consider key projects and major investments and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2017 the Board met on 10 scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, if required, impromptu Board meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Meetings were held by the Chairman with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss the performance of the executives.
Fidessa group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued The Chairman and non-executive directors also held meetings throughout the year with various senior managers to improve insight into the business operations and marketplace.
The attendance of all directors at Board meetings and non-executive directors at Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended John Hamer 10 10 2 2 Chris Aspinwall 10 10 Andy Skelton 10 10 Richard Longdon 9 9 2 3 2 2 2 2 Ron Mackintosh 10 10 John Worby 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Elizabeth Lake 8 10 2 4 3 3 2 2 Ken Archer 10 10 4 4 3 3 2 2 Ishbel Macpherson 7 7 3 3 1 1 2 2 As previously announced, Richard Longdon and Ishbel Macpherson joined the Board on 1st March and 1st May 2017 respectively.
Absences were due to illness or prior commitments.
Board Audit Committee Chief Executive O cer Remuneration Committee Operating Board Nominations Committee The Board is responsible for corporate governance and delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each Board meeting it considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
The Board is ultimately responsible for risk management and internal controls, maintaining adequate processes to identify and manage the principal risks facing Fidessa.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board which covers key areas of Fidessas affairs.
The schedule includes approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, recommending the payment of dividends, material investments and financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval and other matters may be approved by senior management, but notification to the Board is required.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed annually.
A procedure exists to allow the directors to seek independent legal advice in respect of their duties at Fidessas expense where the circumstances are appropriate.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary for his advice and services.
Fidessa group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 In addition to the delegation of responsibilities to Board committees, the Board has also delegated authority of the day-to-day management of the business to Chris Aspinwall, Chief Executive Officer, who delegates specific responsibilities to members of the Operating Board.
The Operating Board is responsible for the development and implementation of strategy.
Its responsibilities also include: day-to-day running of the business: recommending budgets for approval by the Board: reviewing capital expenditure: reviewing operational and financial performance: and the identification and management of risks.
The Operating Board has ten formal meetings each year with numerous ancillary meetings throughout the year to discuss specific matters.
Board evaluation There was a thorough and formal internal evaluation of the performance of the Board during 2017.
The review was conducted by way of a performance evaluation questionnaire which was based on the Code and included questions related to the following areas: Board structure and diversity, effectiveness, frequency and content of Board meetings, decision making, strategy, training, risk oversight, succession planning and Committees.
Questionnaires were completed by the directors and the combined feedback was reviewed at a Board meeting to give the directors the opportunity to discuss specific points raised.
The conclusion was reached that the Board is operating effectively, that it is considered to be the right size and composition with appropriate skills represented and that each director continues to contribute effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role.
An evaluation of the Chairman by the non-executive directors without the executive directors present was also carried out and it was concluded that he was performing his role effectively.
In accordance with the requirements of paragraph B.
6.2 of the Code, the next independent evaluation of the performance of the Board is scheduled to be conducted during 2018.
The Chairman confirms that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to Fidessa: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The Senior Independent Director, Richard Longdon, confirms, on behalf of the non-executive directors, that the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is accordingly recommended.
Division of responsibilities and management structure There is a formal written policy on the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive such that their roles are complementary to each other.
John Hamer as Chairman is principally responsible for leading the Board, promoting constructive debate amongst the Board and facilitating communication with shareholders as well as overseeing strategy.
Chris Aspinwall as Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of Fidessas operations: he leads and develops the strategy plans for the business and identifies risk factors and the steps required to mitigate them.
Training and development Directors undergo a thorough, formal and tailored induction process on joining and have access to training both within Fidessa and through external providers.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board and updating it on governance and regulatory matters.
Fidessa group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors and corporate governance report continued Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 imposes a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association allow the directors to consider and, if they deem fit, to authorise conflicts of interest.
The Articles of Association set out the process for authorisation of such conflicts and any such conflicts will be recorded in the Board minutes and maintained on a register which will be reviewed on an annual basis by the Nominations Committee and by the Board.
No conflicts have arisen since that legislation came into effect.
Risk management and internal controls The Board is ultimately responsible for Fidessas internal controls and risk management systems.
Those controls and systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
Details of the principal risks are set out in the Strategic Report.
The Board confirms that Fidessa has established systems, procedures and controls designed to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by Fidessa and that they have been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
The effectiveness of those systems, procedures and controls are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which then reports its conclusions to the Board.
The key activities by the Board and the Audit Committee during the year were: The Boards and Audit Committees agenda included a review of risk and risk management with the Audit Committee also reviewing internal controls.
Additionally, the Board reviewed regular reports from management that addressed business issues including any relating to risk and risk management actions being taken or required to be taken by Fidessa.
The Board received monthly management reporting and monitoring of performance against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for all significant variances.
The Board received reports from the Group General Counsel on activities regarding the identification, evaluation and management of the principal risks faced by Fidessa.
The Board and Audit Committee reviewed reports on the activities of the Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Governance, Risk and Compliance Committee, which comprises the Chief Financial Officer and other senior managers across Fidessa and is chaired by the Group General Counsel, has day-to-day responsibility for cybersecurity and oversight of the risk management activities and reports regularly to the Operating Board.
The Audit Committee reviewed internal audit and management reports on financial, operational and compliance risk matters.
The Committee reviewed operational audit reports from independent auditors regarding Fidessas quality management system ISO 9001.2008 and its service organisation controls ISAE 3402 SSAE 18.
The ISAE 3402 SSAE 18 reports currently relate to the UK, US, Canadian and Hong Kong operations.
The requirement to conduct additional external operational audits in other regions in which the Group operates is kept under review.
As part of Fidessas testing of internal controls, reports on cybersecurity and penetration testing were conducted by accredited bodies and the Audit Committee received a summary of those reports.
Regular training is provided to employees to increase awareness amongst employees of the important role they play in ensuring Fidessas systems and data and Fidessas customers data remain secure.
Fidessa group plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Whistleblowing Fidessa has a whistleblowing procedure by which employees may report suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice confidentially outside the line management structure.
The Audit Committee receives an annual report on the whistleblowing and anti-bribery policies.
Diversity In relation to Board appointments and diversity, the Board continues to believe that the Nominations Committees conclusions of 2012 still apply, namely that whilst diversity is important when reviewing the composition of the Board and possible new appointees, the single most important factor is to identify and recruit people based on merit.
As reported in the Strategic Report section of this Annual Report and as required under DTR 7.2.
8AR, Fidessas policy on diversity is that it remains an equal opportunities employer and is committed to both the principle and realisation of equality at all levels within Fidessa.
When recruiting or promoting employees, Fidessa will make its decisions based on merit and regardless of educational or professional background, culture, nationality, race, religion, gender, gender identity, disability, sexual orientation or age.
The Board and the Nominations Committee believe diversity in all senses has a positive effect on the working environment and it monitors the employment practices across Fidessa through annual updates from the Global Head of Human Resources.
The Board notes that Fidessas policy regarding diversity means there exists the opportunity to succeed at any level at Fidessa regardless of educational or professional background, culture, nationality, race, religion, gender, gender identity, disability, sexual orientation or age.
This commitment to being an equal opportunities employer is further reinforced by Fidessas participation in Stonewalls Diversity Champions Programme Europes largest LGBT charity.
The programme aims to help employers create a workplace that enables LGBT employees reach their full potential.
The Strategic Report provides further information on diversity within Fidessa.
The Board and the Nominations Committee note the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review in November 2016 to increase female board representation to at least 33% by 2020 and the recommendations of the Parker Review on board ethnic diversity.
The Nominations Committee continues to note that achieving diversity particularly gender diversity in certain sectors, including the technology sector, presents particular challenges when considering the profile of the available talent pool in those sectors.
Accordingly, the Board confirms that it is still not in favour of setting specific targets for Board diversity to be achieved by particular dates.
As at the date of this Annual Report there is one female member of the Board, representing 13% of Board membership.
