Chairmans statement We continually monitor opportunities to grow the business through smaller acquisitions, but during the year we discussed with an industry peer, Smith & Williamson, the benefits of combining our businesses.
The benefits to both parties and our respective clients could have been considerable, but, following extensive discussions, we were unable to conclude a transaction that was in the best interests of both parties.
Nevertheless, I believe that our measured approach to this opportunity served us well.
We will continue to apply this discipline when we pursue other opportunities.
Continued momentum In 2014, we set out a five-year strategy which had the ambition to reach 40 billion of funds under management by the end of 2018.
Accepting that investment markets have been favourable, we are now well within sight of that goal with many of our strategic initiatives continuing to gain momentum.
Accordingly, over the next few months, the board and executive A strong 2017 team will work to refresh our strategy to ensure our core business 2017 was a good year for Rathbones and we produced some remains robust and that we can benefit from the changing robust financial results.
The executive team responded well to landscape of our industry.
I look forward to sharing the outcome developments in a rapidly changing wealth management market, of these discussions with our stakeholders at the appropriate time.
and our investment managers achieved good risk-adjusted We remain committed to ensuring that Rathbones remain returns for our clients in a time of great uncertainty and well positioned for the future.
UK and global investment markets performed well in 2017, with Governance, culture and the board some indices reaching record levels towards the end of the year.
Last year, I wrote that one of my priorities was to ensure board This outcome has been positive for both Rathbones and our oversight of the firms culture and its development.
This is clients, with the WMA Balanced Index up 7.2% in the year and now one of my specific responsibilities.
Rathbones culture our funds under management reaching 39.1 billion, up 14.3% in professionalism, putting clients first, a collegiate approach the year.
and integrity has long been a competitive advantage.
Despite growth, regulation and the pace of change in our Profit before tax for 2017 increased 17.6% to 58.9 million after industry, we have endeavoured to protect our culture and this incurring the costs associated with the relocation of our London remains a board priority.
office and in pursuing strategic opportunities.
These costs were partially offset by a plan amendment gain arising from the closure As part of this initiative, both I and my non-executive director of our defined benefit pension schemes.
Accordingly, basic colleagues actively seek opportunities for direct engagement with earnings per share of 92.7p increased 17.5% from the 78.9p employees, both formal and informal, across the firm.
From our reported last year.
A full analysis of all non-underlying items engagement this year, we have witnessed the challenging effects impacting profit before tax can be found on page 127. that an increased workload, driven by internal and external change, has placed on our teams.
On the other hand, we have Underlying profit before tax was 87.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2017, up 16.8% from the previous year, and we have been reassured that our strong culture remains at the heart of the business.
Preserving this culture is clearly fundamental continued to balance our need to continue strategic expenditure with maintaining good profitability, reporting an underlying profit to achieving the best results for clients and shareholders over the long term.
Underlying earnings per share of 138.8p for 2017, increased 13.7% from 122.1p last year.
In line with our progressive dividend policy, the board is recommending a final dividend of 39.0p per share.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 61.0p per share, an increase of 7.0% over last year.
10 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 10 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2017 Strategic report As part of our normal succession planning, the board continues to In early 2018, we consulted with them on changes to our monitor our existing capabilities and assess what new skills are remuneration policy.
As it has been three years since our last necessary to develop both the board and the wider business over policy was approved, a revised remuneration policy will be time, taking into account the existing balance of knowledge, laid before shareholders for approval at the annual general experience and diversity.
After a rigorous recruitment process, meeting in May 2018.
Working with the companys advisers, we were delighted to welcome Jim Pettigrew to the board in the remuneration committee has reassessed our policy in the March 2017.
Jim has extensive experience in financial services context of a changing external environment and the firms own and was appointed senior independent director in August 2017 future aspirations.
Although we have maintained the principal following the retirement of David Harrel.
features of our existing policy, some changes have been proposed to align the interests of executives and investors more closely.
In late 2017, we completed an  board These changes follow a number of consultation meetings with effectiveness review, which has confirmed that the board shareholders and governing bodies.
There are always areas to improve however, and, in particular, we will ensure that good Listening to our employees communication and interaction between the board and the business remains a priority.
As a service business, our people are our greatest asset and we are committed to retaining the many high-calibre individuals we employ across the firm and creating a stimulating and supportive Responding to risks and regulation environment for them.
I listen carefully to the views of my The report from the chairman of the group risk committee, colleagues and I recognise that this year has been a challenging Kathryn Matthews, is set out on page 68.
We continue to enhance one for employees, given the pace and nature of change.
I am very our risk management processes, and, this year, have paid grateful for their continued perseverance and dedication.
particular attention to identifying and monitoring emerging risks such as cybercrime, money laundering and data theft.
We remain Outlook vigilant to the financial risks associated with sub-letting our existing space in Curzon Street and these risks are also reviewed The UK wealth management industry continues to evolve, driven by client needs, regulation, demographics, technological at every board meeting.
We also took action to reduce the risks associated with our defined benefit pension schemes.
We believe innovation and a changing competitive landscape.
Rathbones, as a leading UK discretionary wealth manager, remains well placed to that the other significant risks to our business are operational risks, which are increased by growth, and regulatory risks, which are respond to and capitalise on these evolving trends.
increased by continual changes to regulations in our sector.
We remain committed to growing the business both organically, via disciplined investment, and inorganically, via acquisitions that The past year has been a very demanding one from a regulatory not only fit our strategic and financial criteria, but also share our perspective as we prepared for the changes brought about by culture and values.
MiFID II Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, the General Data Protection Regulation, the FCAs Asset Management Market Notwithstanding some caution, which naturally emerges at a time Report and PRIIPs Packaged Retail and Insurance-based of high investment markets and political uncertainty, we enter Investment Products.
Maintaining our regulatory standards has 2018 well positioned to provide long-term value for shareholders.
always been a high priority for our senior management and we will continue to monitor the regulatory risks that arise from the changes to guidelines and standards in our sector.
Mark Nicholls Chairman Engaging with shareholders 21 February 2018 During the year, we have had the opportunity to engage with shareholders through various channels including conferences, company-hosted events, group meetings and one-on-one discussions.
We are fortunate to have a number of longstanding, committed institutional shareholders and will continue to maintain a regular and constructive dialogue with them to gather feedback on our progress.
