Chairmans statement A strong platform to  Neil Johnson Governance highlights Chairman Full compliance with applicable UK Corporate Governance Code Positive feedback on externally facilitated evaluation of Board and Committees Review and approval of Modern Slavery Act statement and tax strategy Well prepared for forthcoming governance changes Results Following consecutive years of strong profits growth in 2015 and 2016, I am pleased to report that Synthomer has made further progress in 2017.
Consistent with our expectations, the improved Underlying profitability of the Group has been delivered, with incremental profits from our focused M&A activity in 2016 and 2017 and continued organic growth from our investment in our Europe and North America ENA segment more than compensating for the reduced, but stable, Nitrile latex margins in our Asia and Rest of the World ROW segment.
Volumes were higher by 9% to 1,443.8ktes 2016: 1,324.9ktes with the increase reflecting a combination of underlying growth and additional volumes from Oxo Belgium Speciality Additives, which was fully integrated during 2017.
Acquisitions helped Group revenue to increase by 42% to a record 1,480.2m 2016: 1,045.7m, further supported by higher average raw material prices and favourable currency translation.
Underlying profit before tax increased from 122.2m to 130.0m, an increase of 6.4% and 3.0% on a constant currency basis.
The rise in Underlying profit before tax reflects underlying volume and margin growth, the contribution made by Speciality Additives and the depreciation in Sterling.
IFRS profit before tax decreased from 136.7m to 86.4m mainly as a result of one-off items of income in2016 including the profits on the Malaysian land sales 33.2m.
Our balance sheet is strong with net debt at 1.0 times EBITDA which allows us significant flexibility to pursue our growth strategy through capital investment and strategic acquisitions.
Strategic report Ongoing capital investment programme Our people We continue to focus on organic growth and see significant We now have approximately 2,900 employees in the Group, spread opportunities to drive growth from our existing businesses.
To across 29 manufacturing sites and offices, with 40 joining as part strengthen our platform for future growth, we initiated a step change ofthe Speciality Additives acquisition.
As a Board, we have visited in our capital investment programme in 2016 with significant plant recently acquired sites over the last year and are delighted to see expansions at our ARW Pasir Gudang Malaysia Nitrile latex plant, how our new colleagues have adapted to our values and culture, and our ENA Worms Germany Dispersions plant.
The Board is aswell as bringing new skills into the Group.
pleased to see that these investment programmes are progressing safely, in line with plans, and will be commissioned and brought up The Group has reported record Underlying profitability in a to normal operating levels later in 2018 and early 2019 respectively.
challenging and demanding market place and the Board and We have made further capital commitments to expand our Executive team recognise the contribution made by all employees.
capabilities in SantAlbano Italy, Marl Germany and Oulu Finland Our drive for growth remains unchanged and on behalf of the and these investments will also come online in late 2018 and early Board, I would like to thank each and every employee for their 2019.
As well as growth capital investment, the Group has invested commitment this year.
in sustenance and SHE related capital expenditure to ensure we are both operating our plants safely and in accordance with evolving Safety, health and environment SHE legislation.
The nature of our industry involves significant hazards and as suchour high safety, health and environmental standards are M&A and integration activity fundamental to what we do across the business.
We are pleased Acquisitions also remain a key component of our growth strategy.
toreport that we have recorded our lowest ever level of recordable During the year, we announced two further bolt-ons: Speciality injuries lower than 2016 by 56%.
Additives, which became part of the Group in March 2017, and BASF Pischelsdorf which was agreed in September 2017 and We are committed to reducing our recordable injuries to zero and completed in January 2018.
These bolt-on acquisitions significantly aspart of our continuous improvement drive to achieve this we made complement our existing business.
Speciality Additives has strong the embedding of the SHE Principles and 10 Golden Rules, launched market positions which we will leverage into our existing coatings in 2016, a priority for 2017.
There was a focus on systems linked to customer base.
The Pischelsdorf site expands our SBR asset and permit to work and management of change with the aim of eliminating customer base, and will provide further options for our network work being carried out in a way or in an environment which could optimisation in an SBR market characterised by over-capacity.
New indicators were developed to track Speciality Additives was successfully integrated into the Group and analyse progress, with specific focus on live monitoring of during the year and we are executing the well planned integration permitcontrolled work and control of high hazard activities.
Following the acquisition of the Pischelsdorf site, Synthomer has secured its position as market leader in Notwithstanding the considerable improvement delivered in 2017, European aqueous polymers, another milestone for our business.
we are not complacent, and remain absolutely resolute in our campaign for continuous and sustainable improvement.
Our active search continues for a transformational speciality chemical company acquisition and we considered a number of Dividend options in 2017.
However, we have stringent criteria and we will The Board has proposed an increase to the final ordinary dividend continue to be disciplined in our approach in terms of quality, per share to 8.5p 2016: 7.8p, resulting in a total dividend per share strategic fit, opportunity and price.
This is in line with the Groups dividend policy of a dividend covered 2.5 times by Underlying Following our acquisition of the PAC Dispersions business in 2016, earnings per share.
The final dividend per share is subject to integration is substantially complete.
The actions that we have taken shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April during 2017 mean that we will not only deliver the $12m run rate 2018 and will be payable on 6 July 2018 to those shareholders ofsynergies at the end of 2018 but are looking to deliver a further registered at the close of business on 8 June 2018.
As part of this integration, we disposed of one plant inLeuna Germany and are engaged in restructuring our Ribcourt The Board is committed to generating attractive growth for site France.
shareholders through investing in the Groups significant organic and inorganic growth plans to secure its future progress and the Governance and Board Capital Management Policy of the Group remains unchanged.
The We were once again in full compliance with the UK Corporate Board periodically assesses the balance sheet strength in light of Governance Code throughout 2017.
Our 2017 AGM resolutions these growth plans, and will consider returning excess capital to received overwhelming support and we were particularly pleased shareholders, if appropriate.
toachieve greater than 99% of votes in favour of our new remuneration policy.
Outlook Looking forward, whilst acknowledging the ongoing challenges The Board composition remained unchanged until the end of the inour Nitrile latex and constructions and coatings Dispersions year when Jinya Chen retired after five years service.
I would like to markets, we are confident of making further solid progress in 2018, thank Jinya for his commitment and contribution over that period.
underpinned by underlying growth in both segments, and from The Nomination Committee has initiated a search for a replacement integrating our recent acquisitions.
independent non-executive director in order to bring the Board composition back into balance.
With our significant organic investment in new capacity being commissioned in late 2018, we remain confident in continuing An externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and its Committees todeliver growth in profitability and driving further value for was carried out in 2017 with the feedback recognising good shareholders in future years.
progress in the ongoing programme to improve Board effectiveness.
As we enter 2018, I believe the Board is well positioned to adapt to Neil Johnson the changes in the corporate governance landscape envisaged by Chairman the new Code proposals currently under consultation and likely to 1 March 2018 be effective in 2019.
