Chairmans statement Our strategic goal is to deliver significantly improved operational and financial performance.
As one of Europes leading suppliers of specialist building materials it is essential that we continue to bring value to our business customers across the construction industry.
The changes we have made this year to the leadership of the Group and the plans we have begun to implement provide the foundation for lasting change.
ANDREW ALLNER CHAIRMAN DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I am pleased to present my first report to you as your Chairman following my appointment on 1 November 2017.
My initial impressions of SIG plc are that it is a strong business, with leading market positions across our core markets in Europe.
With close to 3bn of annual revenues and over 9,000 employees, SIG plays a critical role in the construction supply chain, helping manufacturers of building materials bring their specialised products to a broad customer base across major European markets.
We have a loyal, skilled and experienced workforce and through them we help the construction industry to build offices, schools, hospitals and homes by delivering the right product to the right place at the right time.
However, over recent years, the business has struggled to translate these strong market positions and the potential of its people into robust financial performance.
SIG has not provided meaningful value to Shareholders for a number of years and, in a challenging market environment, failed to deliver against expectations in 2015 and 2016.
In my view, this business lost focus, tried to do too much, and has not been well managed for a long time.
My arrival was the culmination of a series of changes to the senior leadership of SIG last year, with the appointment of Nick Maddock as Chief Financial Officer in February 2017 and the appointment of Meinie Oldersma as Chief Executive Officer in April 2017.
In Nick and Meinie, I believe we have a strong management team with a clear sense of what it will take to drive this business forward, and they are already putting improvement plans into action.
02 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six advance of the Annual General Meeting and will The Board is also supportive of managements REVIEW OF STRATEGY not be putting himself forward for re-election.
Janet focus on increasing the level of transparency Following Meinies and Nicks appointments, the Ashdown has assumed his responsibilities as Chair and openness with Shareholders and other Board carried out a detailed review of our strategy.
of the Remuneration Committee, with effect from stakeholders.
In this context, we continue to This has confirmed the potential for the Group 19 December 2017 and Mel Ewell will take over enhance the Annual Report so that disclosures to deliver a significantly improved operational his responsibilities as Senior Independent Director represent a fair, balanced and understandable and financial performance, which is the Boards from 9 March 2018.
Chris has given good service assessment of the Groups position and prospects immediate priority.
The conclusions of this review to the Group over a number of years and I would and we have made a number of improvements this were presented to Shareholders on 21 November like to thank him for his substantial and valuable year with the purpose of improving the clarity of 2017 and are available in the Presentation & results contribution.
Further, in light of succession planning, the Strategic Report in particular.
I hope that you section of our corporate website at www.
it was agreed with Mel that he would also retire from recognise and welcome these improvements.
We have reaffirmed our focus on our core business the Board, however would remain as a Director until of distribution and merchanting of specialist a new Non-Executive Director is appointed.
DELIVERING products for our business customers across the SHAREHOLDER VALUE Following my appointment, I have conducted a construction industry.
We believe our specialist The Board is committed to delivering value to review of Board effectiveness with Non-Executive focus brings us real advantages through our Shareholders through the operational and financial and Executive Directors and with feedback from product expertise and our ability to partner with turnaround of the business.
The primary measures some of the Groups larger Shareholders.
As a both suppliers and customers.
We add value that the Board uses to track Shareholder value result, I intend to make a number of changes to the through the building materials supply chain with the are profit before tax and average return on capital way that the Board operates.
Specifically, I believe depth and availability of stock we hold, our ability to employed, which in 2017 improved by 10bps to the Board has become rather short term and break bulk and our delivery and logistics capability.
Our stated target is to deliver a ROCE of internal in its focus as the financial performance Our customers benefit from our specialist and c. 15% over the medium term.
has deteriorated over recent years.
I am seeking to technical advice, our product enhancement set a more strategic agenda for the Board in 2018 SIG intends to pursue this goal whilst rebuilding a capabilities and our provision of credit.
that looks beyond the current turnaround, whilst strong balance sheet and is targeting a reduction in The implementation of our strategy, which ensuring we continue to hold management to headline financial leverage to below 1.0x over the necessarily is prioritising medium term turnaround, account for delivery of the plans and targets in our medium term from 1.9x at the year end.
This target is focused on key strategic levers around customer medium term strategy.
is set in the context of the recent formalisation of service, customer value and operational efficiency, a robust capital allocation policy which recognises I am also looking at ways in which the Nonand management has put in place dedicated plans cyclical risk.
Executive Directors can become closer to the around each of these.
Highly disciplined execution business with a better understanding of the In 2017, I am pleased to say that actions were being will be key to delivery and this will require focused day-to-day operations of the Group, including a taken to stabilise the business, and the Group investment in key enablers around data, IT and programme of site visits and the regular attendance delivered an improved underlying earnings per capability to support implementation.
Whilst it at Board meetings of senior managers from across share in 2017 of 9.8p 2016: 9.7p, including the will not be a quick or easy transition, I believe the business.
I am also keen that the Board has a significant benefit from property profits.
Statutory that 2017 has set the business on the path to much greater focus on people and culture as they loss per share has improved to 10.1p 2016: build on its potential and deliver a significantly will be critical to the future success of the Group.
As a result, the Board is improved performance.
The Board is planning an external review of Board recommending payment of a final dividend for the As we deliver progress in turning around the effectiveness in 2018 and I will report back formally year of 2.50p 2016: 1.83p per share.
Together performance of the business we shall continue to on the findings from that review in due course.
with the interim dividend of 1.25p 2016: 1.83p develop our strategic thinking to create a long term per share, this gives a total dividend for the year Under my Chairmanship, the Board will be sustainable business that meets the requirements of 3.75p 2016: 3.66p per share, in line with the committed to strong corporate governance, doing of all our stakeholders and maximises long term Groups stated policy to target a dividend pay-out in business the right way and improving standards of value for our Shareholders.
the range of 2-3x underlying earnings cover.
environmental, social and sustainability practices.
Read about our Strategy SIG continues to comply with the UK Corporate The reported results, which show a loss before on pages 14 to 21 Governance Code April 2016, except for running tax for the year of 51.2m 2016: 110.0m, an external Board evaluation process, as outlined in reflect the exceptional and largely non-cash costs BOARD AND GOVERNANCE our Corporate Governance Statement.
associated with business disposals, restructuring There were a series of changes to the Board in and other actions aimed at refocusing the Group Read about Corporate Governance 2017.
In addition to my appointment and the back on its core business.
This process is coming on pages 61 to 72 arrivals of Meinie and Nick, as noted above, Ian to a conclusion and our objective is that such Duncan joined in January as Non-Executive Director exceptional costs and charges should not be The Board remains determined to hold itself and and consequently as Chair of the Audit Committee.
such a significant feature after the initial years of the broader Group to the highest standards of Ian has been an excellent addition to the Board.
We will not Leslie van fide Walle retired from the Board on my I look forward to leading the Board and working tolerate any breach of these standards and I appointment after seven years.
He did not have on your behalf to ensure delivery of the Groups support the robust action taken by management, an easy time as Chairman but worked hard and strategy and the targeted improvement in the in conjunction with the Audit Committee, in relation conscientiously to do the right thing.
I would like to Groups operational and financial performance.
to the controls issues identified during the year.
thank him for his contribution.
We thoroughly investigated and reported the historical overstatements identified, and I would ANDREW ALLNER One of my first priorities has been to assess the like to assure you that we have moved swiftly and CHAIRMAN structure and composition of the Board.
Chris decisively to address these serious matters, which Geoghegans third term, nine years in total, serving 8 March 2018 are described further in the Financial Review and as a Non-Executive Director of SIG, expires at the Corporate Governance sections later in this Report.
Companys 2018 Annual General Meeting on 10 May 2018.
After consultation with the Companys Read about Financial Review Nominations Committee and in line with the on pages 28 to 41 recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code April 2016, Chris has decided to retire in 03 www.
com Stock code: SHI 25690-AR2017 15-03-18 Proof Six BUSINESS OVERVIEW
