CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We are uniquely positioned for future growth Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce Vecturas Annual Report for 2017.
Read more in our The past year has been a mix of challenge and opportunity.
Revenue growth was impacted by the delay in the approval of Governance report VR315 US, the Groups US generic Advair programme partnered See pages 76 to 78 with Hikma.
Whilst this has had a significant impact on the share price, we should not let this overshadow the operational progress achieved by the Group during the year.
Remuneration report Operational performance and revenue growth Underlying performance from our key in-market inhalation products See pages 84 to 104 was strong.
The main growth drivers, flutiform and Ultibro Breezhaler, continued to perform well in competitive markets, 1 growing net sales at 11.8% and 20.6% respectively on aconstant currency basis, when compared to calendar year 2016.
Viability statement The Group has reported strong underlying financial performance, See page 55 preserving a strong balance sheet through a combination of existing royalty streams and disciplined investment in R&D.
The Groups 2017 IFRS operating loss of 96.2m was driven by a full year, non-cash, amortisation and impairment charge of 109.7m from 2 prior acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA of 25.8m is underpinned by key products flutiform, Ultibro Breezhaler and Seebri Breezhaler, which together delivered gross margin of 41.1m, up 18.8% on an underlying full year comparative basis, with flutiform supply chain gross margin up 6.2 percentage points to 37.6%.
Adjusted EBITDA also benefited from R&D expenditure of 60.3m being at the lower end of the guidance range and the delivery of merger synergy savings andongoing R&D transformation initiatives.
Vectura continued to make operational progress across its proprietary TM partnered programmes.
The Breelib device was approved and launched in Europe by our partner Bayer in April 2017 with positive patient feedback.
This application of Vecturas FOX smart nebuliser technology, from the Activaero acquisition, has enabled an almost one-hour reduction in the total daily treatment time for patients who are receiving treatment iloprost up to six times a day, a very meaningful improvement in patient quality of life.
Whilst the financial benefit for Vectura from this product is modest, the validation of this important technology represents a significant milestone for the Group.
Theapproval and subsequent commercialisation have opened up thepossibility for multiple new valuable and relatively low-risk development programmes combining the device with known molecules, which are now under feasibility review.
Vecturas lead wholly owned programme in severe adult asthma patients, VR475 EU, completed Phase III recruitment and the trial isdue to complete in Q4 2018.
The first patient in the Phase II trial for paediatric asthma, VR647 US, was dosed in December 2017 and this trial is due to complete in Q3 2018.
STRATEGIC REPORT Vectura is one of the few companies able to develop complex inhaled Governance generics and overcome the strict regulatory barriers imposed by As a Board, we are committed to the principles of good corporate the FDA and EMA.
During the year we announced a collaboration governance and we have continued to comply with the provisions of with Sandoz to develop VR2081, a pMDI generic for the US, and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout theyear thelicensing of technology from Pulmatrix, initially to support the and to the date of this report.
Through a robust internal framework development of VR410, a tiotropium DPI generic.
As a result, the of systems and controls, we strive to maintain the highest standards.
Groups pipeline now includes the current three largest US generic Full details can be found in the Corporate governance report on opportunities.
In March 2018, Hikma confirmed that the dispute pages 70 to 78. resolution process for VR315 US had concluded with the FDA upholding Board changes its original decision with a requirement that Hikma completes an In December 2017, we welcomed Juliet Thompson as a new additional Clinical Endpoint study.
Hikma anticipates being able to Independent Non-Executive Director.
Upon appointment, Juliet also submit a response to the FDA with new clinical data as early as became a member of the Audit Committee and was appointed a possible in 2019, with a potential approval and launch during 2020. member of the Remuneration Committee.
Her extensive understanding An Operational Excellence review of the Vectura R&D function of the healthcare industry and experience in corporate finance bring wasperformed during the year and a number of opportunities to important insight to Board discussions, as well as supplementing significantly enhance productivity were identified.
These will free and strengthening the existing skills and experience of the Board.
upcapacity to support future project development and achieve cost Juliets appointment also signals the Board's and Vecturas commitment reductions.
These activities are a priority for implementation in 2018. to increased diversity up and down the organisation.
Fulldetails onsuccession planning can be found in the Nomination Committee In November 2017 the Board also approved a share buyback and report on page 79. cancellation programme to return up to 15m of capital to shareholders.
This programme, which completed post period, is an efficient People and culture allocation of capital aspart of our ongoing strong financial management The Group has a highly talented workforce with an invaluable diversity discipline anddemonstrates the Boards confidence in the cash ofproven capabilities, knowledge and experience.
During the year, generation ofthe business.
theExecutive Leadership Team led a Company-wide project to identify and deliver a shared culture comprised of the values Merger integration and synergy realisation andbehaviours which make our Company distinctive.
This initiative The post-merger organisation structure was implemented early in is of paramount importance to the Board because it underpins 2017 and all priority integration initiatives have been completed.
Vecturas ability todeliver its product pipeline and to innovate.
Asannounced in September 2017, we are on track to deliver 11m to 12m synergies by the end of 2018, with the majority of the On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank each one of our employees savings being realised in 2017. for their continued commitment and excellent contributions during the past year.
2018 business strategy In the latter part of 2017 the Group completed a full review of its Shareholders R&D investment strategy and this was communicated to the market I would also like to thank our shareholders for their continued support on 4January 2018.
The following decisions were made: following the delay with VR315 US.
The Board remains confident intheapprovability of this product.
With a newly renewed pipeline investment in relatively high-risk novel molecules at early stage focus and commitment to Operational Excellence, our mission is will end and opportunities to partner remaining programmes clear: delivery, simplification and focus.
We remain committed to will be sought: growing an innovative and differentiated business which delivers the Group will be more selective in identifying co-development shareholder value.
programmes of novel molecules, focusing only on highly profitable and significant opportunities: and Outlook The Board sees Vectura as being a highly competitive business Vectura will seek to develop further high-potential generic medicines withstrong underlying revenues from our in-market products.
for the US market, in association with well-established partners.
Thebusiness isdifferentiated by its unique set of capabilities, This serves to increase the Groups focus on relatively lower-risk asmedicines in the respiratory space become more complicated.
high-value development programmes, ultimately optimising the return Vectura is one of the few companies globally with the expertise to on our R&D developments.
In addition, it was decided that, in the formulate and deliver the most complex products for inhaled delivery.
absence of additional specialist marketed products being acquired, I look forward with optimism as we work towards successful through M&A or licensing, the Group will initiate partnering discussions outcomes from developing our refocused pipeline and believe for VR475 EU and VR647 US, following the completion of their theGroup is increasingly well positioned to achieve its ambition respective current Phase III and Phase II activities.
ofbecoming the industry-leading inhaled drug-device development specialist, delivering significant value for our shareholders.
1 In-market net sales ar e internal calculations using IMS Health IMS data based on sales topharmacies and excluding certain minor countries which are not covered by IMS.
Bruno Angelici In-market net sales are not the same as sales to wholesalers on which royalties are Chairman payable to the Group.
All percentages quoted at constant currency rates.
20 March 2018 2 Certain measures in this Annual Report, including underlying financial information, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted operating profit, are not prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Underlying financial measures are reconciled back to their most directly comparable IFRS measures in the Financial review.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Vectura Group plc 9
