LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN WORKING TOGETHER WITH PARTNERS I believe that Antofagastas long-term strategy of through-cycle investment has left the Group well placed to take advantage of the improved outlook for copper.
Jean-Paul Luksic, Chairman Although we have not always got everything right, we have always DEAR SHAREHOLDERS, sought to be a good neighbour to the communities we work with.
Our focus over the course of recent years has been on ensuring Working with local communities for us means that we have an open the safety, sustainability, reliability and stability of our operations with and honest dialogue with one another, ensuring transparency and a view to positioning Antofagasta for the anticipated recovery of the a recourse for settling disputes.
We formalised this partnership markets.
To this end we have worked hard alongside our partners approach to community relations in 2015 in a programme agreed to maximise the sustainability and productivity of our mines, instilling with the communities, Somos Choapa, which provides the community a cost-conscious culture in our employees and maintaining our at Los Pelambres with clearer oversight of our operations, and production volumes despite declining ore grades.
At our transport decision-making power over how community funds are spent.
division we are making exciting progress, revitalising our operations This programme is now being rolled out at our other operations and investing in new equipment and track improvements.
and I expect that all will benefit from this.
These actions, when combined with the continued recovery in the Mining continues to fulfil a central role in the growth of Chiles copper price, have helped to lift the Groups financial performance economy, providing jobs and infrastructure as well as regional and for the year.
We have seen a marked improvement in our EBITDA national tax revenues.
The industry has benefited from the economic, margins since 2012 while copper production has almost been social, political and regulatory stability of Chile and in partnership with maintained despite a significant drop in grades at our two local and national government we are working to ensure that Chile largest operations.
develops its remaining copper resources some 30% of global reserves for future generations and the long-term benefit of the I believe that Antofagastas long-term strategy of through-cycle country.
As we have seen over the years, if the mining industry investment has left the Group well placed to take advantage of the performs well, Chile performs well.
By taking a prudent approach to our finances throughout the cycle we have been able to invest during the As testament to our approach to partnership, we enjoy good downturn, adding additional copper-producing assets over the last relations with our employees and contractors.
This is borne out by few years as well as a range of future growth options.
the great strides we have made in working with the labour unions at Centinela and Zaldvar in 2017 to reach agreement on PARTNERS IN PROSPERITY compensation and working conditions for the next three years.
We have always believed that working in partnership whether with Providing a fair deal for all sides meant we did so without strike our equity partners in the mining operations, the communities that action, a record we have maintained since we first began mining we work in or the local and national government is the best way in 1980.
I value the good relations we have with our employees, of working.
It is good for business as well: working together to ensure achieved through a regular dialogue outside periods of formal the safety, sustainability, reliability and stability of our operations negotiation, despite the current environment in which conflict enables everybody to prosper.
in negotiations has become more common.
We have worked for many years closely with Marubeni at Centinela SAFETY and Antucoya, and alongside JX Nippon and a consortium led Our priority is the safety of our employees, contractors and the by Mitsubishi at Los Pelambres.
More recently, our acquisition communities in which Antofagasta works.
I am very pleased to say of a stake in Zaldvar brought us into a renewed partnership with that in 2017 the Group achieved its target of zero fatalities and I am Barrick Gold.
By working with multiple partners across our assets very proud of the efforts and achievements of everyone involved.
we have pooled risk, diversified our portfolios and financial exposure, However, while this performance is testament to the hard work and and benefited from shared expertise.
I would like to thank our vigilance of our employees, there is no room for complacency and we partners personally for their support over the years and, as we look continue to make every effort to raise our safety standards across all to the future, our shared vision of what we can achieve together our operations.
4 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT A NEW APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY OUTLOOK In April 2017 the Board approved an updated sustainability policy.
One of the most exciting trends to emerge in 2017 has been the The policy has five areas of focus designed to place sustainability increased interest in new technologies, which use significantly more at the heart of everything we do and help safeguard our position copper than established technologies.
This is particularly the case in as partner of first choice.
The first area is the safety and health clean energy and electric vehicles, and a recent highlight for me has of our people.
The second is to maintain and develop our model been our sponsorship of the FIA Formula E Championship in of sustainable value creation.
The third is to contribute to the social 20172018.
While undoubtedly a fantastic spectacle, the Formula E development of the communities that we operate in.
The fourth is to race in Santiago really underlined the rapid changes that are taking prevent, control and mitigate our impact on the environment and the place across the world about how we respond to climate change fifth is to maintain and reinforce our strong corporate governance and the central role that copper is set to play.
and to ensure transparency in everything we do.
It is important not to overstate the near-term impacts these changes are likely to have on copper demand.
While the emergence of this new CULTURE, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION source of consumption is likely to provide a welcome boost to the In 2017 we reviewed and reconfirmed the Boards commitment to medium to long-term fundamentals of our business, our traditional the Groups corporate values.
The Groups culture is embodied in markets in China, Europe and North America will remain the most these values and is demonstrated through the actions and leadership important drivers for copper in the shorter term.
of the Board and senior management.
We believe that in the near term the copper market is looking I believe that diverse and inclusive companies are better able to balanced, with the longer-term outlook broadly positive.
This gives attract the best talent and to achieve stronger and more reliable me confidence that the three pillars that we have built our strategy overall performance.
To this end the Boards Remuneration and around are the right ones.
First, we continue to focus on optimising Talent Management Committee is overseeing our work to formalise our existing operations and capital expenditure programme to ensure our commitment to diversity and its inclusion at all levels of the Group.
our investments generate good returns.
Second, we look for A broader diversity and inclusion programme is being rolled out sustainable, organic growth in the areas around our operations.
And finally, we look for special opportunities in the Americas for growth beyond our core business in Chile.
RISK MANAGEMENT Much of what we have achieved over the past year has been made Antofagastas growth into one of the worlds most important copper possible by the hard work of our employees and management.
I would producers has been driven by its entrepreneurial spirit a spirit that like to thank them all for everything they have done for the Group I am proud to say remains at the core of our identity.
Balancing this during 2017 and I look forward to working with them to take has been our focus on risk management, an area we continued to advantage of the many opportunities we have in the year ahead.
As of this year at least one member of the Audit and Risk Committee serves on each of the other Board Committees to enable better analysis of the Groups risks as Jean-Paul Luksic presented by management.
The Committee meets annually, Chairman specifically to evaluating key risks and mitigation activities.
Over recent years the workload of the Board Committees has increased significantly as they work with management to address important issues that cannot be covered in sufficient detail in Board meetings.
I would like to thank all of the Committee members for their efforts, time and dedication.
OUR CORE VALUES RESPECT SAFETY INNOVATION EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY FORWARD AND HEALTH THINKING antofagasta.
co. uk 5 Q&A WITH THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER TAKING CHARGE OF OUR FUTURE My focus over the year has been on producing profitable tonnes by reducing costs, improving productivity and efficiency and applying innovative solutions to the challenges we face.
WHAT DO YOU VIEW AS THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR Also at Centinela we completed the construction of the Molybdenum Plant in June, conducted pre-commissioning tests throughout the FOR BOTH ANTOFAGASTA AND THE WIDER INDUSTRY?
second half of 2017 and expect to achieve first production during Our most important achievement was that we had no fatalities at our the first half of 2018.
The plant will produce an average of 2,400 operations not least because this is not something that has simply tonnes of molybdenum per year and help reduce our unit cash happened overnight.
When I started as CEO I found an organisation costs at Centinela.
which had just had a few serious accidents, some of which had resulted in fatalities.
Since then we have worked in a very deliberate So, two real operating milestones for Antofagasta both of which way to bring safety to the forefront of everything we do and have demonstrate our commitment to investing through the cycle and succeeded in creating the strong safety culture that we have today.
which provide the Group with an excellent platform for the next stage of organic growth.
While this is an encouraging result, we cannot be complacent because mining will always be a business that faces very real risks that can Turning to production, as highlighted above we achieved 704,300 only be managed through a resilient safety culture.
I am determined tonnes during 2017, in line with our guidance for the year and slightly to continue to raise safety standards and awareness across the Group less than last year.
This was consistent with the expected declines in from the Executive Committee, which regularly visits our mining grade at Los Pelambres and Centinela, which were not fully offset operations as part of our safety leadership programme, to our by Encuentro Oxides and the first year of full production at Antucoya.
employees and contractors in the mines and the people in the The stronger production performance at these mines helped communities that we work alongside.
counterbalance a drop of 3.3% in copper production at Los My focus over the year has been on producing profitable tonnes by Pelambres.
This was primarily due to lower ore grade and underlines reducing costs, improving productivity and efficiency and applying both the importance of projects such as Encuentro Oxides being innovative solutions to the challenges we face.
One of the outcomes brought onstream and also the need to maintain our drive for further of these efforts is that we as a Group are getting much better at productivity improvements.
consistent and reliable delivery something that is borne out by Beyond our core copper business, gold production was 212,400 our meeting production and cost guidance for the year, producing ounces, 21.6% lower than in 2016, which reflects lower grade 704,300 tonnes of copper at a net cash cost of $1.25 lb.
This at Los Pelambres and the shift to higher copper content ores performance has translated into an EBITDA margin of 54.5%, at Centinela.
However, our molybdenum production was boosted the highest margin since 2012, when the copper price was nearly by 47.9% year on year by higher grade qualities.
At our transport division, EBITDA contribution to the Group improved Q.
CAN YOU TALK US THROUGH ANTOFAGASTAS OPERATING by 12% compared to 2016, to $98.1 million.
HOW ABOUT THE GROUPS FINANCIAL RESULTS?
Let me start with a couple of operating milestones that we reached Our financial performance over the course of the year has been a real during the year, which underpin Antofagastas prospects for a positive for me.
As I said, at the heart of our strategy is the consistent balanced growth outlook into 2018. and sustainable production of profitable tonnes.
So, while we have In the third quarter of 2017 we brought on stream the Encuentro been working hard to make sure that our operations are well Oxides plant at Centinela.
Once running at capacity Encuentro Oxides positioned for growth, we have not lost our focus on tight cost will produce on average 43,000 tonnes of copper cathode per year, control.
During the year we conducted reviews of our Cost and making use of the spare capacity at the SX-EW facilities at Centinela Competitiveness Programme CCP and new operating model, and helping offset natural declines in production due to falling grades.
embedding them into our everyday business practices.
We expect to see the full growth benefits flow through into the The lower costs we have achieved combined with improved prices Groups results in 2018. in 2017 flowed through into stronger cash flows and much improved margins.
Our cash flow from operations was up 71.2% in 2017 to $2.5 billion and our EBITDA margins returned to over 50% a real step change in profitability.
6 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT It is this better financial performance that has allowed the Board Q. LABOUR AND COMMUNITY RELATIONS HAVE BEEN AN ISSUE to recommend a final dividend for the year of 40.6 cents per share, FOR THE CHILEAN COPPER INDUSTRY IN RECENT YEARS.
HOW bringing the total dividend for the year to 50.9 cents per share DO YOU APPROACH IT?
This is an increase of 176.6% on last year and Well, it can be a challenging issue for everybody concerned and is represents a total pay out ratio of 67% of net earnings, ahead of something I and my team spend a lot of time on.
I am pleased that the Companys policy of paying out a minimum of 35% of underlying over the last few years we have been able to reset the relationships net earnings.
we have with our labour force and communities.
During 2017 we successfully concluded pay agreements for the next three years with Q.
DESPITE YOUR COST CONTROLS THE COMPANY the unions at Centinela and Zaldvar.
Weve also made progress in IS INCREASING ITS CAPITAL INVESTMENT.
strengthening our community relations formalising our partnership Capital expenditure for 2018 is expected to be about $1.0 billion, which with the Choapa Valley community through Somos Choapa.
is some $100 million higher than in 2017.
This reflects the coincidence It is my view we work best when we work in partnership, and the first of each of the three categories of expenditure we have, development, step to success is mutual understanding.
So, when I sit down with our sustaining and mine development, increasing at the same time.
employees, our contractors and with the communities that we work in Development expenditure is mainly on the Los Pelambres Incremental I always want to begin by understanding their viewpoint.
We may not Expansion project.
Now that the EIA has been approved, it will be always agree but over the years we have demonstrated that reaching presented to the Board for approval once certain additional permits agreement through constructive conversation helps secure jobs have been received.
and prosperity for all of our stakeholders.
On sustaining capital expenditure, we have been keeping a tight Over the last few years we have made excellent progress at Los control on this and expect it to average about $400-450 per tonne Pelambres, resolving the legal challenges that have hung over the of production through a multi-year period, typically over five years.
Going forward, Los Pelambres can enjoy In 2016 and 2017 it was well below this level and although it is the lack of distraction caused by these cases and the more rewarding increasing in 2018 to $385 million this is still within the target range interaction with the communities in the areas in which it has an over the cycle.
We are rolling out this community engagement model to our other operations, and we expect to improve the interaction we have Finally, our mine development expenditure is mainly at Centinela and there as well.
increases slightly this year as mining moves into a new phase with a larger amount of waste rock to be moved.
LOOKING AHEAD INTO 2018 AND BEYOND WHAT DO YOU This investment will provide growth in future years and ensure SEE FOR ANTOFAGASTA AND THE MARKET?
our operations will continue to operate reliably and that productivity 2017 was a good year for copper, with a strong rally in the price is improved.
driven by a pick-up in demand mostly in Asia but also, as the Chairman mentions in his letter, from potential new sources in the Q.
WHAT PROGRESS HAS BEEN MADE ON THE GROUPS shape of electric vehicles and clean energy.
It is my belief that the GROWTH PROJECTS?
price will stabilise at current levels over the next couple of years, The EIA for Phase 1 of the Los Pelambres Incremental Expansion partly sustained by demand but also due to a tightening supply project was approved in February 2018.
We have also recently position going into 2019. updated the capital estimate with current pricing projections, This is when you will see the benefit of our investment during the advanced detailed engineering and a project execution plan to a downturn in the copper price over the last few years, when we revised estimate of $1.3 billion.
continued with the construction of Antucoya and the expansion of This figure includes the concentrator plant expansion and preCentinela, and took the opportunity of acquiring 50% of Zaldvar.
stripping at $780 million and the desalination plant and water pipeline We were able to do this because of the strength of our balance at $520 million.
The desalination plant will serve as a back-up water sheet and our conviction that in the medium to long term the copper supply for the entire operation existing plus both phases of price would recover.
Now these additional tonnes of copper expansion in conditions of severe drought.
production will contribute strongly to the Groups results and these The project is expected to be submitted for approval to the Board assets will act as the basis for further growth in the future.
during the second half of 2018 once ancillary permits to the approved I believe that we are in a good position to benefit from this improving EIA are in place and additional geotechnical studies at the desalination environment.
We are forecasting production for 2018 of 705-740,000 plant have been completed.
tonnes of copper as Encuentro Oxides ramps up.
We have taken The project will increase Los Pelambres production by 55,000 $525 million of costs out of the business since 2014, including tonnes of copper a year from 2021.
Phase 2 will require further $166 million in 2017, and a further $100 million have been identified permitting and will add another 35,000 tonnes of production and for 2018.
Combined with a prudent approach to our balance sheet, extend the mine life by 15 years.
tight cost control and improved prices have boosted our operating margins and provided us with the flexibility to take full advantage We also have the opportunity to expand production at Centinela and of future organic growth opportunities, while safeguarding returns we are considering two alternatives.
One is to build a new second for our shareholders.
concentrator at an estimated cost of $2.7 billion and producing some 180,000 tonnes of copper equivalent per year.
The other is We have made great progress over the last few years in improving to expand the existing concentrator.
We have conducted preliminary the resilience and efficiency of our operations and this is reflected work on a second option that has lower capital expenditure and in our adherence to guidance.
This would not have been possible lower construction and project execution risks than the Second without the support and hard work of our stakeholders our Concentrator project.
We will be doing more work on both options employees, contractors, shareholders, communities and state and during 2018 with the intention of being in a position to select our national governments.
I would like to thank all of them.
preferred alternative by the end of the year.
If the alternative to I am excited about what we can achieve together over the next expand the existing concentrator is selected then a full feasibility study few years.
will need to be done before the Board decides on whether to approve it for construction.
The feasibility study will take about 18 months.
Ivn Arriagada Chief Executive Officer antofagasta.
