Chairmans statement Garry Watts, Chairman Performance In a year of considerable change and challenge, The Companys performance over the year I am proud to report that Spire Healthcares showed further growth in our key private patient income and reasonable progress 8,380 staff, and the leading consultants we on our three new major capital investment work with, provided over 775,000 private projects that became operational during the year.
Group revenue was 931.7 million, and NHS patients with outstanding clinical 5.3 million ahead of 2016.
On an underlying care and outcomes.
Exceptional patient care basis, the Group delivered consistent gross margins of over 48%.
Operating profit, is our business.
however, fell significantly to 42.9 million.
This was the result of both our new hospital openings: of exceptional and other material items totalling 49.2 million in the year arising from the patient compensation costs in respect to Ian Patersons historical practises: the write down of our Specialist Cancer Care Centre in Essex: and the decision to cease work on the development of a central London site.
Additional information on exceptional and other items is shown on pages 124 and 125.
Our cash flow, however, remained robust and our total dividend has been maintained at 3.8p.
Revenue grew by 0.6% despite in-patient and daycase admissions decreasing by 1.8% to 269,300 patients 2016: 274,100 patients.
8 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial statements Other information Revenues from Private Medical Insurance Developments during the year Subsequent to the year end, on 1 March PMI sources declined slightly in 2017, In the first half of 2017, we completed and 2018, Simon Gordon, our Chief Financial while underlying revenues see further opened two new hospitals in Manchester Officer CFO, resigned from the Board information on page 35 in our Self-pay and Nottingham we continue to develop and will leave the Group at the end of payor group grew strongly, increasing their full potential.
Simon has been CFO since by 12.0%.
Underlying revenues from of the year, after major investment in 2012 and, whilst I was undergoing the NHS also declined by 0.5% due to expanded theatre capacity and additional treatment for an illness last year, also patient choice and eligibility for treatment staff at our 2014 acquisition, Spire assumed the role of interim CEO.
beginning to be actively restricted by St Anthonys Hospital started to deliver Personally, and on behalf of the Board, Clinical Commissioning Group CCG improved performance.
I would like to thank him for his services policies in response to NHS cost pressures to the Group in both roles and to wish in the second half of 2017.
Acquisition approach him every success in the future.
During the year we received an approach Dividend from Mediclinic, our principal shareholder, Strategy The Company continues to be strongly with an offer to purchase the outstanding Our new CEO has brought further clarity cash-generative, which will enable the shares in the Company.
The Board and purpose to our established strategy.
payment, subject to shareholder approval, concluded that the offer did not value the In his Review on pages 10 to 14, Justin of a final dividend of 2.5 pence per Company sufficiently and we were unable gives further details on the Companys ordinary share for the year.
Mediclinic continues renewed and absolute focus on improving with the interim dividend of 1.3 pence to have a seat on the Board and remains our offering to patients and enhancing per ordinary share, this amounts to a total a valued international collaborator.
Before we embark on annual dividend of 3.8 pence per ordinary further major expansion we will continue share, continuing our stated dividend Board developments to develop and embed the highest levels policy which aims to pay at least 20% In October, we were delighted to secure of clinical performance in every one of of profit after taxation each year.
the services of Justin Ash as Chief our hospitals across the country.
Justin has Care quality a wealth of relevant experience.
He was Our people The quality of our patient care is of previously chief executive of Oasis Dental Delivering our strategy depends on our paramount importance.
It is at the Care where he built the UKs first national people, it is they who deliver outstanding heart of what we do.
Prior to care, personally, every day to our patients.
that he was Managing Director of Lloyds Thanks go to all our staff, every one of Three of our hospitals are rated Pharmacy, where he grew the estate from who is a highly valued member of the Outstanding by the Care Quality 1,250 to 1,750 outlets and led a refocus Spire Healthcare family.
It is by working Commission CQC, 20 hospitals and together closely and making a positive of the business towards health services.
two clinics as Good, and 11 as requiring contribution to the business that they improvement in certain areas.
Overall, our In May, Peter Bamford joined the Board drive our strong culture.
quality of care is rated at the forefront of as the Companys Deputy Chairman the independent sector.
More detail on and Senior Independent Director.
Peter Outlook our clinical performance, quality of care, is chairman of both Superdry Plc and B&M 2017 was a year of considerable change and the unstinting efforts we are making European Value Retail SA.
He previously and challenge but with some notable to improve further, can be found in our held a number of senior executive roles at achievements.
During 2018 we will Clinical review on pages 20 to 25.
Vodafone Group plc and has served on the concentrate on developing our people, boards of public companies for the last Following the completion of the on refining our systems and building the 21 years.
He brings considerable leadership criminal proceedings against Ian returns on our recent investments in new experience and maintains a strong Paterson a consultant who previously hospitals and additional capacity.
In doing independent presence on our Board.
had practising privileges at two Spire so, we will be able to deliver outstanding Healthcare hospitals, we were able to At the end of July, we regretfully announced treatment and care to more people and agree to settle all current and known that Andrew White, an Executive Director continue to build Spire Healthcares claims against Spire Healthcare.
A charge and our former Chief Operating Officer, nationwide reputation for quality and amounting to 28.7 million for the cost had passed away following a period of excellent outcomes.
of such settlement is included in the illness.
Andrew joined the Company in results for the year, in addition to other 2015, he was a trusted colleague and Garry Watts costs associated with the matter.
made a significant contribution during Chairman his time with us.
1 March 2018 We deeply regret the circumstances but are pleased that the unfortunate Following Andrews death, Simon Gordon victims of Mr Patersons activities have assumed the role of interim Chief Executive now received compensation.
Your Board Officer in addition to his role as Chief is determined that the lessons learnt Financial Officer.
Our thanks go to from this affair will be applied throughout him for his additional contribution Spire Healthcare.
9 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2017
