06 07 Chairmans Chief statement Executives statement Robert Rayne Chairman John Burns Chief Executive Operationally we have had another excellent The London office market year, setting a record for remained resilient in 2017 new lettings with 41.5m as both occupier and achieved.
During the year investor demand has been we completed White Collar strong.
Although leasing Factory EC1, a demonstration incentives have increased in of how we regenerate some instances and deals important locations through take longer to complete, the creation of innovative prices remain firm.
In addition we extended a number of Longer term demand will depend on the leases, notably on our major assets at continuing strength of the London economy, Angel Building EC1 and Tea Building E1.
the impact of the UKs final Brexit settlement These management activities have had and what actions the UK subsequently takes.
the impact of increasing income while 482.8m of property disposals reduced While our developments continue to take the debt levels.
Together these provided limelight with their design flair and pre-letting further evidence of the attractions of the successes, it is equally important we actively Derwent London brand to both occupiers manage our income-producing assets which and property investors.
These divide into core income and properties earmarked London office values have firmed during for future development.
In 2017 we had the last year and our NAV rose 4.6% to significant success extending leases and 3,716p per share in 2017.
Our underlying raising income, and this year we have earnings grew more strongly, up 22.4% to opportunities to do more of the same.
94.2p per share principally due to recent development completions.
After a 25% Our focus on designing office space rise in the 2016 final dividend, this earnings with the flexibility that todays occupiers growth enabled us to raise the 2017 require in improving areas and at middleinterim dividend by 25% too.
We have now market rents continues to serve us well.
reverted to a growth rate closer to our long The average topped-up rent on our term trend and propose raising the 2017 London office portfolio is an undemanding final dividend by 10.1% to 42.4p per share.
50 per sq ft. During 2017 we let the The final dividend will be paid on 8 June remaining available space at The White 2018 to investors on the share register on Chapel Building E1 and all of the White 4 May 2018.
In the nine years since our Collar Factory tower, as well as pre-letting first full year as a UK REIT, our annual or placing under option virtually all of our compound growth in net assets, earnings largest project ever at 80 Charlotte Street and dividends per share has been 13.2%, W1.
The latter has been committed to by 17.7% and 10.4%, respectively.
major international companies, Arup and The Boston Consulting Group, nearly two years ahead of expected completion.
p. 08 p. 09 Continued Continued Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2017
