Corporate governance During the year, we continued to uphold our Hikma values, which are transparency, respect, trust and quality.
67 Message from our Chair 68 C orporate Governance at a glance 70 Board of Directors 72 Executive Committee 74 Governance report 78 Committee reports 86 Remuneration report 109 Directors report 66 Corporate governance Message from our Chair Evolving governance Dear Shareholders by focusing our strategy on key medium-term were created.
We owe him a great deal and During 2017 and in the early months of 2018, deliverables.
Siggis appointment is part of I would like to thank him personally for all your Board has initiated a series of important a broader effort to expand our leadership that he has done.
governance developments for the Group, capabilities, which includes appointments to which are outlined below.
Siggi and I will work As we move forward, our succession priorities together over the next few years to further are to ensure that the independent directors Executive Chairman develop our strategy and maximise the continue to represent a majority of the Board As I mentioned in the beginning of the report, competitive advantage from our team.
members and to gain further advantage from I have stepped down from my combined role increasing boardroom diversity, as we did over as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to I would like to take a moment to note the the past few years with the appointments become the Executive Chairman.
My primary retirement of Mike Raya, our long serving and of DrPamela Kirby and Nina Henderson.
responsibilities as Chief Executive Officer have highly successful US Chief Executive.
Whilst been handed over to Siggi Olafsson, who is I would have been delighted had Mike chosen Effectiveness dedicated to leading the Group and the to continue with Hikma, as a friend I wish him During 2017 we undertook our first interviewexecutive leadership team.
I am continuing a happy and fulfilling retirement.
It was a very in an executive capacity to assist strategic rewarding and valuable experience, which thinking, to develop our entrepreneurial Board composition helped to contribute towards some of the advantages and to guide Siggi in his role as This year we will be saying farewell to Ron governance changes that I have outlined today the first non-family Chief Executive Officer Goode, who is retiring at the AGM.
Rons and it will contribute to our plans to further in the Groups history.
retirement brings to a close the era of the develop our Board and Group structure.
independent directors who joined early in the Executive leadership Companys listed life and were instrumental If there are any matters that you wish to The appointment of Siggi as our new Chief in developing our group capabilities and discuss, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Executive Officer builds on our desire to obtain leadership.
Under Rons guidance, the the maximum value from our combined Group CREC and our business integrity programme Said Darwazah Executive Chairman My primary responsibilities as Chief Executive Officer have been handed over to Siggi Olafsson, who is dedicated to leading the Group and executive leadership team.
