CHAIRMANS STATEMENT During the period under review, the Board has continued to focus on whether the businesses in the portfolio are making operational progress and achieving milestones.
These are the Companys key performance indicators given the exposure to early-stage businesses, most of which are unquoted securities.
We monitor the companies' milestones set by the Portfolio Manager throughout the year, receiving regular updates at Board meetings on the top ten companies, new investments and in-depth analysis on specific companies.
These updates show the underlying progress that many of the companies held in the portfolio are making and we highlight the milestones the Company's biggest holdings have met in a selection of case studies on pages 12 to 23.
The Board believes that there is commercial value being developed and, as milestones are met, this should be reflected in the net asset value NAV and share price.
However, for the period under review, the Board understands shareholders will be disappointed that the Company's NAV declined 2 per cent and the share price by 7.2 per cent.
The Board keeps the Company's discount the difference between the NAV and the share price under very regular review.
The Portfolio Managers focus is on delivering performance and growing the value of the Company over the longer term.
As the portfolio matures, it should deliver capital as companies list on the stock market or are acquired by larger companies.
Naturally, there will be various demands on this capital that will include new investments, follow-on investments, reduction of debt and the buyback of shares.
The choice of how this capital is invested in the future will depend on, among other things, the shape of the portfolio, the financial cycle and the performance of the Company's share price and NAV.
The Board currently sees most long-term value in using liquidity to invest in the portfolio particularly in ensuring that the unquoted portfolio companies remain well funded.
However, as the Company matures, the Board will keep the use of this cash under review.
With 68.4 per cent of the portfolio now invested in unquoted securities, its worth reminding shareholders how these companies are valued.
Unlike listed companies, unquoted companies arent valued on a daily basis, valuations will only be revised when milestone events trigger a revision, such as a new fundraising round or announcement of an IPO.
Therefore, movement of the NAV will always lag behind the underlying progress and value of many of the unquoted portfolio companies.
The appointed Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM, in the Company's case Link Fund Solutions Limited Link formerly known as Capita, is responsible for the pricing of these unquoted securities.
Link determines the price with input from an independent third party, Duff & Phelps.
This valuation process has an added layer of independence with a review by the Company's independent auditor, Grant Thornton.
Each year, Grant Thornton reviews approximately one third of the Company's unquoted portfolio, with a particular focus on milestone events that have triggered a valuation change either upwards or downwards.
The Board took part in a workshop with Link and Duff & Phelps to discuss the process and methodology, and this reinforced the Boards view that the Company's valuation process is very robust.
With the Company fully invested, the Board regularly reviews liquidity and the ability to meet follow-on financing commitments.
There is often a misconception that unquoted assets are illiquid.
While some are, many of the companies are very attractive to a number of parties such as existing investors and potential new owners.
The Company has continued to invest during 2017 and participated in 38 follow-on funding rounds for companies already held in the portfolio.
Post period end, the Portfolio Manager sold two of the Company's first unquoted investments, Gigaclear and AJ Bell, with both having generated attractive rates of return for shareholders of 24 per cent and 17 per cent respectively.
The Board, many of whom have in-depth experience of the early-stage asset class, is well aware that young companies do not develop in a linear fashion.
This is the case with Prothena, which announced in April 2018 that its trial for NEOD001 in AL amyloidosis, has been unsuccessful.
It is clearly disappointing that this particular milestone has not been met.
However, this is not the only product in its pipeline and we will be discussing with the Portfolio Manager how Prothena and its management team will be executing its strategy going forward.
Many companies will experience failures on their journey to successfully fulfilling their commercial potential, but the Board believes that many will succeed.
In either case, the Board maintains its view that patience is required and that portfolio returns will take time to mature.
Clearly the recent news from Prothena will have a material impact as its lead asset has not delivered and at the end of the year it accounted for 7.75% of the gross portfolio assets.
However we note that Prothena has two other programmes that are partnered with two major pharmaceutical companies and cash on its balance sheet.
That said, since the end of the period under review, there have been tangible signs that many of the companies in the portfolio are making exciting progress that we hope to see, in due course, reflected in the financials.
I have already mentioned the Company's successful exits of Gigaclear and AJ Bell, while Oxford Nanopore and Atom Bank both completed significant fundraising rounds as they seek to execute their commercial strategies.
Autolus announced plans to list on the stock market this year, while Benevolent AI is now valued at $2bn following a fundraise of $115m in April 2018.
The Board expects significant news flow in the next period and will continue to track the top portfolio companies and the achievement or not of business milestones.
We continue to share the Portfolio Managers confidence that investors patience will ultimately be rewarded.
Susan Searle Chairman 23 April 2018 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 7
