Polypipe Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION OVERVIEW DIVIDEND I am delighted to present the Polypipe We have again maintained our dividend 2017 Annual Report and Accounts policy and I am pleased to report that the following another excellent year for the Board recommends a final dividend of 7.5 Group.
Despite the continued economic pence per share, giving a full year dividend and political uncertainty that has prevailed of 11.1 pence per share for the year ended since the EU Referendum and a mixed UK 31 December 2017, a 9.9% increase on the construction market performance, our end prior year.
markets continue to perform well, with the eligible employees choosing to participate.
Group growing UK revenue significantly Across the Group, we now have 30.7% of all STRATEGY ahead of the UK construction market.
As employees currently contributing to one or During 2017, the key objectives of the well as managing this growth, the Group more schemes.
Board included: has also seen a number of key leadership { Investigating and prioritising selected David Hall retired in October 2017 having changes during the year, including the development and acquisition been CEO during the Companys prior retirement of David Hall in October 2017 opportunities, while the Group ownership and through its transformation following 12 years as CEO, and the continued to reduce leverage.
I would like to promotion of Martin Payne from CFO to record both the Boards and my own CEO following Davids retirement.
Glen { Targeting investment to support the Sabin was promoted to the role of Chief personal thanks to David for his enormous continued growth of our key businesses.
Operating Officer and appointed to the contribution to making Polypipe the { Investigation and development of new Board in October 2017, and the Company successful Group that it is today, and wish export markets.
Secretarial function was also brought inhim well in his retirement.
Martin Payne house following the appointment of Emma was appointed as Group CEO following Good progress was made against these Versluys as Company Secretary.
Paul James Davids retirement and both I and my objectives during 2017. joined the Company and Board as Chief Board colleagues have been impressed In addition to our ongoing initiatives, in 2018 Financial Officer on 5 March 2018, and I and encouraged by the significant impact believe that the executive management our attention will be focused upon: he has made since his appointment while team is now at full complement following { Continuing to develop our core continuing to have responsibility for the this period of change and well placed to manufacturing capabilities by investing CFO function in the period before Paul drive the Groups strategy forwards.
in further new capacity and automation James joined us.
The Board changes have to help grow both revenues and profit In this regard, the Group announced on been well received within the Group as organically.
31 January 2018 that it had entered into well as with advisers and shareholders, advanced negotiations to dispose of its and the motivation and enthusiasm of our { Continued progression of the Groups French subsidiary following a review of employees has been unaffected throughout M&A agenda.
the strategic overlap between the UK and this period of change.
The Board and I look French business.
Given the French business PEOPLE forward to the next chapter in the Groups operates in lower margin product areas, The exceptional effort and ongoing growth story under the stewardship of the it was agreed to dispose of the business.
commitment of our employees continues new executive management team.
Completion is expected in the first half of to be a key driver of the Companys strong 2018 and, once completed, will allow the SUMMARY performance.
In 2017, the Board and I Group to focus on its higher margin Once again, the Group has made significant spent time visiting our sites both in the UK product areas.
The strong and France, and continue to be impressed performance in the year is testament to the by the knowledge, enthusiasm and RESULTS strength of the growth drivers on which the commitment of our employees across the Performance throughout 2017 has been Groups strategy is based, namely legacy Group.
Effective and efficient management very strong, with a 6.3% increase in material substitution, tailwinds from both of our key facilities is critical to the Groups revenue to 411.7m and a 6.0% increase water management and carbon reduction ongoing success, and strong leadership in underlying operating profit at 72.6m.
legislation, and development of selective in each business unit by experienced and UK revenue growth of 8.1% was ahead export markets.
With a continued focus of the market, primarily as a result of dedicated management teams is a key on investment into engineered solutions strong growth in the UK residential sector differentiator.
to meet those needs, an experienced driven by new housebuilds.
Underlying In November 2017, the first Save As You operating margin was robust at 17.6%, and dedicated senior management team, Earn SAYE options granted in 2014 despite continued input cost inflation, committed workforce, and a clear strategy, matured, and employees across the Group and underlying diluted earnings per share I am confident that the Group will continue were able to benefit from their hard work increased by 10.1% to 27.2p per share.
to thrive during 2018. in driving the Groups growth over the last Net debt continued to reduce to 1.6 times three years and have the option of becoming Ron Marsh EBITDA compared with 1.9 times for the shareholders in the Company.
The Company Chairman prior year.
issued invitations to join a third SAYE scheme during the year, resulting in 600 24% of 06 06
