Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chairmans statement PROGRESSING TOWARDS A BRIGHT FUTURE It is with considerable pride that I share with you the notable achievements that have been key to the continued success of our polyhalite Project in 2017.
First and foremost, the commencement of construction, in a safe and secure environment, has seen us take major strides towards our goal of first production in 2021.
The impressive construction progress over the last 12months sits alongside several other key achievements which are all contributing towards the successful fulfilment of our ultimate vision: to become a world-class fertilizer business.
Local At full production over 1,000 highskilled jobs will be created with an The impressive construction additional 1,500 jobs created in the supply chain.
The high-skilled jobs progress over the last 12months wewill create will also be highly productive and well-paid.
As the sitsalongside several other key largest private sector capital investment in the North, we are achievements which are all sending a clear message that the contributing towards the successful region is open for business and has the necessary skills and ability to fulfilment of our ultimate vision: deliver major infrastructure projects.
tobecome a world-class In addition to the employment opportunities created, the Company fertilizerbusiness.
expects that, at full production, it will make around 85 million in local RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW.
CHAIRMAN payments each year and will deliver approximately 13 million in annual contributions to the Sirius Minerals Foundation, as well as being a catalyst for regeneration with the potential to create new economic clusters in the region.
4 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 National Sirius team has already demonstrated shaft sinking platform and Beyond the North East, our project their ability to deliver successful associated drainage have been willalso bring major economic outcomes in the face of challenges installed and the site is ready for benefits to the UK as a whole.
At others have considered overwhelming.
shaft sinking activities to get full-scale production we are forecast In order to achieve our vision and underway in 2018. to generate significant tax revenues ensure the potential benefits for all to the national exchequer, stakeholders come to fruition, the Supply agreements strengthening the UKs fiscal position tenacity and determination which Market acceptance of POLY4 in and supporting public services.
The has defined our Company to date, theform of long-term supply Woodsmith Mine and associated will continue to stand us in good agreements, as evidenced infrastructure will enable us to stead as we progress further into this through our partnership with produce and sell up to 20 million current phase of developing our leading agri-business Wilmar, tonnes per annum of our primary world-class mining operation.
reinforces and validates that product, POLY4.
POLY4 will earn its place in the 2017 construction commences global fertilizer market.
Our Having been associated with After five years of exploration, partnership with Wilmar enables significant mining projects for a large preparation, obtaining planning access to key markets with huge part of my career, I take great comfort approval and having delivered many prospects for POLY4 across South that this expected success of our significant project milestones, I am East Asia.
Wilmar is the latest business goes well beyond the pleased to report that the construction addition to our existing group of investment proposition.
The efforts of of our North Yorkshire polyhalite industry leading customers with our team and supporters are already Project is well underway.
whom we expect to help drive creating positive, tangible economic further global demand for POLY4.
change in the UK and we look forward At the Woodsmith Mine site all initial to doing so for many years to come.
site works to enable the construction Our people of the key infrastructure components People are critical to the success of Global are complete.
The working platforms our business and I am particularly For me, it is very important that POLY4 for the main mine shaft and MTS shaft pleased with the expanding team can contribute to easing the challenge were completed early to ensure shaft of highly motivated, diverse and of global food security.
Fertilizers are related activities could commence as experienced individuals who have fundamental to improving agricultural soon as possible.
The last yields and helping to address the year has seen our team more than forecasted imbalance between food At Lockwood Beck, initial site works double in size and the successful supply and demand.
Global are now complete, including the move in late 2017 to Resolution population is growing at a rapid rate, upgrade and repositioning of the House, our new office headquarters and with it, the requirement for more existing road junction.
The new junction in Scarborough, has provided the food.
Unless more effective, more provides safe entry to the site and has space, technology and environment efficient and sustainable practices also greatly improved the access to to support our workforce.
are adopted, farmers and food the existing road infrastructure.
The producers will struggle to bridge the gap between supply and demand.
Our global research and development programme is demonstrating that POLY4 delivers greater nutrient uptake and improves both yield and quality on multiple crops in varying geographic conditions across the world.
5 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Chairmans statement continued I am particularly pleased with the Executive Director and Senior Outlook overall quality of people who have Non-Executive Director 2018 will be a pivotal year for us as joined us from the local area.
To date, appointments weseek the remaining financing the majority of our head office team Early in 2017 we announced the required to complete this in Yorkshire has been sourced from appointment of Thomas Staley to the transformational Project.
The the local labour market.
I also take Board as Finance Director.
Thomas construction of the first new fertilizer great satisfaction from the fact that played an instrumental role in mine in the UK for a generation is an many of our younger team members, securing the stage 1 financing and opportunity to create thousands of who joined us as apprentices, are he will play a pivotal role in a jobs and bring significant economic now integral members of the team.
successful execution of the stage 2 benefits to both national and local Our strong values of responsibility, debt raising.
In order to fully realise this ownership, belief and urgency, based adds to an already very strong transformational opportunity for the on the solid foundations of safety and complement of Board members who UK, a partnership with the UK teamwork, have propelled the team have the credentials and experience Government, in the form of a Treasury to achieve more than many people required to lead the Company through Guarantee under the Infrastructure thought would ever be possible.
the next phase of development.
Project Authoritys scheme, is essential.
Move to the Main Market and We also announced the elevation of Securing this guarantee and our Premium Listing one of our very experienced Nonstage 2 financing will be our core Following the completion of stage 1 Executive Board members, Noel focus for the year ahead and I am financing, we announced our Harwerth, to the role of Senior comforted by our excellent progress intention to apply for admission to Independent Director.
With preparations well listing on the premium listing segment wide array of Board experiences underway to secure commitments for of the Official List of the UK Listing across several industries, including financing, we are confident in our Authority Premium Listing and mining and finance.
Over the last few ability to deliver these goals and look admission to trading on the main years she has provided us with wise forward to taking on the challenges market of the London Stock Exchange counsel on a regular basis and I am which lie ahead.
While AIM had very pleased she has agreed to add provided us with an excellent this expanded role to her duties.
The short, medium and long-term platform to progress the Company benefits from our Project are through the various approval phases significant and will not be diminished of the Project, the Company Directors by Britains decision to leave the EU.
believe that a Premium Listing better Ibelieve that our ongoing success is supports the long-term strategy and a clear demonstration of the growing potential of the Company by local and national public and providing us with a more appropriate political support for realising the full platform for growth, access to broader potential of the Woodsmith Mine.
international investor audiences and deeper pools of investment capital I would like to thank all our that reflect the world-class nature shareholders, supporters and ofthe Project and Sirius long-term suppliers for their ongoing support.
potential as a global supplier of multi-nutrient fertilizer.
This important Kind regards milestone was accomplished in April2017 and Sirius finished 2017 asaFTSE 250 constituent.
RUSSELL SCRIMSHAW Chairman 6 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 LOCAL 85 million annually in local payments to mineral rights holders andto the Sirius Minerals Foundation NATIONAL GLOBAL 2.5 billion of exports annually, representing a 7% reduction in the UK trade deficit 2.3 billion annual direct contribution to GDP 7 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
