Chairmans statement Ian Durant, Chairman DRIVING LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION, WITH RESPONSIBLE OVERSIGHT OVERVIEW Total return Dividend per share Both of our prime central London estates had a very active year in which management made good operational progress.
The Covent Garden estate, which now represents more than 70 per cent of the Groups portfolio by value, delivered positive performance and value -1.3% 1.5p growth.
The value of our investments at Earls Court has however been impacted by challenges in the London residential market.
PERFORMANCE Capcos total shareholder return for the year, which comprises Total shareholder return share price performance plus the dividends paid during the year, pence was 8.1 per cent, and total return for the year, which represents the 450 change in net assets plus the dividends paid during the year, was 400 -1.3 per cent.
The total value of Capcos property portfolio fell by 0.9 350 per cent on a like-for-like basis to 3.5 billion, with gains at Covent Garden being offset by a reduction in the Earls Court valuation.
300 Covent Garden is established as a renowned retail and dining 250 destination and continues to attract target brands.
The Covent 200 Garden estate is benefiting from a period of significant investment 150 made over recent years, creating an inviting environment with a wide variety of British heritage, independent and global brands 100 offering a broad selection of retail and dining experiences across 50 10 May 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec the estate.
Net rental income has increased significantly in 2017.
2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Capcos distinct approach to creative asset management continues Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index to drive leasing activity and in turn ERV progression.
Initiatives to enhance the estate have been very successful.
Examples include the establishment of Henrietta Street as a menswear and dining destination and the successful repositioning 8 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements of the Royal Opera House Arcade.
In addition, a number of and Capcos inclusion in The Investment Associations public acquisitions have extended our presence on Floral Street.
The register of shareholder dissent.
The Board will maintain dialogue Floral Court development is nearing completion with the courtyard with our South African shareholders on this topic.
and restaurant openings expected over the coming months.
BOARD OVERSIGHT Economic and political uncertainty has impacted the residential Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit our assets in market in London, resulting in a further decline in the valuation Covent Garden and Earls Court and meet operational management of our investments at Earls Court.
This is achieved through individual visits and Board remains one of the largest Opportunity Areas in central London update meetings sometimes held on site, and helps the Board keep with the ability to evolve with the needs of the Capital.
The political abreast of the business challenges and opportunities and to and economic environment has made discussions on enhancing the contribute to strategic debate.
This has been a year of considerable Masterplan more difficult, however Capco will continue to seek to change in the macroeconomic and political context in which Capco positively engage with all stakeholders to evolve the Masterplan operates and I am grateful for the Directors diligence and over time.
At Earls Court Partnership Limited ECPL, our investment In reaching its conclusions regarding key business decisions, the vehicle with Transport for London TfL, the final phase of the Board takes account of the different stakeholders relevant to Capco complex demolition of the former Earls Court Exhibition Centres and its activities, including local communities where we operate, has been successfully completed in preparation for future partners, lenders, government and our own people as well as development.
Handover of the first phase of the Lillie Square shareholders.
residential development nears completion and half of Phase 2 has The Board also regularly reviews the changing risks affecting Capco been pre-sold at a modest premium to comparable units in Phase 1. and takes account of changes to risks when discussing strategy and In April 2017, Capco completed the sale of the Venues business at a reviewing operations.
Health and Safety receives particular slight premium to net asset value, in keeping with our established attention at Board meetings and across the business.
strategy of recycling capital through the disposal of non-core assets.
LOOKING AHEAD FINANCIAL POSITION AND DIVIDENDS London is an outstanding global city and remains a very attractive Capco continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, with low investment arena.
Our strategy remains clear and focused on leverage, high liquidity and modest capital commitments.
During delivering long-term value for shareholders from our two prime the year, Capco extended its debt maturities, further diversified its central London estates.
The Board remains alert to broader sources of funding with a Private Placement and successfully economic and political uncertainty and its potential impact on executed the sale of Venues.
The business is well-positioned to market conditions, however Capcos strong financial position support its future activities and take advantage of opportunities enables the Group to support its future activities and provides the as they arise.
financial flexibility to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share, which brings the total dividend for 2017 to 1.5 pence per share.
PEOPLE The Company has evolved during the year and the Board and I would like to thank our employees for their work and commitment.
Ian Durant There were a number of changes to the Board in 2017.
At the Chairman beginning of the year Situl Jobanputra was promoted to Chief 20 February 2018 Financial Officer, following Soumen Das departure at the end of 2016.
Charlotte Boyle was appointed as a Non-executive Director and member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees in October 2017, following Demetra Pinsents decision to step down from the Board in July 2017.
I am pleased to report that Situl and Charlotte have both settled into their new roles well, and I was delighted to see the recognition of internal talent.
Demetras departure unfortunately sets back our gender diversity aspirations at Board level.
The Board will consider this along with wider diversity for any future appointments and is committed to encouraging diversity, inclusiveness and the development of our people across the business.
SHAREHOLDERS Capco is listed on the London Stock Exchange and the JSE, and over 50 per cent of the Companys shares are held by South African investors.
There are sometimes different market expectations in the UK and South Africa, and one example of this is the level of authority to issue new shares that shareholders expect to grant to Boards.
The Board feels that, to preserve flexibility, it is appropriate to seek the conventional level of authorities expected by shareholders in UK listed companies where possible.
This has resulted in significant votes against two of our AGM resolutions www.
