Chairmans Introduction David Lowden Chairman Market expectations continued to out, with measurable outcomes being 2017 Performance increase significantly as the year seen.
Full details of how this strong It gives me great pleasure to report that progressed as a result of this strong performance has been measured and the Group delivered a strong trading performance as we delivered against reflected in the remuneration of the performance for the year ended our strategy.
Even with these upgrades management team, is shown in the 31 December 2017. taking place throughout the year, our Remuneration Report on pages 63 performance still finished towards the to 76.
As we entered 2017, there were top end of market expectations, with challenging trading conditions in many The Group again achieved a record yet another year of continued profitable of our core markets, including in the UK, level of gross profit in 2017 of 711.6m, growth.
Brazil, Singapore, Australia and Financial an increase of 14.6% over the prior Services in New York.
Upcoming The management team has continued year in reported rates and 9.8% in elections across Europe were also to make strong progress in delivering constant currency.
We delivered strong adding to the uncertainty.
our long-term strategy, with 2017 performances in Continental Europe, total shareholder return being ranked Asia and the Americas and were Whilst some of these uncertainties amongst the highest in our peer encouraged by improvements and proved to be less severe than originally group, and higher than our FTSE a return to growth in Australia, Brazil anticipated, our continued focus on the 250 index comparators.
Strategic and Singapore as 2017 progressed.
strategy and strong performances in key initiatives regarding people, efficiency, Overall, 22 of our 36 countries markets, helped us to deliver well ahead risk management and diversity have delivered their best recorded level of of the market expectations in existence continued to be successfully rolled gross profit.
However, our growth was at the start of the year.
1 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION impacted in the UK where we continued Large High Potential Markets, namely during downturns, as well as increasing to experience challenging market the US, Germany, South East Asia, it during more prosperous times.
conditions, with the macro environment Greater China and Latin America.
Gross impacting some clients and senior profit growth in this market was above In 2017, we generated cash from candidates.
These operations of 130.0m and ended the strategic investments will continue in year with cash balances of 95.6m We continued to invest in new markets 2018, as well as in those businesses and a level of distributable reserves and disciplines and finished the year where we are seeing strong growth.
that support more than three times with an increase of 786 fee earners to this annual dividend.
Given this cash 5,497, another record for the Group.
To enable us to grow our market position, levels of distributable reserves During the year, new headcount was presence, we have continued to expand and our results for the year, we propose added at a ratio of 85 fee earners for our disciplines into new countries, such to increase the final dividend to 8.60p.
every 15 operational support staff as as oil, gas and mining in Chile.
We have When taken together with the interim we continued to move towards our also made further investments into dividend paid in October of 3.90p, this target ratio of 82:18.
At the same time markets such as the Nikkei market in implies a total dividend of 12.50p, an we continued to deliver efficiencies in Japan, regional and domestic markets in increase of 4.3% on 2016. our back office activities and finished Mainland China, as well as investments the year with a fee earner to operational in US markets outside Financial Services support staff ratio of 78:22. in New York.
These investments have Dividend Per Share p helped us achieve record levels of 30 Our largest region, Europe, Middle East growth in these businesses.
Special dividend 27.5 and Africa, which now represents just under 50 percent of the Group, grew We have also benefited from the 25.23 16.0 gross profit 22.2% in reported rates over transition into our European Shared 24 the prior year and 15.0% in constant Service Centre in Barcelona, which 12.73 currency, an outstanding result.
In this region, of gross profit, France and Germany, the operational support cost per fee earner 18.44 two largest countries in the region, grew has fallen by around 20% since 2014, 18 25% and 12% percent respectively, with attributed to process alignment across 6.46 The Netherlands up 14% and Spain up all 14 European countries, wage 16%.
The UK was the only region not arbitrage and other efficiencies.
12 12.50 to improve on the prior year but was 11.98 11.5 These efficiencies are demonstrated broadly in line, down 3.8% compared to 11.0 10.5 10.5 further with fee earner headcount down 3.5% in 2016. additions of over 400 in the region, but 6 only requiring relatively few operational 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 support additions.
Five-year Ordinary Dividend CAGR 4.4% Yet another year of Dividends continued profitable In 2017, in addition to paying over Board growth 38m in ordinary dividends, we returned Since I became Chairman of the Board 40m to shareholders by way of a in December 2015, I have consistently special dividend.
We have now paid Both Asia Pacific and the Americas focused on Board composition as one of special dividends totalling 110m in the returned to positive growth.
Asia Pacific the most important aspects of my role.
grew 10.2% in 2017 after a decline Todays continually evolving business of 2.2% in 2016.
Greater China, the The Groups first use of cash remains world presents a range of risks and Group's third largest market after the UK the satisfaction of operational and opportunities, which is why it is essential and France, grew 14%, after a decline investment requirements, as well as to to maintain the right mix of skills and of 4% in 2016 and this was the main hedge its liabilities under the Groups experience on the Board to mitigate driver for the regions return to growth.
Our second use of cash is these risks effectively and to work with We grew 16.4% in the Americas in to make returns to shareholders by way the Executive team to deliver the 2017 after a decline of 0.9% in 2016. of an ordinary dividend.
Growth in this region was driven by a in excess of these first two priorities will We strive for a diversified Board with a strong recovery in the US, up 21% and a be returned to shareholders through wide range of experience, thought and return to growth for Brazil, up 3%, after supplementary returns, using special perspective.
We are pleased to have respective declines of 3% and 21% dividends and or share buybacks.
appointed two female Non-Executive in 2016.
Our ordinary dividend policy is to grow Directors this financial year and now The PageGroup leadership team the dividend over the course of the have 44% female representation on also made further progress on the economic cycle in line with our longthe Board.
In this way we can we continued to invest in our five sustain the level of dividend payment Strategic Report | 2 Chairmans Introduction In September 2017, we welcomed Sylvia for her significant contribution to the In the UK political uncertainty remains, Metayer onto the Board.
Sylvia brings Company since she joined the Board impacting some clients and senior extensive experience to the PageGroup in December 2013. candidates.
Here, we will continue to Board, having held a variety of finance focus on protecting margins whilst As a Board, we also look to internal and general management roles in investing in structural opportunities.
experience as being one of the core companies operating in a number of Australia remains challenging in the perspectives we review in terms of different sectors, including Mattel Inc, markets in which we operate, but we appointments to the Board.
Discussions Vivendi SA and Houghton Mifflin Harcourt have invested in headcount and a new are held each year, focusing on the & Co.
Her understanding of international office in Canberra.
Brazil had a good development and succession of the markets is extensive and includes the end to the year, but is still suffering from Executive Directors, Executive Board US, Europe, China, India and South East macroeconomic headwinds and will have members and other senior managers Asia.
She is currently Chief Executive, elections this year.
This ensures a pipeline Worldwide Corporate Services Segment of talented senior individuals is present However, our proven strategy remains of the Euronext Paris listed company within the business and that existing unchanged.
Investment will continue in Sodexo SA.
She is also a member of the senior executives are being developed.
our Large High Potential Markets, as well Sodexo Group Executive Committee.
as in markets with favourable trading Sylvia holds a chartered accountancy All Board members have considerable conditions.
This includes the newer qualification, is a Trustee of the Quebec experience of working internationally in markets such as the Nikkei market in Labrador Foundation, and sits on the different parts of the world.
We will, as always, continue to Research Orientation Committee of the Board has a good mix of relevant skills, focus on driving profitable growth while Foundation of HEC Business School in experience, gender and backgrounds.
being able to respond quickly to changes Paris.
This diversity is of great benefit to the in market conditions.
The addition of Sylvia and In October 2017, we welcomed Angela Angela to the Board, and their respective Last, but by no means least, on behalf Seymour-Jackson onto the Board.
She depth and breadth of experience, will of the Board I would like to thank our has a wealth of experience in service complement the experience of other people, as the success of PageGroup focused organisations and has a Masters Board members and will bring great depends on the quality of its staff.
degree in Marketing and a Diploma from benefit to PageGroup.
Both will also be PageGroup is a people business with a the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
members of the Audit, Nomination and clear and tangible culture, and this year Angela is currently Deputy Chairman, Remuneration Committees.
we have redefined our PageVision, please Senior Independent Director and Chair see page 13 for more details.
Our staff are of the Remuneration Committee at Your Board remains diligent in both dedicated, hard-working and committed GoCompare.
com Group, and a Nonsupporting and challenging the executive to the brands.
They have a very strong Executive Director at Janus Henderson teams strategy recommendations and team ethos which is evident in everything Group plc, esure plc and Rentokil Initial their responses to changing market they do.
Angela has previously held Executive conditions.
Full details of the work of the Director roles at Aegon UK, RAC Motoring Board and subjects discussed in the Delivering our strategy against rapidly Services Limited and Aviva UK Limited, year are set out in the Corporate changing markets in terms of technology and was a Senior Adviser at Lloyds Governance Report.
and macroeconomic environment, Banking Group insurance.
Prior to that, can only be done successfully with Angela held senior marketing roles with Strategic Report excellent people.
On behalf of the Board, Bluecycle.
com Limited, CGU Insurance therefore, I would like to thank all our staff This report sets out PageGroups strategic plc, General Accident plc and the Norwich for their very considerable efforts in the vision and how we address the various Union Insurance Group.
markets and the opportunities before us.
We have highlighted areas which are As mentioned last year, Baroness Ruby critical to achieving this vision, such as our McGregor-Smith informed us that diversity, inclusion and equality agenda.
she would not renew the term of her appointment when it expired on 23 May David Lowden The report also details our approach 2017.
Ruby had been a Non-Executive Chairman to corporate and social responsibility, Director of PageGroup for 10 years.
She including how we engage with our made an outstanding contribution over stakeholders.
this time and played an important role in helping to drive the Groups growth and Looking Ahead development.
I would like to thank her We exited 2017 with a record quarter again on behalf of the Board for all she did and the best quarterly growth rate since for PageGroup.
We also saw Danuta Gray has decided not to stand improvements and a return to growth for re-election as a Director of the in Australia, Brazil and Singapore.
As a Company at the forthcoming AGM, result, we go into 2018 optimistic, but so will step down from the Board on remain cautious in some key markets.
I would like to thank Danuta 3 | Strategic Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Overview Financial Strategic People Operational Highly profitable Sustainable organic growth Team-based service delivery Strong brands Business Maintain a strong balance Diversification to mitigate Talent and skills Effective use of technology Model sheet cyclicality by geography, development retention brand and discipline Highly cash generative Focus on operational P5 efficiency Long-term investment into To be the leading specialist Career development Assurance of a quality core markets: recruiter in each of the structure service markets in which we operate Large, High Potential: Effective recruitment process Strategy Large, Proven: and Small and Medium, P8 High Margin Macro-economic exposure Shift in business model People development Technology: systems transformation and Foreign exchange translation Delivery of operational Attraction and retention change: data security: risk efficiencies Risks brand reputation: financial management and control: fiscal and legal compliance P33 Gross profit growth Fee earner headcount Employee satisfaction survey Measurement performed growth at a granular level Gross profit diversification Management experience Gross profit per fee earner KPIs Earnings per share Fee earner:operational Net cash support staff ratio P21 Perm:Temp ratio Conversion rate EPS growth: three year Strategic targets Leadership and people Cost and financial cumulative development management Systems and innovation PBT performance Retention succession Risk management and Remuneration internal controls Comparator gross profit growth IT strategic development P63 Maintain a strong balance Return surplus cash to Ensure dividends are paid at First use of cash is to satisfy sheet shareholders by special sustainable levels such that operational and investment dividends and or share investment in the business needs, as well as to hedge Dividend buybacks and its people is maintained liabilities under the Groups Policy share plans P12 Strategic Report | 4
