Chairmans summary The Group now has operations in three major geographic territories the UK, US and Australasia a stronger balance sheet and a large and diversified portfolio of exciting opportunities MIKE HUMPHREY CHAIRMAN I am pleased to report a year of substantial HIGHLIGHTS progress at IP Group in 2017.
The underlying business performed well with some notable commercial progress within the portfolio while at a corporate level, IP Group completed a number Combination with of individually significant strategic transactions.
Touchstone Innovations The Group now has operations in three major geographic territories the UK, US and Australasia a stronger balance sheet and a large and Launch of Australasian operations diversified portfolio of exciting opportunities.
Corporate transactions 2017 was a busy period in terms of corporate Acquisition of Parkwalk Advisors transactions for the Group.
In June, the Group formally launched an all-share offer for Touchstone Innovations plc, a company which creates, builds and invests in technology companies and licensing opportunities developed from scientific research from the Golden Triangle, the geographical TIMELINE region broadly bounded by London, Cambridge and Oxford.
The combination gives us critical mass, a better-balanced portfolio and additional partnerships.
The transaction was declared wholly unconditional in October and Touchstones portfolio, people and operations have been integrated into the Group.
In May, IP Group announced a 181.0m net capital raise and welcomed new shareholders from Australia, China, Singapore and the UK.
The funding JANUARY 2017 allows the Group to accelerate growth by investing in new and existing portfolio companies, build on Completed the acquisition its pool of valued scientific and commercial talent, of Parkwalk Advisors Ltd and attract further investors and co-investment partners.
It also furthers the transformation underway by expanding the Groups share register and by further extending its model into Australasia.
8 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our business & strategy In February, we completed the acquisition of Parkwalk Key portfolio events Advisors Ltd. that was announced in December Turning to the portfolio, I would draw out a few 2016.
Founded in 2009, Parkwalk is the UKs leading highlights.
During the year, Diurnal received positive university spin-out focused EIS fund manager.
We are CHMP opinion for its Alkindi product, followed by delighted to have the team on board and Parkwalk market authorisation in February 2018, paving the recorded a net contribution of 1.6m for the period way for Diurnal to become the first IP Group company since acquisition, while co-investing in six IP Group to launch a new therapeutic in Europe, which is portfolio companies.
Istesso commenced Phase 2a clinical trials for its lead MBS2320 programme Expansion into Australasia in Rheumatoid Arthritis and expanded its R&D IP Group was also delighted to announce a landmark collaboration with Janssen.
Autifony Therapeutics agreement with Australasias leading universities Ltd, a Touchstone Innovations company, announced in 2017, which will see at least A$200m invested it had signed a 627.5m collaboration agreement in finding and developing companies involved with Boehringer Ingelheim.
And finally, once again, in disruptive innovation.
The commercialisation Oxford Nanopore has shown significant commercial agreements, the first of their type in Australasia, progress during the period, with the company were signed with nine universities: the University of recently announcing that 2017 order intake had Adelaide, Australian National University, the University increased approximately three-fold to $25.3m, with of Melbourne, Monash University, UNSW Sydney, the an expectation for a similar level of growth in 2018, University of Queensland, the University of Sydney and a number of product developments, including the and the University of Western Australia in Australia, launch of the GridION x5.
and the University of Auckland in New Zealand.
The Group committed to invest at least A$200m over In addition, our portfolio companies continue a 10-year period to fund investments in spin-out to attract significant external funding, raising companies based on the intellectual property IP approximately 315m of new capital this year.
developed by academics at the nine universities, Significant fund raisings included AIM-quoted Tissue generated from research in areas such Regenix Group plc 40m, Actual Experience as digital medicine, new medical therapies and plc 17.5m and, among the private companies, quantum computing.
Ultrahaptics Ltd 17.9m and Creavo Medical Technologies 13.4m.
MAY 2017 OCTOBER 2017 IPG announced the result of 181m net IPG announced an offer Offer for Touchstone capital raising with new shareholders from to acquire Touchstone Innovations goes Australia, China, Singapore and the UK, Innovations plc wholly unconditional and the launch of IP2IPO Australia with commercialisation agreements with nine leading Australian and New Zealand research universities 9 Stock Code: IPO www.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Chairmans summary CONTINUED Financial performance Summary In terms of financial performance, the Group The business made substantial progress in 2017, continues to build on its strong track record.
In 2017, leaving IP Group well positioned for 2018 and beyond.
IP Groups portfolio delivered a solid performance I would like to welcome all our new colleagues and with net assets excluding goodwill and intangibles partners to the Group this year and to thank staff, Hard NAV totalling 1,326.2m 2016: 706.5m academic partners and portfolio companies for with the fair value of the portfolio increasing to their commitment and contribution to this positive 1,130.6m 2016: 614.0m and resulting in a reported performance.
As ever, I would also like to extend profit of 53.4m 2016: 14.8m loss.
The Group the Boards thanks to all our stakeholders for their ended the year with gross cash and deposits of continued support without whom none of this would 326.3m 2016: 112.3m.
I must stress however that be possible.
With a larger and maturing portfolio our business model remains long term in nature and and an expanded pipeline of opportunities around while our objective is to generate long term value the world, we look to the rest of the year with for stakeholders, portfolio company valuations and continued confidence.
therefore our results can and do fluctuate from year MIKE HUMPHREY to year.
CHAIRMAN Changes to the Board At Board level, there have been two changes this year.
In October, we were delighted to welcome Professor David Begg as a non-executive director following the acquisition of Touchstone Innovations plc, where he was a non-executive director.
Professor Begg joined Touchstone Innovations plc from Imperial College London, where he was Professor of Economics and Principal of the Business School from 2003 until 2012.
He also acted as Vice Provost for Research for the College.
During his earlier career, he held a number of distinguished advisory and academic appointments, including Professor of Economics at Birkbeck College, Visiting Fellow at the Reserve Bank of Australia, and Visiting Professor at M. I. T and at INSEAD, and Economic Policy Advisor in the Bank of England.
Doug Liversidge, CBE, retired from his position as a non-executive director of the Company at the end of 2017.
Mr Liversidge served on the Board in a non-executive capacity since March 2014 following IP Groups acquisition of Fusion IP plc, where he was Chairman.
He was also the Groups Senior Independent Director, a role that Professor Begg agreed to take on from the beginning of 2018.
Mr Liversidge made an important contribution to the Groups growth and I would like to thank him for his commitment and wise counsel over the past four years.
10 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our business & strategy Market The purpose of IP Group is to evolve great ideas into world-changing businesses.
IP Group is a leading intellectual property The search for solutions commercialisation company which focuses on IP Group partners with major leading research evolving great ideas, mainly from its partner institutions in countries where research is produced.
The Group has three areas of geographic focus: The Group has pioneered a unique approach to the UK, the US and our recently formed business developing these ideas and the resulting businesses in Australasia.
In total, the Group has access to by providing access to business building expertise, R&D emanating from 32 universities or research capital through its 100%-owned FCA-authorised institutions around the world comprising 18 in the UK, subsidiaries IP Capital and Parkwalk Advisors, 5 in the US and 9 in Australia New Zealand.
IP Group networks, recruitment and business support.
has access to intellectual property from universities The Directors consider that the Group is operating whose academic staff have published 16.8% of the and competing in two major areas.
Firstly, the Group worlds Top Research.
The Directors therefore believe competes for access to great ideas with significant the Group is the international market leader in the commercial potential.
The Group primarily sources emerging university IP commercialisation sector.
these ideas from a network of world-leading academic The Groups core business remains the UK, which research institutions, frequently those with which it has been further reinforced by the acquisition of has a long-term partnership arrangement.
IP Group does, however, the Group competes for capital to develop these great continually assess potential opportunities in other ideas into viable businesses against other investment territories that satisfy its criteria including long-term opportunities.
While the market for capital is very partnerships with leading research institutions and broad and deep, the Groups companies are typically good access to both capital and entrepreneurial talent.
seeking earlier-stage and development risk capital.
Economic backdrop Challenges facing the developed The overall economic backdrop has a significant and developing world today bearing on the Groups ability to pursue its strategic One of IP Groups core beliefs is that overcoming objectives.
In the shorter term, financial market many of the worlds common problems will require volatility and investor risk appetite impacts access to multiple scientific solutions.
The common challenges capital for the development of spin-out companies, facing the developed and developing world include which in turn, can affect the likelihood of achieving issues such as ageing population, climate change, exits and can influence the periodic valuations of resource scarcity, energy availability and storage, holdings in portfolio companies.
Over the longer-term, rapid urbanisation, health challenges and increasing Government spending on fundamental R&D as well as digitisation.
Historically, many of the solutions to these policy support towards the commercialisation of IP are global problems have come from fundamental R&D key areas affecting the Groups business model.
carried out in the worlds leading research universities and institutions.
IP Group believes that this will continue to be the case and therefore the Directors feel the Groups work, of helping commercialise cutting-edge science, is of such importance.
com 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Market CONTINUED In this context, these are uncertain times both The Governments 4.7bn stimulus package for economically and politically, particularly following science and innovation was increased in the Autumn events including the UKs vote to leave the European Statement 2016.
The Government stated that this will Union and the economic policy changes made, and grow by a further 2.3bn of additional spending in under consideration, in the US.
Global economic 2021-22, taking total direct R&D spending to 12.5bn activity, however, has been strengthening with the per annum by 2021-22. International Monetary Fund forecasting a global Stressing that research and development is a growth rate for 2018 of 3.9%.
The forecast for strong key driver of economic growth and a vital part growth is a result of upward revisions to the EU and for of the Governments Industrial Strategy, the UK many parts of Asia, though it also includes downward Government also announced that it would review revisions for both the US and UK.
While the ongoing the tax environment for R&D to ensure the system is European Union exit negotiations may have an impact strongly pro-innovation to make the UK an even more on the Groups business, IP Group is actively mitigating competitive place to carry out R&D.
this through diversification to both research and capital.
The Group has a burgeoning business in the The UK Government also concluded its review US and, in 2017, established operations in Australasia.
of long term investment into British firms.
The In addition, the Group has taken steps to broaden its Patient Capital review, led by the Treasury, looked shareholder register and now counts several large at how to remove the obstacles to getting long global investors among its shareholder base.
term investment into innovative firms.
The results from the consultation with leading industry figures included references to the significant need for patient Global research landscape capital and various ways to increase government Globally, the US remains the worlds largest R&D support, such as through public private partnerships investor with nearly $463bn of gross domestic R&D and tax incentives.
It is also worth noting that the expenditures in 2015 according to the OECD.
This government has recently extended the applicability of exceeded by almost one-quarter the amount of its Enterprise Investment Scheme in the 2017 Autumn R&D performed in the Peoples Republic of China budget, including an increase to the upper annual $377m, the second-largest performer, which is just limit of funding that each company can take.
over the combined level of the EU28 area $346m.
However, concerns remain that a potential decline Competitive landscape in government funding of science and technology The number of companies and organisations seeking research in some countries could pose a threat to to commercialise intellectual property, and or provide innovation.
The OECD Science, Technology and capital to spin-out companies from universities and Innovation Outlook 2016, published in December research-intensive institutions in the UK has increased 2016, noted expenditure on R&D by universities in recent years.
Further, the Group continues to face and public research institutes in OECD countries the risk of competition in new geographies in which it began flattening out in 2010 following three decades seeks to operate.
of growth as other policy priorities, such as state pensions, health and social care, absorbed a growing When approaching new opportunities, potential share of public resources.
funders, including the Group, will often act in a collaborative manner through syndication of UK landscape investment.
However, there are also occasions when In the UK, where IP Group is predominantly based IP Group may need to participate in a competitive and where it has partnerships with 18 leading UK process to obtain an interest in a particular universities including access to innovation from technology.
both the universities of Oxford and Cambridge, READ ABOUT OUR BUSINESS MODEL ON PAGES 14 TO 15 the Government has announced a package of measures designed to support innovation and drive economic growth.
1 Top Research classified as the top 10% of publications cited globally.
Includes the top 200 universities by volume of Top Research, 2012-2015, based on data from the Leiden University Rankings 2017.
Includes UK, US and Australasian partnerships including Oxford and Cambridge through strategic holdings in Oxford Sciences Innovation and Cambridge Innovation Capital and University College London through interest in UCL Technology Fund.
12 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2017 25829-04 10 May 2018 3:41 PM Proof Nine Strategic Report Our business & strategy IP GROUPS KEY DIFFERENTIATORS Operations in three core geographic hubs: UK, US and Australasia Breadth of partnerships with leading research institutions, giving access to 16.8% of the worlds Top Research Technology transfer capability to identify disruptive IP and to enable its transfer from research lab to commercial entity Business-building expertise, including executive search, administrative support, capital sourcing and innovative portfolio board and CEO programmes Patient capital approach, enabling the provision of funding from cradle to maturity unconstrained by artificiality of fixed life funds International shareholder and co-investor network Strong track record built over 15 years The Group and its portfolio companies regularly IP Groups approach to building businesses is one of compete with a range of technology, and other, the ways in which it differentiates itself from more businesses when seeking capital for the development traditional venture funds.
The Group actively supports of their business models.
The competition for capital, the development of its portfolio companies through and for opportunities on occasion, can come from a access to early-stage business-building expertise, wide variety of entities, including: interim executive support, technical and commercial networks and senior team recruitment and y specialist traditional venture capital investors: development in addition to the provision of capital.
y large private institutional investors: In addition, the Group provides operational, legal, y privately managed schemes based on government business and company secretarial support to its funding: companies, with a view to minimising the most y private individuals, both acting individually or common administrative factors that can contribute collectively as groups such as business angel to early-stage company failure.
The Group has also networks, crowdfunding platforms or through successfully carried out several innovative programmes beneficial tax mechanisms such as SEIS, EIS and to accelerate company growth, including working with VCTs in the UK: CEOs and company boards to improve performance.
y direct public funding, for example the EU level In the UK, the Group also considers tax-advantaged JEREMIE fund and other national and local Enterprise Investment Scheme EIS funds to be an schemes: and increasingly important source of financing for earlyy universities and research-intensive institutions stage technology companies and has seen a strong seeking to raise private sector funding operating performance from its new subsidiary, themselves to support their in-house technology Parkwalk, the UKs largest EIS growth fund manager commercialisation activities.
focused on university spin-outs, which has strong links to leading institutional wealth managers and university partners.
