STRATEGIC REPORT 8 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A HIGH QUALITY IRON ORE SUPPLIER Another excellent set of results demonstrating strong demand for Ferrexpos high-quality iron ore pellets from the worlds .
Introduction I am very pleased to report that in 2017 the Group almost doubled its pre-tax profit to US$450 million 2016: US$231 million while A underlying EBITDA increased by 47% to US$551 million 2016: US$375 million.
Net debt was reduced by 32% to US$403 million, its lowest level since A 2011, with the net debt to EBITDA ratio falling comfortably below 1times to 0.73 times compared to 1.57times as of 31 December 2016.
Ferrexpo achieved a record pellet premium for its product in 2017.
Its average received price outperformed the average Platts 62% Fe iron ore fines price by 40%.
Driving the improvement in pricing was an increasing divergence during the year for prices paid for different qualities of iron ore, with high-quality iron ore producers, including pellet producers, receiving significant premiums to the benchmark iron ore price, while low-quality producers DUE TO THE GROUPS PAST INVESTMENT realised substantial discounts.
Ferrexpo, PROGRAMME TO INCREASE THE QUALITY OF as a pellet producer, was very well placed ITS PELLETS, AND STRONG DEMAND FOR HIGHto benefit from this market development given its long-held strategy of producing QUALITY IRON ORE IN 2017, FERREXPO ACHIEVED and selling a high-quality iron ore product A RECORD PELLET PREMIUM FOR THE YEAR.
to the best steel mills in the world.
IN 2018, PELLET PREMIUMS ARE EXPECTED TO Although Ferrexpos cost of pellet INCREASE FURTHER COMPARED TO 2017. production per tonne did increase during the year, it is still a low cost producer STEVE LUCAS relative to its peers, and remains in the CHAIRMAN, FERREXPO PLC bottom quartile of the pellet cost curve.
Dividends GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS In view of this increase in profitability, Recruited a new Senior the Board was pleased to declare an Independent Director to interim ordinary dividend 3.3 US cents the Board Board refreshment programme now complete for the time being For more information see the Corporate Governance Report on page 53.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 US$450M 66.85 16.5 95% PRE-TAX PROFIT US CENTS US CENTS PER SHARE 2016: US$231 million 109% DILUTED EPS 2017 TOTAL RECOMMENDED DIVIDEND 2016: 31.91 US cents 2016: 6.6 US cents per share and a special dividend 3.3 US cents its operations to access additional ore, Over the past two years, the Group has during the year, and today we have upgrade its processing facilities to improve focused on strengthening its balance announced a final ordinary dividend of 3.3 the quality of its pellet, and establish sheet and during this time has reduced US cents per share as well as a special reliable and cost-effective transportation net debt by US$465 million.
Given this dividend of 6.6 US cents per share.
If routes to European and seaborne markets.
strong reduction and the improvement in the final ordinary dividend is approved As a result, it has more than doubled Group profitability, total dividends of 16.5 by shareholders, the total dividend production of its high-quality 65% Fe US cents per share have been declared relating to 2017 will be 16.5 US cents per pellets, and today it is the third largest for 2017.
Going forward, the Group will 1 share 2016: 6.6 US cents per share.
exporter of blast furnace pellets by volume.
continue to focus on debt reduction.
Health and Safety At the same time, Ferrexpo is one of the Following the reduction in capital We deeply regret a fatality at Ferrexpo lowest cost pellet producers in the world.
investment in 2015, due to the low iron Poltava Mining FPM in 2017 2016: Going forward, the Group will look to ore price environment, investment was two.
Our goal remains firmly focused maintain its low cost position within the gradually increased in 2017.
Ferrexpo is on achieving zero fatalities or injuries.
industry, further improve the quality of its implementing a project to increase output On behalf of the Group, I would like to output and increase its production volume.
of pellet feed by approximately 1.5 million express our sincere condolences to tonnes.
Once completed in 2020, it will the family of our valued colleague.
In 2017, production volumes were primarily allow the Group to produce sufficient impacted by the refurbishment of one of concentrate to feed all four of its pelletising For further information on health the Groups pelletising lines as well as a lines and increase pellet production to 12 and safety performance, general increase in maintenance levels.
The million tonnes per annum.
Ferrexpo also see pages 25 and 44.
Groups refurbishment programme of its commenced detailed engineering studies pellet lines will continue into 2018 and 2019. regarding the expansion of its pelletising Industry capacity.
Capital will be invested subject The steel industry experienced strong For further information on to cash flows and market conditions.
profitability in 2017 primarily due to production, see page 25. global demand growth and capacity Looking to the future, I am confident that rationalisation in the Chinese steel sector.
Ferrexpo, however, has compelling Ferrexpo will make further progress by As such, steel mills looked to increase brownfield projects to incrementally improving the quality of its product and their utilisation rates, while in China mills increase its production volumes increasing production volumes within the also sought to decrease their air emissions subject to available cash flows.
constraints of its capital allocation strategy.
by reducing sintering and using higher quality inputs.
These factors resulted in The Groups capital allocation strategy increased demand for high-grade ore, is to maintain an appropriate balance including pellet.
Meanwhile, additional between a strong balance sheet, supply of high grade iron ore, including attractive shareholder returns in the pellet, was limited, resulting in pellet form of dividends and investment in premiums trading at nine-year highs.
This strategy has been designed to reduce the risks For further information on the inherent in operating in an emerging market environment, see the Market Review on pages 1216. market while selling our product in a volatile commodities market.
Strategy Since its IPO in 2007, Ferrexpo has established itself as a high quality producer and exporter of iron ore pellets to the best steel mills in the world.
It has done this by investing more than US$2.15 billion into 1 The special dividend will be paid on 16 April 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 April 2018.
Subject to approval at the Groups AGM, payment of the final ordinary dividend will be made on 27 June 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 June 2018.
The dividend will be paid in UK Pounds Sterling with an election to receive US Dollars.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT 10 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Board Changes Ukraine Outlook During 2017, Sir Malcolm Field and The National Bank of Ukraine In 2018, Ferrexpo expects further Oliver Baring retired as planned.
The expects 2017 GDP growth of rationalisation of steel capacity in Board is most grateful to both of them approximately 2%, in line with 2016.
China which should support global for the valuable contributions they steel margins, and, in turn, is likely to have made.
Simon Lockett, who has Over the year, there were various encourage a continued focus on iron wide experience of natural resource encouraging developments.
These dynamics, operations in emerging markets, joined government implemented several reforms together with a continued focus by the Board in June and took over as Senior to reduce the regulatory burden on Chinese authorities on the environment Independent Director in September.
businesses operating within the country.
and a reduction of air emissions, provide The World Banks Doing Business report a favourable environment for higher The Boards refreshment for the period from 30 June 2016 to quality iron ore, including pellets.
30 June 2017 ranked Ukraine four places higher at 76th out of 190 countries in Ferrexpo expects to benefit from higher Social Responsibility terms of overall ease of doing business.
pellet premiums compared to 2017, For the year ended 2017, it is expected In August 2017, Moodys rating agency reflecting agreements already reached that Ferrexpos pellet exports will be upgraded Ukraines sovereign rating with customers and the prevailing strength approximately 1.9% of Ukraines total from Caa3 to Caa2 with a positive in demand for high-quality pellets.
The Board believes it outlook.
The driver for the upgrade is fundamental to ensure that Ferrexpo was based on the cumulative impact of From an operational point of view, costs continues to make a positive contribution structural reforms that, if sustained, are remain subject to commodity prices, to the society in which it operates, expected to improve the governments the Hryvnia exchange rate and inflation aiding the long-term development financial position.
The rating upgrade levels in Ukraine.
Production volumes will of Ukraine and creating a stable was constrained by the governments reflect a 65-day pellet line shutdown in operating environment for the Group.
heavy debt maturity profile over the next the second quarter of 2018.
As such, first several years that is expected to require half 2018 production is expected to be in Ferrexpo provides financial support for additional foreign currency lending.
line with the first half of 2017.
Production a broad array of social programmes in the second half of 2018 is expected to across the country and in 2017 invested In terms of IMF funding, Ukraine received be ahead of the second half of 2017. approximately 2.4% of total Group revenue a US$1 billion tranche in April 2017, as in these programmes, in line with 2016. part of the US$17.5 billion programme Strategic Report These programmes underpin Ferrexpos agreed in March 2015.
To date, US$7.7 The 2017 Strategic Report, from pages licence to operate and ensure that the billion has been paid out.
The IMF 2 to 49, was reviewed and approved community is supported when required.
has stressed that further progress is by the Board on 20 March 2018. required in the fight against corruption, For further information see including the establishment of an Responsible Business on independent anti-corruption court.
Against this background of GDP growth, improvements to the regulatory environment and a credit rating upgrade, the Board of Ferrexpo believes Ukraine Steve Lucas is gradually moving in the right direction Chairman although challenges remain.
Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11 CAT 793D truck operating in FYM pit Ferrexpo plc 2017 Annual Report & Accounts
