CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 9.3p 26.6p Total dividend per share 2016: 8.85p Earnings per share on a management basis 2016: 31.0p Aerospace North America was immediately end of the year, Anne Stevens became Chief commenced together with a detailed risk Executive in January 2018.
Further details of assessment across all other GKN businesses.
Board changes can be found in the Nominations No material issues were identified outside of Committee report on pages 64 and 65.
Aerospace North America and the conduct review showed that there was no evidence Our strategy of fraud or intentional misconduct.
However, it is clear that the culture in this area needs to Our strategic objective of growing above our be addressed.
We have already taken action end markets has been successful but we now to strengthen resource and establish teams need to refocus on cash generation and margin to improve quality and delivery for our improvement, while selectively growing some 2017 was a year of contrasts.
We continue to consider what of our product segments above the market.
respects we had a good year: posting record further actions we can take to drive the right Towards the end of 2017, we reviewed and management sales of 10.4 billion, extending culture and as a result we are undertaking revised our strategy which is described in more our eDrive order book to more than 2 billion, a Group-wide cultural review.
detail by Anne in her Chief Executives review and making progress in reducing the deficit in on pages 5 to 7. our UK pension scheme.
However, we had Dividend disappointing trading margin and cash results.
People In part this was due to increased investment Earnings per share on a management basis in our important long-term business increased to 31.7 pence in 2017, excluding Every day our people work hard to deliver for GKN.
opportunities of eDrive, the Pratt & Whitney the impact of the balance sheet adjustment I thank them for their continued commitment in geared turbofan jet engine, Industry 4.0 and referred to above.
We have again increased what has been a challenging year.
But we also identified our dividend and are recommending a final balance sheet issues at some of our Aerospace dividend of 6.2 pence per share, making a total Unsolicited takeover bid plants in North America which led to an of 9.3 pence per share for the year, an increase adjustment of 112 million.
We immediately of 5% over the prior year.
As you will be aware, GKN became the subject commenced a detailed review of those issues of an unsolicited takeover bid from Melrose a summary of our conclusions can be found Board and senior management changes Industries PLC in January 2018.
The takeover on page 26 and intensified our planning of the process is ongoing as at the date of this report necessary actions to improve future margins Adam Walker and Kevin Cummings left the and we will continue to keep our stakeholders and cash flow now Project Boost.
Our talent informed as things develop.
pipeline provided two strong internal Culture candidates in Jos Sclater, who was appointed Group Finance Director, and Hans Bthker, Following the identification of balance sheet who was appointed Chief Executive GKN issues in October 2017, a comprehensive Aerospace, both with effect from November Mike Turner CBE conduct and balance sheet review of 2017.
Following Nigel Steins retirement at the Chairman 4 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
