Chairmans statement I am delighted that, building on the foundations laid in recent years, the Group has improved both its performance and financial position in 2017.
This is particularly notable, in light of the challenging trading conditions that prevailed in the Middle East & India markets.
As shown in the business review section of this report, the Group has made substantial progress on its strategic priorities.
The board is pleased with the focus, energy and leadership that the executive team brings to the Group.
John Connolly, Chairman Therefore we strive to foster open and effective Strong governance culture communication within the boardroom and with the Ensuring that G4S is resilient and agile and therefore executive team.
This process is informed by best able to deal with constant change and evolving practice as well as feedback received and views collated economic and geo-political situations, is of paramount from our key stakeholders.
There are a number of ways importance.
This can only be achieved with a skilled in which the board gathers stakeholders views, which and experienced board and management team and are set out on pages 78 and 79.
This year, as in previous an appropriate culture and governance structure.
years, I met with major shareholders as part of our The board and I see strong governance, adapted to annual programme of governance meetings.
the Groups needs, circumstances and business model, Given the business undertaken by the Group and the as a source of competitive advantage.
G4S is a large, complex markets in which we operate, it is essential to geographically diverse organisation, doing business in understand the key risks faced by the organisation and complex and sometimes sensitive environments.
Sharing to ensure that the company has appropriate policies, a common understanding of the companys purpose and systems, processes and management action plans to values is essential.
To promote this, the board continues mitigate these risks to an acceptable level.
The board to support the application of G4S values throughout the therefore maintains a Risk Committee, which is separate organisation.
A strong governance culture is supported from the Audit Committee, to provide the necessary by continuous monitoring, review and promotion of the focus on risk management and mitigation.
Groups values, standards and policies.
It is also essential that directors feel able to provide not only support but Supporting change also constructive challenge.
Planning for the future requires us to review the board's composition regularly to ensure that it remains fit to support the changing needs of the Group.
Management development and succession planning are also key areas of BOARD AREAS OF FOCUS IN 2017 interest for the board.
This was also particularly important this year, as management implemented important In my statement last year, I listed six areas of focus for organisational changes, with the Secure Solutions business the board.
These were: segment now organised into four regions and the creation Annual review of Group strategy and of a global Cash Solutions division.
managements execution of the strategy In 2017, the board visited the Americas business and the Induction and integration of new board members technology business in the UK.
Further details of these Board and management succession planning visits can be found on pages 78 and 79.
In both instances, the board and I were impressed with the Monitoring business performance quality of the products and services offered and the Continued understanding of the Groups businesses importance of technology both in creating new services and management teams and also enhancing offerings when combined with Maintaining emphasis on risk management and traditional security and cash services.
efficient structures As chairman, it is my role to ensure that the board has We made good progress in all these areas and further the right skills to understand, support and challenge information on the key areas of activities for the board these developments.
We give careful consideration in 2017 are set out in the governance report.
66 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 A STRONG GOVERNANCE CULTURE KEY TO SUSTAINABLE SUCCESS Governance to this need during the board members recruitment Our statutory results showed a 3.1% increase in process but also when reviewing committees revenue, which rose to 7.8 billion, Adjusted PBITA composition, as we did in December.
I am confident up 6.5% to 491 million and earnings up 19.2% to that the board has significant, diverse and relevant skills 236 million benefiting primarily from a combination and experience, with strong international exposure and of profitable growth in our core businesses and profits knowledge of a significant number of industries further on disposal of a number of businesses as our portfolio information on the board balance is set out on page 74. rationalisation programme drew to a close.
As noted elsewhere, our core businesses in all regions Performance evaluation apart from the Middle East & India grew revenue and Our externally facilitated performance evaluation was Adjusted PBITA such that total Group revenue from conducted between July and December 2017.
The core businesses was up 3.2% to 7.4 billion and results confirmed that the board and its committees Adjusted PBITA grew by 4.2% to 496 million.
continue to operate well, with all directors contributing The management teams continued focus on cash and to the overall success of the Group.
I led the working capital enabled the Group to deliver good performance evaluation process, with assistance from operating cash flow conversion and this, coupled with the Senior Independent Director and the company net proceeds from disposal of a number of portfolio secretary.
The knowledge businesses of 156 million offset by organic capital gained from the previous external evaluation allowed investment of over 100 million, meant that the us to conduct a more focused evaluation this year.
The Groups net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio reduced board and committees performance review process is from 2.8 times at the end of 2016 to 2.4 times at the described in detail on page 77 and I am pleased to end of 2017, in line with the boards stated leverage confirm that no significant issues were raised.
Changes to the board The board is confident in the Groups outlook and Due to continued ill health, Ian Springett retired from proposes to increase the final dividend by 5% to 6.11p the board on 20 June 2017.
We were very sorry that DKK 0.5097 per share, payable on 15 June 2018.
Ian was unable to join our board and we wish him well With an interim dividend of 3.59p DKK0.2948 paid for the future.
Paul Spence, who was already a member on 13 October, this will bring the total dividend for of the Audit Committee, served as interim chair with the year to 9.70p per share.
I am very grateful to Paul for his strong stewardship.
People The Group has around 570,000 employees in over 90 The Nomination Committee oversaw the process to countries, often providing complex services in difficult find a new non-executive director qualified to act as environments.
This can create significant challenges.
chairman of the Audit Committee, which led to John It is therefore pleasing that the outcome of the 2017 Ramsay joining the board on 1 January 2018.
I am employee engagement survey, which consisted of pleased to welcome John, whose experience in highly questions relating to G4S new corporate values, international, innovation-focused businesses and his provided an 84% favourable response rate.
extensive background in finance and accounting will be very valuable to our board and in leading our On behalf of the board, I wish to thank the employees Audit Committee.
of G4S for their engagement, enthusiasm, hard work and dedication.
As announced in December 2017, after eight years on the board, Clare Spottiswoode will step down after the companys annual general meeting on 15 May 2018.
John Connolly Iwould like to thank Clare for her thoughtful Chairman contributions to the board and her strong commitment, as chair of the CSR Committee since 2014, to help the company develop and promote CSR policies and processes.
The Nomination Committee has initiated a search to find a new non-executive director to join the board.
Further information about the work of the Nomination Committee during the year under review is set out on COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE page 80.
GOVERNANCE CODE Results The boards statement on the companys corporate governance performance is based on the April 2016 I am pleased to report on another year of good financial edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, progress with continued growth in revenue and earnings which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils and, importantly, a reduction in net debt with website frc.
achievement of the Groups leverage target of below The company complied throughout the year under review 2.5 times net debt to Adjusted EBITDA by the end with the provisions of the Code, except in relation to the of the year.
composition of the Audit Committee.
This matter is addressed on page 85.
The Corporate governance report, together with the Audit Committee report, the Risk Committee report and the Directors remuneration report, describe how the board has applied these provisions.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 67
