Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Chairmans statement Financial performance showed progress with a return to organic growth.
2018 will continue to reflect the focus on strategic delivery underpinned by a focus on safety performance.
Andrew Shilston Chairman 2017 was the second year of the three-year plan In addition to growing the business, the right to reinvigorate the Company through investment behaviours must be observed and all employees in products, people and better operational should be sure of operating in a safe environment.
It was pleasing to see that financial It was very disappointing to see a road accident performance showed some modest progress, in the USA which injured 19 of our employees, particularly as the global economy started to some of them seriously.
Aside from this the show some signs of growth in the latter part of accident rates in some of our other businesses the year.
On an organic constant-currency basis, did not improve.
Performance objectives of revenues increased by 1.4%, and the balance top management continue to place emphasis sheet was stronger at the end of the year due to on causing positive change in this area.
better operational management and disposals with net debt reducing to 181.3 million from There has been a further change in the Board 242.5 million in 2016.
Despite disposals of during the year with Rob Rowley stepping down mature assets with good margins the operating as Non-executive Director and Chairman of profit margin was stable with the negative effects the Audit Committee.
I am very grateful for Robs of those disposals offset by operating efficiencies interest in, and support for the Company during and higher revenues.
The proposed dividend is his tenure.
I therefore welcome Jane Aikman to unchanged at 11.0p per share.
the Board as a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jane is a The next year will see further progress in the highly experienced plc Finance Director from important areas of achieving greater effectiveness various businesses, and was Chairman of the in winning new business through training and Audit Committee of Halma plc from 2009 to key new hires, improving Leadership behaviours, 2016. and making the support functions as efficient as possible.
Together with the reinvestment in our Centres of Excellence the Board believes Andrew Shilston the Group has the capability to generate organic Chairman growth in the future by concentrating on areas of the markets with needs particularly attuned to our capabilities.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 09
