Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans Letter Another record year On the strength of the Balance Sheet and an increase in statutory profit after tax to 2017 was an exciting 100.6m 2016: 82.0m, the Board year for the Cineworld increased the cash dividend paid for the full year by 14.5%.
The proposed final Group the most dividend per share is 15.4p 3.1p on a momentous since its rights adjusted basis.
formation in 1995 Regal Acquisition The acquisition of Regal completed on 28 February 2018.
Due to the size of the proposed acquisition it was classed as a reverse takeover under the Listing Rules.
The acquisition of Regal will provide Cineworld with a major presence in the US cinema market, the largest box office market in the world.
The North American box office grossed over US$11.0bn in 2016 with annual attendance of approximately 1.3bn, and represented approximately 29% of global box office revenue.
The US cinema market is also ofmajor importance as the home to some of the worlds largest and most influential movie production studios.
Following completion, the enlarged Group became a global cinema exhibition business of significant scale, with operations in ten countries covering an addressable market of approximately 500m people.
In the 12 months to 30June 2017, the enlarged Group would Overview the refurbishment of the existing have had over 310m annual admissions, 2017 was an exciting year for the estate by introducing state-of-the-art proforma revenues of US$4,370m Cineworld Group the most momentous design and installing the latest cutting 3,173m and pro forma Adjusted since its formation in 1995. edge screening and other technology: EBITDA of US$907m 659m.
As at 16January 2018 the enlarged Group a consistent focus on reducing costs: For the year ended 31 December 2017, would have had 9,538 screens across the Groups operations in the UK and implementing a continuous theUS and Europe, making it the ROW once again posted record results programme to optimise the customer secondlargest operator in the world and then in December we announced experience: and, bynumber of screens.
the acquisition of Regal Entertainment ensuring that we live up to our vision to Group Regal which successfully The enlarged Groups diverse be The Best Place To Watch a Movie.
completed on 28 February 2018. geographic footprint will help to mitigate I am pleased to report that these year on year volatility in the global Group revenue for the year increased by objectives were met during the year cinema industry resulting from regional, 11.6% to 890.7m 2016: 797.8m, and andwe will continue with their economic, weather and movie Adjusted EBITDA rose to 198.2m 2016: implementation in the UK, ROW performance variables and enable the 175.8m.
The strong operating andUSin the forthcoming year.
Group to diversify its movie offerings.
performance was driven by the As at 31 December 2017, the Groups The Board believes that the enlarged implementation of the Groups Balance Sheet was strong with the Group will generate strong total returns Operating Strategic Plan, adopted by Adjusted EBITDA to net debt ratio at for shareholders through top-line theExecutive Management Team in 2014 1.4times.
It should be noted that this growth, delivery of operational after the combination with Cinema City.
ratio significantly decreased in the four improvements and dividends.
This entails: years after the Cinema City transaction, The Regal acquisition is an ambitious opening new cinemas in areas which an achievement demonstrating the and bold move which was very were considered to have the potential strong cash flows in the business and carefullyconsidered by the Board to achieve double digit growth rates: anability to reduce debt, which is likely whichtook a wide array of advice from to have played a major part in the the pursuit of suitable acquisition professionals in the accounting, legal, willingness of our banks to provide the opportunities: strategic consultancy and environmental finance and underwriting arrangements fields.
We are confident that there is for the Regaltransaction.
08 significant potential for value creation, Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 and I have high expectations for the long tenure within the Group.
Thisdeep It has been a pleasure working with both future of the Group.
It is particularly experience in the industry isinvaluable.
Nisan and Dean during 2017 as they took gratifying that the Regal acquisition on their new roles.
Our management and employees are received strong support from our our greatest asset and performed Outlook shareholders 87.3% of votes cast exceptionally well during the 2017 As we go into 2018, I look forward with wereinfavour of the acquisition at the financial year it was a significant confidence at the prospects for the GeneralMeeting on 2 February 2018, achievement to produce record results enlarged Group.
We will have an and a 96.3% acceptance rate in respect and at the same time to identify, excellent geographically diversified of the subsequent rights issue.
negotiate and complete a $3.4bn estate, and the movie release slate looks Board and Management acquisition in the US.
We will continue to implement As a Board we take corporate our strategic objectives in the UK and The following Board changes took place governance standards extremely ROW, and begin to implement them in at the start of the year: seriously and we always strive to attain the US.
We will focus on maximising the highest standards possible.
We Martina King, Non-Executive Director, cashflow to expand and refurbish regularly review areas such as gender, Chair of the Remuneration Committee ourcinemas, while at the same time diversity, health and safety and the and member of the Audit Committee, reducing borrowing levels and environment and where appropriate stepped down following six years of maintaining our well established improve our practices in those areas.
service to focus on her other business dividend policy.
I am aware that this is a interests.
formidable challenge but am confident I would like to express appreciation to that we have the people and resources Nisan Cohen was appointed as Chief our Executive Management Team and to meet it.
Financial Officer and joined the Board allthe Group employees for their as an Executive Director.
Nisan has dedication, commitment and hard work been part of the Cineworld Group, during the year.
They are competently and formerly the Cinema City Group led by our CEO, Mooky Greidinger, and for 17 years.
Israel Greidinger, our Deputy CEO Anthony Bloom whose experience, competence and Dean Moore, the previous interim Chairman professionalism are recognised Chief Financial Officer, was appointed 15 March 2018 throughout the industry.
Importantly to the Board as an Independent they are substantial shareholders in the Non-Executive Director, Chair of the Company and accordingly their interests Remuneration Committee and a are fully aligned with those of all member of the Audit Committee.
Their confidence in the Dean brings over 20 years of Regal acquisition was demonstrated by experience as a plc executive director.
the fact that they took up all their rights The Board was satisfied that Dean in the rights issue by the Company.
meets the requisite criteria to be considered as independent, Complementing them is a highly notwithstanding his brief ten month dedicated team of Senior Management interim employment with the Group, at the Vice President level who have a during which his mandate was to focus primarily on the CFO succession planning process.
Ipswich pre and post refurbishment in 2017.
