STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT INFORMA AT A GLANCE A LEADING, INTERNATIONAL DELIVERING INSIGHT, INTELLIGENCE, NETWORKS AND CONNECTIONS BUSINESS-TO-BUSINESS INFORMATION SERVICES GROUP 3.9m 1.8m sq.
m 7,100 scholarly research articles exhibition space provided new scholarly books available for download to businesses annually published in 2017 WORKING IN ATTRACTIVE SPECIALISING IN VALUABLE B2B INDUSTRY VERTICALS INFORMATION SERVICES Life Sciences Critical data Technology Peer-reviewed research Health & Nutrition Targeted lead generation Transportation Trusted market and Humanities & Social Sciences competitor intelligence Finance Data analytics 165 2m 38,000 Agriculture Actionable industry insight products and services our events and exhibitions data and intelligence Telecoms High quality content sold to customers in welcome over 2m products used by around Pharma & Biotech Expanded business and over 165 countries people annually 38,000 subscribers Maritime professional networks Infrastructure Face-to-face platforms for Science, Technical & Medical sales and product promotion Real Estate Specialist data and Waste Management marketing solutions Medical Equipment Accredited professional training Commodities Consultancy services Beauty & Aesthetics Sales enablement tools Yachting Pop Culture 14 1.5m 115,000 exhibitions in US agricultural the majority of our book top 250 US trade professionals engage titles, 115,000 are shows by size with our brands available as ebooks ORGANISED INTO FOUR ACADEMIC BUSINESS GLOBAL KNOWLEDGE GLOBAL OPERATING DIVISIONS PUBLISHING INTELLIGENCE EXHIBITIONS & NETWORKING SUPPORT Publishes high quality scholarly Provides specialist data-driven Organises major, branded, Creates and connects communities Provides business services research and reference-led content insight and intelligence, plus transaction-oriented exhibitions through content-driven events, to the Operating Divisions for academic communities consultancy and marketing services for international communities training and digital platforms and leadership for the Group Read more on pages 4245 Read more on pages 4649 Read more on pages 5053 Read more on pages 5457 Read more on pages 5861 2 3 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION am pleased to have the opportunity to address Informa DELIVERING PERFORMANCE FOR SHAREHOLDERS A FURTHER PERIOD Shareholders, as the Group comes to the end of a year The combination of operational capability and increased of operational progress and improved performance that international reach and depth in vertical markets has delivered included the integration of Penton Information Services, a steady improvement in Informas performance in recent years, OF PROGRESS I as well as the successful completion of our programme of culminating in underlying revenue growth of more than 3% in 2017.
VIEW FROM THE BOARD: THE GROWTH measured change and improved performance, the 2014-2017 More importantly, it has created a platform for continued growth AND PERFORMANCE ACCELERATION PLAN Growth Acceleration Plan GAP.
and scale in the future, and your Board firmly believes this Group What was the thinking behind GAP?
and its management team has the potential for more.
COMPLETION OF GROWTH ACCELERATION PLAN In 2014, the Board believed Informa had an opportunity In 2017, Informa delivered a fourth consecutive year of growth The approach for 2018 and beyond is led by this ambition, and to do more in its markets.
The market for knowledge in revenue, adjusted earnings, cash flow and dividends.
The year this is why the Directors fully support the Groups recommended and information was growing but also specialising.
also saw the Group fulfil its ambition to return all four Operating offer for UBM plc, formally announced on 30 January 2018, to Derek Mapp This meant making some changes to how the Group Divisions to positive underlying revenue growth.
create a leading B2B information services group.
Chairman operated, to the portfolio mix and how capital was allocated.
It meant scaling in some areas and It is a unique opportunity to combine the strengths of both These results are built on the foundations of the previous four streamlining in others, and making additional companies, build on the success of Informas Growth Acceleration years, and the measures taken under GAP to increase the investments.
GAP was conceived as a four-year Plan and UBMs Events First strategy, and create an enlarged Groups focus on customers and vertical industries, build market programme to improve growth in all the Groups positions and strengthen overall operational capabilities.
Group with the scale and specialist capabilities to capture this businesses and build a platform for future growth markets long-term growth potential.
This started with talent and experience, including appointing and scale.
new Divisional CEOs and a dedicated CTO in each Division.
These decisions and actions have been taken with a view to It continued through proactive portfolio management, exiting creating value for Shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
What changes have you seen?
businesses and markets that were not core or where we were From higher growth and greater professional opportunities to The change has been measured, but when you sub-scale, and expanding in geographies and verticals where the a continued positive impact on our communities, the ambition is compare the Group of 2013 with the Group of today, a growth opportunities were most attractive, particularly in the US.
to build a robust and high performing business that benefits all.
lot has been achieved in reshaping and strengthening the Group.
What was a quite fragmented business is INVESTMENT, EXPANSION AND THE INTEGRATION For Shareholders, this is in part reflected through a commitment now organised through four clear Operating Divisions, OF PENTON INFORMATION SERVICES to dividend returns.
In 2014, the initial target was to increase with real focus around customers and end market Significant capital has also been invested inside and outside the dividends by at least 2% per annum.
Operational capabilities and talent have Group.
Internally, this has included around 80m on improving steadily been increased, reflecting confidence in the Groups been strengthened, particularly in technology, and systems and technology capabilities, enhancing customer improving performance.
In 2017, the Board approved a final culturally there is greater alignment between the platforms and supporting innovation to bring new products to life.
dividend per share of 13.80p, taking total divdends for the year Groups success and individual actions and contributions.
Externally, the Group has pursued a targeted and disciplined What role has the Board played in GAP?
acquisition strategy, building scale in the US and a leading GOVERNING THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE The Board has overseen and closely monitored position in B2B events, most significantly through adding Penton AND GROWTH the progress of each GAP objective, through in late 2016.
The effective integration of Penton has been a major Your Board will continue to oversee, support and challenge, regular engagement with senior managers from focus for management in 2017 to ensure the Group makes the where appropriate, managements plans for 2018. across the business, encouraged and supported most of future opportunities created by the combination.
We are pleased to recognise our responsibilities to ensure executive management, and provided feedback REACH AND DEPTH IN INTERNATIONAL VERTICALS the Group grows and operates in a way that benefits wider and challenge where required.
Through these measures and more, the Group has positioned stakeholders.
During 2017, Informas colleagues were a itself to take advantage of growth in its end markets.
The Board received the views of colleagues We have also taken the opportunity to bring new broad and global market for knowledge and information, Informa through formal feedback channels and first hand, conducting a skills onto the Board over this period as Directors has chosen to focus on verticals that are international, with high number of enjoyable and insightful town halls in the US and UK.
have retired, appointing new colleagues with levels of growth, innovation or development, where supply chains particular technology, international and or FTSE 100 It has been a particular pleasure to meet new colleagues and tend to be fragmented and where specialist intelligence and the experience to provide support in areas specifically businesses who joined through the acquisition of Penton, and ability to connect with business partners and peers is relevant to Informas development.
who have embraced Informas culture with enthusiasm.
Examples of these industry How does this carry over to 2018 and beyond?
verticals can be found throughout this report.
Culture remains a matter of regular Board discussion and we fully Informa enters 2018 a better business: more robust, support managements ongoing commitment to maintaining a Informa is an international Group, with an increasing predictable, with an improved growth trajectory working environment based on respect and openness, which weighting to the US, and your Board remains alert to and, as intended, a platform for future growth and enables all colleagues to fully participate in the life of the Group economic and regulatory developments in all key jurisdictions in further scale.
Informas recommended offer for and is an important contributor to the Groups ongoing success.
Most recently, this has included the UBM builds on this platform, bringing benefits likely effect of changes to US tax legislation through the 2017 Tax Thanks to all Informa colleagues for their hard work and valuable of scale and future opportunity.
GAP is what has Cut and Jobs Act and the potential impact of Britains exit from contributions to 2017s performance, to the management team, made this possible, installing the capabilities to the European Union, the latter of which is not considered material and to Shareholders for their continued support.
help ensure the combination generates value and due to Informas relatively low exposure to the region.
rewards Shareholders long into the future.
Derek Mapp Chairman 27 February 2018 4 5 INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 WWW.
COM INFORMA PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017
