CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Investing to create the platform to deliver long-term growth We have a strong reputation for sharing our Greggs performed well in 2017, delivering Dividend increased success with the communities where we operate further like-for-like sales growth as well as in line with our and direct much of this support through the progressive policy: expanding its estate of shops.
This was th Greggs Foundation, which celebrated its 30 achieved despite significant inflationary anniversary in 2017.
Representatives of the 32.3p headwinds and alongside continued major Foundation attended a Board meeting in the investment in line with our strategic plan.
year to explain how they work with the Company These investments are creating the and other partners.
The Foundation makes a real difference to the lives of people in our platform for us to deliver sustainable communities and is given tremendous assistance long-term growth for the benefit of by staff throughout Greggs.
It is a great charity all stakeholders.
and one that we are very proud to support.
Overview I would like to thank everyone who has worked Greggs once again demonstrated the resilience for Greggs during the past year and contributed of its people and business model, delivering a solid to the positive impact that it has had on all of trading and financial performance in the face of its stakeholders.
increased cost inflation and a strategic change programme.
The development of our products The Board and shop formats has opened up additional As we announced last year, our Retail Director opportunities for growth in shop numbers and we Raymond Reynolds stepped down from the Board expect this expansion to continue in the year ahead.
at the AGM in May 2017 but remains a key member We are investing significantly in our supply chain to of the Companys Operating Board in his new role enable this growth, whilst continuing to make as Property and Business Development Director.
improvements to our processes and systems that Raymond was a member of the Board for ten years will deliver enhanced capability and efficiency to and I would like to thank him for his important compete in the fast-moving food-on-the-go market.
Our people and values Otherwise the composition of the Board was In 2017 we began the investment in our supply chain unchanged in 2017.
We continued to spend a that will enable us to deliver growth whilst remaining significant amount of time overseeing the major competitive in terms of the quality and price of our programmes of change that support the Companys products.
As I reported last year this involved taking strategic plan, particularly the investments under some difficult decisions, particularly regarding the way in our internal supply chain.
Other reviews organisation of our manufacturing and logistics included emerging risk areas, including the operations.
We have worked hard over the last year uncertainties around exiting the European Union, to carry out the necessary changes in line with our and examination of customer preferences and values.
There has been much challenge and dialogue behaviours and our resulting plans.
but the whole team has worked together with the best interests of the business in mind, and The Board also visited Northern Ireland in the year I would like to extend my thanks to all involved.
to see for itself the progress that Greggs has made establishing a presence there.
It was pleasing to see Greggs has a long history of conducting its business the same levels of enthusiasm and commitment to in a responsible manner.
We have made great strides doing business the right way that we experience in in environmental management in recent years and are more established trading areas.
working with others in our industry to make further improvements.
This includes finding solutions to Directors continue to be encouraged to visit increase the proportion of packaging that can be different areas of the business and experience it recycled and ensuring that more of our surplus through the eyes of our colleagues and customers.
food is channelled to those who need it most.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 06 Strategic Report Look closer at our strategy and how its making a positive impact on pages 16-23 This helps to ensure that Non-Executive Directors Looking beyond this we remain optimistic about Ian Durant contributions to Board discussions are well informed, the growth potential for Greggs and are currently Chairman supporting open and constructive dialogue with the investing to support this.
The benefits of our major 27 February 2018 management team.
This year I also spent time with change programmes are beginning to show and an employee panel, a particularly helpful experience will give us much greater capability and capacity given the significant changes that we are making in for further growth in the years ahead.
Greggs continues to be a strong business with Further details of the Boards work are included in a great team.
I am confident that we will make the Governance and Committee sections of this further progress in the year ahead.
Dividend Our progressive dividend policy targets an ordinary dividend that is two times covered by earnings, with any further surplus capital being returned to shareholders.
Our Finance Director, Richard Hutton, outlines the expected application of the distribution policy in more detail in the financial review.
In line with its progressive dividend policy, the Board intends to recommend at the Annual General Meeting a final dividend of 22.0 pence per share 2016: 21.5 pence, giving a total ordinary dividend for the year of 32.3 pence 2016: 31.0 pence, an increase of 4.2 per cent.
Looking ahead Greggs continues to demonstrate its resilience in the face of economic uncertainty.
This environment seems unlikely to change in the short term as the UK negotiates its exit from the European Union, with the associated risks to consumer confidence and further cost inflation.
We are alive to these risks and working hard to mitigate the possible impacts where we can.
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07
