04 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 From the Chairman Overview 2017 was another successful year.
Our client service results demonstrated that we continued to deliver for our clients at one of the most dicult times in their lives and we met financial expectations.
However, our financial success was achieved against the backdrop of a rapidly changing and increasingly competitive market and accelerating erosion of our market share.
It is clear that the pace of change and the erceness of competition, particularly for our funeral business, will continue to increase.
For this reason, the Board took decisive action in January 2018 to change our pricing strategy and market positioning in order to protect market share and recalibrate the Group for future growth.
This new pricing strategy is to protect market share by oering a range of new price points and services to our clients while preserving our unrivalled levels of service.
We have therefore signicantly reduced the price of some funerals and frozen the price of others as part of this evolving pricing strategy.
As we have also stated clearly this action will have a substantial impact on profits in 2018 and the new relationship between volumes and margins will take time to become clear.
The combination of new price points and industry-leading It is clear that the pace of change and the service levels means that we can now position ourselves as the best value service provider in the market.
Delivering erceness of competition, particularly for our excellent client service remains a key strategic priority.
funeral business, will continue to increase.
Our strong investment over the years means that we are For this reason, the Board took decisive action well positioned to provide the best quality service at each in January 2018 to change our pricing strategy price point and market segment we choose to compete in.
At the same time, the Group has embarked on a rigorous and market positioning in order to protect review to ensure that our funeral operations are organised market share and recalibrate the Group for to run more eciently and eectively in the light of this future growth.
change of pricing strategy and market positioning.
In meeting the challenges ahead, we will continue to build Peter Hindley on the strong strategic initiatives we developed in 2017, Chairman in particular, our digital marketing and brand strategies.
There are significant opportunities to lead the industry in digital marketing and to leverage the Groups scale to develop national recognition online to complement our existing physical national network.
Dignity will also continue to lead calls for greater regulation of the funeral sector while continuing to set the standard for what constitutes best practice in the industry.
Dividends The Board is proposing to maintain the final dividend at 15.74 pence per Ordinary Share bringing the total dividend for the year to 24.38 pence, an increase of three per cent 128.3p on the previous year.
If shareholders approve this payment at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 7 June 2018, then Underlying earnings per it will be paid on 29 June 2018 to members on the register share up7% to128.3 pence at close of business on 18 May 2018.
Board change In March 2017, Mary McNamara was appointed to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director and has been Chair of the Remuneration Committee since the beginning of 2018.
In June 2017 we announced that our Overview 01 03 Strategic Report 04 43 Governance 44 74 Financial Statements 75 129 Other Information 130 132 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 | 05 long-serving Operations Director, Andrew Davies would retire in April 2018.
He stepped down from the Board in Committed to the highest standards January 2018.
His successor was appointed from within of governance the Company and will not be a Main Board appointment.
On behalf of our shareholders and my Board colleagues Good governance is the basis on which we as a business I want to thank Andrew for his magnicent service to the can build an environment of trust, transparency and Group and wish him a long and happy retirement.
It also dierentiates us from many competitors in what is still, regrettably, an unregulated Alan McWalter retired in January 2018 having completed industry.
As such it provides assurance and confidence nine years as an independent Non-Executive Director.
to our clients and fosters long-term investment, In order to maintain a balanced Board he will not be financial stability and business integrity.
As a Board replaced as Andrew Davies replacement will not be a we are therefore committed to maintaining our high Main Board Director.
Alan has provided wise counsel to the standards of corporate governance and ensuring there Board during his time as a director.
Whilst Alan is stepping is a high level of cultural integrity embedded within the down as a director, given the challenges facing our funeral way we operate.
business and his industry knowledge, I am delighted that he has agreed to remain as a consultant to the Board until Board priorities the end of July 2018.
The Board provides strategic leadership to the Group within a framework of robust corporate governance and Directors remuneration internal control, setting values and standards that are The Groups 2017 financial performance was suciently embedded throughout the business to deliver long-term strong to justify an award to Executive Directors of 95 per sustainable growth for the benefit of our shareholders cent of the maximum amount possible of their annual and other stakeholders.
However, in light of the significant reduction in financial expectations for 2018 following the Compliance trading update in January 2018, the current Executive Our governance framework, which is shaped by the Directors have decided to voluntarily waive their UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act entitlement in full.
2006 and secondary legislation and Financial Conduct Authority rules and guidance, sets out standards of In addition, no Board member will receive an increase in good practice in relation to Board leadership and basic salary or fees in 2018. eectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
Our people and culture We are truly a people business because we help people at an extremely dicult time in their lives.
Meeting their needs means that our employees must be caring, thoughtful and truly engaged with those they serve.
I want to thank all Dignity sta for the continued care and commitment they show their clients, demonstrating what I like to think of as The Dignity Way.
This describes a special culture and way of working that means delivering the highest standards of service and going the extra mile.
Thank you once again for making this company what it is and for your continued support in meeting the challenges that the Group faces.
Outlook for 2018 and beyond The business model for the Groups funeral business is changing as the Board focuses on protecting market share by introducing new service oerings and price points.
As indicated in January, the Board believes that whilst the combination of action being taken will lead to substantially lower profits in 2018, it should create a new platform to allow many years of further stable growth.
The Oce for National Statistics anticipates approximately 580,000 deaths in 2018, a small decrease of 10,000 on the actual deaths in 2017.
However, the number of deaths in the first two months of 2018 are approximately seven per cent higher than the prior year.
