Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 10 11 A tribute to Matthew Matthew Ingle founded Howdens in 1995 with just 14 depots.
Under his leadership and guidance, the company has grown to become the leading provider of kitchens in the UK.
Fitting a kitchen is complicated no two are the same.
The design has to be great, and the fitting may involve joinery, plumbing, electrical and decorative skills.
Even for multi-skilled professional builders that can be a challenge.
To increase the pressure still further, the consumer needs their kitchen back in action as rapidly as possible.
A day lost for example because a critical part is missing is another day of chaos in the house.
It was Matthew who had the vision to build a business which would support the builder to deliver this complex task.
He took his idea to Derek Hunt at MFI, who agreed to back it.
Howdens began trading as a division of MFI with just 40 people, 14 depots and seven kitchen ranges.
Revenue in that first year was barely 1m, whilst now the company turns over 5 million every working day with over 660 depots and a talented workforce of 9,000 nationwide.
From the start, Matthew laid out a clear purpose for the business, which has changed little over the years.
He believed that for a business to be worthwhile, it had to be worthwhile for all concerned and testament to that strong foundation is the fact that Howdens today has amongst the most loyal customers, colleagues and suppliers of any business, anywhere.
Matthew has always set the highest standards and is passionate about the integrity of the business and its people.
So while our kitchens change with the times, the companys values have remained constant.
Howdens grew strongly in its early years, but the decline of the wider MFI business, coupled with the impact of the financial crisis, left Matthew and his executive team to deal with legacy costs and a share price which sank to 11 pence.
It is to Matthews and his teams great credit that they kept Howdens moving forwards whilst also sorting out the mess.
Since those traumatic times, Howdens has gone from strength to strength and today, Matthew leaves the company in a robust position, financially and operationally, and with great prospects.
Matthew will retire from the company on 31 July 2018 and I am delighted that he will continue to be in touch with Howdens in the role of Lifetime President.
On behalf the Board, colleagues past and present, and our shareholders, I thank him for his pioneering spirit and outstanding leadership, and for creating the strong, vibrant and growing company that he leaves behind.
We all wish him the best for the future.
Richard Pennycook Chairman Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 12 13 Our Culture and Purpose We dont get paid OUR CULTURE AND PURPOSE until a job is complete Howdens is founded on the principle that its To achieve this we have to build strong and enduring and satisfactory and business should be worthwhile for all concerned relationships with our suppliers, and to work closely that means it looks customers, prospective customers, homeowners, with them so we can offer best prices and quality good, is available locally tenants, local communities, our suppliers, our staff and always have stock available.
It means having when required, meets and their families and our investors.
great suppliers who share our philosophy.
standards, is easy to This founding principle has shaped our business It also means having extremely motivated and fit and doesnt break model and our strategic decisions.
This is an entrepreneurial, managerlocal profit-sharing and incentivisation for our driven business with low central overheads.
staff, as well as the fundamentals of the trade Tradespeople are entrepreneurs.
They are not relationship and trade terms that allow the builder interested in, and dont benefit from, a big central to run a business and make a living.
Howdens does not offer a huge corporate conditions that allow everyone to succeed.
hierarchy... rather, an extremely satisfying, well-paid job for committed individuals.
Since 1995, we have grown in a balanced way, investing in sensible things and being prepared for Howdens has grown from nothing... no name, all market conditions.
Underlying our success has noproduct, no building, no staff, to more than been a lowest-cost and flexible approach to our 660depots, 460,000 accounts and 9,000 staff, production, a low break-even point for our depots in 22 years.
A winning formula that everyone and an entrepreneurial spirit.
connected with can call their own, and a philosophythat can grow.
Howdens solves problems for small builders doing joinery work... its about fitting into their society and Matthew Ingle not letting them down... associating with people who run their own business... it means a lot.
Builders Creating the dont get paid until a job is complete and satisfactory conditions that allow and that means it looks good, is available locally everyone to succeed when required, meets standards, is easy to fit and doesnt break.
We offer builders trade accounts which give them up to eight weeks before they need to pay us, we give them a confidential discount, swap items on the spot, provide a welcoming trade environment, It's about fitting into exclude retail, and retain staff.
Customers always Worthwhile for all builders' society and see the same faces.
Its about trust: theres no room concerned for fairy stories.
not letting them down No room for fairy We have to be very important stories to our suppliers, so we can offer best prices and quality and That means always have stock available locally having motivated, well paid staff To supply from local stock nationwide...... the small builders ever-changing, routine, integrated kitchen and joinery requirements... Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 14 15 Our Market OUR MARKET All kinds of There are approximately 27 million homes in the UK, Recent technological advances have transformed kitchens of which around 17 million are owned and 10 million the functionality and appearance of kitchens.
The market demands, and we can offer, more functionality, more choice and more sophisticatedAll sorts Howdens designs, manufactures, sources and looking finishes at entry-level prices.
It also means of uses supplies kitchens for a wide range of end-uses, we have the ability to plan and sell kitchens that suit including for private rentals and social housing as the requirements of a wide range of end-users, each well as for all kinds of owner-occupied homes.
In of whom has a different, individual home.
Home is the centre All types 2017, Howdens sold over 4 million kitchen cabinets, of our lives, and the of budget along with 900,000 kitchen appliances, 650,000 The growth in complexity of the kitchen means kitchen is the heart sinks and taps, over 2 million internal doors and over that builders want sound advice to meet increased of the home 2.5 million square metres of flooring.
This is why we ensure that our depot staff are trained to the highest Every home has a kitchen and this is the centre standards.
As kitchens become more complex, of the home.
As our way of life and expectations we are increasing our investment in people with change, so does the kitchen, which is becoming specific skills, such as designers, salespeople more complex and has greater functionality.
As a and managers, as well as on developing the next The kitchen is much more result, the types of kitchens demanded by todays generation of skills through apprenticeships.
than a functional triangle of lifestyle mean that DIY is a not a reasonable option food preparation for most people.
The level of skill required to fit We continue to investigate the opportunities for todays kitchens, due to the types of cabinets, Howdens in Europe.
At the end of 2017, we had finishes, appliances and interior work within the 24 depots outside the UK: twenty in France, two cabinet, is beyond many of us, and we simply dont in Belgium, one in the Netherlands and one in have the time to do the work involved.
We continue to learn from our operations in mainland Europe and we intend to thoroughly We believe that it is no longer possible to have a understand these markets before any decision is kitchen that both looks good and works properly Increasingly, we made to expand in them.
without the help of skilled fitters.
This is why we only live in the kitchen sell to builders.
The Howdens model is designed specifically to meet their needs.
We discuss it in detail on the following pages.
Expectations about what the kitchen can do, and what we can do in it, have changed significantly in the last few years.
The pace of change has accelerated with the development of the internet and social media.
But while we all have access to information about new ideas and innovative designs, A constantly we have less time in which to make decisions about sophisticating increasingly complex kitchens.
and complexing market If today's kitchens are to meet expectations and standards, they New technology means more must be installed choice and better finishes at by professionals entry-level prices... assuring best local price, no-call-back quality and confidential trade terms... Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 16 17 Our Business Model Trade only 660 local OUR BUSINESS MODEL From depots Howdens is a trade-only business, selling kitchens The depot managers autonomy is a key element of and joinery to local builders and trade professionals Howdens business model.
Depot managers hire local from our 660 local depots.
Each local depot their own staff, do their own local marketing, set operates on an in-stock basis and is normally only local pricing, manage the level of discount applicable a short drive away, allowing the builder to plan and to their account holders and manage their own stock stock start a job without delays.
levels to suit their own local customers.
This means our distribution operation has to be attuned to the A typical depot occupies around 10,000 square different needs of 660 depots.
No two deliveries are feet, is located on an industrial estate and costs a alike, and each one must be correct, complete and fraction of high street retail properties.
on average 450,000 to fit out and typically break even by year 2 at c. 700,000 sales.
When a builder comes into one of our depots for the The depot manager first time, they can open a trade account which gives We make our is in charge We design and manufacture all our own cabinets them up to eight weeks before they need to pay us.
own cabinets approximately 4 million per year in our own This, and the fact that we are in stock locally, means factories in Yorkshire and Cheshire.
Other products, that builders can complete the job and get payment including some cabinet doors and our own-brand from their customer before they need to pay us.
In appliances, are made to our specifications and turn, this means that we can collect our debts from bought in from suppliers with whom we have built the builders.
The total cost of our credit control long-standing relationships.
We make what it makes operations, including bad debts and write-offs, is sense to make, and we buy what it makes sense less than 1% of sales.
Once the builder has had an enquiry about installing Both of our factories only serve one customer We make what it makes a new kitchen, they can ask one of our highly-trained Howdens and so their working practices and sense to make, and designers to go to the prospective customers We can collect scheduling exactly match the requirements of we buy what it makes property.
The designer will create an expert, payment because our depots.
Within our factories, the machinery sense to buy accurate plan, ensuring that everything will look Howdens is always in is bespoke to us and work is done to our good and fit properly.
This saves the builder time, stock specifications.
The result is an efficient system which helps their profitability.
Both builder and their with no unnecessary waste, whether of time, space, customer can come into the local depot and see the we have invested or product.
We believe that our cabinets cost much kitchen displayed on a large screen via our bespoke less than we could source externally, providing computer aided display software, enabling any final Howdens with a significant cost advantage.
changes to be made before signing off on the job.
million 160 No At local level, a Howdens depot opens with a The Howdens model is efficient, flexible, waste 4m Yorkshire Cheshire manager and a small number of staff.
The manager over three years in efficiency, cabinets scalable and recoverable which means that and staff are responsible for growing their account capacity and stock availability when something goes wrong on a project, as it base and their sales, and for managing their own occasionally may, our local depots are empowered depot margin.
Profit-sharing is calculated locally, not to fix it.
Our model allows us to manage complexity centrally.
Everyone is strongly incentivised to grow a effectively by combining efficient processes with an profitable, local business.
understanding of the factors that make our world chaotic rather than orderly.
Accurate, timely distribution attuned to the different needs of 660 depots... and to provide the builders customer with enough choice... Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 18 19 Our Strategy Simplify the management of Invest for efficiency, complexity in order to generate growth, service and superior, sustainable margins and disaster recovery OUR STRATEGY returns for all concerned Howdens strategy is focused on kitchens.
Its Our strategy is to develop our people.
Howdens successful execution depends on our ability to success is based on customer service: we do manage the complex combination of numerous skills what we say and say what we mean.
We seek to and products in a simple and efficient way.
This ensure that everyone in the business practises this Customer ability has been developed over more than 20 years.
principle, and stays focused on this and on all the service RANGE other elements of our culture.
Our strategy is to invest for future growth.
In order in stock to deliver the potential we see in our market and Our business benefits from the investment we make ensure stock availability in depots as we expand, in developing our people.
When we invest in the we have invested 160 million over three years right people, we can grow our own leaders.
Leaders in our manufacturing and distribution to improve who already understand the strategic importance We do In complexity efficiency, provide for disaster recovery and increase of the Howdens business model and culture.
Our what we say is margin, so capacity in anticipation of the continuing growth investment in development also gives valuable of the business.
We have opened a new 650,000 opportunities to our best people and helps us to we embrace square foot national distribution centre at Raunds, retain them.
complexity near Northampton, replacing our old distribution Our strategy is to commit to prudent financial centre on the outskirts of the town.
We maintain sufficient cash balances made significant, ongoing investments in Howdens to allow us to meet the requirements of the working Average depot systems infrastructure to ensure that our processes capital cycle, taking into account the marked are robust and efficient and that we can manage the SPACE seasonality of the business and returning surplus increasing need for connectivity across our business cash to shareholders as appropriate.
Our strategy is to expand our UK depot network.
We We continue to develop strategic options for the believe that there is some way to go before we have future.
These options include developing new saturated the UK market and we see significant products that meet the builders constantly evolving opportunities to grow our business.
While we take needs and introducing new services for builders, account of market conditions in planning our rollsuch as solid surface installation.
out of new depots, we continue to see untapped requirement by builders for a local and convenient service in much of the country.
This need is shown by the fact that when we add a new depot near to Untapped requirements an existing one, we see overall sales increase in the for our services area within a short time.
More local depots and more new products that meet the builders constantly evolving needs Maintain cash balances that allow us to meet the requirements of the working capital cycle Helping the local builder to solve problems in an increasingly complex Return surplus and interconnected world cash to shareholders... advice and aftersales to make a home to be proud of.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
