04 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A SOLID PERFORMANCE MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS RESULTS REPRESENT A SOLID PERFORMANCE IN A CHALLENGING MARKET ENVIRONMENT MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 05 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Governance and the Board Merlin is uniquely placed to be a Force for Trading and strategy The Board and its Committees have each Good in other areas.
Our partner charity, Merlin Entertainments results represent a continued to provide strong governance and the SEA LIFE Trust, protects marine wildlife solid performance in a challenging market environment, where a combination of ongoing oversight throughout 2017.
I am pleased that through its worldwide campaigns.
In 2017 this security concerns impacted the Groups city the recent externally facilitated evaluation has focused on plastic pollution, overfishing centre tourist destinations, together with exercise confirmed they each remain effective.
and habitat destruction, with a particular extreme weather at peak trading periods I would note in particular that in 2017 we emphasis on protecting sea turtles.
in Northern Europe, Italy and Florida.
appointed a specialist with experience in highMerlins Magic Wand, our childrens charity The trading performance is reviewed in hazard industries, as an independent adviser partner, continues to deliver magical experiences further detail within this Annual Report.
to the Health, Safety and Security Committee.
around the world to children who are This has provided independent oversight The Companys long-standing strategy to disadvantaged through sickness or disability.
and challenge, as well as further advice and diversify its asset portfolio across brands and These activities include arranging visits to our support, to this already effective Committee.
In 2017 we opened attractions over 100,000 in 2017, taking LEGOLAND Japan and announced plans for Ken Hydon has informed the Board that the magic to local childrens organisations LEGOLAND New York which is targeted to he will stand down as a Director and as with community outreach activities, and open in 2020.
We have study agreements in Chairman of the Audit Committee at the installing magical spaces at childrens homes progress for a number of projects in China, 2018 Annual General Meeting.
We have also worked further and continue to believe there is the scope of the Board, I would like to thank Ken for in improving experiences for guests with for 20 LEGOLAND parks worldwide.
the significant contribution he has made to accessibility challenges, where our initiatives Merlin over his years of service.
I am very are aimed at improving guest information Themed accommodation continues to be a pleased that Trudy Rautio, who has a wealth and delivering accessible environments.
clear driver of growth across our theme park of relevant financial experience, will replace estate, which in 2017 included the opening More on pages 44 to 49 Ken as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
of our CBeebies Land Hotel at Alton Towers Our people Resort.
We will add hotel accommodation Further details on Merlins Corporate Merlins management team and our thousands of to LEGOLAND Japan in 2018 and have a Governance arrangements and activities employees around the world are the foundation medium term pipeline for a variety of different are set out in the Corporate Governance of our relations with our guests, communities accommodation formats at multiple locations.
Statement and Report on pages 50 to 57. and stakeholders.
Together they continue to In the Midway Attractions Operating Group, Dividends drive the Groups strategic progress and I am, as the first of the new brand concept Little BIG At the Annual General Meeting in April, the always, immensely grateful for their contribution.
City attractions opened in Berlin during 2017, Board will be recommending that we pay a final while in October we announced the launch of Looking forward dividend of 5.0 pence per share.
Taken together two new IP based attraction formats, Peppa Pig In line with the Companys strategy, Merlin with the interim dividend of 2.4 pence per share and The Bear Grylls Adventure, aimed at the will continue to diversify and expand its paid last September, this will equate to a full pre-school and adventure seeker markets portfolio.
This strategy, together with year dividend of 7.4 pence per share, up 4.2% respectively.
These will broaden the Groups the ongoing commitment of the Groups on 2016. appeal within these two markets where Merlin employees, gives me confidence that Merlin sees significant opportunities.
These new Responsibility and sustainability will continue to deliver further growth.
formats will augment the ongoing roll out of Merlin has a foundation of robust governance theGroups existing Midway brands.
structures and strong operating standards Sir John Sunderland and practices.
In the area of health and Chairman safety these support our constant focus on 28 February 2018 keeping our guests, employees and other visitors safe and secure.
Our commitment to the environment also continues, with all attractions tasked to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions.
