William Hill PLC 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans statement Performance overview WilliamHill delivered a strong performance A motivated in 2017, reflecting our focus on rejuvenating Online, building an attractive omni-channel proposition and growing our position in team driving the US.
1 Group net revenue grew 7% to 1.7bn.
There was a loss of 43.7m before improvements interest and tax as a result of 335.0m of exceptional charges and adjustments, This business has been in principally a 238.3m impairment to the value of the Australian business and 61.7m transition.
Now, weve returned of costs relating to the transformation to strong growth, with a new and programme.
These substantial charges reflect the transition the business is reinvigorated leadership team going through, whether regulatory or in place implementing our plan transformational changes.
2 to lead the industry and create Adjusted operating profit, which gives a clearer picture of underlying performance, long-term value.
rose 11% to 291.3m, supported in particular by strong growth in our Online and US businesses.
Basic, adjusted earnings per 3 share rose 24% to 27.6p.
Our balance sheet 4 is strong, with net debt to EBITDA reducing to 1.4 times 2016: 1.8 times.
Online built positive momentum in 2017, benefiting from improvements we have made over the last 18 months.
Retail delivered a resilient performance in a year without a major international football tournament.
In the US, double-digit growth was driven by mobile betting.
Australia grew net revenue and profits but performance is being impacted by the credit betting ban, and we are undertaking a strategic review of the business.
We are also making good progress on the transformation programme, which over the long term will deliver improved revenues, greater cost efficiency and better organisational effectiveness.
The Board has approved a full-year dividend of 13.2p per share, up 6%.
While this increase is below the basic, adjusted EPS growth rate, it brings us in line with our policy of paying out around 50% of underlying earnings.
Overall, the Group has regained strength, focus and purpose, and with momentum building we are focused on delivering our strategic priorities as we look ahead with renewed confidence.
Governance Financial statements Strategic report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 03 I have thoroughly enjoyed my time as Corporate governance Chairman of WilliamHill and I leave Performance Over the last two years we have knowingthat the business is now on a significantly strengthened the Board, highlights strong footing and well placed to embrace increasing the breadth and depth of the opportunities and challenges ahead.
knowledge and the experience we 1 Net revenue contribute to the Group.
Outlook We are pleased to welcome Roger Devlin, Looking ahead, we continue to focus on 1.7bn who joined the Board on 1 February 2018 the UK growth opportunity, now that Online as Chairman Designate and takes over 7% is growing well again, Retail is competing from me as Chairman on 2 April 2018 when strongly and our omni-channel strategy I step down.
Roger combines extensive Loss before isdelivering a differentiated and attractive experience of listed companies with highly 2 customer experience.
This is underpinned interest and tax relevant experience in the leisure, sport by the transformation programme, which and gambling sectors, which makes him continues to deliver benefits in terms the ideal person to lead the Board over -43.7m ofboth revenues and costs.
International expansion remains a key Philip Bowcock and Ruth Prior took on the goal for the Group, both for the ability to CEO and CFO roles in March and October Adjusted generate faster revenue growth and for respectively, and it is satisfying tosee 2 operating profit the benefits of diversifying our sources how well they have performed.
are a strong team, with complementary skills.
Philip is also building an experienced The potential for the Supreme Court 291.3m andeffective Executive team who bring oftheUS to overturn the federal ban on 11% a healthy blend of longevity from within sports betting presents the Group with the Group and new insights from other an exciting opportunity and one that we Basic loss per share companies and industries.
originally positioned ourselves for as far back as 2012.
We look forward to hearing Our three additional Non-executive their decision this year.
Directors John OReilly, Robin Terrell -9.7p and Mark Brooker have integrated well There are challenges ahead.
The longand brought a new dimension to Board awaited outcome of the UK Governments discussions.
Im delighted that Mark and Triennial Review of gaming machine stakes Basic, adjusted John have taken on chairmanships of the and prizes will impact Retail but we will 3 earnings per share Corporate Responsibility Committee and benefit from gaining much-needed clarity new Transformation Oversight Committee, on the likely future cash flows from that respectively, as their industry experience business.
We are also facing tough decisions 27.6p has been invaluable.
on the Australian business, given how 24% significantly regulation has moved and A few thank yous.
First, to Ashley Highfield continues to move against us there, for his service to the Board over the nine andrecognising that management may Dividend per share years of his term as a Non-executive need to prioritise our growth engines in Director and his further contribution theUK and the US.
as Chair of the CR Committee.
Second, 13.2p ImeldaWalsh had informed the Board in Consolidation remains a prominent 6% 2017 that after six years as a Non-executive feature of this industry and is likely to be Director she was considering whether to so for some years to come, particularly take on new opportunities and she has as substantial shareholder value can be now confirmed that she will not seek regenerated from synergies.
Our goal is to 1 Net revenue is an industry term equivalent to revenue election at the 2018 AGM.
Her stewardship ensure WilliamHill is well placed to make asdefined in the notes to the financial statements.
of the Remuneration Committee has been the best decisions for shareholders.
2 We incurred a statutory loss due to exceptional items.
Third, to my Board colleagues Adjusted operating profit is defined as profit before interest Gareth Davis and tax, excluding exceptional items and other defined and everyone across the business for their Chairman adjustments.
Further detail on exceptional items and support over the last seven and ahalf adjusted measures is provided in note 3 to the financial statements.
Finally, and on behalf of the Board, 3 Adjusted EPS is calculated using adjusted profit after toour WilliamHill colleagues.
There have tax and is used for remuneration purposes see page 68 been some challenging moments over onwards and in evaluating performance for dividend policy purposes.
Further detail on adjusted measures is provided the last few years, but their passion for in note 3 to the financial statements.
The calculation of EPS the business and commitment to our measures is shown in note 11 to the financial statements.
customers have been crucial to making 4 Net debt for covenant purposes and EBITDA for covenant purposes are non-statutory measures used to assess WilliamHill strong again.
compliance with our debt covenants.
These are explained further in note 23 to the financial statements.
