Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Jenefer Greenwood, who joined the Board in June 2017, will assume OUR NEW, MORE FOCUSED the position of Chair of the Remuneration Committee at the next AGM taking over from Lesley James who will be retiring from the STRATEGY LEAVES US WELL PLACED Board later in 2018 having served nine years.
AND MEANS WE APPROACH THE I would like to thank Kay, Richard and Lesley for their significant FUTURE WITH CONFIDENCE contributions to the Board, and wish Jamie, Jenefer and Ian well in their new roles.
2017 was a productive year for St. Modwen.
With a new Chief Finally, I have informed the Board of my intention to step down Executive in post we undertook a full review of our business and as Chairman at the AGM in March 2019, at which point I will have portfolio and launched a new, more focused, strategy in the been in post for eight years.
Having recently overseen the summer.
This strategy is intended to improve returns on capital and appointment of a new Chief Executive and the launch of a new, enhance our operational flexibility and we believe that it will leave more focused strategy, it is now appropriate that the Board us well placed in what is an uncertain external environment that we considers my succession in an orderly and timely manner.
I remain expect to present both risks and opportunities.
enthusiastic about the business and its prospects and will continue to support the Board and management team in delivering our Alongside the strategy review, the business continued to perform strategy in the year ahead.
We delivered 4.6% growth in NAV per share for the year to 450.9 pence which, together with dividends, resulted in a total Prospects accounting return of 6.0% 2016: 5.6%, and profit before all tax As we enter 2018, St. Modwen is well placed.
Our deep pipeline increased 10.2% to 67.0m.
We also achieved some significant of projects underpins meaningful growth targets for both milestones on our major projects, most notably the sale of the residential and commercial development, our planned portfolio Nine Elms Square development site at New Covent Garden rotation towards sectors with good structural growth prospects Market in August, which released capital for reinvestment back is underway and we are in a strong position financially.
Although into the business and enabled us to keep borrowing levels firmly the external environment remains unsettled and is likely to remain under control.
so for some time, the combination of our focused strategy and Our strategy is built around a clearly defined core purpose: unrivalled track record and expertise mean that we approach the Changing places.
This captures the future with confidence.
regeneration heritage of the business and acts as an important reference point for our future activities, ensuring that our strategic Bill Shannon objectives are not simply financially defined but reflect the value Chairman we seek to unlock more broadly.
This is, of course, only possible as 5 February 2018 a result of the expertise and efforts of our people and I would like to recognise and congratulate them on another year of positive performance.
Dividend Following the launch of our new strategy we have reviewed our dividend policy and are now making some changes to ensure that it is more closely linked to cash-backed profits.
To facilitate this we are introducing a new profit measure, adjusted EPRA earnings per share, which is closely aligned to cash-backed profits.
From the 2017 18 financial year we intend to distribute approximately 50% of this measure each year by way of dividend with the aim of providing a sustainable, progressive dividend for our shareholders.
For the year ended 30 November 2017, we intend to pay a total dividend per share of 6.28 pence, which marks an increase of 4.7% compared to the 6.00 pence for 2016.
Taking account of the interim dividend paid of 2.02 pence, we are therefore proposing a final dividend of 4.26 pence per share to be paid on 4 April 2018 to shareholders on the register as at 9 March 2018.
Board changes We were shocked and saddened by the sudden passing of Steve Burke, our Group Construction Director, in March 2017.
Steve had been with St. Modwen for over 20 years and was a valued friend and colleague to many.
He is sorely missed and our thoughts remain with his family and friends.
Total dividend per share We have also recently announced some other changes to our Board which will become effective over the next couple of months.
Jamie 6.28 pence 4.7% Hopkins, Chief Executive of Workspace plc, will join the Board as a non-executive director on 1 March 2018 while Kay Chaldecott and Earnings per share Richard Mully will step down from their non-executive positions at the next AGM, having served nearly six and five years respectively.
26.9 pence 11.6% Ian Bull will be assuming Richards responsibilities as Senior Independent Director.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 7
