 DearShareholders, 2017 marked yet another very strong year for our company.
We delivered record cash from operations of over $5.3 billion on record revenues of $17.5 billion, affirming our core strategy that is anchored in delivering exceptional guest experiences and driving demand in excess of measured capacity growth all while leveraging our industry-leading scale.
We achieved significantly higher adjusted earnings with strong operational improvement overcoming a substantial drag from fuel and currency.
More importantly, we achieved return on invested capital of 9.4 percent and continued to return excess cash to shareholders.
Having increased the quarterly dividend twice in the past year, we distributed $1 billion through our annual dividend and invested another nearly $600 million in our ongoing share repurchase program, bringing our cumulative repurchases to date to $3.1 billion in just over two years.
And we accomplished that while maintaining our high investment-grade credit rating.
Our business, any business, is all about its people.
Our consistently strong financial performance is only possible because of the commitment and passion of our 120,000 team members who deliver memorable vacation experiences and exceed the expectations of our 12 million guests annually, as well as our travel agent partners who support our brands around the globe.
Their collective efforts are the foundation of our sustained earnings improvement.
In addition to our record-breaking financial results, we had many other notable accomplishments this year to reinforce our journey to sustained double-digit return on invested capital.
 We kicked off 2017 by unveiling our leading-edge guest experience innovation the OCEAN experience TM platform featuring Ocean Medallion at the Consumer Electronics Show CES in Las Vegas.
We were privileged to be the first travel company ever to deliver the opening keynote address at CES, the worlds largest trade show.
In November, we debuted the OCEAN experience platform on Regal Princess, ushering in a new era of highly personalized travel at scale.
We are fine tuning and enhancing the platform based on real-time learning as we prepare for a full rollout aboard Regal Princess in 2018.
OCEAN has already garnered global recognition, generating 17 billion media impressions to date across a broad spectrum of business, travel, technology and innovation forums, and has also enabled Carnival Corporation to be named as one of Fast Companys Top 10 Most Innovative Companies in Travel 2017.
This kind of global exposure is part of our continuous effort to keep cruising at the forefront of consumers vacation consideration set.
Building on those efforts, we recently launched PlayOcean, our proprietary mobile gaming portfolio.
PlayOcean taps into the growing interest in mobile gaming by offering a selection of original games that can be played at home and onboard select ships.
And we launched OceanView, our proprietary digital streaming network featuring compelling experiential content currently available 24 7 on major digital platforms including AppleTV, Amazon Fire and Roku, as well as on board our ships.
We announced a new partnership with Univision to develop the OCEAN primetime series La Gran Sorpresa, providing programming in Spanish featuring the Hispanic community.
The cruise vacation experiences shared in episodes of La Gran Sopresa align wonderfully with the core values of the Univision audience, focusing on multigenerational family, togetherness, fun and passion for life.
2 And we added two new proprietary original-content digital productions Go and Local Eyes to our increasingly popular roster of U. S. original-content television programs.
They complement our three awardwinning television shows: The Voyager with Josh Garcia on NBC: Ocean Treks with Jeff Corwin on ABC: and Vacation Creation with Tommy Davidson and Andrea Feczko, also on ABC, all of which are in their second season.
Our network series are the most popular travel-related shows on TV and are yet another innovative approach to expanding the market for cruise vacations by creating experiential content designed to engage viewers through showcasing exciting adventures, exotic cultures and popular global destinations.
Based on their popularity in ratings, these shows collectively received 10 Telly Awards and the influential Parents Choice Award.
To date, our original-content television programs have garnered more than 100 hours of cumulative airtime and reached an audience of over 200 million viewers leading to a measureable increase in cruise consideration and even more favorable perceptions of our brands.
We have taken great care to develop TV shows that we believe people will truly enjoy watching to capture a broader audience in a highly engaging way and demonstrate why cruising is a great vacation at an exceptional value.
These executions nicely complement the many successful marketing, public relations and guest experience enhancement efforts of each of our nine world leading cruise brands.
Other successful public relations efforts include the premiere of the major motion picture The Greatest Showman on Cunards Queen Mary 2 as well as Holland America Lines featured cruises in partnership with O Magazine, including Oprahs own voyage on Eurodam in Alaska.
In the UK, a reality-based television series called The Cruise was filmed onboard Regal Princess, and Battlechefs, was filmed onboard P&O Cruises Britannia.
And, in Italy, our third commercial for our Costa Cruises brand featuring Shakira launched Christmas Day, continuing that highly successful marketing campaign.
Again, these efforts are all engineered to reach audiences multiple times in multiple ways to help drive demand for our brands, ultimately leading to higher yields.
We also realized a number of other accomplishments that position us further along the path to sustained doubledigit return on invested capital through the development of new source markets including China and new destinations such as Cuba.
During 2017, two of our brands obtained approval to begin operating cruises to Cuba, our contemporary Carnival Cruise Line sailing from Tampa and our premium Holland America Line sailing from Fort Lauderdale.
 There have been a number of significant developments in our strategic fleet enhancement plan, which is an important part of our measured capacity growth strategy and includes replacing less efficient ships with more efficient new vessels.
In 2017, we delivered three state-of-the-art cruise ships beginning with Seabourn Encore, the crown jewel of the Seabourn fleet, setting new standards for ultra-luxury cruising.
We also welcomed the luxurious, Majestic Princess, the first new international cruise ship tailor-made for China, showcasing luxury boutiques in the largest shopping space of any cruise ship, very popular karaoke rooms and a large mahjong gaming area.
And we delivered AIDAperla, perfectly tailored for AIDA Cruises exclusively German guests, featuring a micro-brewery, a lazy river ride, an ice rink, climbing walls and an expansive German spa.
During the year, we signed agreements with Fincantieri to build three additional ships.
At the same time, we signed agreements to sell two ships expected to leave our fleet in 2018, keeping us on pace with our historical average of removing one to two ships per year.
All told, we expect net capacity growth to be around five percent compounded annually through 2022, in keeping with our philosophy of measured capacity growth.
3  During the year, we continued to make meaningful progress on our cross-brand efforts to use our industryleading scale to create greater value.
We furthered the roll out of our new state-of-the-art revenue management system being implemented across six of our brands.
We also accelerated progress on our cost containment efforts delivering more than $100 million of cost savings in 2017, bringing the cumulative savings to date to approximately $300 million.
We are planning for another $80 million of savings in 2018.
 We continue to make meaningful progress on our 2020 sustainability goals focusing on our environmental, safety, labor and social performance.
Having already reduced our unit fuel consumption by 29 percent since initiating the effort, we remain committed to ongoing reductions in air emissions with the 2017 delivery of AIDAperla, our second cruise ship to be powered in port by environmentally friendly liquefied natural gas along with the keel laying of AIDAnova, the first of seven all-LNG ships on order.
We also launched our first dedicated sustainability report website to expand our sustainability reporting.
And in 2017, we joined pledges to support the advancement of womens leadership and diversity in the workplace drafted by Catalyst the leading global nonprofit focused on expanding opportunities for women and to support and encourage diversity in the workplace drafted by the Executive Leadership Council the leading global organization working to empower African-American corporate leaders.
Our commitment to continuous improvement in health, environment, safety and security resulted in our being ranked in the top quartile of the 100 Best Corporate Citizens by Corporate Responsibility magazine, as well as recognition for our sustainability report which was ranked number-one globally by Corporate Register.
 We are very proud of all the progress our teams have made in 2017 and we are genuinely excited for our prospects as we embark on 2018.
We are committed to achieving increased consideration for cruise vacations and continued investment in our guest experience to create additional consumer demand in excess of measured capacity growth, while at the same time continuing to return cash to shareholders.
While we have accomplished much, we have much more still to do.
Also, we are ever mindful that there are headwinds and risks.
We are working hard to ensure that we mitigate and weather them.
Thank you for your continued confidence and your shared vision of building upon the great legacy that is Carnival Corporation & plc as we continue to exceed guest expectations while delivering lifelong memories through the worlds greatest holiday experiences.
