| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 03 Chairmans Statement In the last year, we have reinvigorated our approach to marketing and communications, within our longstanding marketing budget.
It is important that we raise the Companys profile, as we believe that our investment approach should appeal to a broad range of investors.
The ongoing charges figure for the year under review was 0.49%, which compares favourably with other actively-managed investment vehicles.
As a selfmanaged investment trust, this figure represents the ongoing costs of running the Company as a proportion of net assets.
We have reduced our costs in recent years, most notably by restructuring the investment team and by outsourcing a number of functions.
Performance The ongoing charges figure has remained the same as I am pleased to report that during the 12 months to 31 last year, despite the reduction in net assets following the October 2017 a combination of capital appreciation repurchase of Avivas shareholding.
and strong dividend income meant that the Company delivered another year of robust total returns.
Over that High conviction, global contrarians period, the share price total return was 12.8% and the net The high conviction, global contrarian investment asset value per share NAV total return with borrowings approach adopted by Alasdair McKinnon and his team at market value was 11.0%.
clearly differentiates the Company from our global The Company does not have a formal benchmark but, investment trust peers and from the vast array of passive by way of comparison, the sterling total return of the investment products through which investors can track international MSCI All Country World Index ACWI was stockmarket indices.
13.3% while the UK based MSCI UK All Cap Index total The approach reflects the investment teams natural style return was 13.5%.
As noted in previous communications, as independent thinkers and active, long-term investors elsewhere in this statement and in the Managers review, who seldom follow the herd.
The Manager believes that we do not expect the Companys portfolio return to opportunities are created by the natural human tendency match any particular index return over any defined to focus on past performance as a predictor of future period due to the contrarian nature of the portfolios performance.
Our approach aims to profit by investing composition.
Our contrarian approach aims to achieve in carefully selected, but unfashionable, companies above average long-term performance.
Given this focus which are undervalued as they are overlooked by other and the fact that we expect to make more of our gains in investors who prefer the comfort of investing with the particular market conditions, we believe that a period of crowd.
at least five years is required to evaluate the Companys returns.
The portfolio reflects this contrarian philosophy and is constructed without reference to any benchmark or With the Companys portfolio rebalanced towards the stockmarket index.
Accordingly, we do not expect the high conviction, global contrarian approach described portfolio return to be similar to a particular index return below, the Board now believes that the Company will in any given year and we expect that the contrarian style generate a higher level of dividend income through an will work differently depending on market conditions.
investment cycle than has previously been the case.
The For example, the Manager expects that the Company Board wishes to ensure that shareholders have greater might not fully participate in more speculative market clarity about their future dividend expectations and conditions as the investment team seeks to avoid therefore recommends a positive step change increase in investments that are sustained by overly enthusiastic the regular dividend.
I explain this later in this statement.
Likewise, we might expect better than average performance when market spirits are more Low cost active management tempered, as our holdings typically have less positive Over the last three years, the Company has undertaken sentiment priced in.
a significant process of change with our goal to continue to provide an attractive, low cost investment vehicle During the year, the number of portfolio holdings was for our shareholders, who are mainly, and increasingly, further reduced as the Manager believes that the best individuals.
long-term returns will be generated by having the | 04 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Chairmans Statement continued conviction to back the teams best investment ideas.
The change, the Company will have one of the highest stated portfolio currently contains 54 listed equity holdings, dividend yields among its global investment trust peers.
which compares with 70 at the previous year end.
The The Board recommends a final dividend of 14.5p per number of holdings will vary as the investment team share which, if approved, will mean that the total regular unearths new opportunities.
dividend for the year will increase by 48.1% to 20.0p and will represent the 34th consecutive year of regular Contrarian style boosts income generation dividend increase.
Over the past year earnings per share rose by 6.7% to The Board also recommends a special dividend 23.1p 2016: 21.6p.
of 5.0p per share in order to distribute the income generated in the year to 31 October 2017 in excess of In previous reports, I have noted that the Board wishes the requirements of the proposed regular dividend.
to maintain both the long track record of dividend This recommendation reflects past indications made as increases and the aim of the Company to provide to how the Board would likely deal with such balance dividend growth ahead of UK inflation over the longer of income generated in respect of the financial year.
In recent years, this has been achieved by As mentioned previously, the Company is less likely to appropriate increases to the regular dividend, with any pay discretionary special dividends in future years.
If excess being distributed as a special dividend.
approved, the total dividend for the year will increase by Since the adoption of the contrarian investment 11.1%.
approach, income generated has been considerably It is worth clarifying that the Board has not changed its more than that required to pay the regular dividend.
future intentions for regular dividend increases.
The The Board has discussed this extensively with the Board wishes, from this higher level, to continue the Manager and, despite the approach not explicitly Companys long track record of dividend increases and targeting high yielding investments, we expect the its aim to provide dividend growth ahead of UK inflation contrarian investment style to generate a higher level over the longer term.
of investment income through an investment cycle than was previously the case.
A higher than average Importantly, the Board remains of the view that the level of dividend income is often, but not always, a composition of the portfolio should not be dictated by consequence of an investment in an unfashionable this change to dividend policy and recognises that there company.
may be occasions when the portfolio will generate a lower level of income that does not necessarily cover the requirements of the regular dividend.
This dividend Step change increase in the regular dividend policy is supported by the Companys healthy revenue Given the above, the Board considers it is appropriate reserves of 70.6p per share, which would currently cover to make a significant step change increase in the more than three years of the proposed new higher regular dividend to make it clear to shareholders regular dividend.
The Board considers that it would be and prospective investors that the Company expects appropriate to utilise such revenue reserves as required to generate a higher level of income through an to support such a policy, drawing from revenue reserves investment cycle.
A consequence of such a change will in some years to supplement earnings for that year and be that the Company is less likely to pay discretionary adding to revenue reserves in other years.
special dividends in future years and will not necessarily distribute income generated in excess of the requirements of the regular dividend.
Move to quarterly dividend payments I announced in the interim report that the Company One particular advantage of such a significant step intended to adopt a quarterly schedule of dividend change increase in the regular dividend is that it will payments starting in the 2017 18 financial year.
The give shareholders and potential investors a clearer Board recognises that predictable, regular distribution of indication of the income that they can expect to receive.
income is desirable for the majority of our shareholders.
This is because, when calculating the yield on ordinary shares, many investors ignore special dividends as The proposed final and special dividends, which, if they consider them non-recurring.
The proposed approved, will be paid to shareholders in February 2018 step change increase in the regular dividend will, will mark the last dividends of the current distribution going forward, materially increase the stated yield of schedule before we move to quarterly payments.
The the Companys shares, which the Board believes will Boards target is to declare three quarterly interim enhance their attraction to investors.
Following the dividends of 5.0p in the year to 31 October 2018 and | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 05 Chairmans Statement continued recommend a final dividend of at least 5.0p for approval which aimed to control the discount to the ex-income by Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2019.
NAV with borrowings at market value.
The Company was It is intended that the first quarterly dividend will be paid an early adopter of a buyback policy in 2006 and, since in May 2018.
The second and third quarterly dividends then, it has become more normal industry practice to use are expected to be paid no later than August and the cum-income NAV rather than the ex-income NAV.
The final dividend will be reviewed in accordance with the Boards desire to continue the long Successful migration of savings schemes track record of annual dividend increases and the aim of The savings schemes previously offered by the Company the Company to provide dividend growth ahead of UK have now been closed but scheme holders were inflation over the longer term.
offered an attractive alternative arrangement for their shareholding.
I would like to thank those shareholders affected for their understanding throughout the transition.
Aviva share repurchase As I noted in the interim report, in March the Company The schemes were set up in an era when it was expensive completed the repurchase and cancellation of the and complicated, particularly for a smaller shareholder, shareholding of Aviva, representing 11.9% of the to buy shares directly in a single company.
However, in Companys issued share capital at that time.
Aviva recent years, a number of ways to buy the Companys had gained control of this substantial shareholding in shares in a simple and cost effective manner have been November 2015 through its purchase of Friends Life.
developed and very few providers offer the infrastructure Aviva had not previously been a long-term investor to support single company savings schemes.
in the Company, did not have a history of holding Accordingly, when the savings schemes administrator investment trusts and had indicated that it did not plan informed us that they intended to withdraw from to retain this shareholding.
this business area, we were, despite an extensive At a specially convened General Meeting, shareholders search, unable to identify a viable alternative scheme approved the repurchase for cancellation of 11.4m administrator.
shares from Aviva at a 10.75% discount to the cumThe majority of scheme holders have now transferred to income NAV with borrowings at market value.
We look forward to working with AJ Board considered this transaction to be in the best Bell Youinvest in continuing to communicate with our interests of the Company and shareholders as it shareholders.
removed a known seller of a large block of shares and enhanced this NAV for the ongoing shareholders by Board composition 1.4%.
I would like to welcome Karyn Lamont to the Board.
Karyn was appointed as a non-executive director and Chair Gearing of the Audit Committee in October 2017.
Karyn brings Gearing ended the year largely unchanged at 5%.
a wealth of specialist audit experience from her long During the year, the Company briefly moved to a net career in the field and will stand for election at the Annual cash position to facilitate the transaction with Aviva.
Buybacks and updated policy Karyn replaced Ian Hunter who retired after three years of During the year, 16.9m shares were purchased for valuable service to the Company.
The Board and I would cancellation 2016: 9.2m at an average discount of like to extend our gratitude to Ian for his considerable 10.5% to the cum-income NAV with borrowings at contribution, particularly over the last eighteen months market value 9.5% to the ex-income NAV and a cost of as the Company reorganised a number of its key 135.2m.
Excluding the repurchase for cancellation of administrative functions.
the Aviva shares, 5.5m shares were repurchased at an Hamish Buchan will retire at the AGM.
The Company average discount of 9.7% to the cum-income NAV 8.1% has benefited greatly from Hamishs knowledge and to the ex-income NAV with borrowings at market value experience over the last fourteen years.
On behalf of the and a cost of 44.9m.
Board, I should like to thank Hamish for his outstanding As announced in the interim results, the Companys contribution.
There is no current intention to replace buyback policy has been adjusted to aim, in normal Hamish as the Board considers that its membership market conditions, to maintain the discount to the will continue to ensure that the appropriate balance of cum-income NAV with borrowings at market value at skills, experience, independence and knowledge will be or below 9%.
This is a change from the previous policy achieved.
| 06 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Chairmans Statement continued As ever, there are a number of events which could Outlook potentially destabilise markets if the worst fears come to I have previously discussed the anti-establishment pass, or potentially boost markets if they are successfully mood that seems to have characterised recent voting on resolved.
Of the prominent events, tension in the Korean both sides of the Atlantic.
The most obvious examples peninsula remains confined to sabre-rattling while some are the Brexit vote, the election of Donald Trump and modest progress seems to have been made in the Brexit the unexpected result in the UK snap election.
President Clintons victory in the 1992 US Presidential The Board is pleased with the progress made to election has often been attributed to the slogan Its the transform the investment approach, to increase the economy, stupid and this catchphrase remains highly regular dividend, to reduce the cost base and to improve relevant today.
Large sections of the population, in a the profile of the Company.
It now believes that the number of countries, feel disadvantaged in the current Company is differentiated, competitive in costs and economic environment.
Government policies have an attractive investment vehicle focused on delivering favoured asset prices with unintended consequences above-average returns and dividend growth over the for the cost of living.
Markets do not operate in a vacuum and, to date, have generally interpreted this shift in the political climate as a positive development.
This is justified, to some extent, as stimulatory measures to boost the real economy may well improve the prospects of sections of the corporate sector.
On the other hand, some of the more radical measures occasionally mooted, no doubt with James Will the best of intentions, have potential to harm sections Chairman of the corporate sector and will not necessarily achieve 8 December 2017 their end purpose.
The US Federal Reserve, which sets the tone for global monetary policy, has continued to increase interest rates from a very low base and has started tentatively to reduce the stockpile of bonds purchased to lower long-term interest rates.
Other central banks have taken this cue and have started either to reduce, or at least slow, the rate of increase in stimulatory measures.
This is evidenced by the recent interest rate increase by the Bank of England and the planned reduction in European Central Bank bond purchases.
Markets have undoubtedly benefited from low long-term interest rates and it remains to be seen how dependent these low rates are on central bank largesse.
