The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement years, tried to call the top of the North American market based on stretched valuation levels.
But, despite a backdrop of increasing interest rates, multiples have continued to rise and in certain sectors appear to be significantly beyond any normal valuation levels.
With this in mind we are unlikely to increase our US asset allocation in the short to medium term.
Elsewhere, primarily in Continental Europe and Japan, the economic growth story is gaining momentum and has yet to be fully reflected in corporate earnings growth.
Whilst many challenges remain in these two geographic areas, they are likely to be the beneficiaries of any further asset allocation shifts away from the UK which we may instigate in the year ahead.
The Chairman of the Company, Richard Killingbeck, reports on the year to31 October 2017 Revenue and Dividends Bankers has delivered a further solid increase in the revenue Net asset value increase of 16.3% account, reflecting positive currency movements, robust dividend Dividend increase of 9.4% growth and further substantial special dividends.
This performance has enabled the Board to recommend an increase in the final Forecast increase in 2018 dividend of at quarterly dividend to 4.80p per share.
If approved by shareholders this will result in a total dividend payment for the year of 18.6p least6.0% 2016:17.0p, an increase of 9.4%.
This increase compares with my forecast of at least 6%.
Our revenue earnings per share over the Performance same period rose to 20.49p 2016: 17.53p, an increase of 16.9%.
I am very pleased to report another excellent year for our The outlook for the year ahead from a revenue perspective remains shareholders, with a net asset value NAV increase of 16.3%.
Also, the share price performance was enhanced as the discount to NAV positive.
The recommended final 2017 dividend payment, if approved, narrowed, with the share price recording a 23.5% increase.
will still accommodate a healthy transfer to revenue reserve which, at the year-end, represented 1.8 times the cost of the 2017 annual Whilst UK market sentiment was influenced by Brexit negotiations, dividend.
These reserves give the Board confidence in its international markets continued to perform strongly as evidence of discussions over future dividend growth.
So, I am pleased to be able strengthening economic activity and improving consumer confidence to report, on behalf of the Board, a forecast of dividend growth of at was recorded in virtually every region.
Currency movements were least 6.0% for 2018. less pronounced than last year albeit sterling weakened again against the Euro and US dollar.
So, for the second year running our Change to Investment Objectives and capital value was helped by both strong markets in the UK and overseas and a weaker level of sterling.
This double impact was PolicyWording particularly evident in our North American portfolio where a sterling You will note in the annual report that the Board has reviewed the total return of 24.3% was recorded and in our Continental European wording of the investment objectives and policy.
This has been portfolio with a total return of 21.5%.
Total returns from Japan and driven by the FCAs thematic review on meeting customer Emerging Markets were lower at 9.8% and 5.8% respectively whilst expectations and ensuring that investment objectives and policies the UK portfolio had a total return of 12.7%.
Indeed, every are clear, accurate and not ambiguous.
Shareholders should rest international portfolio outperformed its local benchmark.
Special assured that the existing twin key objectives of capital growth and mention must be made of our mainland China equity exposure where dividend growth remain core to the investment objectives of the we recorded a total return of 55.3% against a local benchmark of Company.
We have taken the opportunity to consider introducing a 15.1%.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of our fund global benchmark to judge capital growth over the long term.
After managers for this exceptional performance.
consultation with our Manager and Corporate Broker we have decided to adopt the FTSE World Index, an index of global I have reported on several occasions that strategic asset allocation companies.
We intend to review performance over a suitable decisions have led to a considerable shift in our equity exposure medium to long term period, representing at least three years, as we away from the UK and into other major markets, primarily North do not wish our fund managers to generate excessive trading to America during the past five years.
North America is now our single largest country exposure at approximately 28%, followed by the UK move the portfolio into line with the index in seeking to generate at approximately 26%.
Many market commentators have, over the short term relative performance.
5 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement continued Janus Henderson Outlook We have followed the course of the merger between Henderson and Rising inflation and the reaction of central banks is likely to be one of Janus and the additional resources and expertise that has been the bigger macro issues affecting global markets in the year ahead.
available to Alex Crooke, our Fund Manager.
We continue to be Increasing globalisation of the world economy has manifested itself optimistic that Janus Henderson will be able to provide Alex with the in many ways with one key aspect being the downward pressure on support he will need to build on the performance of Bankers.
We are labour costs across major economies.
The recent increase in broader also delighted to record Alexs promotion to Co-Head of Equities at inflation measures has not yet resulted in a significant increase in Janus Henderson whilst continuing to be lead Fund Manager of labour costs but the time may be getting closer when labour cost Bankers.
pressures will be more evident.
Central banks in the US and UK are beginning to withdraw the monetary support to their economies by raising interest rates.
How aggressive this removal of monetary Board Changes support will be, especially with most markets at all-time highs, will be Both Matthew Thorne and David Wild will be retiring from the Board one of the key determinants of market direction in 2018. at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
On behalf of all shareholders I thank both of them for their significant contribution to On a more positive note, global economic growth remains positive the continuing success of the Company.
and corporate earnings growth in most major markets is accelerating.
Whether this growth is already reflected in market valuations is Matthew joined the Board in November 2008 and became Audit another critical aspect in trying to forecast returns for next year.
During this period Matthew has been Onething about which I am certain, however, is to be cautious in a strong independent non-executive director who has demonstrated extrapolating the returns of the past two years into next year.
Global on many occasions his responsibilities to shareholders.
Having stock markets and currencies may not be as positively aligned in our served a full nine year term Matthew will retire at the AGM.
favour as they have been during the past two years.
David joined the Board in February 2014 and is not seeking Richard Killingbeck re-appointment at the AGM.
Davids executive role at Dominos Pizza has expanded as that company has developed and, as such, David Chairman felt unable to commit to the continuing time demands placed upon 15 January 2018 the non-executive directors of your Company.
I am pleased to report that Isobel Sharp joined the Board on 1November 2017, and will stand for appointment by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Isobel has had a distinguished career in the accountancy profession, most recently as the senior technical partner at Deloitte LLP.
Furtherdetails of her experience can be found on page 23.
Isobel willtake on the Audit Committee Chair upon Matthews retirement.
Ilook forward to introducing Isobel to shareholders at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting AGM This years AGM will again be held at Trinity House, London, EC3N 4DH on 21 February 2018 at 12 noon.
Full details of the business to be conducted at the meeting are set out in the Notice of Meeting which has been sent to shareholders with this report.
Directions and a map showing the location of the AGM can also be found in the Notice of Meeting.
At the AGM, Alex Crooke and his investment team will present their investment views and how these are reflected in the portfolio.
Following the formal business of the meeting light refreshments will be served.
The Board looks forward to seeing many of you at the AGM.
