STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS ST A TEMENT The progress the business made operationally should beseen alongside a number of very significant steps theGroup took in 2017 to better position the business forthe future.
In September, the business secured what promises to be a ground-breaking alliance with Expedia.
Meanwhile, a new strategic partnership with Swiss hotel property development company, LMEY Investments, establishes the launch pad to develop and grow Thomas Cooks portfolio of own-brand hotels, key to the successful delivery of the Groups profitable growth strategy.
Reflecting the Boards support for the progress that has been made in the last year and its confidence in thestrategy, the Board has recommended that we pay adividend to Shareholders of 0.6 pence per share.
Moving onto the business of the Board, we were 2017 has been a year of considerable strategic progress pleased to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors at Thomas Cook.
In what remains a highly competitive in July, Jrgen Schreiber and Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson.
environment one that has contributed to the collapse Jrgen brings a breadth of international experience of a number of competitors in the last 12 months across retail and consumer goods including Chief Managements focus on executing its strategy for Executive roles in both a publicly-listed company and profitable growth has delivered good results for the year, large private companies.
Paul, meanwhile, as CFO and set the business on a clear path for sustainable of InterContinental Hotels Group IHG, brings deep growth in the years to come.
experience of the global hotel industry to the Board.
In January 2018, we will also welcome a new Executive We are at an exciting point in the Director to the Board when Bill Scott takes over from Michael Healy as CFO following Michaels decision to development of this company as we retire.
I look forward to Bill supporting us through the next phase of the Groups development and would like pursue our unique strategy to focus to thankMichael for the very significant contribution he has made to the financial health of the Group in his six on our core holidays and streamline years with the business.
I am pleased that he has agreed the business, while at the same time to continue his involvement in the business through non-executive leadership roles in Thomas Cook China and partnering with the best in the industry Thomas Cook Money, two important areas of potential growth for the Group.
to offer customers a greater choice.
We are at an exciting point in the development of this After five years of hard work to reposition Thomas Cook, company as we pursue our unique strategy to focus on there is a real sense of energy and momentum in the our core holidays and streamline the business, while at business and tangible evidence of execution.
the same time partnering with the best in the industry to offer customers a greater choice.
On behalf of the Board, Despite the competitive backdrop, the Group delivered I would like to thank Peter Fankhauser, CEO, and every an 28 million increase in underlying operating profit one of the 22,000 colleagues across the business for their to 330 million, an eight per cent increase year-on-year, commitment and hard work in the past year.
I would also and net profit of 12 million, the third consecutive year like to thank all of our Shareholders for their continued ofpositive net profit after tax.
We also took further steps support as we transform Thomas Cook for the future.
to strengthen the balance sheet.
Debt was reduced by another 89 million in the year, and the business FRANK MEYSMAN has signed new financing arrangements amounting CHAIRMAN to 975 million.
This builds on the work the Group has done over the last five years to progressively improve 21 November 2017 the terms and maturity of its debt to provide it with greater flexibility and a more robust capital structure overthemedium term.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9
