STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans letter Delivering long-term value and we invested in increased resilience which will deliver long-term benefits to easyJet and its customers.
We also continue to ensure that we have a strong and flexible balance sheet to underpin our plans for the future.
RESULTS As a result of this strategy we have been able to deliver a robust performance this year.
Our passenger growth was healthy, increasing by 9.7% to 80.2 million, and revenue increased to 5,047 million, an increase of 8.1%.
Headline profit before tax was 408 million, despite the impact of 101 million from adverse foreign exchange rates.
Reported profit after tax was 305 million.
We have achieved a headline return on capital employed of 11.9% as we start to take deliveries of our new fleet order, including our first A320neo aircraft.
JOHN BARTON Chairman We are confident in our ability to deliver sustainable returns to shareholders and in our dividend policy.
As a result we are recommending a dividend of 40.9 pence per share based on our payout policy of 50% of headline profit after tax.
easyJet delivered a robust BOARD financial performance In July Carolyn McCall resigned to become CEO of ITV plc.
After joining in 2010, Carolyn built and led the management thisyear, with record team that transformed easyJets performance in every passenger numbers respect.
She put easyJets passengers and people at the heart of the business, having first built a solid operational andrevenues growing performance.
This has seen both the number and loyalty of easyJets passengers grow as a result and has led to sustained tomorethan 5 billion.
and continuing financial success, which has been shared with shareholders with a more than trebling of easyJets share price Wecontinue to invest and the payment of 1.2 billion in dividends.
On 10 November 2017 the Board announced the appointment of Johan forthe future in order Lundgren as its new Chief Executive.
Johan was previously Group Deputy Chief Executive Officer of TUI Group.
He will todeliver sustainable be joining the Company on 1 December 2017, with Carolyn long-term value for stepping down on 30 November.
This year we welcomed Moya Greene to the Board as a shareholders.
Moya brings significant transport and logistics expertise as well as her experience as a FTSE 100 Chief Executive.
At the same time Franois Rubichon decided to step down after three years on the Board.
Keith Hamill also indicated that he would retire, but kindly agreed to remain 50% on the Board whilst we found a successor to Carolyn McCall.
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO Franois and Keith leave easyJet with our gratitude and best wishes.
PEOPLE Once again I would like to thank all of our people, in particular those on the front line as they represent easyJet at its best in 80.2m sometimes challenging situations.
We continue to invest in our pilots and crew to deliver excellent service and as we continue RECORD PASSENGER NUMBERS to grow.
In addition, I would also like to thank those in support IN THE YEAR ENDING functions who have participated in the organisational review 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 during the year, which creates a better platform for the future.
With both of these communities I believe that easyJet is building a strong and sustainable advantage for the long term.
DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY Last year we reported our intention to continue to implement our purposeful growth strategy, which will deliver long-term returns to shareholders.
As a result, easyJet grew capacity by 8.5% this year, focusing on reaching strong number one JOHN BARTON positions in Europes primary airports.
Cost control was robust Non-Executive Chairman 3 www.
