Strategic report Chairmans statement Profile: Mark Clare Appointment: February 2017 Experience and appointments: Former CEO of Barratt Developments plc and executive director of Driving Centrica plc: current senior independent director of United Utilities plc and Ladbrokes Coral plc performance For more details, see page46 through culture As Grainger rapidly transforms into an increasingly customerDear shareholders, driven organisation, it is clear that its culture and people are key to In my first report as Chairman, I am pleased to say that 2017 its long-term success.
During the course of the year my colleagues has been a year of considerable progress in delivering the and I have been able to meet with a large number of the strategy whilst improving financial performance.
After ten dedicated Grainger teams around the country, who have a real months in the business working alongside the management passion for what they do.
Going forward, our focus on delivering team and Non-Executive colleagues, I remain convinced that a culture that has customers at its heart will continue to grow.
we have the right strategy and the right team to deliver it.
During the course of the year there have been some changes to Financially, we have seen good growth in net rental income, the Board.
Baroness Margaret Ford stepped down in February strong like-for-like rental growth, good sales profits from our having served eight years as a Non-Executive Director with the regulated tenancy portfolio and a significant reduction in our last two as Chairman.
Nick Jopling, Graingers Property Director, operating costs, all of which have helped drive a significant stepped down in September having been with the Company for increase in adjusted earnings.
Belinda Richards has decided to step down at the AGM in 2018 having served over six years on the Board as a While there is real focus in the business on pursuing our PRS Non-Executive Director.
I would like to thank all of them for their strategy, I am pleased to say that there has been an equal significant contribution to the success of the Company and wish focus on our existing business.
By getting to know our customers them well for the future.
I would also like to welcome Justin Read better we have been able to continue to improve the service we to the Board as a Non-Executive Director who joined at the same provide.
By looking at every area of our invested portfolio we time as I did in February.
have found potential opportunities to improve performance.
We have strengthened our governance structures and processes Finally, I am pleased to propose an increase in our final dividend to enhance our control environment and prepare the business for to 3.26p per share, bringing the total for the year to 4.86p per growth.
Following the Grenfell Tower tragedy, we have redoubled share, up 8% on the prior year, reflecting the growth in net our efforts to ensure our customers and employees are kept safe.
Looking forward, our goal is simple to generate For our PRS business, significant efforts have been made superior total returns for our shareholders in this exciting new to secure further assets and to generate new development growth market, the PRS.
opportunities for the longer term.
While our existing PRS assets are performing well, it is securing the opportunities for growth, completing them on time and to budget and making them Mark Clare operational that will enable us to deliver our strategy.
Chairman 30 November 2017 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10
