Chairmans statement Continuing to drive value The past year has been another strong year of progress, with great strides made in strengthening Sages commitment to winning in the market and its philosophy of achieving customers for life.
Donald Brydon Chairman 12 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In the world of technology change is the With all the change taking place in your Your Company remains highly cash-generative onlyconstant.
Change has been continuously Company, the Board has placed great and the Board was careful to balance the need evident at Sage also as your Company has importance on the evolution of the right to grow with investors desire for dividends.
continued on its journey of transformation.
During the year Striking the appropriate balance allowed an Very considerable progress has been made in weconducted the Your Voice survey with increase of 9%in the dividend to 15.42p, as focusing the business and ensuring that it is fit encouraging results that the work we announced on 22November 2017. for purpose in a world that will be dominated havedone to develop the right culture is I would like to thank Stephen Kelly andhis by cloud-based solutions.
During the past progressing well.
The survey was completed team for another year of strong progress three years there has been significant change by70% of colleagues, providing us with andIlook forward to the next phase of Sages within the organisation: software subscription valuableinsight into howthe business is evolution as we start to see the benefits of the contracts have risen from 450k to 1,234k, G&A viewedthough thelens of our colleagues.
work carried out during transformation, with as a proportion of organic revenue has Members of the Board took the opportunity accelerating growth and strong margins that reduced from 19.1% to 13.8% and retention tomeet with Sage partners and customers will benefit customers, colleagues, partners rates have increased from 83% to 86%.
Chief atSage Summit, as we have enjoyed doing and shareholders.
Executive, Stephen Kelly and his team have inprior years.
This year there were no fewer delivered on all of this whilst achieving organic thaneight Sage Summit conferences held revenue growth of6% and operating margins around the world with over29,000 registered of 27% throughout the transformation phase, attendees, providing an unrivalled channel quite anachievement.
This matched the public tosupport and champion the cause of our commitments given by management when Business Builder entrepreneurs and partners.
Board members also visited various parts Donald Brydon Maintaining margins has been an important ofthe Company during the year and also Chairman discipline to ensure that increased expenditure supported Sage Foundation by spending on research and product development astrategy day with one of the recipients wasinternally funded through increased ofSageFoundations help.
Steve Hare, our CFO, has Ruth Markland and Inna Kuznetsova retired at beenrelentless in ensuring that we met the AGM in February, the former having served ourcommitments.
as both Senior Independent Director and Chair The past year has been another strong year of the Remuneration Committee.
I would like ofprogress, with great strides made in to thank them both for their contribution.
We strengthening Sages commitment to winning were joined by Soni Jiandani in February 2017 in the market and its philosophy of achieving and Cath Keers in July 2017 as new Noncustomers for life.
It also saw the rollout of our executive Directors.
Soni brings with her cloud accounting solutions, Sage Live, Sage awealth of knowledge in the technology One Global Accounting Core, X3 and the industry, having worked at Cisco for 22 years, cloud-enabled Sage 50c and Sage 200c amongst other technology companies.
families across our major geographies, and Cathhas substantial digital and customer there has been a step change in the discipline experience gained through high-profile FTSE and efficiency of the go-to-market functions companies including Tesco Mobile and O2 and under the leadership of our President, has a deep understanding of leveraging sales BlairCrump.
and marketing activity to build successful brands.
Drummond Hall succeeded Ruth as Sage also completed the acquisitions of both Senior Independent Director and Chair Intacct now Sage Intacct, Fairsail now ofthe Remuneration Committee.
With the current acceleration of the cloud market, it is essential We also created a new position of Board to invest for growth.
These acquisitions, Associate and appointed Amy Lawson from combined with the organic progress made the communication team to fill this role.
The with our new customer acquisition strategy, role is reserved for an employee and Amy provide some very compelling evidence that hasbegun attending all Board meetings and Sage can build on what it has achieved to date participating in the discussion and debate.
to continue to win new customers at scale and Webelieve this development will help further More information on the show accelerating momentum into next year strengthen the bonds with our employees and and beyond, whilst maintaining and even provide new insights to the Board.
Board Associate on page 68 enhancing margins over time.
The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2017 13
