Chairmans introduction Dear shareholders Balance sheet independence: This has been an important year for Euromoney.
When CEO anew dividend policy: and Andrew Rashbass defined our new strategy in March 2016, wesaid that 2017 would be a year of transition with a return newNon-Executive Directors: togrowth in 2018.
Our 2017 results actually show a year of animportant year forEuromoney transition plus, using the strong US dollar to invest in our business and still deliver improved results compared with last year.
Equally, the reorganisation of our management structure and the creation of the new Group Management Board has hada telling effect on performance.
Independence Euromoney magazine was first published in 1969 and the Company has benefitted ever since from the careful stewardship of Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT as the majority shareholder.
In January 2017 DMGT reduced its holding in Euromoney to 49% by a secondary placing of Euromoney shares and a buyback by Euromoney of its own shares.
The Companys Our 2017 results balance sheet is now independent of DMGT, increasing Euromoneys financial flexibility.
atuayo a yar DMGTs foresight in enabling Euromoney to become otranition pu independent and its continued strong shareholder support arewelcome and appreciated.
Their decision has helped John Botts Euromoney accelerate the implementation of our strategy for Chairman thebenefit of all shareholders.
Dividends During the course of the year, the Company approved a new, progressive dividend policy with an increase in the dividend pay-out ratio from approximately 33% to approximately 40% of adjusted diluted earnings per share, subject to the needs of the business.
The reduction of the sharesin issue following the share buyback, combined with theincrease in pay-out ratio, enabled the Board to approve a 26% increase in the interim dividend to 8.8p per share which was paid to shareholders in June.
In line with the new policy, the Board is recommending to shareholders a 33% increase in the final dividend to 21.8p per share to be paid on 15 February 2018, giving a total dividend for the year of30.6p 2016: 23.4p.
76.4p Adjusted diluted earningspershare 30.6p Total dividend Annual Report and Accounts 2017 06 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 6 12 11 2017 12:13:17 PM Strategic report Governance With independence comes responsibility, and the shape CORPORATE GOVERNANCE andcomposition of our Board and Committees is changing.
PROGRESS: Goodprogress has been made in recruiting new independent Non-Executive Directors, reconstituting Committee Appointment of the Companys first memberships, appointing a Senior Independent Director, SeniorIndependent Director making sure that ourBoard is more diverse in its make-up andappointing the Companys first General Counsel, who Appointment announced of three new alsoacts as Secretary to the Board.
Although this work is not independent Non-Executive Directors complete the momentum is reassuring.
Progress towards a more diverse Board The coming year As the strategy becomes embedded in how the Group operates, Plan to search for a new independent I have decided now is the right time for me to hand over the Director to serve as Chairman Chairmanship of the Company.
It has been a privilege to serveon the Euromoney Board for over 20 years including as Appointments of Head of Internal Chairman for the last two.
Our results demonstrate that the AuditandGeneral Counsel strategy which the Company is implementing is working and Iam confident that I hand over the chairmanship to David Change in membership of Pritchard with the Company in a strong position.
David will NominationsCommittee leadthe process to appoint a new Chairman and be Acting Chairman in the meantime.
Our results demonstrate that the strategy under Andrews leadership is working and I am confident that Euromoney isinastrong position.
May I thank our shareholders, my Euromoney colleagues and fellow Directors for your support.
I look forward to watching theCompany go from strength-to-strength and becoming a 3.0information business.
As we continue to operate in challenging times, the dedication and skill of Andrew, the Group Management Board and our staff across the world remain the defining feature of this remarkable Company.
John Botts Chairman 22 November 2017 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 07 Euromoney AR2017 Strategic-Proof 6. indd 7 12 11 2017 12:13:17 PM
