06 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Amendments to the Articles of Association As part of the business to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting, the Board is seeking shareholder approval for the adoption of new articles of association.
Recent amendments to the regulations governing investment trusts removed the requirement for the articles of association of an investment company to prohibit the distribution of capital profits.
Accordingly, the Board is seeking authority at the Annual General Meeting to amend the articles of association to allow the Company to distribute capital profits.
The Board believes that the removal of this restriction will give the Company greater flexibility in the long term as it will enable the Company to make distributions from any surplus arising from the realisation of any investment.
However, the Board has no intention of exercising this authority at the current time.
The Board is also taking the opportunity to propose some additional amendments to the articles of association to reflect other recent regulatory changes.
These changes are further detailed on page 40.
Gearing While we are mindful of the extended rally in many markets since the global financial crisis, long-term debt remains available at interest rates which appear very attractive by historical standards.
The Investment Manager also believes that there continue to be significant investment opportunities available at attractive valuations.
The Board has therefore approved a further modest increase in debt, of 20m Strone Macpherson unsecured private placement loan notes which were issued after the Chairman year end on 1 November 2017.
If all of this debt is deployed, gearing will be 7.9% of net assets, based on the value of your assets as at the date of issue.
Discount The discount at which the Companys shares trade has generally been in the range of 10% to 12% over the year and at the year end was 9.9%.
This report covers the period from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017.
Your Board continues to believe that it is in the best interests of shareholders to use share buybacks with the aim of limiting the Investment Performance volatility in the discount and this year some 9.7 million shares were Your Company delivered strong performance over the year, with a net bought back.
One direct effect of the buybacks was to increase asset value total return of 18.8%, which was 2.5 percentage points NAV per share for remaining shareholders by 0.8% over the higher than the benchmark, the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index.
Over the past two years, your Companys investment portfolio has While share buybacks seek to address any oversupply of shares, been more concentrated and reflects greater conviction on the part equally important is stimulating demand.
The Investment Manager, of the Investment Manager about opportunities for return.
Following with support from external advisers, has continued its efforts to explain this statement, his report sets out the factors affecting investment its unique investment philosophy to relevant investment audiences and returns during the year including changes in underlying asset value, it is encouraging to see a number of new shareholders.
discount levels, shareholder activism and corporate events.
The report also assesses in detail the positioning of the key constituents of Corporate Broker the portfolio and their outlook.
It also sets out the major contributors On 3 April 2017, we announced the appointment of Jefferies Hoare and detractors to performance over the year.
Govett as the Companys corporate broker.
As part of its role, Jefferies executes share buybacks on the Companys behalf.
Income and Dividend Your Board has elected to increase the final dividend to 10.0p per Board share, which will result in a total dividend for the year of 12.0p per On 9 October 2017, we announced that, following my retirement from share.
The investment approach of your Investment Manager is to the Board after this years Annual General Meeting AGM, Susan look to realise the value of the often heavily discounted underlying Noble will assume the role of Chairman.
assets in the investee companies.
This is typically achieved through corporate action where the timing of resulting revenues in any given It has been a huge privilege for me to have contributed to British year is uncertain.
However, the Company has substantial revenue Empires continuing success over the last 15 years and during such reserves and, as part of the final dividend, some 1.2p per share will be an interesting period in the Companys 126 year history, including the distributed from reserves.
The Board would expect in future years at global financial crisis.
I am confident that I leave the Company in good least to maintain the level of ordinary dividend paid to shareholders.
hands, with a strong and capable Board and an excellent team of portfolio managers at AVI, ably led by Joe Bauernfreund.
British Empire Trust plc 07 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Susans appointment as Chairman is part of a process of refreshing OUR EDGE the Board.
We announced in March the appointment of Calum Thomson as a non-executive Director of the Company.
Subsequently, AVI specialises in finding securities which at first glance Calum succeeded Andrew Robson as Chair of the Audit Committee do not necessarily offer themselves up as potential high when Andrew retired on 31 May 2017.
We thank Andrew for his return investment opportunities.
Investments that for one substantial contribution over several years as a Director and as reason or another are priced below their true value but Chairman of the Audit Committee.
can be made into profitable performers.
AVI believes its strategy and investment style differentiate it from other My colleagues are at an advanced stage in the process of seeking a managers in the market because of the following: new Director with the assistance of professional search consultants and an appointment will be announced shortly.
Outlook Equity markets have proved to be remarkably resilient and the US market in particular has had a long period of strength, despite uncertainty surrounding the trend of interest rates and political issues worldwide.
The underlying performance of most of the core portfolio companies 32 years experience of long-term continues to improve and there remains the prospect, given British outperformance following our Empires strict investment process, that asset values may rise and discounts contract further.
The increased exposure to Japan through distinctive investment style 12.1% a basket of well-placed smaller companies with strong cash and average annual performance vs 8.7% market positions has done well so far.
for the MSCI World ex-US Index.
The policy of continuing to stick to our knitting has proved to be the right one and there is also clear evidence that AVIs well thought out active involvement in some portfolio companies has improved shareholder value significantly over time.
AVIs continued thorough research into the underlying value of the Companys core investments and other opportunities, together with corporate activity AVI actively looks for the catalyst and shareholder activism, should enhance the prospect of discounts narrowing further.
within a company which will narrow the discount.
Looking further ahead, we are confident that there are sufficient opportunities for investment to have added modestly to the Companys long-term gearing levels.
Annual General Meeting I look forward to seeing shareholders at the AGM, which this year will be held on Wednesday, 20 December at 11.00am at 11 Cavendish AVI promotes active involvement to Square, London W1G 0AN.
improve corporate governance and This Statement forms part of the Strategic Report.
The Strategic to unlock potential shareholder value.
Report has been approved and signed on the Boards behalf.
Strone Macpherson Chairman 10 November 2017 For more information visit: www.
MSCI World ex-US Index is a good indicator of long-term global stock market returns.
