Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement 5 A YEAR OF SIGNIFICANTPROGRESS As we enter 2018, our key areas of focus continue to be to support implementation ofthe Groups business strategy, to deepen thesuccession planning for the Board and Executive Committee and to ensure that corporate governance and risk management mitigation plans are embedded across thebusiness.
There were two Board changes during the course of the year.
On 26 May 2017, we announced that Oaktree had completed a sale of shares in Countryside, reducing its remaining shareholding to approximately 23 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
As a consequence, James Van Steenkiste stepped down from the Board on 5 June 2017 as per the Relationship Agreement between Oaktree and the Company.
Additionally, on 2 October 2017, Richard Adam announced his intention to step down as a Non-Executive Director of the Company, with his last day of service being 31 December 2017.
Our position going into the next financial year Countryside has delivered another is strong.
Our year-end private forward order On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank year of significant progress completing book is at a record level at 242.4m, which, both James and Richard for their significant combined with a strong pipeline in both contributions to the Board and its Committees 3,389 homes while maintaining a divisions, positions us well to achieve our since joining Countryside.
The whole Board strong balance sheet and with ambitious growth plans.
wishes them both well for the future.
A search for Richards successor is well under way and excellent visibility over our future an announcement of the appointment will be Returns to shareholders growth ambitions.
Our share price performed well over the course of the financial year, reflecting the performance Well positioned for growth Our people of the business along with continued investor During 2017 the business continued to perform education.
In the year to 30 September 2017, We recognise that our people are the well, delivering on the key targets set out at we delivered a total shareholder return of mostimportant factor in delivering on our our initial public offering IPO in February 46.6per cent compared to 13.5 per cent for ambitiousgrowth plans and we continue to 2016.
Political support for the housebuilding the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
invest indeveloping them at all levels.
As at industry remains strong and we welcome the 30September 2017 we had over 1,200 employees, With the growth in earnings, our proposed dividend Governments commitment to housing with 12 per cent more than a year ago.
We are per share has also increased by 147per cent the white paper Fixing our broken housing recruiting more apprentices, graduates and with a recommended final dividend per share market and subsequently announced increased trainees than ever before.
In addition, we have of 5.0 pence.
Subject to approval at the AGM funding for both affordable housing and the placed great focus on succession planning at all on 25 January 2018, the dividend will be paid Help to Buy scheme.
In May, we were delighted on 9 February 2018 to shareholders registered to announce the reshaping of our Executive At our interim results in May 2017, we upgraded at 22 December 2017.
Together with the interim Committee following the retirement of Richard the targets that we set out at our IPO as we dividend of 3.4pence per share, this will give a Cherry, with Ian Kelley, Nick Worrall and Phillip saw opportunities to accelerate delivery on a total dividend for the year of 8.4 pence per share.
Lyons, who joined the business as Chief Executive number of our Partnerships sites.
We remain of our Housebuilding division, joining the firmly on track to deliver these targets and indeed Priorities of the Board executive team.
exceeded our 28 per cent return on capital The Board continues to regard corporate employed ROCE target in 2017, a year The quality and commitment of our people governance as a core and vital discipline ahead of plan.
was recognised with a number of awards during complementing our desire to continually improve the year including Large Housebuilder of the We maintained our focus on capital discipline upon the success of the Group on behalf of Year at the Housebuilder Awards.
and ended the year with 77.4m of net cash our shareholders.
During 2017, particular areas on the balance sheet.
During the year we of focus were to develop policies and procedures I would like to thank each and every one of our extended our 300m revolving credit facility to address the new Consumer Code for Home employees for their hard work during the course out to May 2022 and we continue to have Builders and to prepare for the introduction of of the year.
While there are substantial the Criminal Finance Act and the General Data plans for investment in our developments during Protection Regulation.
2018, our policy remains to be broadly debt David Howell Chairman neutral at the end of each financial year.
Further details on our people can 21 November 2017 be found on pages 30 and 31 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
