CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Consistent performance 2017 was another excellent year for Compass.
We continue to pursue our clear and focused strategy, which has again delivered sustainable organic growth and returns for shareholders.
North America performed strongly, and revenues in both Europe and Rest of World accelerated in the second half of the year as expected.
We improved margins by driving further efficiencies through the business, aided by the end of the restructuring plan in Offshore & Remote.
Details of our operational and financial performance can be found on pages 14 to 33.
This performance reaffirms the Boards confidence in the effectiveness of our business model and strategy, both of which have been central to our long term success see pages 14 to 17.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS As a result of our strong performance, the Board is recommending a 5.7% increase in the final dividend for the year of 22.3 pence per share 2016: 21.1 pence per share.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 33.5 pence per share 2016: 31.7 pence per share, anincrease of 5.7%.
The final dividend will be paid on 26 February 2018 to shareholders on the register on 19 January 2018.
In addition to the ordinary dividend, and as a result of the Groups robust cash generation, we paid a 1 billion special dividend in July and bought back 19 million in shares during the year.
We remain committed to maintaining strong investment grade credit ratings and will continue to return surplus cash to shareholders and to target net Im delighted to report another excellent debt EBITDA of around 1.5x.
We continue to pursue OUR PEOPLE our clear and focused strategy, which At Compass, we owe our success to our 550,000 employees all has again delivered a strong performance over the world.
I would like to thank them for their commitment and hard work during the year.
When I visit the business, I am always for shareholders, and we remain positive impressed by their vast experience and unrelenting focus on our about the future opportunities we see.
It is then easier to understand why weve been so successful and, as importantly, why we expect the success to continue.
Id like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who works for Compass for This was very much in evidence when, as a Board, we visited our award-winning US subsidiary Bon Apptit, in Silicon Valley.
It their hard work and dedication, which services the premium and high end of the market and is regarded are fundamental to our ongoing success.
by independent experts as one of the foremost ground-breaking companies in the food service industry.
Bon Apptit works with some of the most demanding and innovative clients in the world and their success is an inspiration to all of us to keep raising our game across all our sectors and sub-sectors.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our people are also central to our ability to achieve our goals in a responsible and sustainable manner.
Two years ago, we sharpened our approach to Corporate Responsibility to support the longer term ambition of our business and stakeholders.
As part of this strategic review, we agreed to proactively support the UN Sustainable Development Goals SDGs and selected the goals where we believe that we can make the most positive social impact.
There is still much more to do but I am pleased with the progress that we have made sofar.
com for more about our activities.
12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND THE BOARD POSITION IN FTSE 100 INDEX Integrity and trust are more important than ever in todays business world.
One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to set the AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2017 tonefor the company and ensure good governance see pages 42to 46.
In this I have been extremely well supported by the 25 members ofthe Board.
They bring balance and a wealth of skills 2016: 24 and experience to our organisation which complement the talents ofour executive team.
I thank them all for their valuable contribution COMPASS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE VS as we continue to uphold the high standards expected of us, to FTSE 100 OVER LAST 3 YEARS % maintain oversight of the strategic, operational and compliance risksacross the Group and to define our path to success.
1% Last 12 months APPOINTMENT OF NEW CHIEF EXECUTIVE In September, we announced a significant change in the Groups 35% Last 24 months Board.
Richard Cousins, who has been an outstanding Chief Executive for the past 11 years, will step down from his role on 59% Last 36 months 31 March 2018 and retire from the Group on 30 September 2018.
It has been a huge pleasure to work with Richard, and on behalf of theBoard I want to thank him for his extraordinary contribution to COMPASS SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE VS the Group.
Richard has transformed Compass into a sustainable, FTSE 100 INDEX industry-leading organisation that delivers excellent food services 2016 2017 toour customers, attracts and develops great people and generates 18 significant returns for shareholders.
17 I am delighted that Richard will be succeeded by Dominic Blakemore, our former Chief Operating Officer, Europe.
Dominic 16 became Deputy Chief Executive Officer on 1 October 2017, and 15 willtake over as Group Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2018.
Inthe ensuing period, he and Richard will work closely to ensure 14 a smoothtransition.
13 Dominics appointment was the result of a rigorous succession process.
He is exceptionally well qualified to lead the business, and 12 has already contributed significantly to the Group, for four years as Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Group Finance Director and, for the past two years, managing our Compass FTSE 100 rebased business in Europe.
Dominic has the leadership skills combined withthe industry and operational experience to lead Compass to continued future success.
He also benefits from the support of a Our expectations for FY2018 are positive, with growth and margin very strong senior management team and together they will continue improvement weighted to the second half.
The pipeline of new to build on the Groups strong track record under Richards tenure.
contracts is encouraging and our focus on organic growth, The Board looks forward to working with Dominic in his new role.
efficiencies and cash gives us confidence in achieving another year SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK of progress.
Compass had another strong year.
North America continues to In the longer term, we remain excited about the significant deliver excellent growth, we are continuing to make progress in structural growth opportunities globally and the potential for further Europe and in Rest of World, with trends in our commodity related revenue growth, margin improvement, as well as continued returns business improving.
We continue to drive operating efficiencies around the business which, combined with the end of the restructuring in our Offshore & Remote business, resulted in margin improvement of 20 basis points in the period.
Paul Walsh Given our excellent cash generation and the strength of the Chairman business, this year we returned 1.6 billion to shareholders via ordinary and special dividends and share buybacks.
This reflects 21 November 2017 our commitment to return surplus cash to shareholders whilst maintaining an efficient balance sheet.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 13
