STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Chairmans Our business Over the 31 years since Shaftesbury was formed, we have assembled Statement an  portfolio in the heart of Londons West End of some 600 buildings across 14 acres.
The renowned and enduring appeal of Londons West End to a global audience of visitors and businesses brings a resilience to its economy not seen elsewhere in the UK and in very few cities across the world.
I am delighted to report another strong set Underpinned by an estimated 200 million annual visits to the West End, our business focusses on the 1.1 million sq.
ft. of restaurant, of results, following a busy and successful leisure and retail space that we own in high profile, popular locations.
With our forensic knowledge of the West End, we curate year for the Group.
Our focussed strategy distinctive, interesting and lively destinations which attract Londoners, a large and important local working population, has continued to deliver our objectives of domestic visitors, and international tourists in numbers unmatched by any city destination in the western world.
growth in both income and the value of our exceptional portfolio, along with long-term, Continuing value creation and sector-leading returns for shareholders.
income growth 1 Our portfolio, now valued at 3.64 billion, continues to deliver rental and capital growth, but with relatively low capital expenditure.
We have continued our long record of crystallising our portfolios reversionary potential into contracted cash flow, whilst growing this potential further.
Together with significantly reduced finance costs following important refinancing activity, this has driven strong growth in earnings over the year.
The Board is delighted to recommend a final dividend of 8.1p, bringing the total distribution for the year to 16.0p, an increase of 8.8%.
This follows last years increase of 6.9%.
Focus on culture, governance and sustainability In my first year with Shaftesbury, I have come to appreciate the culture of this business and the important part it plays in supporting our strategy and our continuing success.
Importantly, our strategy, and every aspect of its implementation, prioritises long-term goals, planning and sustainable outcomes over short-term gains and rewards.
We pride ourselves in being open, transparent and engaged, notjust with shareholders but also with our wide array of stakeholders, including our employees, local communities, neighbours and local authorities.
We ensure that our Board decision-making includes consideration of these important stakeholders.
The Board and I are committed to maintaining the high standards of corporate governance and behaviour we have demonstrated for many years.
Succession planning throughout the organisation is an essential aspect of our long-term strategy.
My responsibility is to ensure that the Boards membership continues to evolve so that we have access to the broad skills and experience required to support the current and future needs of the business.
1 An alternative performance measure APM.
See page 140 4 STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 The knowledge and enthusiasm of our management team have been critical Outlook to the successful implementation of our strategy.
Our employee retention Whilst UK economic and political uncertainty is unsettling business record, which is a testament to the working environment we offer, is exceptional.
confidence and investment, London continues to thrive.
Its long-term We invest in training and developing our employees, to ensure they grow in prospects, and those of the West End, are underpinned by their global their roles and that we maintain a pipeline of talent for internal promotion.
status and appeal, excellent connectivity and dynamic, creative, broadA key aspect of our long-term success is the socially responsible way in based economy.
which we run our business.
We see the preservation and enhancement of Over my first year, it has become increasingly apparent that this business our iconic destinations as critical to our long-term future and we are has many strengths, from our exceptional portfolio through to a quality committed to bringing economic and environmental sustainability through team, a proven and evolving long-term strategy and a robust balance sheet.
the stewardship of our extensive ownership of mainly older buildings.
Creating prosperous, appealing locations which support the businesses of I am confident we shall continue to meet todays challenges, capture our commercial occupiers, and which benefit the important residential tomorrows opportunities and maintain our long record of delivering communities in and around our areas, creates the conditions which sustain sustained growth in income, capital value and shareholder returns.
the long-term prospects of our business.
Board changes Jonathan Nicholls Oliver Marriott retired from the Board in July and I would like to thank him Chairman for his outstanding contribution to Shaftesbury during his eight-year tenure.
27 November 2017 On 28 November 2017, Richard Akers will join the Board as a non-executive director, and I am sure his broad range of real estate and corporate skills and experience will be invaluable.
5 With increasing numbers of visitors to the West End and the widely-recognised growth in interest and spending on leisure activities, our 282 restaurants, cafs and pubs are important drivers of footfall and trading in our locations.
