Moneys award-winning offices in Cirencester, Gloucestershire Chairmans statement Another Dear Shareholders We have expanded considerably over transformative year the past 12 months as a result of strong underlying growth and the announcement of five new acquisitions and two new for ZPG strategic partnerships.
We saw strong performance in our Property division, driven by a continuation of returning The past year has been another portal partners, strong demand for our transformative one for ZPG and, on behalf upsell products and further migration of our of the Board, I am pleased to present the software partners to cloud-based products.
Our Comparison division also traded well, Companys results for the year ended reaching a new milestone of over 1 million 30September 2017. energy switches in a 12 month period and saving consumers over 400 million off their household bills over that period.
Financial performance Total revenue increased by 24% to 244.5 million driven by a strong underlying performance across both divisions together Mike Evans, with the inclusion of acquisitions during Chairman the Period.
Statutory profit for the year was up 2% to 37.4 million after the impact of increased exceptional costs, amortisation of intangible assets arising from acquisitions and share-based payments.
Statutory basic EPS marginally decreased at 8.8 pence as a result of a 5% equity placing of ZPGs ordinary issued share capital in January to help fund strategic acquisitions.
06 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report The Board uses a combination of both These acquisitions are all part of the In January 2017, Stephen Daintith stepped statutory and adjusted performance measures Companys continuing mission to be the down as a Non-Executive Director nominated when reviewing the performance of the platform of choice for consumers and partners by DMGT pursuant to its relationship business.
The adjusted performance measures, engaged in property and household decisions.
agreement with the Company, entered into including adjusted EBITDA and adjusted They also further increase the number of at the time of the Companys initial public basic EPS, provide additional information partners that we work with and enhance the offering.
James Welsh was nominated by in line with how financial performance is Companys comprehensive product offering DMGT to replace Stephen.
James acts as measured by Management and reported for both our consumers and partners.
an observer on the Audit Committee and to the Board.
Both of these measures are the Remuneration Committee.
On behalf also used in determining the remuneration of the Board, I would like to thank Stephen Dividend of the Executive Directors and Management for his hard work and significant contributions The Companys dividend policy is to pay and are used by the Companys external debt to the Company and welcome James to between 35% and 45% of profit after tax providers to assess performance against the Board.
In line with covenants and determine the interest charge.
our dividend policy, the Board has proposed Adjusted EBITDA increased by 25% to Capital structure a final dividend of 3.8 pence per share to 96.4 million 2016: 77.1 million, and be paid in respect of the year ended In February 2017, 20,897,684 new Ordinary adjusted EPS increased by 20% to 30 September 2017. shares in the Company were placed at a 15.2 pence 2016: 12.7 pence.
price of 365 pence per share to help fund Subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 M&A activity.
The placing was heavily During the year we increased our overall Annual General Meeting AGM, this will be oversubscribed and has helped to increase credit facilities by 125 million including paid on 8 February 2018 to all shareholders the breadth of our institutional ownership.
updated leverage covenants in order to help on the share register as at 8 December 2017.
The Company currently holds 135,317 shares fund our acquisitions.
ZPG remains highly An interim dividend of 1.9 pence per share in treasury.
cash generative and as at 30 September 2017 2016: 1.5 pence per share was paid in the Companys net debt position was June 2017.
Therefore, the total dividend for DMGZ Limited remains the largest single 191.5 million 2016: 146.3 million.
the year ended 30 September 2017 will be shareholder in the Company with a holding 5.7 pence per share 2016: 5.2 pence per share, of 29.8%.
Alex Chesterman, Founder & Chief Acquisitions which represents a 40.4% pay-out ratio.
The number We continued our strong track record of shares held by institutional shareholders of successful M&A activity to help deliver has increased from 64.3% to 68.8% over Governance our mission: the past 12 months.
The Company continues There is an appropriate balance of skills, to build up a register of respected experience, independence and knowledge In November 2016, we acquired institutional shareholders.
This means that TechnicWeb, one of the UKs leading the Board is able to discharge its duties estate agency website design and Annual General Meeting and responsibilities effectively and can hosting businesses.
direct and lead the strategic direction The Companys next AGM will be held on In January 2017, we acquired Hometrack, of the Company.
The Board is committed 30 January 2018.
The resolutions at the AGM the UKs leading provider of residential to compliance with the UK Corporate will be conducted on a poll, as we believe property market insights and analytics.
Governance Code and full details of the that this method is the most inclusive, enabling work of the Board and its Committees the views of the widest number of shareholders In March 2017, we acquired ExpertAgent, during the year are set out in the Corporate to be taken into consideration.
The AGM is one of the UKs leading cloud-based estate Governance Report.
a great opportunity to meet the Board and I agent software solutions.
would like to encourage our shareholders to In September 2017, we acquired attend.
I will be at the AGM, along with the Board update Ravensworth, the UKs leading provider of other members of the Board, and look During the year, the Board reassessed on-demand print and creative marketing forward to seeing some of you there.
Grenville Turners independence and it was services to UK estate and letting agents.
agreed that since Grenville stepped down It has been an exceptionally busy and On 1 October 2017, following the end as the Chairman of Countrywide Plc, a exciting year for us.
Looking ahead, we will of the Period, we acquired Money, one customer and previously a major shareholder continue to focus on the execution of our of the UKs leading financial services in ZPG, in April 2016 and since Countrywide key strategies and to drive shareholder value.
ceased to be a shareholder of the Company On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank from September 2016 onwards, Grenville would everyone in the Company for their contribution be considered independent for the purposes and commitment over this past year.
It has been an exceptionally busy of the UK Corporate Governance Code and exciting year for us.
Looking from the conclusion of the Board meeting ahead, we will continue to focus in July 2017 onwards.
Further details of onthe execution of our key the Boards determination of Grenvilles independence are set out on page 52. strategies and to drive Mike Evans Therefore, at least half of the Board now shareholdervalue.
Chairman comprises Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Biographies of all members of the Board appear on pages 50 and 51. www.
