CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Welcome to our 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
This was a year of achievement in which we made further progress against our long-term strategy.
MARK WILLIAMSON Chairman We successfully delivered share gains in many of our priority We are proud to have a robust Corporate Responsibility markets following our decision to significantly increase Framework that sets out the priorities for our business, our investment in Growth and Specialist Brands in support of our people and our stakeholders.
The progress we have made drive for quality growth.
This has strengthened the business and against these priorities is set out on pages 29-32, with more enhanced our long-term growth potential.
detailed information available on our corporate website www.
com Our investments were focused on the markets that offer Imperial the best growth opportunities and were aligned with the rollout BOARD CHANGES of our Market Repeatable Model, which provides a structured In February Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Michael approach for generating growth across our geographic footprint.
Herlihy stepped down from the Board after completing nine years service and I would like to thank him for the contribution Our brand investments are being part-funded by a new phase he made to our success.
of cost optimisation, through which we continue to reduce complexity and improve our ways of working.
In June I was delighted to welcome Simon Langelier to the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Simon In Next Generation Products we continued to prioritise has tremendous international experience and is proving to e-vapour.
We have an exciting programme of initiatives planned be a strong addition to the business.
During a 30 year career for the coming year, which will substantially enhance our with Philip Morris International he held a number of senior e-vapour position.
commercial positions, including President of Next Generation Products & Adjacent Businesses.
As well as being a period of significant operational delivery, 2017 is the ninth consecutive year that we have delivered dividend The Board remains committed to ensuring that Imperial is growth of 10 per cent.
The Board is proposing a total dividend governed in the right way at all times.
Our Governance Report for the year of 170.7 pence per share and remains committed starts on page 33 and provides an overview of our governance to maintaining an annual 10 per cent growth rate over the framework, as well as the work of the Board and its Committees.
SUSTAINABLE SHAREHOLDER RETURNS OUR PEOPLE The investments we made in 2017 have delivered encouraging Our talented people work tirelessly, often in very challenging results, putting Imperial in a stronger position to deliver conditions, to bring our strategy to life.
Maintaining this momentum We have more than 30,000 employees and benefit enormously is a priority for us, as we continue to focus on driving the performance of our key tobacco brands and building our from the diverse nature of our global workforce.
My thanks to everyone for their continued hard work and commitment.
Significant growth opportunities lie ahead for the business and A RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS I believe we are well placed to be able to capitalise on these The responsible way we run our business is of paramount opportunities and create further value for shareholders.
importance to the Board and fundamental to our long-term sustainability.
MARK WILLIAMSON Chairman 2 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017
