Chairmans Statement Focused delivery Huge effort has been spent on ensuring that the Group will both comply with MiFID II and respond accordingly to the changes it heralds.
We have examined carefully the services we provide and over the next few months will continue to develop a broader offering.
In this context we launched the Brewin Portfolio Service.
This provides a cost effective service to clients who have smaller sums to invest.
Additionally, we delivered a new digital portal, MyBrewin, to allow clients improved access to their portfolios.
Clients and employees The bedrock of our business lies in the relationship between our people and our clients.
Last year we launched both an employee and a client satisfaction survey.
The employee engagement score, already above its peer group benchmark, isagain higher.
Our annual client survey also shows sustained high levels of client satisfaction with their adviser and the quality of advice and service.
The survey confirms the continued A highlight of the year was the increase in funds under importance of trust in the relationship with clients.
Both surveys management which grew by 13.3% to a record of indicate a sound business.
In part due to a strong stock market but also, Brewin Dolphin is a people business.
We continue to invest in and importantly, as a result of creditable investment talent and attract new people.
During the year there was a performance and a substantial inflow of new business.
concerted and successful drive across the Group to raise the Statutory profit before tax from continuing operations standard of employee development and training.
By way of increased by 15% to 57.6 million confirming Brewin Dolphins illustration, a Financial Planning Academy was set up to ensure position as one of the leading UK wealth managers.
a regular supply of well trained financial planners.
Sixteen The Board is proposing a final dividend of 10.75p per share, planners are currently being trained and another twelve will be to be paid on 7 February 2018 to shareholders on the register recruited during the year.
on 12 January 2018, the ex-dividend date is 11 January 2018.
Talent and dedication are to be found at all levels of the This will bring the total dividend for the year to 15.0p per share, organisation which is why I am proud to have been asked to an increase of 15.4% compared to the full year dividend for the sponsor a People Awards Scheme, to recognise outstanding 2016 financial year.
This reflects a payout ratio of dividends to individual performance.
The number and quality of nominations earnings of 77% and lies well within the Companys target ratio received confirms the depth of expertise throughout of 60% to 80%.
Changing environment Board We are entering a period of intense change in the wealth The Board is committed to delivering high standards of management sector, for which we are well positioned.
These corporate governance and embedding the right culture and changes are in part driven by regulation, in particular MiFID II, behaviour throughout the business.
This determines how we and in part by external factors including pricing pressure which interact with our clients, our employees, our shareholders, the has arisen particularly as a result of the exponential growth of communities in which we live, our regulators and all the parties US passive funds.
which we deal with on a regular or one-off basis.
MiFID II comes into effect in January 2018.
It is now embedded The Board consists of two Executive Directors, four Nonin European law and seeks to harmonise best practice across Executive Directors and me.
Angela Knight retired during the all the EU member states.
It is designed to give clients greater year and I have already paid fulsome tribute to her contribution.
transparency across the wealth management industry.
Over We concluded that we should recruit both a replacement for her time this will stimulate change in service and charging models.
Brewin Dolphin 14 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information and an additional Non-Executive Director.
This is a reflection of Annual General Meeting AGM the increasing workload placed upon the Board.
On This years AGM will be held on 2 February 2018 at 15 November 2017, Mike Kellards appointment to the Board 11:30 in Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield Street, was announced and will take effect from 1 December 2017.
London EC1A 9HQ, a few minutes walk from our head office.
We will continue to search for an additional Non-Executive Director Light refreshments will be held after the meeting.
I do hope you and use this as an opportunity to add to the Boards skillset.
If you are not able to do so, please write to me with any questions or comments you may have, and I will The day to day management of the Group is delegated to the ensure that you receive a timely response.
Executive Committee, chaired by David Nicol as Chief Executive.
The Board continues to work closely with the We endeavour to maintain a regular dialogue with our Executive team to offer support and challenge.
shareholders, large and small, and your views are always most welcome.
Further details can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Simon Miller Chairman 28 November 2017 Dividend history p 15.0 16 10.75 13.0 14 12.0 9.15 12 8.25 9.9 10 8.6 6.25 8 5.05 6 4 4.25 3.75 3.85 3.55 3.65 2 0 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 Interim Final Dividend policy The Companys dividend policy is to grow dividends in line The payout range has been adopted to provide sufficient with the Groups adjusted earnings: with a target payout ratio flexibility for the Board to remunerate shareholders for their of 60% to 80% of annual adjusted diluted earnings per share.
investment whilst recognising that there may be a requirement for capital retention within the Group.
The policy is intended to ensure that shareholders benefit from the growth of the Group and it aligns with the strategic See the Financial Review starting on page 30 for objective of growing our dividend.
The Board recognises the additional information importance of dividends to shareholders and the benefit of providing sustainable shareholder returns.
