Strategic report Chairmans review Focused on delivery Strategy and differentiation Our product leadership strategy, to become a world leader in valuecreation through high performance PEEK and PAEK polymer solutions, means developing new applications, new grades and product forms, including composites, and new markets alongside our core polymer offering.
As we have seen this year, our core polymer business continues toperform well in a competitive market.
Whilst our sales are largely derived from core polymer materials, we believe that Victrex's differentiated offering to customers is built on much more than just having the capacity to manufacture polymers.
Our technical service, application development capability, regulatory support, Research & Development and innovation credentials are key strengths which have served us well, and will continue to do so.
With structural megatrends around metal replacement, the opportunity to capture long-term growth within the PEEK and PAEK polymer markets remains sizeable.
Moving downstream into new Larry Pentz and selected semi-finished and finished products parts shows Chairman Victrex as not only a differentiated business, but as the pioneer ofthe high performance polymer market.
With a Polymer & Parts offering, we can further differentiate our business, operate as a With our strategy well embedded, genuine solutions provider for our customers, capture a higher valueshare from each application and deliver continued strong our focus is to deliver the burden of returns for our shareholders.
proof for our pipeline of growth programmes.
By building the supply Delivering our growth pipeline Our growth pipeline includes our core application developments chain and manufacturing capability and our mega-programmes, with each mega-programme offering either organically or through the potential for over 50m of annual revenue in its peak sales year.
partnership validating new Whilst we are mindful that driving full market adoption can take time, given these programmes and applications are largely applications with evidence and disruptive to incumbent metal or existing polymer technologies, working with partners, we will seek 2017 saw good progress in the early commercialisation of several mega-programmes.
In Automotive, our Gears mega-programme to commercialise new selected secured its first production agreement with a major European semi-finished and finished products manufacturer starting in 2018 and we also have some emerging alongside our core polymer offering.
opportunities in the electric vehicle area: in Aerospace we completed a joint venture, TxV Aero Composites, providing us with the capability to manufacture semi-finished parts: whilst in Medical, first meaningful revenue of 1m was secured for our innovative PEEK-OPTIMA HA Enhanced next generation Spine product.
Investment to support the `burden of proof and delivery of our growth pipeline continues.
This year we invested in our TxV Aero Composites joint venture, a 10m acquisition of Zyex PEEK fibres which complements our semi-finished products offering andcompleted our 10m Polymer Innovation Centre, to support our prototyping capability and the development of new differentiated polymer grades, including 3D printing opportunities.
Results I am pleased to report that 2017 was a good year for Victrex, withastrong performance in our core polymer business and steady progress in the early commercialisation of our mega-programmes.
The majority of our markets performed well, demonstrating the value of a balanced portfolio, with notably strong performances inAutomotive, Electronics, Value Added Resellers and Energy.
04 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Group revenue of 290.2m was 15% up on the prior year During the year we announced that David Hummel, our Chief Executive 2016:252.3m, including the benefit from currency.
since 1993, would be retiring in 2018, after nearly 25 successful years.
Dave has been instrumental in making Victrex what it is today, Group profit before tax of 111.0m 2016: 100.3m was up 11%, creating new markets and applications and growing sales by over agood performance which also reflects increased investment in the 10% on an annualised basis.
The Board is enormously grateful to front-end commercial, technical and marketing functions.
Earnings Dave for his contribution over many years and the Group remains per share of 116.4p 2016: 96.8p was up 20%, largely reflecting well placed for the years ahead.
He is working through a transition the associated benefit of a lower tax rate as part of Victrex filing with Jakob Sigurdsson, who joined us as Chief Executive on patents for our unique chemistry and IP which qualify for the UK 1October 2017.
Jakob brings over 20 years of experience in global governments Patent Box legislation, which encourages companies, including developing emerging markets.
I look forward investment in UK Research & Development.
toworking with Jakob as we focus on delivering our strategy.
InDecember we announced that our Group Finance Director, Cost efficiency to support investment for growth LouisaBurdett, will step down from the Board in 2018, after With an emerging proportion of our manufacturing being in the foursuccessful years.
Richard Armitage has been appointed as downstream parts area, we will continue to ensure our core polymer hersuccessor and will join Victrex in April 2018.
I would like to production operations are fit for purpose in a competitive market.
thank Louisa for her contribution to Victrex and welcome Richard With some resources transitioning from primary manufacturing core tothe team.
polymer into secondary manufacturing manufacturing of parts, Corporate governance at Victrex remains strong.
During the year we are also evaluating cost opportunities within our supply chain.
wealso announced an audit tender process to replace KPMG, Capital expenditure was 16.7m 2016: 25.9m and is expected ourauditor since 1993.
The outcome of the audit tender saw toremain similar over the short term.
 LLP `PwC appointed to the role.
Further detail can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 52 Innovation and technical excellence remain key differentiators and 53. forVictrex and our R&D expenditure of 14.5m 2016: 14.1m, or56% of Group revenue, compares favourably to peers.
Safety M&A and partnerships remain key options for Victrex in supporting Victrex again recorded no lost time accidents, a measure of our growth programmes.
Our strategy of Make versus Buy offers oursafety practices.
We also secured the Royal Society for the us the opportunity to develop assets or capability ourselves, or buy Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold award for the 20th year.
in this capability as we have done with Kleiss Gears, our TxV Aero Composites joint venture and the acquisition of Zyex.
Away from our manufacturing operations, we have an unwavering safety focus across our global teams, who continue to drive the market opportunities for our polymers, whether at commercial, Cash-generative business model marketing, technical or support services level.
With a highly cash-generative business model, our focus remains oninvestment for growth, whilst ensuring we can make appropriate returns.
Whilst investment in the business is the priority, with capital Sustainability expenditure set to remain at current levels for the medium term, Victrex has continued to make progress against its 2023 Vision andthe future benefit to cash from a lower tax rate as part of the timed to celebrate the 30th anniversary of Victrexs formation, UK governments Patent Box legislation, attractive opportunities although we will continue to monitor the practicality of several exist for incremental shareholder returns.
The Groups closing cash targets.
We anticipate becoming carbon neutral ahead of 2023, balance reached 120.1m this year 2016: 64.0m, with no debt.
thanks to the strength of our products in the Aerospace and Operating cash conversion was 124% 2016: 96%.
Automotive markets which support lightweighting, durability andfuel efficiency.
Several of our interim targets have now beencompleted ahead of schedule.
Further detail can be found Dividends inthe Sustainability report on pages 28 to 39.
The Boards capital allocation policy focuses on growth investment whether organic or through M&A first, whilst supporting a regular dividend and the potential of incremental returns for People shareholders via a special dividend.
This has been a good year for Victrex, despite competitive markets, and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank each and every With continued strong cash generation, the Board is proposing oneof Victrexs employees for their continued contribution.
Our regular dividend seeks to maintain cover at or around 2x and Outlook grow the regular dividend in line with earnings.
With earnings per Looking forward, we have started our new financial year with share up 20%, the Group is proposing to pay an ordinary dividend positivegrowth momentum.
Whilst Sterling has strengthened of 53.80p per share 2016: 46.82p, an increase of 15%.
Dividend overrecent months, currency is still supportive for the year ahead, cover is at 2.2x 2016: 2.1x.
The Board continues to believe the although not at the levels seen in 2017.
We remain focused on capital allocation policy is appropriate inensuring investment in driving growth, cost efficiency and making progress indelivering thebusiness is the priority whilst supporting opportunities for our Polymer & Parts strategy.
Governance and the Board Victrex has a strong Board, blending complementary skills and Larry Pentz experience to shape our future performance.
Our current female Chairman representation on the Board is 30%, consistent with the 5 December 2017 recommended minimum representation.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 05 MOVE DOWNSTREAM Strategic report Our business model 3.
C REATE & DELIVER Selected product forms u semi-finished Downstream manufacturing u 1.
DRIVE CORE BUSINESS Pipes, film andcomposites u PEEK and PAEK polymers u Core applications u No.
1 upstream u manufacturing capacity of7,150 tonnes nameplate capacity Cost efficiency u Quality u 2.
DIFFERENTIATE THROUGH INNOVATION Core application u development pipeline Invent and develop u newgrades  u DELIVERING THE Our operating model is focused on becoming an integrated solutions provider across Polymer & Parts.
To DRIVE CORE BUSINESS, we are focusedprincipally on cost efficiency in our PUSH CONCEPT & CAPABILITY manufacturing, continuous improvement in our operations, alongside technical service 1.
DIFFERENTIATE and great product quality for our customers.
THROUGHINNOVATION Cost efficiency By DIFFERENTIATING THROUGH u INNOVATION, we are investing in a PUSH Differentiation & market making u Continuous improvement u strategy towards commercialisation of R&D u Technical service specific applications and Victrexs capability u to deliver them.
This includes through Qualified value proposition u Application development u application development, technical service, Polymer Innovation u R&D and prototyping new polymer grades Centre:prototyping or semi-finished products.
06 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report AEROSPACE AUTOMOTIVE FUTURE VALUE Selected components u semi-finished and finished MEDICAL Downstream manufacturing u 1 Deliver mega-programmes u ENERGY Polymer to parts u ELECTRONICS 4.
UNDERPIN MANUFACTURING Safe and sustainable business & ENGINEERING u Future capacity solutions u Talent strategy u BURDEN OF PROOF 1 Pipeline programmes offering 50m annual revenue potential in peak sales year.
To CREATE & DELIVER FUTURE VALUE, PULL EVIDENCE & VALIDATION we invest in aPULL approach, where we look to create pull through from the market by building the necessary downstream 3.
UNDERPIN manufacturing capacity and by acquiring FUTURE VALUE Safe and sustainable business u any necessary know-how or technology Make and or Buy.
We seek to gain advocacy Build downstream u Future capacity solutions u on our technology or products from Key manufacturing capability Talent strategy u Opinion Leaders, and by working with Make and or Buy u partners to drive adoption and delivery in the market.
We characterise this as delivering Capital expenditure u the Burden of Proof for our downstream M&A JVs, partnerships u semi-finished and finished products.
Finally, weUNDERPIN our operating model Drive adoption: Key Opinion u through a safe and sustainable business.
Leaders and market access Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 07 FROM POLYMER TO PARTS
