Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report on a year that has seen the Company take great strides in defining and implementing its future strategy whilst continuing to deliver excellent financial returns for our shareholders.
The transition from our former external manager is complete and we now have operating and governance structures in place that give the executive team the ability to manage the delivery of our strategy, with full accountability to the Board.
Following the second phase of our strategic review, we have been able to add more clarity around the future capital deployment and corporate structure of the Company, focused on optimising investment returns.
We will make continued progress in the coming year and look forward with confidence to working with the management teams of our portfolio companies to deliver continued shareholder value.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Edward Bramson for his commitment and dedication during his tenure as interim CEO and look forward to continuing to work with him in his Non-Executive role from March.
Overview The period since my first statement as Chairman in last years Annual Report has been one of significant positive change for the Company, whilst we have continued to deliver returns to shareholders well in excess of our FTSE 250 benchmark.
With the transition of management functions from the former third-party provider to our executive team with effect from 1st June 2017, the Board now has an appropriate level of control over the strategy and management of the Company.
Since gaining direct access to the Companys investments for the first time in June 2017, we have conducted the anticipated review of our portfolio and announced the conclusions on 23rd October 2017.
The portfolio simplification is now virtually complete and will allow us to focus on our existing corporate investments.
The Company is also considering the migration from a closed-ended investment trust to a corporate structure in due course.
Our Total Shareholder Return in the year was 21%, well ahead of the FTSE 250 at 14%, and including the third Special Dividend announced on 23rd October 2017 we have returned 1.8 billion to shareholders since 1st October 2016.
Strategic Review Phase II The outcome of the first phase of the strategic review, announced in October 2016, confirmed the Boards intention to proceed with the termination of the Management and Investment Guideline Agreement MIG with Electra Partners now renamed Epiris LLP or Epiris.
The Companys executive team completed the internalisation of management in June 2017.
This transition to a cost-effective structure appropriate for the nature of the business is already realising material cost savings, and has facilitated the implementation of a robust corporate governance structure to support the Companys future direction.
2 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 On gaining access to our portfolio companies in June 2017, the Board conducted the second phase of its strategic review comprising an evaluation of the investment portfolio, the corporate structure and the capital allocation policy of the Company.
The findings of this process were announced on 23rd October 2017.
The Board considered current market conditions to be unsuitable for new investments and in line with its policy of returning excess cash to shareholders, a third Special Dividend of 350 million, or 914p per share, was announced.
In prioritising existing corporate investments, the Company expects to make further non-core realisations.
The Board will consider the appropriate utilisation of excess cash proceeds based on the circumstances at that time.
The strategic review also confirmed the Boards view that a listed closed-ended fund structure is not optimal for private equity investment and as such the Company is engaging with the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA to consider reclassification as a corporate group.
Shareholders will be given the opportunity to vote on the implementation of the Boards recommendations in due course.
Further details are in the Strategic Report on pages 5 to 10.
Board Changes In the year under review we completed the restructuring of the Non-Executive Board with the appointment of Linda Wilding on 1st December 2016 and of John McAdam, who joined on 1st January 2017 as Senior Independent Director.
We also welcomed our Chief Financial Officer, Gavin Manson to the Board with effect from 23rd March 2017.
With the Board having been in place for close to a year, I am delighted with the progress that has been made.
The executive team that has been established is proving to be highly effective in meeting the needs of the Board and of the Company in a cost effective way.
With our strategic review complete, we are now in the implementation phase of our strategy.
As such with effect from our Annual General Meeting in March, and following shareholder consultation, Edward Bramson will step back into his prior Non-Executive role and I will assume the role of Executive Chairman.
In addition, Gavin Manson will take on certain executive activities previously conducted by Edward.
Investment Policy and Activity Through the combination of historically high market multiples and the substantial amount of private equity capital currently waiting to be deployed globally, the Board considers that market conditions are not conducive to significant numbers of attractive new investment opportunities.
As such, investment activity in the short term is likely to be focused on the existing portfolio, as reflected by a 35 million additional investment made in TGI Fridays during the period.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 3 Further Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategic and Business Review Remuneration Policy At our Annual General Meeting in March 2017, shareholders approved our first remuneration policy that allowed Executive Directors to be remunerated for their services.
This policy pages 91 to 97 remains in force, however the Remuneration Committee is reviewing the policy in light of the outcome of our strategic review and the changes of responsibilities mentioned above.
It is our intention to put an updated policy to the Annual General Meeting in 2018.
Balance Sheet The balance sheet of the Company continues to be strong and appropriate for its activities.
As at 30th September 2017 and before payment of a third Special Dividend of 350 million, the Company held cash of 54 million and money market fund investments of 380 million.
Dividends Due to the exceptional level of special dividends paid to shareholders over the past 12 months, the Board has elected not to pay an ordinary dividend for the year ended 30th September 2017.
Outlook With our strategy defined and the resources required for implementation in place, we can look forward with confidence to working with the management teams of our portfolio companies to deliver shareholder value.
Neil Johnson Chairman 6th December 2017 4 Electra Private Equity PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
