04 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Group revenue of 15.4bn was 15% ahead of last year and adjusted operating profit of 1,363m was 22% ahead.
Given the economic and currency uncertainties a year ago, these results demonstrate the benefit of our international diversity and the EXCELLENT PROGRESS strong underlying performance of our businesses.
I am therefore very pleased to report excellent progress THIS YEAR WITH this year with adjusted earnings per share up 20% to 127.1 pence.
Gross investment was again significant this year at 945m.
This comprised ADJUSTED EARNINGS 866m of capital expenditure and operating intangible assets, driven by a higher level of investment by Primark PER SHARE UP 20% with expenditure in all its countries of operation, and 79m on business acquisitions.
This year we delivered a CHARLES SINCLAIR, CHAIRMAN particularly impressive cash flow which emphasises the groups ability to convert profitability into cash.
We also realised proceeds, net of costs and tax, of over 500m from two business disposals.
Together these resulted in last years net debt of 315m becoming a net cash balance of 673m this year end.
As anticipated, we delivered a strong recovery in sugar profits this year.
This was a consequence of the recent structural changes made to AB Sugar, the considerable benefit derived from performance improvement over a number of years and an increase in EU sugar prices.
Moving to full ownership of Illovo last year has proved to be a positive step with an increase in profit which benefited from an acceleration of its commercial development and performance improvement.
We believe that we are well placed to take advantage of the removal of sugar quotas in the EU arising from the reform of the sugar regime, and to meet the challenges including the recent fall in EU sugar prices.
Further cost reduction drove the continued recovery of the yeast and bakery ingredients business while excellence in execution was the driver of the strong performance from speciality ingredients.
Together they increased adjusted operating profit by 34% this year.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 05 Good progress was made by Twinings Remuneration We are a responsible business Ovaltine, ACH in the US and George As noted in the Remuneration report Weston Foods in Australia, but Grocery we revised our remuneration policy results were held back by the trading last year to align it more closely with environment faced by the UK bakeries.
In particular, Since the year end we have completed an additional earnings per share the acquisition of Acetum S. p. A. measure was introduced into the long a producer of high-quality balsamic term incentive plan that is designed vinegar from Modena, Italy.
We look to take into account volatility in world forward to the opportunity of developing and European sugar prices.
Although further this fine business, using incentive payments under this additional our existing capability in selling and measure will not arise until 2019, marketing speciality foods internationally.
the changes in sugar prices seen over recent months support this decision.
Primark has the potential for significant The board WWW.
CO. UK RESPONSIBILITY growth and this was demonstrated We are announcing today that Tim Clarke again this year by its opening of a will retire as a director with effect from net 30 stores and 1.5 million sq ft of Dividends 30 November 2017, after 13 years on selling space across nine countries.
I am pleased to report that a final the board.
Tims extensive experience The Primark management team dividend of 29.65p is proposed, to be paid in retailing and his wise counsel over also had further success in mitigating on 12 January 2018 to shareholders on the years have been of immeasurable currency headwinds, they delivered the register on 15 December 2017. value and we are very grateful for his on-trend fashion and their stores have Together with the interim dividend substantial contribution.
His tenure never looked better.
We look forward of 11.35p paid on 7 July 2017, this will did not diminish his independence at to further growth in the coming year.
make a total of 41.0p for the year, any time.
Two business disposals took place at the beginning of the financial year.
Javier Ferrn has completed more Outlook In November 2016 the sale of our US than nine years service as a director Primarks selling space expansion herbs and spices operation significantly of the Company and, in accordance with will continue and with margins in line reduced the complexity of ACH and the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the current year we expect an facilitated a reduction in overhead.
the rest of the board must now confirm increase in Retail profit.
Progress is In December 2016 we sold our cane his independence annually.
This having expected from Grocery, Agriculture and sugar operations in south China to a been done, we are delighted that Javier Ingredients.
In Sugar, higher volumes party better placed to drive its further has agreed to continue as a member and lower costs will only partially development.
We are proud of the of the board and, with Tims retirement, mitigate the effect of much lower transformation in agricultural productivity, to take on the responsibilities of Senior EU prices.
sugar yields and factory efficiencies Independent Director.
At current exchange rates we expect that we achieved over our 20 years of We have recently announced the no material transactional or translational ownership.
We realised a pre-tax profit appointment of Michael McLintock as a effect on profit.
of 293m from these two disposals non-executive director of the Company with little impact on the groups Taking all of these factors into account, with effect from 1 November 2017. trading profit.
at this early stage, we expect progress Michael is currently a trustee of the in adjusted operating profit and adjusted Corporate responsibility Grosvenor Estate and a non-executive earnings per share for the group for the Our group has grown and evolved director of Grosvenor Group.
considerably since its formation in chief executive of M&G Investments 1935 and a great deal has changed, from 1997 until his retirement in 2016. but the essence of what we do has He became a member of the Audit Charles Sinclair remained a constant.
Operating ethically and Remuneration committees Chairman is a core value at the heart of our group on appointment.
and our intention has always been to Employees do the right thing for our people and Our 133,000 colleagues in 50 countries the wider community, believing contribute to the success of the group that we achieve this by feeding and and I would like to thank them for clothing millions of people every day.
everything they bring to their businesses.
Our approach to ensuring that this is It is their innovation, entrepreneurial sustained is described in our Corporate skill, drive and ambition that enable Responsibility Report which has us to grow and develop, and through been updated this year.
A copy of the their collaboration, build a network that update is available for download at makes the whole so much greater www.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
