Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 07 Chairmans statement This performance would not bepossible without the ongoing commitment and hard work of our employees across our stores, distribution centres andhead offices.
Henry Staunton Chairman It is with great pleasure in this, our 225th CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance remains an important area of focus for anniversary year, that I report another year of the Board and underpins the sustainability of our business and strong performance to 31 August 2017.
We have the achievement of our strategy.
A more detailed explanation seen a good sales performance across our Travel of our approach to corporate governance can be found in our businesses both in the UK and internationally, Corporate governance report on pages 30 to 56. driven by our key initiatives and growth in passenger numbers, some strong performances from recently CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY opened stores in international locations: and a High During the year, we have continued our focus on managing those Street performance equal to the particularly strong social and environmental issues which are most material to our business and to our stakeholders.
Our workstreams cover a result from last year.
wide range of issues from ethical trade and sustainable forestry to mental health awareness and diversity.
In this, our 225th The distinct strategies of our Travel and High Street anniversary year, we wanted to make a lasting difference to businesses continue to be successful in driving charities which our employees care about.
Our teams across the profit and creating shareholder value.
The Group has business have been undertaking a number of activities as they grown its profit again with Group profit before tax work together to reach our 2m fundraising target.
It has been a increasing by seven per cent to 140m.
fantastic year so far, bringing the business together in a shared objective, and we hope that our three charity partners, Cancer The Group remains highly cash generative delivering Research UK, Mind and the National Literacy Trust, will see a free cash flow of 105m.
the benefits for many years to come.
Further information on all aspects of our CR programmes can be found on pages 25 to 27.
We remain focused on profitable growth, cash generation and creating value for shareholders, PEOPLE while investing for future growth.
This performance would not be possible without the ongoing commitment and hard work of our employees across our stores, distribution centres and head offices.
I would like to thank each and every individual for their ongoing support.
OUTLOOK While the economic environment remains uncertain, we believe we are well positioned for the year ahead and we remain focused on the distinct strategies of each of our businesses in order to maximise the contribution from both and best deliver value for shareholders.
Henry Staunton 1 F ree cash flow is cash generated from operating activities adjusted for capital Chairman expenditure, repayments to HMRC see Notes to the financial statements Note 9, page82, pension funding and net interest paid.
See Group cash flow statement on page67, Note 22 to the financial statements, Cash generated from operating activities 12 October 2017 onpage 90 and Glossary on page 105 for an explanation of the Groups alternative performance measures.
