Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 6 Chairmans Statement Close Brothers takes a highly differentiated approach to banking, focused on consistent and sustainable performance through the cycle, supported by the prudent and disciplined management of both our lending and market-facing businesses.
Since joining the company I have been thoroughly impressed by the commitment and expertise of our management team and employees, the quality of service they deliver to our customers, and the strength and depth of relationships with clients andintermediaries.
We have a clear strategy to protect, improve and extend this successful model, and I look forward to working with the board and management team to ensure that we continue to deliver value to our clients, employees and shareholders in years to come.
Good Performance and DividendGrowth Mike Biggs, Chairman In 2017 we delivered another good performance, with statutory and adjusted operating profit both up 13% year on year.
All of our businesses have performed well: the Banking division achieved a 9% increase in operating Building deep profit, with continued strong returns across all three operating segments.
Winterflood and Asset Management both achieved higher full-year profits, supported by favourable financial Relationships marketconditions.
We are pleased to propose a final dividend of 40.0p per share.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM, this will take the full-year dividend per As the new chairman of the board, I am delighted to share to 60.0p, an increase of 5% on last introduce this years Annual Report, in what has been year.
This is in line with our progressive dividend policy, which aims to grow the another successful year for Close Brothers.
dividend year on year whilst maintaining a prudent level of dividend cover, and builds on our long track record of sustainable dividend growth.
Board Changes and Succession In May, Strone Macpherson retired after 13 years as a director, of which the last nine were as chairman.
The group has made considerable progress during this period, and on behalf of the board I want to thank Strone for his very significant contribution over many years.
We have also seen the successful transition of leadership within the Banking division, following the retirement of Stephen Hodges after over 30 years with Close Brothers.
Strategic Report Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2017 7 This has demonstrated the effectiveness of our succession planning, particularly in ensuring that we maintain our deeply embedded culture and business model 60.0p through any transition.
Dividend per share We continue to run a number of programmes to recruit and develop talent, and ensure robust succession We also note increasing caution on the plans are in place for the senior outlook for the UK economy and credit management team and other key markets from regulators and other rolesthroughout the organisation.
I am confident that CloseBrothers disciplined and long In the last year we have also reviewed established model leaves us well our executive Remuneration Policy to positioned to manage a range of different ensure that it continues to promote market conditions, and to make the most adherence to our successful model of any opportunities which may arise.
overthe long-term, and the proposed changes will be subject to shareholder I look forward to being part of the groups approval at the forthcoming AGM.
next stage of development, and continuing to build on our strong franchise Well Placed in an Evolving Market and track record for the long-term.
As a financial services institution, regulation is an ever present factor in our markets.
Lastly, I would like to thank all our Close Brothers has historically taken a employees for their hard work and prudent approach to managing its commitment.
Through their expertise, business and its regulatory responsibilities, dedication and relentless customer focus which together with a deeply embedded we continue to deliver both excellent client client focus has allowed us to navigate a service and strong financial performance, changing regulatory environment without and remain well positioned for the future.
significant impact on our business.
Nonetheless, managing regulatory and operational change, in particular evolving Michael N. Biggs capital regulations, remains an ongoing Chairman area of focus.
26 September 2017 Photographed on location at Castle Air Ltd.
