Chairmans statement DELIVERING RESULTS FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS The Company has made significant investments innew sales, services andtechnical resource overthe past two years.
Performance Shareholder returns I am pleased to report strong financial results from Softcat Our dividend policy remains a progressive one which targets in 2017 against a background of mixed performance in an annual dividend of between 40% and 50% of the Companys theIT reseller market.
Growth in gross profit, our primary profits after tax in each financial year before any exceptional measure of income, was 12.9% to 136.3m and adjusted items.
Subject to any cash requirements for ongoing investment, operating profit increased by 10.1% to reach 51.5m.
the Board will consider returning excess cash to Revenue growth was especially strong at 23.8% with shareholders over time.
software, hardware and services all delivering double-digit We recommend a final dividend of 6.1p, taking the total growth.
The Company has made significant investments dividend to 9p per ordinary share.
In addition, we recommend innew sales, services and technical resource over the a special dividend of 13.5p per ordinary share is paid at past two years and the return on those investments is thesame time as the final dividend.
Shareholders will be evident in our performance.
More information on how we asked to approve the final and special dividends at the performed can be found in the Chief Executives Statement AGM on 8 December 2017. and Financial Review on pages 7 to 10 and 22 to 23.
Looking ahead Board People and succession planning will remain one of the Boards We announced in May 2017 that our Chief Executive, key priorities, alongside the development of strategy and its Martin Hellawell, had decided to step down once his execution.
Much of our focus will be on supporting the successor is inplace.
Since the announcement, the leadership team through the next chapter of growth for the Nomination Committee has been focussed on finding benefit of our customers, employees andshareholders.
asuccessor with the appropriate energy and passion to drive the Company through its next stage of development.
Notwithstanding the uncertainties surrounding Brexit, The search is progressing and, once his successor is thebusiness is in a confident mood and its relentless inplace, the Board intends to appoint Martin as Non-Executive focus on customer service and employee engagement Chairman at which time I will retire from the Board.
I am provides good grounds for optimism going forward.
confident that these plans will ensure a very orderly Our success this year would not have been possible transition in due course.
Details of the search are set out without the passion and commitment of our outstanding onpage 43. employees.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank I would like to thank Martin for the exemplary leadership everyone across the Company for their contribution in role he has played in driving the business forward over the making this a successful year for Softcat.
I have always past eleven years.
Softcat has achieved exceptional growth found our people to be committed, positive and dedicated during Martins tenure.
The start of Martins tenure as Chairman to our customers.
Each and every one shows huge pride will open a new chapter and I am very confident that the inworking for this unique business, and I would like Company will perform strongly in the years ahead.
The toextend our gratitude to them all.
Boards focus will be on supporting both Martin and the new Chief Executive in their new roles for the benefit of the Company and shareholders alike.
Formy own part, it has been a privilege to chair Softcat through its IPO in 2015.
Brian Wallace Chairman 18 October 2017 4 Softcat plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
