Strategic Report Chairmans Statement For the foreseeable future, and assuming the opportunity for growth I would like to place remains unchanged, Bellway will on record the Boards continue to re-invest earnings into financially attractive land opportunities gratitude to all those who and maintain a dividend coverof around three times earnings.
have contributed to this The compounding effect of additional outstanding performance.
NAV and dividend growth will facilitate further long-term value creation for shareholders.
John Watson Executive Chairman Board changes As previously announced, Jason financial and operational capacity Honeyman was appointed to the Introduction to capitalise on these investment Board as Chief Operating Officer on The Group, comprising nineteen opportunities.
Whilst the skills shortage 1 September 2017.
Jason commenced trading divisions, has delivered another facing the entire construction sector is employment with Bellway in January excellent set of results, surpassing a moderator to the industrys overall 2005 as Managing Director of the the records set last year in respect of ability to deliver growth, it is not Thames Gateway division, becoming volume, operating margin and profit.
preventing Bellway from continuing to Southern Regional Chairman in Earnings per share has risen by 12.7% increase its output of new homes.
Given the strong market conditions, the Jason has considerable experience Board continues to see the opportunity in the housebuilding sector, having At the same time as achieving these for disciplined volume growth, with overseen the successful management outstanding results and adding further a focus on RoCE, as providing a of our southern divisions since 2011. value for shareholders, Bellway remains significant opportunity to add value Given the expansion of the Group, committed to growing the business for shareholders.
his appointment to this new role adds in a safe, responsible and sustainable further strength to the operational manner.
In doing so, the Group has management team and will support A long-term approach to increased its contribution to the supply the delivery of the ongoing, disciplined of much needed new homes whilst creating shareholder value growth strategy.
upholding high standards in both The Board believes value generation is customer care and health and safety.
In addition to Jasons appointment, best evaluated through capital growth, I have temporarily taken the position in the form of increased net asset value Bellway has invested significantly in of Executive Chairman during Ted per share NAV, together with the land, maintaining its rigorous and Ayres period of absence from the payment of a regular dividend.
disciplined investment criteria and with organisation due to illness.
a strong balance sheet and focus on Measured over a medium-term, in operational delivery, I am confident that the three years from 31 July 2014, the People and supply chain the Group is well positioned to deliver strategy has resulted in total growth in further growth, this year and beyond.
A responsible and long-term approach value of 925.5p per share, comprising to managing the business is enabling NAV growth of 667.0p per share Bellway to increase the number of and cumulative dividend payments Strong market parameters homes sold, whilst maintaining a focus of 258.5p per share.
This represents support the growth strategy on both build quality and customer an annualised accounting return of The parameters supporting growth care.
It is the hard work, dedication 22.3% relative to the 31 July 2014 NAV are strong as there continues to be and efforts of both those who work for, of 1,118p per share.
an imbalance between the supply and with Bellway that has enabled the and demand for high quality new For the year ended 31 July 2017, the Group to do this, whilst also achieving homes.
Interest rates are low, with the strong trading performance has this record set of results.
I would like to Bank of England base rate reducing resulted in NAV rising by 17.3% to place on record the Boards gratitude to 0.25% at the start of the year, 1,785p 2016 1,522p.
Furthermore, to all those who have contributed to ensuring that financing a new home the growth in earnings has enabled this outstanding performance.
The availability of the Board to recommend a 14.2% sustainable mortgage finance is also increase in the final dividend to 84.5p good, supported by a responsible per share 2016 74.0p, increasing the John Watson lending environment and the proposed total dividend for the year by Executive Chairman governments Help to Buy scheme.
If approved, the total dividend will be 16 October 2017 The land market remains attractive, covered by earnings three times 2016 providing good quality opportunities three times.
at attractive rates of return and the planning environment is generally favourable.
Bellway has both the 04 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
