Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 C H AI R MANS S T A T EM EN T W E A R E CR E AT IN G A NE W F U T UR E F O R S MI T H S O NE W HI CH CR E AT E S MO R E VA LUE F O R O UR S H A R E H O L D E R S A ND MO R E O P P O R T UNI T IE S F O R O UR EMP L O Y EE S. SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY CHAIRMAN 10 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 company is trickling away like a while the rates of decline may be a little As individuals or as companies, melting ice cube in the hot sun.
slower than in electronics markets, we can either create the future or they are nevertheless there.
Second, we can be visited by it and who The rate at which this decay or attrition great companies grow faster than the is to say that if we just wait for it, happens can be surprisingly high, markets they serve and, as a result, whether well like that future visit depending on the type of end market they steadily build market share when it arrives?
So clearly, there is no each year.
It also implies that their way to succeed in the competitive new product vitality index is high.
Its clear from the challenging experiences game by simply standing still.
The only High performance companies also have of many great companies in recent years, way to overcome this natural attrition strong levels of employee satisfaction that unless we prepare properly for the problem is by continually replacing and customer satisfaction: they have future, the one we want probably wont be the core business with new products, best-in-class margins, and attractive there when we need it.
It reminds me of new customers, new technologies and and stable returns on capital investment.
the old saying the best time to replace new markets.
If a company wants to They are also inclusive of all-comers the roof is when the sun is shining.
grow faster than the market, it has to creative talent needs to come from make this replacement at a rate which everywhere and they are places with Choosing our future well exceeds the natural rate of core a good employer brand where able There are, in fact, many possible attrition.
While this may seem to be an people want to work.
These companies futures that can be created for a obvious statement, youd be surprised also have good Environmental, company.
So its far better that its by how few companies recognise this Social and Governance scores.
one we intentionally design ourselves, problem and address it head on.
We rather than an accidental one we may will not make that mistake at Smiths.
In broad brush strokes, this is the not like when it arrives.
Thats the kind of company and new future we fundamental job we have to do as a So what do we want our company future are determined to build.
We have not leadership team and as a Board, ie to to look like?
First, we can observe that changed or deviated from this mission create a new sustainable and viable all great companies are innovative one bit since I became the Chairman future for Smiths, one which creates companies.
A company cannot beat of Smiths, though Im proud to say that more value for our shareholders and entrenched competition, and certainly under the dynamic leadership of our more opportunities for our employees.
cannot beat aggressive new market Chief Executive Andy Reynolds Smith By design, it will be one which is much entrants, unless its innovative.
and his team, we are now executing better than if we had simply waited at the Operational excellence clearly has against this mission much faster.
bus-stop of opportunity for something a big part to play in a companys serendipitous or not to come along.
competitiveness, although there is Creating new value no amount of process excellence that In terms of new financial value creation, A fact which is rarely acknowledged can ever adequately substitute for companies have only five levers they by observers is that the core of every a healthy dose of innovation.
Nor is can pull to improve shareholder value company is slowly dying.
This includes there an adequate substitute offered creation.
Higher sales growth, margin even the most modern companies in productivity initiatives alone.
As the expansion, improved working capital such as those focusing on software, saying goes, you cant save your way turns, lower taxation rates and an social media and the internet.
We can see this most improving P E multiple.
For most clearly in electronics and software mature industrial companies, with their The core of every company is being companies where the market, product typical underlying characteristics of constantly attacked by competition, and technology changes are easily high margin and lower sales growth, by end-of-life technology, product the fastest.
But exactly the same the best method of creating new value substitution, regulation and gradual attrition phenomena happens for all stakeholders in the company is to cannibalisation, and also by changing to industrial companies, consumer drive higher levels of profitable organic customer preferences and performance packaged goods companies, healthcare, growth.
Achieving a point of sales growth expectations.
The core of every transportation, energy and food.
So usually exceeds the value creation of a point of margin improvement by several multiples.
Plus, there are natural limits to profit margin that the laboratory of NO MAT TER WHAT life teaches us are possible.
If margins THE COMPANY DOES, go too high, customers complain and IT WILL ALWAYS BE even greater competition is enticed into your market.
A strategy of only WORLD-CL A SS TALENT improving margin eventually runs WHICH IS THE out of runway.
NOTHING IN THE We have scope for higher levels of growth at Smiths Group along with huge COMPANY E VER GE TS opportunities for improving our working DONE E XCEPT capital efficiency.
Here and there, we also THROUGH PEOPLE.
have opportunities for margin expansion in some of our businesses particularly in Smiths Medical.
So this essentially 11 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 C HAI R MANS S TAT E M E N T C O N T I N U E D INVESTMENT IN NEW PRODUCT THE WONDERFUL THING D E V EL O P M EN T ABOUT GROW TH AND INNOVATION IS THAT ITS AN E VERYBODY 150M WINS STR ATEGY.
INVESTORS WIN WITH BE T TER RE TURNS, EMPLOYEES WIN WITH GRE ATER CAREER NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES O P P O R T U NI T IE S, SUPPLIERS WIN WITH HIGHER VOLUME AND c. 22,000 CUSTOMERS WIN WITH BE T TER PRODUCTS.
is the nub of the Groups strategic plan.
Adapting for change all forms of contraband detection at A balanced combination of operational What might that new future look like for border crossings and inspection points.
excellence and high levels of organic Smiths?
If we think carefully, much of The same opportunities apply to medical growth, driven mostly by innovation.
the general direction of technology and businesses.
People are living longer Here and there, we may yet trim the customer preferences can be forecast.
and that part of the world we refer to as portfolio in those places where we feel The details no, but the generalities yes.
higher-growth markets are demanding we cant create the kind of value-creating So another element of a companys better healthcare, better education and growth profile and company we want.
profile is that it must be a learning communications, cleaner air and water, company and be agile and adaptable to higher levels of food safety, better cars An everybody wins strategy changing circumstances.
For change, and better housing among others.
The Yes, we will certainly continue to these circumstances certainly will.
For three large disease states of cancer, use acquisitions as an accelerant to example, theres no reason to believe heart disease and diabetes can, and will, growth, but in todays market of high that border crossing and airport security be improved by medical science and we purchase prices for companies, we will challenges will become easier in the will play our part in that.
Energy needs, be selective and thoughtful about how future than they are today.
So executed  feedstocks to do this.
We still have a mission of properly, this will be a great business and electronics-oriented products will achieving sensible returns on investment to be in long term.
But more and more continue to be huge features of our daily well above our cost of capital.
advanced detection technologies will life, in fact, ever more so.
So this puts our need to be developed, expanding from John Crane and Interconnect businesses Acquisitions can bring many positive sophisticated explosives detection to front and central in this new world.
things and some negative ones if a company isnt careful, but done properly, one thing acquisitions always do is to bring speed of execution of the strategic plan.
The wonderful thing we can B O A R D C HAN G E S observe about growth and innovation is that its an everybody wins strategy.
We were delighted to welcome Noel Tata to the Board in January 2017 Investors win with better returns, as an additional non-executive director and member of our Audit, employees win with greater career Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
We welcome Noels opportunities, suppliers win with higher extensive experience and expertise in higher-growth economies such volume and customers win with better as Asia and Africa.
As I have said on previous occasions, the ability to products.
We have lots of opportunity manage change is a good indicator of a business resilience.
Following too for improvements in working capital Chris OShea stepping down from his role as Chief Financial Officer in turns and again, like growth, this is May, we were pleased that my Board colleague and Audit Committee already on the docket of things being Chairman Bill Seeger agreed to step into the Chief Financial Officer done to substantially improve the Group.
role on an interim basis while we seek a permanent replacement.
We were also delighted that non-executive director Mark Seligman agreed to take on the Chair of the Audit Committee.
12 STRA TEGIC REPORT Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Higher growth market focus automation, robotics, linked intelligent I know from past experience that if self-diagnosing and self-correcting we continue down this innovation We have decided to build a much stronger focus on growing in these higher growth devices will be features of our daily pathway the growth will come, lives.
All companies need to be better additional value will be created and regions.
Arithmetically, if our portfolio had the same percentage of sales in prepared for the challenges of cyber a much happier and better Group.
security, since many of these devices these regions as do our peers, our organic growth rate would be about 100 are going to be connected to the Internet Id like to thank all of our investors and communicate with us and with for believing in us.
It will work basis points higher than it is today.
Thats a missed value creation opportunity each other.
We can either prepare Im sure of it and ultimately all for this future or be run over by it.
of us will be the beneficiaries.
To help address this, weve assigned a top Smiths The solution to all creative problems leader, Roland Carter, to that task, with SIR GEORGE BUCKLEY operational control of Asia Pacific.
requires a blend of optimism, curiosity, CHAIRMAN imagination and relentless execution.
When I moved to live in the United The optimism is needed to believe that something can be done, imagination is States in 1978, one of the first projects I worked on was electric vehicles and required to create it, and curiosity is required to identify it when its finished the fundamental architecture of the drive system was more or less identical and lastly, relentless execution is needed to achieve it.
These factors then to what we see in electric vehicles today.
Yet it is only in recent times that will increasingly become features of our company culture.
No matter what they had become commercially viable.
There is no question that electric the company does, it will always be world-class talent which is the greatest vehicles, autonomous driving, artificial intelligence, robotics, advanced need.
Nothing in the company ever gets done except through people.
materials and nanotechnologies will all have their increasing place in this Repositioning our portfolio new world.
Energy storage devices, electrostatic as well as galvanic, will In terms of progress along this pathway, the past year has seen steady execution see big changes.
However, sometimes we have to temper our enthusiasm towards building a vibrant and fastergrowing Smiths, reminiscent of the about the rate at which these things will be adopted, but gradually adopted high-growth innovative company which existed around a half a century or more they will be.
To this end, in FY2017 weve made one major acquisition in the detection Possibly the greatest impact inside the Group will come from that fastest business, Morpho Detection, and trimmed the companys portfolio by moving area of technology, ie electronics and the internet, with its underlying, selling four other non-core pieces of the portfolio where the chance to drive sensing, algorithmic, computational and software elements.
Those will have strong growth seemed less obvious.
This has resulted in the Group being about tremendous effects on virtually every product we make over the next 10 years.
the same size as it was a year ago, but with much better growth prospects.
We Embracing the digital future are investing in new product platforms everywhere and as these products are Smiths is making significant upfront investments in digital, including in released to market, they will accelerate IF WE CONTINUE our growth and competitiveness.
centres of excellence in the US and DOWN THIS Europe, to make sure we are properly INNOVATION PATHWAY Weve also made improvements in our prepared to respond to this emerging opportunity.
These technological use of working capital, with a 85m THE GROW TH WILL reduction this past year.
Much more has ideas are altering the way people think COME, ADDITIONAL about the products they buy, about yet to be done here.
We made excellent VALUE WILL BE progress in our pension plan and in marketing, communications, healthy C R E AT E D eating, entertainment, transportation getting the kind of leadership we need in key places around the Group.
In a not-too-distant future, virtually all products and their components far as innovation is concerned, theres always a longer lead time than wed will be tracked and traced and like before we see the green shoots.
