CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Financial performance I am pleased to report a year of progress for the company, with record sales, profit and earnings per share before exceptional items.
The company was founded in 1979 and this is the 34th year since incorporation in 1983.
The table below outlines some key aspects of our performance during that period.
Since our flotation in 1992, earnings per share before exceptional items have grown by an average of 15.5% per annum and free cash flow per share by an average of 16.6%.
Where appropriate, the earnings per share EPS, as disclosed in the 3.
The weighted average number of shares, EPS and free cash flow per statutory accounts, have been recalculated to take account of share splits, share include those shares held in trust for employee share schemes.
the issue of new shares and capitalisation issues.
Before 2005, the accounts were prepared under UKGAAP.
Free cash flow per share excludes dividends paid which were included All accounts from 2005 to date have been prepared under IFRS.
in the free cash flow calculations in the annual report and accounts for the years 19952000.
2 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Like-for-like sales increased by 4.0% 2016: 3.4%, Free cash flow, after an outflow of 58.6m on with total sales of 1,660.8m, an increase of 4.1% existing pubs 2016: 33.5m, 10.4m in respect of 2016: 5.4%.
Like-for-like bar sales increased share purchases for employees 2016: 6.9m and by 3.1% 2016: 3.3%, food sales by 5.7% payments of tax and interest, increased by 17.4m 2016: 3.5% and slot fruit machine sales decreased to 107.9m 2016: 90.5m.
The increase resulted by 1.2% 2016: decreased by 2.2%.
Like-for-like from a working capital inflow of 11.2m in the year hotel room sales increased by 9.9% 2016: 9.7% compared with an outflow of 9.6m in 2016.
Free although they continue to be a small percentage cash flow per share was 97.0p 2016: 76.7p.
Dividends and return of capital Operating profit before exceptional items The board proposes, subject to shareholders increased by 17.1% to 128.5m 2016: 109.7m.
approval, to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per share The operating margin, before exceptional items, 2016: 8.0p per share, on 30 November 2017, to increased to 7.7% 2016: 6.9%.
The overall those shareholders on the register on 27 October performance was helped by improved sales, 2017, giving a total dividend for the year of 12.0p lower utility and interest costs, and the sale of some per share 2016: 12.0p per share.
These factors helped to counter is covered 4.2 times 2016: 3.6 times.
cost increases in labour of 4.5%, as well as in other areas, including repairs and taxes.
In view of the high level of capital expenditure and the potential for advantageous investments, Profit before tax and exceptional items increased the board has decided to maintain the dividend by 27.6% to 102.8m 2016: 80.6m, with a at its current level for the time being.
contribution from property profits of 2.8m 2016: 5.3m.
Earnings per share including During the year, 4,656,300 shares representing shares held in trust by the employee share 4.1% of the issued share capital were purchased scheme, before exceptional items, were 69.2p by the company for cancellation, at a total cost of 2016: 48.3p.
43.9m, including stamp duty, representing an average cost per share of 943p.
Net interest was covered 4.6 times by operating profit before interest, tax and exceptional items Over the last 11 years, my shareholding has 2016: 3.3 times.
Total capital investment was increased from 21.2% to 31.7%, as a result of 187.5m in the period 2016: 124.8m, with the companys share buybacks.
As with last year, 46.9m invested in new pubs and extensions to the company is again considering seeking a rule 9 existing pubs 2016: 55.2m, 65.9m on existing whitewash, under UK City Code on Takeover and pubs and IT infrastructure 2016: 33.5m and Mergers, allowing further buybacks.
88.6m on the acquisition of freehold reversions, pubs where Wetherspoon was already a tenant Financing 2016: 36.1m.
The capital expenditure numbers As at 30 July 2017, the companys total net debt, differ slightly from the cash outflows, owing to including bank borrowings and finance leases, changes in working capital.
but excluding derivatives, was 696.3m 2016: 650.8m, an increase of 45.5m.
which have led to the increase in debt are These included an 18.4m loss on disposal and an expenditure on new pubs and extensions of 40.3m, impairment charge of 8.4m for closed sites, expenditure on existing pubs of 58.6m, the underperforming pubs and onerous leases.
acquisition of freeholds of 88.6m, share buybacks During the year, the company received 0.4m in of 28.4m excluding 15.5m in respect of shares compensation in respect of a transfer of interest-rate purchased at the end of the financial year and swaps between two financial institutions, which has settled post year-end and dividend payments been treated as an exceptional item.
Year-end net-debt-to-EBITDA was 3.39 times 2016: 3.47 times.
In addition, there were 5.5m of exceptional tax credits, mainly as a result of a reduction in the UK As at 30 July 2017, the company had 163.9m average corporation tax rate, which has the effect of 2016: 189.6m of unutilised banking facilities and creating an exceptional tax credit for future years.
cash balances, with total facilities of 860.0m The total cash effect of these exceptional items 2016: 840.0m.
The companys existing resulted in a cash inflow of 12.2m, owing to the interest-rate swap arrangements remain in place.
It is anticipated that interest costs in the current year will be approximately the same as those of last year.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Corporation tax This equates to an average payment per pub of The overall tax charge including deferred tax and 768,400 per annum or 14,500 per week.
excluding the one-off benefit of the tax rate change on profit before exceptional items is 25.1% 2016: 2017 2016 29.4%.
This fall is due mainly to a decrease in the m m deferred tax liability, resulting from accelerated 323.4 VAT 311.7 capital allowances on fixed-asset expenditure.
Alcohol duty 167.2 164.4 PAYE and NIC 96.2 95.1 VAT equality Business rates 53.0 50.2 As we have previously stated, we believe that pubs 20.7 Corporation tax 19.9 are taxed excessively and that the government Machine duty 10.5 11.0 would generate more tax revenue and jobs, if it 9.7 Climate change levy 8.7 were to create tax equality among supermarkets, Stamp duty 5.1 2.6 pubs and restaurants.
Supermarkets pay virtually Carbon tax 3.4 3.6 no VAT in respect of food sales, whereas pubs pay Landfill tax 2.5 2.2 20%.
This has enabled supermarkets to subsidise 2.1 Fuel duty 2.1 the price of alcoholic drinks, widening the price gap Premise licence and TV licences 0.8 0.8 between the on and off trade, to the detriment of Total tax 694.6 672.3 pubs and restaurants.
Pre-exceptional profit after tax 77.0 56.9 Tax per pub 000 768.4 705.0 Pubs have lost 50% of their beer sales to Tax as % of sales 41.8% 42.1% supermarkets since the 1970s as VAT has climbed from 8% to 20%.
Profit after tax as % of sales 4.6% 3.6% It makes no sense for the government to treat Corporate governance supermarkets more leniently than pubs, since pubs Last year, this statement contained a summary of generate far more jobs per pint or meal than criticisms of corporate governance guidelines.
supermarkets do, as well as far higher levels of tax.
Similar views have been expressed in Pubs also make an important contribution to Wetherspoons annual reports for several years and the social life of many communities and create there have been almost no objections or dissent better visibility and control of consumers of from shareholders, or other interested parties.
As it stands today, one danger of these faulty The campaign for tax equality with supermarkets guidelines is that many quoted businesses have no has particular significance for MPs and residents of board directors who were present in the company less affluent areas, since the tax differential is more during the last financial crisis an undesirable and important there.
Where people can less afford to dangerous state of affairs.
pay the difference in prices between the on and off trade, there are fewer pubs, coffee shops Its a people thing and restaurants, with a corresponding reduction As in previous years, the company has tried to in employment and an increase in improve as many areas of the business as possible, high-street dereliction.
on a week-to-week basis, invariably in mundane areas of our operations.
This concentration on the The government is actively considering ideas for nuts and bolts is far more important than issues generating jobs and economic activity, especially in such as strategy, with which most boards are areas outside the affluent south of the country preoccupied.
Frequent calls on pubs by senior VAT equality, as the trade organisations BBPA and executives, the encouragement of ideas and ALMR have demonstrated, is a very efficient and criticisms from pub staff and customers, and the sensible method of helping to achieve these involvement of pub and area managers, among objectives.
Tax equality also accords with the others, in weekly decisions, are the keys to success.
underlying principle of fairness in applying taxes An example of the success of this approach is that to different businesses.
we have 818 pubs rated on the Food Standards Agencys website.
The average score is 4.89, with Contribution to the economy 91.8% of the pubs achieving a top rating of five and Wetherspoon is proud to pay its share of tax and, 6.2% receiving a rating of four.
We believe this to be in this respect, is a major contributor to the the highest average rating for any substantial pub economy.
In the year under review, we paid total company.
In the separate Scottish scheme, which taxes of 694.6m, an increase of 22.3m, compared records either a pass or a fail, all of our 66 pubs with the previous year, which equates to have passed.
4 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Property litigation We continue to emphasise the importance of training.
For some years, we have run a three-week As previously reported, Wetherspoon agreed on catering academy for kitchen managers, with 1,371 an out-of-court settlement with developer people having completed these courses.
We have Anthony Lyons, formerly of property leisure agent recently started a similar academy for cellar and Davis Coffer Lyons, in 2013, and received coffee training, so that we can improve quality in approximately 1.25m from Mr Lyons.
The payment relates to litigation in which We paid 43.7m to employees in the year in respect Wetherspoon claimed that Mr Lyons had been an of bonuses and free shares, an increase of 10.7m accessory to frauds committed by Wetherspoons compared with the previous year, of which 96% was former retained agent Van fide Berg and its directors paid to staff below board level and 74% was paid to Christian Braun, George Aldridge and Richard staff working in our pubs.
Mr Lyons denied the claim and the litigation was contested.
The company has been recognised as a Top Employer UK 2017 for the 14th consecutive The claim related to properties in Portsmouth, year.
The Top Employers Institute said: Leytonstone and Newbury.
The Portsmouth property was involved in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg Our comprehensive independent research case itself.
revealed that J D Wetherspoon provides exceptional employee conditions, nurtures and In that case, Mr Justice Peter Smith found that develops talent throughout all levels of the Van fide Berg, but not Mr Lyons who was not a party organisation and has demonstrated its leadership to the case, fraudulently diverted the freehold from status in the HR environment, always striving Wetherspoon to Moorstown Properties Limited, a to optimise its employment practices and to company owned by Simon Conway.
leased the premises to Wetherspoon.
Wetherspoon is still a leaseholder of this property a pub called In the field of charity, thanks to the generosity and The Isambard Kingdom Brunel.
work of our dedicated customers, pub and headoffice teams, we continue to raise record amounts of The properties in Leytonstone and Newbury money for CLIC Sargent, supporting young cancer the other properties in the case against Mr Lyons patients and their families.
In the last year, we were not pleaded in the 2008 9 Van fide Berg case.
raised approximately 1.8m, bringing the total Leytonstone was leased to Wetherspoon and trades raised to over 14m more than any other today as The Walnut Tree public house.
Newbury corporate partner has raised for this charity.
was leased to Pelican plc and became Caf Rouge.
Property As we have also reported, the company agreed to The company opened 10 pubs during the year, settle its final claim in this series of cases and with 41 closed, resulting in a trading estate of accepted 400,000 from property investor Jason 895 pubs at the financial year end.
Harris, formerly of First London and now of First Urban Group.
Wetherspoon alleged that Harris was The average development cost for a new pub an accessory to frauds committed by Van fide Berg.
excluding the cost of freeholds was 2.3m, Harris contested the claim and has not compared with 2.5m a year ago.
The full-year admitted liability depreciation charge was 73.9m 2016: 72.2m.
We currently intend to open about 1015 pubs Before the conclusion of the above cases, in the year ending July 2018.
Wetherspoon also agreed on a settlement with Paul Ferrari, of London estate agent Ferrari Dewe We have sold, or terminated the leases of, & Co, in respect of properties referred to as the 76 pubs, in the last 2 years, at a loss Ferrari Five by Mr Justice Peter Smith.
of approximately 45m, including previously reported impairments.
Some mistakes are inevitable Current trading and outlook in site selection, but we hope to learn from these Most PLCs are expected to comment, in their experiences, in order to try to avoid similar mistakes results' statements, on the UK's prospects outside in the future.
of the EU and on the likely impact on their individual companies.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 5 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT It is my view that the main risk from the current Since the year end, Wetherspoons like-for-like Brexit negotiations is not to Wetherspoon, but to sales have continued to be encouraging and have our excellent EU suppliers and to EU economies.
This is a positive start, but is for a few weeks only and is very unlikely to continue As the public instinctively understands, but few for the rest of the year.
Comparisons will become academics, economists, boardrooms and City more stretching and sales, which were very strong institutions grasp, democracy is the strongest in the summer holidays, are likely to return to more economic steroid hence the astonishing rise of modest levels.
It is anticipated that like-for-like sales countries like Japan, Singapore and South Korea, of around 34% will be required in order to match after its adoption.
A fascinating insight into the last years profit before tax.
We will provide updates thought processes of many pro-Remain elites as we progress through the year.
We currently can be found in an article in The Spectator anticipate a trading outcome for the current financial appendix 2 below by Professor Robert Tombs year in line with our expectations.
In the current negotiations,  politicians from the UK are dealing with unelected Tim Martin oligarchs from the EU.
Since the oligarchs are Chairman not subject to judgement at the ballot box, their 14 September 2017 approach is dictated by more sectarian factors the interests and ideology of EU apparatchiks like them, rather than residents or businesses from EU countries.
As a result of their current posturing and threats, EU negotiators are inevitably encouraging importers like Wetherspoon to look elsewhere for supplies.
This process is unlikely to have adverse effects on the UK economy, as companies will be able to switch to suppliers representing the 93% of the worlds population which is not in the EU, but this evolution will eventually be highly damaging to the economy of the EU.
Wetherspoon is extremely confident that it can switch from EU suppliers, if required, although we would be very reluctant to initiate such actions.
It is my view that Juncker, Barnier, Selmayr, Verhofstadt and others need to take a wise-up pill in order to avoid causing further economic damage to struggling economies like Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy where youth unemployment, in particular, is at epidemic levels.
There seems to be little genuine appetite for a freetrade deal from the Brussels bureaucracy, so EU companies are, paradoxically, reliant on the goodwill of UK consumers, who are likely to prefer tariff-free goods in the future from non-EU countries, which are generally in favour of free trade, rather than deals with companies which are subject to the diktat of those who wish to punish the UK.
I have written an article dealing with several issues related to Brexit, which can be found in the latest edition of Wetherspoon News and is included below in appendix 1.
6 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Appendix 1 Tims Viewpoint, Wetherspoon powers over interest rates, budgets and taxation to News, autumn 2017 unelected bureaucrats.
Or perhaps autocrats is a better word.
Charlie Munger, a partner of the worlds Democracy is the key to prosperity and freedom greatest investor, Warren Buffet, may have an answer.
Mungers view, which explains the often Do economists at the CBI, The Times and the FT idiotic behaviour of financial markets, is that model themselves on Edmund Blackadder, asks intelligent people suffer from extremely poor Tim Martin judgement when they become ideological, whether through religion or other deep beliefs.
And, for some In the last edition of Wetherspoon News, I quoted people, the EU is a semi-religious project.
Gillian Cambridge professor Simon Baron-Cohen, who Tett, a Financial Times journalist, reached a similar correctly said that each example of the erosion of conclusion in trying to assess why so many in the democracy leads to an even greater erosion of tightknit circle of business, media and academia got human rights.
it so badly wrong over the euro.
Groupthink was her explanation, which is perhaps not too different Like the great majority of Oxbridge graduates from Mungers analysis.
albeit with many notable exceptions the professor is an ardent EU supporter, even so.
He appears, Referendum subconsciously, to exempt the undemocratic EU Leaving aside these theories, the fact is that the UK from criticism.
I also quoted Financial Times voted to leave the EU in the referendum, article 50 journalist Edward Luce, who criticised the last two was triggered by an overwhelming majority of MPs American presidents for failing to support the and 85 per cent of MPs were recently elected on the democracy promoting creed in their conduct of basis of manifestos which accepted the referendum foreign relations.
However, the gloom and disruption of the diehard Remainers in the media, parliament and Unelected boardrooms have reached epidemic proportions.
Yet the Financial Times fails to apply the same The CBI, representing big British business, is one of criteria to the EU, with its unelected presidents, its the worst offenders.
Its boss, Carolyn were all court which is not subject to democratic control and doomed Fairbairn, set the tone with her its pseudoparliament, whose MPs cannot even Blackadder-style warning, before the referendum, initiate legislation.
In a previous edition of that a dark cloud of uncertainty is looming over Wetherspoon News, we quoted in full a Financial global growth particularly around the outcome of Times article by Peter Mandelson, which appeared the EU referendum.
Closet Remainer David Smith shortly after the referendum.
The article explained of the Sunday Times is not to be outdone in that Mandelson, Cameron and Osborne, the apocalyptic prose: Slower growth has been staring architects of the Remain campaign, Oxbridge us in the face since sterlings post-referendum graduates all, decided not to deal directly with plunge guaranteed a squeeze on household real questions about issues such as the absence of incomes and a cloud of renewed uncertainty democracy in the EU.
Instead, when asked, they descended on business.
Well, David, it hasnt decided to avoid the question by pivoting to the descended on our business, nor on most economy, with support from discredited businesses, from what I can tell.
organisations such as the IMF, the OECD, the Treasury and their ilk.
This blindness to, or evasion Economy of, the EUs evident democratic shortfalls recalled Since the referendum, the economy has generated the strange events of Britains debate about the a stunning 300,000 new jobs, employment is at its euro 15 years or so ago.
highest ever level, the stock market has risen by around 20 per cent and household incomes, as at Overwhelming the end of the first quarter of this year, were at a Then, the Financial Times the CBI, most record high.
The Financial Times is the epicentre of boardrooms, the majority of MPs, Blair, Mandelson, gloom.
The first sentence of a July editorial reads: Heseltine, Clarke and the overwhelming majority of The uncertainty surrounding Brexit means the UK economists, supported the UKs euro application economy is set on a journey with no compass.
with religious fervour, even though its predecessor, Surely, this was written by Edmund Blackadder.
If the Exchange Rate Mechanism, had caused the editor of the FT is Blackadder, Baldrick is the economic mayhem only a few years before.
The FTs economist Martin Wolf, who darkly prophesied same paradox was evident then.
The most highly that Britain is incapable of managing Brexit and educated lent support to a currency which lacked a calamity will follow.
Not to be outdone, the Remainbasic ingredient: a government.
The new currency could only work by transferring normal democratic J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT supporting Times is full of predictions of doom and Wetherspoon News, we have included a section despair.
The doyen of doomsters is Matthew Parris, from pages 50 to 58 with four articles from optimistic a former conservative MP.
In a bleak and doomBrexiteers and four from gloomy Remainers.
Once laden article on his return from holidays, he said: I youve digested their views, you can make up your left Spain feeling ashamed to be British.
I returned own mind as to how well do.
I think democracy is to England ashamed to be a conservative.
Stroll the key to prosperity and freedom, and a lot of the on, Matthew.
The sun will other points which have been made are hogwash.
still rise in the east tomorrow morning.
Perhaps the But you can decide.
Indeed, in a democracy, you most comic aspect of gloomy media reports on WILL decide.
Brexit negotiations is the constant reference to cliffedges.
A recent edition of the FT had more examples of cliff-edges than the Cornish coastal path.
Tim Martin Phenomena Similar phenomena occurred during the battle to save the country from the euro.
In almost every debate I had during that period, euro proponents said the euro train is leaving the station and the UK is not on it or intoned similar metaphors.
When critics start talking of cliff-edges and compasses, it usually means that rational arguments are running short.
The most melodramatic recent requests have come from business organisations like the CBI and the Institute of Directors.
They want the government to clarify and publish its objectives in the current EU negotiations.
The obvious problem with this approach is that manifesting a clear desire for a particular outcome will result in the EU upping the price or vetoing the proposal.
Necessity never made a good bargain, as Benjamin Franklin said.
People like Carolyn Fairbairn, and the majority of economists, who insist on a deal are, in effect, sabotaging the UKs negotiating position.
As Mervyn King, the former governor of the Bank of England, has recently pointed out: If youre going to have any success in this negotiation, you need to have a fallback position which the other side understands and thinks is credible.
Its not the first choice, but we have to have an option, otherwise the other side wont listen.
This ought to be something people can agree on whether they voted for Brexit or not.
Mr King understands that the government needs to be able to say: Were happy to agree a free trade deal, if the European negotiators are agreeable, but we are more than happy to trade using World Trade Organisation rules, if we cant agree.
Successfully Thats the basis on which we trade successfully with 93 per cent of the world which is not in the EU.
Our most successful engineer, James Dyson, adopts a similar approach to Mervyn Kings and states that relying on WTO rules would be no big deal.
In any event, as we did in the pre-referendum edition of 8 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Appendix 2 Cambridge University professor, In the context of the Brexit debate, the conclusions Robert Tombs, writing in The Spectator, says: are that the EU, our largest market, is our economic crutch: and that outside the EU club The myth of Britains decline our feeble power and influence will dwindle to insignificance.
We will be comparable, declinists Our glory days are not over theyre in full scoff, to Albania or North Korea.
swing The belief in economic decline is a mixture of On the anniversary of Britain voting to leave the illusion and misunderstanding.
Britain has been European Union, the Principal of Hertford College, relatively wealthy at least since the Middle Ages, Oxford, found some words to sum it up.
An entire and industrial pioneers gave us a temporary society crucified by the delusional ambitions of dominance in manufacturing during the mid 19th Brexiteers chasing moonshine, wrote Will Hutton.
This was a brief and unique episode.
One might agree or Naturally, other countries adopted British technology disagree with his position on the European Union, helped by British capital and expertise and but has British society really committed suicide?
This was desirable, as well as Its a theme we have heard rather a lot recently: natural, because it provided richer markets for that Britain is a mess, an international laughing British goods and services and valuable investment stock, leader-less and futureless.
The case is opportunities for British savers.
Since the 1880s, pessimists have always tended Rapid shocks terrorism, the surprising election to compare British economic performance at any result, the Grenfell Tower disaster have inspired moment with those most rapidly catching up.
When forebodings just as the Brexit negotiations are postwar European integration began in the 1950s, beginning.
This is not just the cry of shell-shocked Italy, France and Germany were the most Tories or traumatised Remainers: it goes deeper.
spectacular catchers-up, recovering from their Were seeing the revival of an old and familiar wartime devastation and shifting their large and malady: declinism, a periodic fear that the nation relatively unproductive agricultural sectors into has declined and is declining from some earlier time industry.
This gave temporary windfall growth that of strength, cohesion and success.
Declinism is a Britain could not equal, having no large agricultural syndrome: it assumes a combination of moral, sector to modernise.
But an uncritical comparison of political and economic failures.
Britain suffered a growth rates was mistaken for evidence of British bout of it in the 1880s when German competition economic failure.
As early as 1953, an official report in manufactured goods was first felt.
It came back warned of relegation of the UK to the second in the 1960s and 1970s, coloured by economic division.
This was the prime cause of our desperate worries, rapid decolonisation and a perception of pleas to join the Common Market in the 1960s and dwindling power and influence in every field.
1970s: Britain was the sinking Titanic, as one of Edward Heaths advisors put it, and Europe Today, it has re-emerged as a core anti-Brexit the lifeboat.
With a familiar mixture of despair from the right and glee from the left, we are being told Ironically, just as Britain joined in the early 1970s, that we must eschew nostalgia and post-imperial European catching-up ended, and so did its delusions, and wake up to reality as a small seemingly superior economic prowess.
In short, offshore island, while the big strong powers of the Britains long-term economic decline in relation to European Union put us in our place, leaving us a Europe never happened.
Supporters of the EU stark choice between accepting the terms they nevertheless still maintain that membership rescued dictate or facing economic and political disaster.
the British economy in the 1970s and remains vital Some germ of declinism has been bred into all of to shoring it up today.
Who would deny that Britain is no longer the great power it once was?
Well, speaking as a In fact, British economic performance was never historian, I would.
Declinism is at best a distortion of significantly affected by EU membership.
Growth did reality, and mostly mere illusion.
But so important is not increase after joining the Common Market, it in shaping our view of ourselves and our relations essentially because trade was diverted from other with the world that it demands sceptical scrutiny.
It markets to Europe just as Europes own postwar rests, above all, on two assumptions.
First, that we growth went into long-term deceleration.
Despite the have long been failing economically.
Second, that hopes and political efforts expended on creating the we have suffered a loss of sheer power and hence single market not least by Margaret Thatcher, it influence in the world.
has not proved very successful in increasing internal EU trade, and has never been fully extended into services, Britains main strength.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 9 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Due to both the greater dynamism of global markets It was constantly worried by threats from France, and the problems of the EU itself, Britains trade Russia, Germany and even the USA to its economy, with Europe has been declining sharply in its empire and its home islands.
This was predicted to continue even if Britain had stayed in the EU.
Britain is more secure from major recent overdue depreciation of an overvalued pound external threat than for half a millennium.
Taking a will provide some stimulus to our exports both inside long view say the last three centuries it remains and outside Europe, whatever the nature of the what it always has been one of the half-dozen or post-Brexit deal, and would more than compensate so strongest states in the world, and one of the most for possible tariffs.
global in its attachments, its vision, and its trade.
Within this leading group of states, Britain has not Over the long term, membership or not of the EU declined but has actually advanced, being now has made no discernible difference to our economic more powerful than its ancient rivals France, performance.
Britains increase in prosperity growth Germany and Russia.
The Cambridge international in per capita GDP using purchasing power parity relations specialist Brendan Simms puts Britain has almost exactly kept pace with that of the United even higher.
Taking into account economic and States ever since 1945, whether outside or inside military potential, population, soft power, diplomatic Europe.
The belief that leaving the EU must mean influence, political resilience and self-determination, long-term economic decline therefore has no he judges it the worlds third great power after the rational basis, just as the economic reports USA and China, and Europes only truly predicting that a vote for Brexit would mean independent force.
immediate financial misery had no rational basis either.
Power is also based on intangibles such as selfconfidence, a clear strategy and determination, and The second element of declinism concerns the loss here we may be lacking.
Russia, with an economy of sheer power and importance in the world.
This the same size as Spains, behaves like a seems as obvious to the stoutest Tory as to the superpower in the Middle East and is treated as most mocking Guardianista.
But we fear we cannot even negotiate a himself was haunted by it.
Yet this too is largely, mutually beneficial trade agreement with the EU.
if not wholly, an illusion based on comparing a At least as much as by age and education, our pessimistic view of our current state whenever that attitudes seem to be determined by the division might be probably any time since the 1890s with between confidence and self-doubt.
a highly inflated view of past power: usually the High Victorian age, or else round about the time of the Declinism has always been a form of insularity, battle of El Alamein.
obsessed with Britains failings, but ignorant of those elsewhere.
Today, unemployment is lower The story of Britain being on a long slide to here than among most of our neighbours.
Crime is irrelevance always revolves round decolonisation.
We have evident Its quite true that the British empire is one with problems too.
But to see only weaknesses, and to Nineveh and Tyre but so are all the other diagnose them as part of a syndrome of decline, is empires.
No state has replaced Britain as the great to cling to a distorted view of the world and of our global imperial power: empires are no longer place within it.
At worst, this undermines our possible or desirable, as Britain realised in the position, and risks bringing about the very 1960s.
Though a source of prestige and of constant outcome it fears.
trouble a millstone round our necks, said Disraeli, its doubtful whether the empire was a Brexit was a vote of confidence in our ability to source of wealth or power to Britain.
Overall, it cost shape our future as an independent democratic more than it brought in, especially after Britain nation a choice that few of our European turned to universal free trade in the 1840s, neighbours feel they still have.
We should not allow and colonies ceased to be an exclusive declinist panics to confuse the outcome.
The empires power was used up in defending itself: it was, as one historian aptly puts it, a brontosaurus Robert Tombs, Cambridge University professor with huge, vulnerable limbs which the central The Spectator 8 July 2017 nervous system had little capacity to protect, direct or control.
Throughout its imperial heyday, Britain had naval power, but on land was no match for Europes great powers or even its smaller ones.
10 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
