Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information... generating long term value for all our stakeholders We have thirty years of experience operating in UK public transport markets.
we have developed valuable skills, knowledge and expertise, building strength through this experience.
Delivering shared value for all our stakeholders is fundamental to Go-Aheads vision: a world where every journey is taken care of.
We deliver value through our core strengths: Strong financial profile Effective leadership and committed people Robust balance sheet with low levels of debt Strong leadership is key to our success Committed to dividend policy Focused on employee engagement Efficient operator with tightly managed cost base We invest in our people and empower them Read about our financial position and performance on page 22 todeliverchange Read about our people on page 36 Established position in UK bus and rail markets Experienced operator and bidder Leading the way in sustainability, innovation Largest operator in London bus market andtransparency Stable presence in strong south east regional First transport group to achieve Carbon Trust busmarkets tripleaccreditation Contributing to improving air quality Operator of the UKs busiest rail franchises Read about our markets on page 10 First bus company outside London to introduce latest model 2 contactless payments International development First FTSE 350 to achieve the Fair Tax Mark Significant opportunities in new and existing markets Read our case study about contactless payments on page 24 Five international contracts won to date Working in partnership Disciplined approach to bidding within clear riskframework We place great importance in our relationships and adopta collaborative approach with local communities, Read about our international development on page 5 the government and strategic partners in developing andoperating services which create long term value for Customer-focused in our local markets allstakeholders Devolved structure with largely autonomous businessunits Read our overview of GTR on page 20 Local management to respond quickly and flexibly to Robust risk management customers need Continually identify, assess and prioritise risks to the Read about our three UK markets on page 4 business through robust risk management and internal control systems At the heart of our communities Read about our approach to risk on page 40 Play a key role in the communities we serve and understand our local markets Supporting local economies by enabling access to work, education, leisure and retail Read about key markets trends on page 10 Read about our stakeholder relationships on pages 6 and 62 www.
com 1 CHAIRMANS LETTER We believe in building a business that creates value for all our stakeholders Dear Shareholder, These are times of significant change for theworlds transport industries.
Technology, thepolitical landscape and environmental factors are constantly presenting new opportunities andchallenges in the bus andrail markets.
At Go-Ahead, we are committed to being atthe forefront of these developments.
We aimto make the best possible use of new technology and new working practices to provide long term benefit for our passengers, transport authority clients, communities andinvestors, while continuing to meet our obligations as a major taxpayer and large-scale employer.
Modernisation of equipment must result in modernisation of working practices.
This inevitably creates disruption at times and it isregrettable that industrial action onGTRs Southern rail network resulted in significant delays and cancellations to services during the period, adversely affecting passengers.
Although the situation improved in the second half of the year as industrial action reduced, service levels still fell short of our and our customers expectations.
We remain Doing the right thing for our customers committed to delivering improvements that will create long term benefits for passengers.
has always been a core part of who we are and drives our thinking as we make More information on GTR see page 20 improvements across the business.
While continuing difficulties at Southern Andrew Allner, havenegatively impacted shareholder Chairman returns, strong financial performance in ourother franchises has enabled us to deliver value through the rail division.
In the year, our rail businesses contributed 77.6m to the Government, enablingfurther investment in infrastructure to support a more resilient rail network for the future.
The enactment of the Bus Services Act during the year focused attention on the 6.5% benefits that partnership working can bringto communities.
While it is too early toknowthe extent of the opportunities and Full year dividend up challenges the Act will bring, it has already highlighted the need for private sector investment to maintain and improve busnetworks and fleets in the future.
2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Over the last three decades, Go-Ahead has In accordance with our succession plan, Our strategy welcomed employees from around the world.
Nick Horler will retire from the Board at the The evolution of our strategy, to protect Our diverse workforce not only reflects our 2017 AGM after seven years on Go-Aheads andgrow our core business, win new bus customer base but also ensures the Board.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to and rail contracts and develop for the future appropriate pool of people to fulfil our thank Nick for the valuable contribution he of transport, has refocused the Group on five recruitment needs.
It is important that we has made to the Group: he has brought great key themes through which all our companies strive to protect the rights of all our people expertise and experience to the Board, and will deliver change.
and secure adequate resource for our Ihave very much enjoyed working with him.
More information on page 14 I look forward to welcoming two new Board At Go-Ahead, we believe in taking care members in the coming months.
Harry Holt Following the disappointing decision by ofourpeople.
As well as providing good and Leanne Wood, who will join the Board in theDepartment for Transport DfT in August working conditions and fair pay, we invest October 2017, will ensure we have the right 2017 to award the West Midlands franchise inpeoplestraining, development and balance of skills and experience to take the toanother operator, our UK rail strategy is wellbeing.
Improud of our Investors in business forward, creating greater diversity focused on restoring service and value to People accreditations across the business, of thought and approach.
GTR and delivering attractive and value particularly in the four companies which More information on page 74 enhancing bids to operate future haveachieved the highest possible status.
This year, inflationary pay increases were As we explore new ways of delivering our awarded across the Group and wecontinue Our purpose and contribution to support the Voluntary Living Wage.
We services, we also continue to explore new In this, Go-Aheads thirtieth year, Im proud to markets.
Our international development is believe pay should be closely linked to lead the Board of a business that has performance and our remuneration policies progressing well with new contracts being enabled three decades of passenger won and introduced during the year in three reflect this.
In light of the severe disruption journeys: connecting people with friends, faced by Southern customers in the year, international markets.
This good progress family, work and leisure activities.
has led us to introduce a five-year target for both the Chief Executive, David Brown, andGroup Chief Financial Officer, 15% to 20% of Group profit to be generated Over the last year, weve made progress in from international operations.
PatrickButcher, have requested that the evolving our strategy, shaping our culture remuneration committee does not consider and preparing for the future challenges Our strategy is designed to deliver value to them for an annual performance-related facing us and our wider industry.
A good all stakeholders, including our shareholders.
This will be the second consecutive public transport system is essential to Reflecting your Boards commitment to the year in which David has declined an support a growing economy and a thriving dividend and our confidence in the outlook annual bonus.
As one of the largest operators of for the Group, we propose a final dividend public transport in the UK, we play an increase of 6.5%, in line with the rise in important role, providing a vital service for Your Board interim dividend, resulting in a full year our communities, through the people we dividend of 102.08p.
Just as its important for our organisation to employ and the taxes we pay.
Partnership adapt to change and continuously improve, Your Board has a clear capital allocation working in all areas of our business is critical itis equally crucial for your Board to do the policy for the Group, which aims to support to our success and the wider success of the same.
In line with our commitment to good existing businesses, expand in targeted industry: improvement and change cannot corporate governance, the Board undertakes markets, reserve against risk and make bedelivered single-handedly.
an annual evaluation aiming to enhance appropriate returns to shareholders.
This year, as an alternative policy is supported by the strength of our More information on page 12 tothe more traditional Board effectiveness balance sheet and stable profits in our review and aligned to the Groups culture bus division.
Our Group has a clear and important change programme, we undertook a purpose.
We believe in doing business in comprehensive Board development theright way, behaving ethically and creating Our people and culture programme, which enabled us to build value beyond financial return for all our uponthe Boards strengths, support our On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank stakeholders.
I believe that these values, succession planning strategy and improve all of our 29,000 colleagues who work hard along with Go-Aheads strong financial the Boards effectiveness.
Having undertaken every day, sometimes under challenging grounding and track record of operational this process, the Board has committed to circumstances, to bring us ever closer to delivery, support our position as a leading retaining its focus on three core areas in the achieving our vision: a world where every provider of public transport now and in coming year: resolving the issues at GTR, journey is taken care of.
developing our strategy for sustainable On my regular visits to businesses around growth and improving the culture of the the Group, I am always impressed by the Group.
I believe strongly in the importance commitment demonstrated by colleagues to ofthe Boards role within an organisation, improve services for our passengers.
demonstrating the beliefs and attitudes in With each visit, I see more examples of itsapproach to leadership.
Go-Aheads beliefs and attitudes being Andrew Allner, brought to life in peoples day-to-day roles, More information on page 19 Chairman reaffirming to me the value of our culture 6 September 2017 change programme.
