EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 3 Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance The year to 30th June 2017 was another positive one for investors in emerging markets, with the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI Emerging Markets Index with net dividends reinvested, in sterling terms, returning 27.4%.
The return to shareholders was in line with the benchmark at 27.3%, reflecting a narrowing of the discount from 13.2% to 10.5% over the year.
The Companys return on net assets, whilst positive in absolute terms, was behind the benchmark at 23.4%.
The Investment Managers Report on the following pages provides more detail on the Companys performance.
Emerging markets performed well in local currency terms but continuing sterling weakness helped to boost returns to sterling investors.
Stock selection was also a positive factor over the year, whilst asset allocation, which measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the benchmark by country regionally, was negative.
It is always disappointing to report a period of short term underperformance but this will happen with active investment managers from time to time.
The Companys long term performance record remains excellent: the Company is well ahead of the benchmark over three, five and ten years, as the graph on page 2 illustrates.
Revenue and Dividends I would remind shareholders that, with effect from 1st July 2015, 70% of the Companys management fees and finance expenses have been charged to capital and 30% to revenue.
Previous practice was to charge 100% to the revenue account.
This change increases the potential for dividend increases over time, but dividends will still fluctuate in line with underlying earnings.
Partly because of this accounting change, the revenue return per share has increased in the past two financial years.
In addition, the impact of sterling depreciation following the EU referendum has boosted earnings per share, allowing us to increase the dividend by 22%, in line with our commitment to increase the dividend over time, in line with earnings.
On the revised basis, the revenue return per share for the year was 12.75 pence 2016: 9.49 pence.
The Board proposes to increase the dividend from 9.0p to 11.0p this year.
This is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Discount and Share Repurchases We continue to monitor closely the share price and therefore the discount of our share price to the net asset value.
The share price rose 25.7% over the year, from 635.0p to 798.5p at the year end.
The discount ranged between 9.6% and 14.4%, averaging 12.4% through the year.
The Boards policy on discount management remains unchanged it is prepared to take action to try to ensure that the discount does not exceed 10% for an extended period, but only if the discount is out of line with our peer group and market conditions are orderly.
During the year, we increased the amount of stock bought back in an attempt to reduce the discount, achieving some success in that the discount closed at 10.5%.
Accordingly, the Company repurchased a total of 2,204,765 shares into Treasury at an average discount of 12.5%.
3 EMIT pp01-23 05 10 2017 16:22 Page 4 Strategic Report continued CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board I will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM and Sarah Arkle will succeed me as Chairman of your Board.
As I said in my half year statement, I am sure she will prove to be an excellent choice.
Anatole Kaletsky, the Companys Senior Independent Director, has indicated his intention to step down at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
Therefore, in order to ensure appropriate succession planning and continuity, the Board will look to recruit a new Director early in 2018.
The Manager The Board monitors the performance of our Manager through the Management Engagement Committee.
Whilst last years performance was behind the benchmark index, the Board judges performance over the longer term and in this respect, the excellent long term record remains intact.
Thus we remain satisfied with the Managers overall performance, not only in terms of investment performance but also in terms of risk management, administration, controls and compliance, where we continue to be well served.
Continuation Vote As shareholders will be aware, every three years the Company offers shareholders a Continuation Vote to determine whether the Company should continue in existence.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on this in a resolution at the forthcoming AGM in November.
The Board believes strongly that the Company should continue and it urges shareholders to support the Company by voting in favour of the Companys continuation.
AGM This years AGM will be held at JPMorgans office at 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Friday 24th November 2017 at 3.00 p. m. Austin Forey will give a presentation to shareholders, reviewing the past year and giving his view on the outlook for emerging markets for the current year.
The meeting will be followed by afternoon tea, which will provide shareholders with the opportunity to meet the Directors and the Investment Manager.
We look forward to seeing as many shareholders as possible at the AGM.
Conclusion It has been an honour to have served as your Chairman for the past eight years.
I leave behind a strong Board and an exceptionally able investment management team, led by Austin Forey.
It is good to see emerging markets returning to favour and the last two years have seen some exceptional returns.
Prospects remain favourable, though doubtless there will be periods of volatility.
The focus on high quality companies with strong growth prospects should ensure continued long term outperformance making your Company an excellent investment vehicle to gain exposure to the emerging markets growth story.
Alan Saunders Chairman 5th October 2017 4 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
