The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement Net Asset Value Total Return City of Londons net asset value total return was 14.5% which was3.3% behind the size weighted average over the twelve months for the AIC UK Equity Income sector, 3.6% behind the FTSE All-Share Index and 4.9% behind the UK Equity Income OEIC sector average.
The key factor behind City of Londons underperformance relative to competitors was having less invested in medium-sized andsmall companies.
Compared with the FTSE All-Share Index, the biggest sector detractors were our underweight positions in banks and mining.
Boththese sectors have been poor dividend payers in recent years.
On a more positive note, the position in housebuilders was the The Chairman of the Company, Philip Remnant, reports on biggest contributor with the best performance from Persimmon the year to 30 June 2017 which returned 64.4%.
Overall, stock selection detracted 3.84% fromperformance.
Gearing, which started the year at 8.0% and I am pleased to report on a satisfactory year in absolute terms, with wasreduced to end the period at 5.5%, contributed 0.61%.
The fair anet asset value total return of 14.5%.
Our focus on large companies valuing of our 4.53% 2029 Notes had a negative 0.54% impact.
and relatively conservative approach did lead to underperformance against the FTSE All-Share Index and the AIC UK Equity Income Share Issues sector, but ours is an investment proposition which has served us During the year City of Londons shares have again been in well over the longer term.
We have maintained our dividend track record for the 51st consecutive year with the 5.0% increase well strong demand and have continued to trade at a premium.
14.2million shares were issued at a premium to net asset value, for proceeds of 57.1 million.
In the past seven years, City of London has issued 130.7million new shares, which has increased The Markets its share capital by 63%.
Since 30 June 2017, we have issued a The share prices of UK companies with operations focussed on further 3.4 million shares.
thedomestic market sold off sharply in the final week of June 2016 following the Brexit referendum.
However, consumer confidence held The Chimera of Passive Investing up, possibly helped by the interest rate cut in August 2016 from 0.5% to0.25%, and UK domestic stocks recovered with companies There has been much recent comment extolling the virtues of reporting reassuring trading during the second half of 2016.
In passive investment strategies, on the basis that active managers general, medium-sized and small companies are more focussed charge much higher fees and rarely outperform their benchmark onthe UK and their share prices have outperformed.
Over the twelve index over the long term.
months, the FTSE Mid 250 Index produced a total return of 23.4% and the FTSE Small Cap Index 31.1%.
Nevertheless, in the first half This is not an accusation that can validly be levelled against City of of 2017, UK economic growth actually lagged the US and Europe, London.
Our ongoing charges ratio of 0.42% is the lowest in the AIC asthe fall in sterling led to a rise in inflation cutting into consumers UK Equity Income sector and is very competitive with the OEIC disposable incomes.
market, with most other investment trusts and with other actively managed funds.
City of London has outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index over each of the last three, five and ten year periods.
Performance Ifyou had invested 10,000 in the Company ten years ago and reinvested the dividends, your investment would be worth 21,908 Earnings and Dividends compared with the 16,847 that same investment would now be Revenue earnings per share rose by 2.4% to 17.83p, reflecting the worth had you tracked the FTSE All-Share Index over that period.
underlying dividend growth from investments held.
Special dividends, which made up 4.4% of total income from investments, remained While investors may be content to replicate an index in a rising constant at 2.8 million.
Expenses remained under tight control market, they may not be so sanguine when share prices are falling: withour ongoing charges held at 0.42%.
there is a danger that the automatic buying and selling of stocks which is inherent in index tracking aggravates extremes in share City of London increased its dividend by 5.0% over the previous price valuations.
yearand added 4.7 million to revenue reserves.
This is the fifth successive year when we have raised the dividend and yet increased It also remains to be seen whether passive funds such as Exchange revenue reserves to underpin future dividends.
Revenue reserves per Traded Funds provide sufficient liquidity in a bear market because share now stand at 14.3p, an increase of 5.9% over last year despite they have not been tested in their current size.
By contrast, City of continued share issuance by the Company.
Londons gross assets now exceed 1.5 billion and its market capitalisation stands at just under that figure.
Our size means that The quarterly dividend will next be considered by the Board when weprovide investors with a ready liquid market in our shares and the third interim is declared in April 2018.
5 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Chairmans Statement continued ourclosed end status enables us to ride out market setbacks without being forced into selling sound investments at inopportune moments.
New Long Term Borrowings Since the year end, on 15 September 2017, City of London raised50 million of fixed rate 32 year private placement notes atanannualised coupon of 2.94%.
The notes are repayable on 17November 2049 and rank pari passu with all other secured indebtedness of the Company.
At a time when the Company continues to grow, both through investment performance and share issuance, your Board considers itappropriate to lock in additional long term funding at rates which are low relative to historical standards and at an absolute cost whichis appreciably lower than the yield on the Companys investment portfolio.
This should enhance City of Londons longtermperformance.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Janus Henderson Investors, 201 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AE on Tuesday 31 October 2017.
I would encourage as many shareholders as possible to attend for the opportunity to meet the Board and to watch a presentation from Job Curtis, our Fund Manager.
If you are unable to attend in person, you can watch the meeting as it happens by visiting www.
Outlook The UKs negotiations to exit the European Union are set to dominate the political and business news in the year ahead.
The uncertainty as to the UKs future trading relationship with the EU will continue to affect adversely business investment.
Inflation should moderate, giving some respite to the consumer, as the effect of the lower level of sterling falls out of annual comparisons.
Looking overseas, the momentum of economic growth is now well entrenched in the US and Europe.
City of Londons relatively high weighting in large capitalisation equities should be an advantage in the year ahead if growth is more rapid overseas.
In any case, the dividend yield of large capitalisation equities is significantly higher with the FTSE 100 Index yielding 3.8% compared with 2.7% for the FTSE Mid 250 and 2.8% for the FTSE Small Cap.
Compared with the other traditional income streams of fixed interest and property, equities provide an attractive combination of yield and income growth.
Were the long-running bull market in equities to suffer a significant setback in the coming year, I believe that our portfolio is appropriately positioned.
We are invested in high quality companies with strong balance sheets and an attractive combination of yield and dividend growth prospects.
Against this background, City of London is well placed to continue to grow its dividend ahead of inflation and produce competitive total returns for its shareholders.
