Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Chairmans statement Political and economic environment Whilst the General Election in June 2017 created some uncertainty, Government support for housebuilding and a commitment to tackle the countrys housing shortage remain.
The Governments Housing White This has been another Paper published in February contained many excellent year for the Group positive measures, particularly those aimed at speeding up the planning system and acrossallkey operational and bringing forward more land for new homes.
Following the outcome of the EU referendum, the Board continues to monitor carefully the potential impacts of the vote to leave the EU John Allan onour business.
Chairman Market conditions remain good with a wide availability of attractive mortgage finance, which, alongside Help to Buy, continues to support robust consumer demand.
This has been another excellent year for the Group across all key operational and The Group is in a strong position, with a financial performance metrics.
We achieved record profits, completion volumes were substantial year end net cash balance, healthy at their highest level for nine years and we remain industry leading in terms of quality forward sales position and an experienced and customer service.
41.7p Consequently, we remain confident in the We have delivered our FY17 financial targets of 20% gross margin and 25% ROCE, strong fundamentals of the housing sector and we are committed to further progress.
Improving our profit margin remains a andour business.
Total dividend per share priority for the Group and we have a number of initiatives underway to further increase 2016: 30.7p efficiency, reduce costs and simplify our business.
Our employees We remain the largest housebuilder in the UK, delivering 17,395 homes in the year The outstanding progress made during the reflecting the strength of our housebuilding operations.
year would not have been possible without the capability and dedication of our Senior Our sites were awarded 74 NHBC Pride in the Job Awards for site management Management team and employees whom this year, more than any other housebuilder for the 13th year in a row.
We were also Iwould like to thank on behalf of the Board.
awarded the Home Builders Federation maximum five star rating for the eighth We ensure that we reward all of our employees consecutive year the only major housebuilder with this record.
We have now won 56 appropriately so that we can recruit and retain 1.4bn the best people whilst motivating them to Built for Life accreditations for excellence in the design of homes and neighbourhoods, continue to perform year on year.
more than all the other housebuilders combined.
Capital Return Plan These are significant achievements and are testament to our continuing focus on over four years ending November 2018 leading the future of housebuilding by putting customers first and at the heart of based on consensus earnings everything we do.
8 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance We continue to cooperate fully with the On 22 June 2017, we were pleased to announce Conclusion Metropolitan Police on the ongoing the appointment of Jessica White as Chief Underpinning any successful Company, is good I believe that you have a strong and investigation we instigated regarding possible Financial Officer.
Jessica was previously corporate governance.
Corporate governance experienced Board dedicated to managing misconduct in the London business.
As stated Group Financial Controller and is therefore is the basis of good management practice your Company efficiently with a great focus in October 2016, Barratt does not anticipate very familiar with the way in which the Group and we place it at the heart of everything we on achieving long term sustainable value.
any material adverse financial effect and our operates.
Jessicas full biography and details do.
It is embedded in our policies, procedures The Board continues to have the right of the recruitment process followed are set London business is operating well.
and processes throughout our business from balance of skills, experience and knowledge out on pages 46 and 62 respectively.
Board level to our divisional operations.
to deliver the strategy of the Group during Appointments and succession More information on the composition of FY18.
We remain, as ever, cognisant of the Last year the Government published a A number of Board changes took place during the Board and the individual roles and need for continued assessment of the Board Green Paper on Corporate Governance.
responsibilities of each Board member is set and will keep under review the effectiveness, The Financial Reporting Council FRC out on pages 46 and 47. time commitment and tenure of each of After eight years of service, Mark Rolfe stood announced a fundamental review of the UK our Directors.
down from the Board after the 2016 AGM.
Corporate Governance Code to take into Delivering returns for our shareholders Jock Lennox, who had joined the Board on account their work done around corporate I, on behalf of the Board, would like to thank In line with the improved Capital Return Plan 1 July 2016, took over as Audit Committee culture and succession planning.
The review you for your continued support and look announced in February 2017, and given the Chairman.
Details of the work undertaken will also take account of the issues raised in forward to seeing many of you at our AGM strong financial performance of the Group, the by the Audit Committee during FY17 can be the Governments Green Paper and the BEIS on15 November 2017.
Board is pleased to propose a final dividend found on pages 65 to 73.
In addition, Richard Select Committee inquiry.
of 17.1 pence per share 2016: 12.3 pence Akers was appointed as Senior Independent We have begun to explore the various per share and a special dividend of 175.0m Director with effect from the conclusion of proposals in the Green Paper and the FRC 17.3 pence per share, both of which, subject the2016 AGM.
John Allan review with our advisors.
We have already to shareholder approval, will be paid in As announced on 19 January 2017, Neil Chairman taken steps to establish a forum at which November 2017.
The total proposed dividend Cooper, previously Chief Financial Officer, employee representatives from across for FY17, including the interim dividend of 7.3 5 September 2017 left the Board by mutual agreement.
the business will have the opportunity to pence per share paid in May 2017, is therefore Information regarding the payments made to express the views of the workforce on key 41.7 pence per share 2016: 30.7 pence Neil on leaving the business can be found on topics such as culture, diversity, training per share.
page 103 and throughout the Remuneration and remuneration.
This will ensure that best Report.
From that date, David Thomas practice is embedded in our business and that performed the dual roles of Chief Executive we can effectively respond to, and implement, and Chief Financial Officer.
In order to maintain any changes that may be required as new a stable governance framework, the Board regulation or legislation is introduced.
ensured that David had sufficient support from We will continue to ensure that good corporate members of the Senior Management team governance remains embedded within the and from members of the Board to enable him culture and values of the business as a whole to undertake his day to day duties under both whilst adapting our policies, processes and roles.
Details of the steps taken can be found procedures in light of any changes proposed on page 62. by the Government and the FRC.
Through the Nomination Committee, we will ensure that we continue to have robust succession planning in place for both Board members and Senior Management.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 9
