12 Galliford Try plc Chairmans statement A year of strong underlying performance Performance and dividend Terry Miller was appointed as our Senior The Board is pleased with the Groups Independent Director, a role I vacated underlying trading performance this year, when I became Chairman, while Jeremy as we made good progress towards our Townsend joined the Board as a Nonstrategic targets.
Linden Homes increased executive Director on 1 September 2017. volumes and margins, while growth in He will become Chairman of the Audit Partnerships & Regeneration was driven Committee following the close of the AGM by the rising proportion of more profitable on 10 November 2017, when Andrew mixed-tenure work.
Constructions Jenner retires from the Board.
I would like underlying business is performing well, to thank Andrew for his sound leadership although its result was held back by of the Audit Committee over the past nine a number of legacy contracts, which years.
On 1 September 2017, I became necessitated a one-off charge this year.
Chair of the Nomination Committee.
With strong growth prospects across the Governance Group and high returns on net assets, When I took over as Chairman, I sat we believe that appropriate reinvestment down with the directors individually and will create significant value for collectively, to ensure an open and frank shareholders.
It is also important that discussion about how we want the Board we balance this investment with paying to operate.
That process reinforced my a healthy and growing dividend.
We are view that Galliford Try has a strong Board, Overall, and save for the therefore targeting a five-year compound with directors who are all passionate about difficulties experienced in certain annual growth rate in the dividend of at ensuring the Group succeeds.
legacy Construction contracts, least 5%, while rebuilding dividend cover We regularly assess the Board and its to 2.0 times.
Galliford Try is trading well performance, both from an internal and In light of the one-off charge in an external perspective.
This allows us and had another strong year.
Construction, we reviewed the impact to challenge ourselves and target areas The Board is confident that on our cash position and distributable where we can improve.
For example, we have the right strategy and reserves and concluded that it was during my time on the Board we have appropriate to maintain our dividend allocated more of our discussions to senior leadership to deliver policy.
The Board is therefore strategy and other key areas of further success, for the benefit recommending a final dividend of importance.
I am confident the Board of all our stakeholders.
Combined with the will continue to work on improving interim dividend of 32.0 pence per share, its effectiveness, giving us the right Peter Ventress this gives a total dividend for the year of governance for the next stage of the Chairman 96.0 pence per share, representing growth Groups development.
The total dividend is 1.6 times People and culture covered.
The final dividend will be paid The Board fully supports the structural on 22 November 2017 to shareholders and cultural changes being instituted by on the register at 27 October 2017.
Peter Truscott and his executive team.
Strategy These changes are enabling us to devolve This report details our new strategy and responsibility, so as to make faster and targets to 2021, which we announced in better decisions at the right level in the February.
This was the culmination of businesses.
We discuss culture at our several months of work, during which the Board meetings and ensure we stay Board took part in constructive debates involved in its development.
During the about managements proposals.
Through year, we held at least two Board meetings an iterative process, we used our on site, which helps us to see the culture knowledge and experience to test the in the businesses first-hand.
assumptions underpinning the strategy, On behalf of the Board, I would like to to assess the potential outcomes and to thank everyone in Galliford Try for their provide constructive feedback that helped contribution this year.
We appreciate their the executive team to set the right hard work and commitment to the Group.
boundaries for what they intend to Conclusion achieve.
The Board believes Galliford In summary, the Board has confidence Try has the right strategy to take full in Galliford Trys future.
We are excited advantage of the many opportunities about the opportunities our new strategy in front of it.
identifies and believe the Group has the Board changes right strategy and leadership team to I took up the role of Chairman on deliver further success.
11November 2016, following Greg Peter Ventress Fitzgeralds retirement.
I want to thank Chairman Greg for his very significant contribution to Galliford Try.
Ken Gillespie, who was Chief Operating Officer, also retired during the year and we thank him and wish him all the best for the future.
