Governance CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present to you the Governance section SOLID CORPORATE ofour 2017 Annual Report and, further, confirm that Haysplc has complied in full with the principles of the GOVERNANCE IS THE UKCorporate Governance Code April 2016 edition.
Solid corporate governance continues to be the FOUNDATION ON foundation on which the Board ensures the business is managed appropriately and successfully.
We take into WHICHTHE BUSINESS consideration the many stakeholders that will be affected by what we do, not simply the candidates and clients withwhom we work on a daily basis.
Maintaining a high ISMANAGED degree of integrity and transparency in the business is extremely important and will continue to be so: it is no surprise to me as one fortunate enough to Chair a company such as Hays that there is increased scrutiny ofthe way businesses operate in the private sector, both publicly and privately owned, and I want to assure you that your Board of Directors take their responsibilities extremely seriously.
During the year the Board visited our US business, inparticular the headquarters of the Veredus business weacquired in December 2014.
"This was the first time "" Maintaining a high degree of collectively as a Board we have visited them since integrity and transparency in the theacquisition I and other members have visited independently on previous occasions and it was business is extremely important. """
valuableto spend time with the senior management Alan Thomson teamthere and learn first-hand about the challenges Chairman, Hays plc andopportunities of that market.
We are building our presence within the US, across many sectors, not simply aroll out of the IT contracting business acquired with Veredus, and I look forward to talking more in the coming years about our progress there.
Two of our current complement of non-executive directors are not standing for re-election at this years AGM, as announced when their replacements were appointed in July 2017, namely Paul Harrison and Pippa Wicks.
During their 10 and six years respectively, they have made an immense contribution to the Company.
Paul has been anexcellent Chair of our Remuneration Committee and isserving it well to the very end, having undertaken ourRemuneration Policy consultation during this, his finalyear, in addition to his role as Senior Independent Director.
Pippa joined us at a time when theUK economy, and consequently Hays UK business which was a muchgreater proportion of the Group then had been adversely impacted by the global financial crisis: her experience and wise counsel proved immensely valuable.
42 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information They both leave with our sincere thanks and best wishes isthe building of a surplus cash position to enable us to Statement of for the future.
Asone chapter ends, so another begins, propose to shareholders the distribution of some of this Code Compliance and it was withgreat pleasure that we welcomed Paul by way of a special dividend.
I trust this is a decision taken Hays plc is subject and Pippas replacements to the Board in July.
Andrew by your Board with which you are happy as investors, tothe UK Corporate Martin will take over as Senior Independent Director and aswe are aware there are other uses for surplus cash: Governance Code Susan Murray will take over as Chair of our Remuneration theCode issued by wefelt this was the right thing to do at this time.
the Financial Reporting Committee atthe conclusion of our AGM in November I look forward to meeting any shareholders who can join Council available at and I can assure you we are in good hands with both of frc.
uk, which was us at our AGM in November, and extend my thanks to you them based on their experience.
published in April 2016. all for your continued support as we look forward to the As a listed company, Finally, I would like to acknowledge the sterling efforts of year ahead.
Hays is required to the Hays Management Team in achieving what they have report on how it has Alan Thomson over the financial year in many areas, not least of which applied the principles Chairman of the Code and this is set out in the following pages.
The Board is pleased to report that Hays has complied with Our governance framework all of the provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 30 June Responsibility for good governance rests with the on the Companys website.
The Board has also 2017 and to the date of Board: this is underpinned by an effective governance delegated to a sub-committee certain matters which this document.
framework which, the Board believes, fits the are routine in nature, or which have been agreed in requirements of Hays business.
principle by the Board: such matters require a meeting of three directors, with an appropriate mix of executives The Board retains certain matters for its own preserve: and non-executives.
Such matters are reported to the other specific responsibilities are delegated to its full Board.
principal Committees, namely the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board Committee.
Each of these Committees operates on its proceedings, and minutes of the meetings are within defined terms of reference, which are available available as appropriate.
Board of Directors Responsible for the overall management of the organisation of our business Set standards, policies and strategic aims Ensures we have the resources in place to meet our objectives Monitors and reviews material strategic issues, financial performance and risk management More details page 46 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Reviews and monitors Sets, reviews and recommends Makes recommendations to the financial statements overall remuneration policy Board on its composition and that Oversees external audit and strategy of its Committees Reviews internal audit plans Reviews and approves More details page 51 remuneration arrangements for More details page 54 executive directors and senior management More details page 58 Chief Executive Management Board Day-to-day management of our business and operations, responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of our business More details page 46 Group Risk Committee Provide strategic leadership, direction and oversight of risk More details page 49 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 43
