Strategic Report Chairmans statement Good progress has been made against our Vision 2020 strategy 1, 2 Group revenue for the year ended 30 June 2017 increased by I am honoured and delighted to be the 1 5% to 4.27bn 2016: 4.08bn and underlying operating profit newly appointed Chairman of Kier.
Underlying profit 1 before tax at 126m 2016: 116m represented a 8% increase.
Reported profit before tax of 26m 2016: a loss of 35m includes non-underlying items, predominantly relating to the Philip Cox disposal of Mouchel Consulting and the portfolio simplification 1 programme.
The underlying basic earnings per share from Chairman continuing operations of 106.8 pence 2016: 99.5 pence has 4 increased by 7%.
TheGroups net debt at 30 June 2017 was 110m 2016: 99m, at the lower end of expectations, 1 Full-year dividend Earnings per share followingstrong working capital management during the year.
per share Thisperformance has maintained a net debt to EBITDA ratio of less than 1x, in line with our Vision 2020 target.
67.5p 106.8p After the year end, the Group completed its acquisition of 3 2016: 64.5p 2016 : 99.5p McNicholas Limited, which strengthens the Groups presence in the utilities and infrastructure services market.
This acquisition On 30 August 2017, Phil White CBE stepped down from the Board builds on Kiers strategy to maintain its leading positions in chosen markets.
It is a highly complementary addition to our as Chairman.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Phil for his contribution to the Group over the past ten years in which he current utilities business and enhances our presence in the power, rail and telecoms markets.
has overseen the growth and change within the Company.
I know many Kier employees have benefited from his counsel.
Personally, Dividend I would like to thank Phil for his support during my induction and The Board is recommending a full year dividend for the year ended transition into my new role, which I took up on 1 September 2017.
30 June 2017 of 67.5 pence per share 2016: 64.5 pence per I look forward to working with the Board on the Groups next stage share, up 5%, reflecting the Boards confidence in the Groups of development.
prospects and intention to increase dividend cover towards 2x by Results 2020.
Subjectto shareholder approval, the final dividend will be I am pleased to present the results for the year ended paid on 1December 2017 to shareholders on the register at the 30 June 2017.
This year was an important one for Kier as we close of business on 29 September 2017.
As an alternative to continued to make good progress against our strategy, Vision the cash dividend, shareholders will be offered the option to 2020.
Over the last five years, Kier has tripled in size resulting participate in a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP.
insignificant change in the business as new processes and The macro environment systems are put in place and its portfolio of capabilities has UK Government policy continues to support investment in upgrading changed.
This year, we have substantially completed our two-year the UKs infrastructure, driving economic growth both nationally and portfolio simplification programme focused on streamlining and regionally.
The devolution of funding and decision-making, both simplifying the Groups operations, allowing investment in the core locally and regionally, is now starting to gather pace with the businesses for the future.
The strength of Kier lies in its teams establishment of mayoral authorities and increased collaboration and their ability to provide clients with a depth and breadth of between local authorities.
Despite the uncertainties of Brexit, we capabilities across a number of specialist fields positioning us have a strong position in a number of key sectors and our breadth asthe ideal partner to collaborate with.
of capabilities positions us well to address our clients needs.
12 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance highlights The Governance section on pages 58 to 104 inclusive provides details of the Groups approach to governance and how it supports the delivery of Vision 2020.
The highlightsfrom theyear included: Nomination Committee Risk Management and Safety, Health and Remuneration Oversaw the Chairmans Audit Committee Environment Committee Committee succession: Monitored the Groups systems Monitored the Groups current Consulted with shareholders of risk management and SHE performance: with respect to a new Reviewed the Executive internal control: remuneration policy: Directors succession plan: and Reviewed progress against the Reviewed the significant Groups SHE strategy: and Set the Executive Directors Monitored Constance judgements made by remuneration for 2018: and Baroudels induction to Oversaw the launch of the management in preparing the theBoard.
30by30 initiative to reduce Approved the Executive 2017 financial statements: and theGroups energy usage.
Directors 2016 bonus Oversaw the operation of the payments, assessed Groups internal audit function.
performance against the 2017 bonus targets and set the 2018 bonus targets.
Read more in the Nomination Read more in the Risk Management Read more in the Safety, Health Read more in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 70 and Audit Committee report on and Environment Committee report Report on pages 82-101 inclusive.
Corporate governance Outlook Kier remains committed to the highest standards of corporate Kier has successfully grown its reputation as a company that can governance.
The Board and its committees play a key role in consistently deliver.
Its success in the marketplace to date has guiding the company and setting the tone for how the business shown it is trusted by its clients and supply chain.
I believe it is of paramount importance that we have the Our underlying performance for the year was good.
Having right skills set on the Board to steer the Group strategy for the simplified our portfolio, the Group is more focused and able to long term.
The Board is also supportive of the Groups ongoing pursue growth ambitions in our three core markets: building, focus on effective risk management, corporate responsibility and infrastructure and housing, which now represent 90% of the the value our operations bring to regional economic growth.
We continue to invest in the business On 1 July 2016, Constance Baroudel joined the Board and to improve our operational efficiency, providing a robust platform became the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, replacing on which to take advantage of the strong long-term fundamentals Amanda Mellor who left the Board after last years annual general in these core markets.
Constance brings significant financial experience and a Our Construction and Services order books of 9.5bn, together detailed understanding of strategy in light of her present role at with our c. 2bn property development and residential pipelines, FirstGroup.
provide good long-term visibility of our future work.
This visibility, Full details of our corporate governance can be found on pages coupled with our healthy balance sheet, provides us with 58to 104. confidence in achieving our Vision 2020 strategic targets.
Our people The safety and, very importantly, the wellbeing of our people remain a priority and I am pleased to report that during this year we once again reduced our accident incidence rate AIR and rolled out campaigns to employees to raise awareness of good health Philip Cox CBE and wellbeing.
Chairman On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our employees who 20 September 2017 are so committed to making Kier the company it is.
Since joining, Ihave already felt the pride and professionalism that our teams display in their delivery to our clients.
See note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Group and share of joint ventures.
3 Prior year comparatives have been restated to reflect the reclassification of UK Mining as continuing operations and Mouchel Consulting and Biogen as discontinued operations.
4 Net debt is stated after the impact of hedging instruments.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 13
