Chairmans Statement A YEAR OF GOOD STRATEGIC PROGRESS This was another good year for Genus, as we grew revenue and invested for the future.
Genus PIC was a strong contributor to our financial performance, with increases in both revenue and adjusted operating profit.
While Genus ABS had a challenging start to the year, our actions contributed to an improving performance in the second half.
Our THIS WAS ANOTHER planned increase in R&D investment, particularly in gene editing, is already GOOD YEAR FOR GENUS, delivering encouraging results.
AS WE GREW THE TOP We balance our investment in growth with the discipline of providing LINE AND BALANCED shareholders with an attractive return on capital and rising dividends.
The OUR INCREASED Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.2 pence per share, giving INVESTMENT WITH a total dividend for the year of 23.6 pence per share.
This represents an THE DISCIPLINE OF increase of 10% over last years total dividend of 21.4 pence.
The final PROVIDING AN dividend will be paid on 1 December 2017, to shareholders on the register ATTRACTIVE RETURN at the close of business on ON CAPITAL AND 17 November 2017.
RISING DIVIDENDS Overseeing Our Strategy One of the Boards key roles is to FOR SHAREHOLDERS approve the Groups strategy and monitor our progress against it.
Each year, we hold a strategic review with our Executive leadership team, which gives us the insight we need into the Groups competitive landscape, the challenges it faces and managements plans for addressing the compelling opportunities that they see.
We also receive regular updates on specific aspects of the business throughout the year and visit our operations, to give us first-hand experience of key areas of the Group and its markets.
This year, we spent a week visiting our operations and customers in the UK and Spain.
| 14 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 STR ATEGIC REPORT This work positions the Board to Board and People provide effective scrutiny of the The Board recognises the importance Groups strategic development.
This of providing independent, strong and year we were pleased to approve our effective leadership to the Group.
We joint venture with fide-Su, the were therefore pleased that the latest acquisition of Hermitages porcine evaluation shows that the Board and its genetics and our ongoing strategic Committees continue to function well.
16.2P partnership, the early acquisition of the Other than Mike Buzzacotts previously FINAL DIVIDEND outstanding 49% of IVB, and our announced retirement, the Boards PER SHARE PRRSv programme.
We also received composition was unchanged during regular updates on progress with our the year and we remained focused on court case with Inguran LLC, which succession planning and diversity.
This paved the information on the Board and its way for the launch of our new sexed activities can be found on pages 44 semen product, Sexcel in the US, India to 46 of this report.
and other key markets around the world, from 1 September 2017.
As The Board delegates responsibility for anticipated, ST has launched new the Groups day-to-day running to the 23.6P patent litigation, which we will Executive leadership team.
As a result, TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR vigorously defend.
we are keenly aware of the need to THE YEAR PER SHARE attract and retain the best people.
During the year, we kept abreast of succession planning for the Genus Executive Leadership Team GELT and the appointment of a talented new COO for the Genus ABS Dairy business.
Our succession planning is demonstrated by the internal promotion to the role of Group Human 10% Resources Director following the TOTAL DIVIDEND incumbents planned retirement.
INCREASE More generally, Genuss people strategy is to support our growth plans by recruiting, developing, retaining and inspiring people who couple deep operational or technical expertise with OUR VALUES genuine passion for our industry.
The We are one team, dedicated to helping customers Group has nearly 2,700 employees CUSTOMER thrive.
We anticipate their needs and help them seize around the world, who all play their opportunities, acting as partners to improve quality, part in helping our customers to CENTRIC efficiency and output.
If were not adding value for improve their performance and our customers, we stop and think again.
On behalf of the Board, I thank them for their contribution to our success this year.
We are proactive, determined to be the best we RESULTS can be and to exceed expectations.
We redefine The Board is responsible for setting standards for ourselves, our customers and our DRIVEN and demonstrating the behaviours industry.
Every one of us takes pride in delivering and ethical standards we want to see the highest level of performance.
If something can throughout Genus.
The Group has be improved, we find a simpler, better way to do it.
a fair, open and respectful culture, underpinned by our values see left.
We are an innovative, forward-thinking company.
PIONEERING Summary We have the courage and confidence to explore new We made good progress with our ideas and the energy and enthusiasm to deliver them.
strategy in 2017, while delivering We are creative, tenacious and resourceful in every financial performance in line with area of our work.
The strategic investments we have made will enable We are a business rooted in science but built around us to build on our strong position in our PEOPLE our people.
We inspire, challenge and support global markets and ensure we have a everyone to perform, develop and grow.
We treat sustainable business model.
We look FOCUSED others with respect and we invite views and feedback forward with confidence, as we deliver to help us improve.
benefits to our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
We are ethical to our core.
We feel a deep sense of Bob Lawson RESPONSIBLE responsibility to our customers, colleagues, animals, Chairman communities and shareholders.
We are honest, 6 September 2017 reliable and trustworthy.
We mean what we say and do what we say.
