Chairmans statement The past year has seen Sky build on its position as one of the worlds leading entertainment and communications businesses and we continue to have a significant positive impact on our customers lives.
Our success is driven by each of our colleagues determination to deliver the very best content, world-leading product innovation and outstanding service for our customers.
As a business, we know value is created by investing in our people while being as efficient as possible and thinking for the long term.
In the past decade, we have consistently moved into new markets, opened up new customer segments and expanded our range of products and services.
This year we have successfully scaled up our businesses in Italy, Germany and Austria and have offered all our customers new technologies, James Murdoch new services and world-class content that we believe is unmatched Chairman in our industry.
This has helped us to now regularly reach more than 100 million viewers across Europe.
While creating shareholder value drives our business, we also ensure that we make a significant contribution to the countries and communities in which we operate.
As a leader in the European creative industries, we generated 4.8 billion in tax revenues, employed 31,496 people directly, supported a further 216,800 indirect jobs and contributed 13.6 billion to Europes GDP.
Our determination to have a positive impact stretches across all aspects of our business.
A pan-European initiative like Sky Ocean Rescue, which has already engaged over five million people since it launched in January 2017, along with celebrating 11 years as a carbon neutral company, reflect our commitment to the environment while building a better more sustainable business.
As you know, on 7 December 2016, 21st Century Fox made an approach to the Deputy Chairman of Sky, Martin Gilbert, to acquire the balance of shares in Sky not owned by 21st Century Fox.
After a period of negotiation, the Independent Directors recommended the offer on 15 December 2016 subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.
The offer process is ongoing and shareholders will be kept fully informed.
4 Sky plc Strategic report I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dave Lewis for his contribution to Sky since joining the Board in 2012.
As announced last year, Dave stepped down from the Board in October at our AGM, and we welcomed Katrin Wehr-Seiter, who was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
On behalf of the Board, I would also like to thank all of our shareholders for their continued support over the year.
Finally, I would like to thank our people.
This is a great company with an experienced and talented team who are all committed to the highest standards of excellence in our industry, enabling us to create opportunities for growth and positively contribute to the lives of our customers and the communities where we and they live and work.
James Murdoch Guerrilla Sky Ocean Rescue Annual Report 2017 5
