Strategic report Chairmans letter Dear shareholder Delivering Ranks aim is to be the UKs leading multi-channel operator.
The Group looks to meet this goal through delivering against its five strategic pillars: long-term 1. create a compelling multi-channel offer: 2. build digital capability: sustainable 3. develop our venues: 4. invest in our brands and marketing: and 5. use technology to drive efficiency and improve growth customer experience.
Further detail of the Groups progress against these pillars can be found in the strategy and KPIs and operating review sections of this report.
Financial performance Following what has been a challenging year for 1 our retail businesses, the Group delivered revenue marginally up on the prior year.
However, a strong digital performance and improved cost discipline across the Group contributed to a 1% increase in 2 operating profit.
The Groups UK digital business had a strong year, 1 again delivering impressive revenue growth, up 15%.
The Groups UK retail businesses had a tough year, with declines in visits adversely impacting revenue, 3 and ended the year 3% down on the prior year.
As highlighted in our recent interim results, the Group faced increased costs during the year following the introduction of the National Living Wage and increased property rent costs.
The combination of these cost increases and challenging UK retail conditions resulted in the Group undertaking a detailed review of its UK organisational structure and cost base.
This identified a number of actions that were taken to mitigate cost inflation and improve efficiency, with the Group finishing the year with total costs marginally lower than the prior year.
2017 18 will see some benefit from the actions taken during the second half of 2016 17 and further details can be found in the financial review.
Our Spanish operations delivered a strong 1 performance with euro revenue up 7% and euro 2 operating profit up 53%.
1 Before adjustments for customer incentives.
3 Combined revenue, before exceptional items, for Mecca and Grosvenor Casinos venues businesses.
6 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Responsible gambling Rank remains in a strong As an operator, Rank is committed to minimising the financial position, possesses potential for harm from gambling.
This year we made significant steps to increase the scale and impact of market-leading brands and our response regarding the prevention and detection has a clear strategy for of problem gambling through: long-term growth.
a newly formed board responsible gambling committee see page 68 for more details : Dividend the development of propensity models to detect The board targets a progressive and sustainable patterns of play symptomatic of problem gambling: dividend.
The dividend policy reflects the strong cash investment in resourcing a team solely focused on More information flow characteristics and long-term earnings potential responsible gambling: and Operating of the Group, whilst allowing it to retain sufficient the development of our new Customer Solutions responsibly 26 capital to fund ongoing operating requirements, Hub in Sheffield to better support our customers.
Corporate investment and balance sheet management.
governance 52 More detail of our responsible gambling strategy can The board is pleased to recommend a final dividend be found in the operating responsibly section of of 5.3 pence per share to be paid on 31 October 2017 this report.
to shareholders on the register at 22 September 2017.
This will take the full-year dividend to 7.3 pence per Management team changes share, a 12% increase on last year.
The Groups dividend In September 2016, Alan Morgan joined Rank as cover has thus reduced to 2.2 times from 2.4 times in managing director of Meccas retail business.
has held several senior positions within the hospitality and leisure sector.
Alans last role was chief operating Culture and commercial officer for Spirit Pub Company until During the year, the Group rolled out its group-wide it was sold to Greene King plc.
values, STARS, following their launch in July 2016.
The values of Service, Teamwork, Ambition, On Alans appointment, Martin Pugh became Responsibility and Solutions reflect the behaviours managing director of Grosvenor Casinos retail vital for Rank employees to deliver successfully business after 21 months as managing director against Ranks strategic goals.
We understand the important role the right culture On 30 June 2017, the Groups human resources plays in the gaming industry and in addressing our director, Sue Waldock, retired after 28 years with the responsibilities to our customers and wider society.
Following Sues retirement, David Balls was Work continues to bring STARS to life for all of appointed to succeed her.
David was previously Ranks employees.
Grosvenors human resources director, and will continue to hold this position alongside his I would like to take the opportunity, on behalf of the Group role.
board, to thank Ranks employees for their continued passion and dedication in exciting and entertaining Board changes our customers.
I am pleased to welcome Alex Thursby to the board as a non-executive director.
Alexs appointment was Current trading and outlook effective from 1 August 2017, when he also joined Trading in the short seven-week period to Ranks audit, remuneration and nominations 13 August 2017 has been encouraging and in line committees.
Alex will also chair Ranks audit with managements expectations.
committee following the conclusion of the Rank remains in a strong financial position, possesses annual general meeting on 19 October 2017. market-leading brands and has a clear strategy for I look forward to working with Alex and to long-term growth.
benefiting from his experience of developing new, Ian Burke and transforming existing, businesses with the use of Chairman technology platforms.
Alexs extensive experience in 16 August 2017 compliance and risk governance in a highly-regulated sector will also further strengthen the board.
Owen ODonnell, currently chair of the audit committee, notified the board of his intention not to seek re-election at the 2017 annual general meeting and will therefore step down later this year having completed nine years on the board.
I would like to thank Owen for his valuable contribution as a director during his tenure and his excellent chairmanship of the audit committee over the last three years.
