Chairmans statement Ashmore is delivering for clients and shareholders Ashmore has delivered strong operating The Boards regular meetings have benefited and financial performance over the from varied and detailed presentations by past 12 months, in particular producing colleagues from both the global business Board changes outperformance for clients, generating net units and the local asset management inflows in the second half of the financial platforms.
This enhances the Boards Nick Land retired from the Board year, and growing profit before tax by 24%.
understanding of the Groups operations atthe AGM in October 2016 As described in the Market review, we as well as providing an opportunity to feel the long-term prospects for Emerging focus on areas of topical interest, such More information Markets are extremely good, and the cyclical ascyber security.
A detailed report on corporate governance is providedon improvement in asset prices over the past One of the most important features of the pages 47 to 49. year is translating into AuM and profit growth Ashmore operating model is the distinctive for Ashmore after a protracted period of and highly effective remuneration model, weaker market conditions.
which attracts and retains high-quality The characteristics that define Ashmore and employees and aligns interests with Through its regular formal meetings with provide significant competitive advantages clients and shareholders.
As Simon Fraser employees, the Board is deeply aware of the have been much in evidence over the past describes in the Remuneration report on strong culture and work ethic at Ashmore, year.
The Groups investment processes page 55, the Remuneration Committee has and I would like to take this opportunity, on are producing excellent performance conducted a thorough review of the Groups behalf of all Board members, to thank our remuneration policy ahead of the triennial against both benchmarks and peer groups: colleagues for their ongoing efforts to deliver vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Central to this the inherent attractions of the Emerging value to clients and shareholders.
review was a comprehensive programme Markets asset classes are increasingly of meetings with Ashmores largest beingrecognised by investors and addressed institutional shareholders, to discuss and by our global distribution team: the local explain Ashmores remuneration philosophy platforms are growing rapidly and repaying Peter Gibbs and to understand shareholders views on investments made by the Group: the Chairman the principal features of the policy.
I believe operating model has delivered an increase 6 September 2017 strongly in the Groups remuneration policy in profit margin through ongoing disciplined and participated in the majority of these control of costs: and the Group continues to meetings to ensure that the Boards support maintain a strong and liquid balance sheet was recognised and to address any other to provide reassurance through the market governance topics that were raised.
cycle and to enable investment in growth initiatives such as seed capital.
The Board has recommended an unchanged final dividend of 12.10 pence for the year ending 30 June 2017 to give total dividends per share for the year of 16.65 pence.
12.10p per share Subject to shareholders approval at the AGM in October, the final dividend will be paid on 1 December 2017 to those shareholders on Recommended final dividend the register on 3 November 2017.
46 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
