Strategic report Chairmans statement Empowering our clients to save and invest with confidence is whywe are in business, and I am pleased to report that we have delivered record levels of net new business andprofits this year alongside maintaining our usual high client service standards.
The Board recognises the importance of developing a team whichcontains the best talent in the industry.
We have overseen atransition to new executive leadership this year and I am encouraged by the energy and commitment they bring to making our business even better in the future.
This is my last Annual Report as Chairman and I am confident that I am leaving a business that iswell positioned for our next phase of growth.
Overview of the year Our year commenced in the shadow of the surprise EU referendum result, which led to market volatility, uncertainty, which still remains, and consequent weak investor confidence.
As a result, asset gathering in the first half was adversely impacted.
The business responded positively to this challenge in the second half, bringing innovative fund propositions to our client base, launching our new mobile app, running successful digital and transfer mailing campaigns and maintaining our client service levels through a busy tax year end.
This resulted in 6.9 billion of net new business for Hargreaves Lansdowns thefull year, testament to the strength of our offering, brand and market position.
success is built around This flow of new business combined with significant market growth providing exceptional to drive AUA to nearly 80 billion as at 30 June 2017.
While we have continued toinvest part of the resultant revenue increase in our service and great value to business to support growth, client service and broadening our offering, we were still able to deliver 21% growth in profit before tax our clients.
Board changes It has been a busy year for changes to our Board and Executive Committee.
As announced last year, Ian Gorham decided to step down as CEO and this took effect from 9 February 2017.
The Board thanks Ian for his outstanding contribution to Hargreaves Lansdown.
Ian was replaced by Chris Hill who initially joined as CFO in February 2016, before becoming deputy CEO in September 2016.
His appointment followed a full assessment undertaken by the Nomination Committee.
In turn, this led to the need for a new CFO.
Following anextensive search and rigorous assessment process, we were delighted that Philip Johnson joined in February 2017 and, after receiving regulatory approval, was appointed to the Board in April2017.
Philip brings considerable experience as a plc CFO andexpertise from across the financial services industry.
Together Ibelieve Chris and Philip are a great combination to lead the business into its next phase of growth.
04 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
