10 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Chairmans statement Good progress It is an honour to serve as Chairman of Chairmans Diageo.
This year saw good progress towards our ambition to become one of the best statement performing, most trusted and respected consumer products companies in the world.
I would like to thank Ivan, our Chief Executive, the Executive team and all Diageo employees globally who worked to deliver this years performance.
The commitment of all our people around the world to living our values and purpose to celebrate life every day, everywhere is one of the many reasons the company is performing well.
Opportunity for growth Diageo is a global leader in an attractive industry, and has a strong footprint in developed markets that complements our position in emerging markets.
Our opportunity for growth is supported by premiumisation and demographics.
As incomes continue to grow, international premium spirits will become available to Diageo has a rich heritage, quality brands, creativity, more than 730 million new consumers over talented people and a commitment to delivering the next decade.
Additionally, we will see significant growth in the population of legal growth responsibly.
On joining the Diageo Board purchase age consumers, half of whom will in July 2016, and subsequently becoming Chairman come from India and Africa.
Our portfolio of brands, and the balance inherent in our in January 2017, I found Diageo to be a company geographic footprint, means we are well in transformation, focused on the consumer.
placed to take advantage of these opportunities today and in the future.
Javier Ferrn, Chairman Diageo has a clear strategy, and during the past year, the Executive Committee led by Ivan and our market teams have continued to make strong progress with broad based growth across regions, and global, local and reserve brands.
Value creation We are committed to delivering sustainable value for our shareholders.
In the first year into our medium term guidance we have delivered a strong sets of results that reported progress against all efficient growth and value creation KPIs.
Ivan will cover our efficient growth KPIs in his statement.
Recommended final Total dividend Total shareholder i dividend per share per share return % 38.5p 5% 62.2p 5% 1 2% 2016: 36.6p 2016: 59.2p 2016: 17% i Includes recommended final dividend.
S Str tra at teg egic r ic repor eport t Chairmans statement DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 11 Board changes Looking to our value creation KPIs, return Alcohol is an established part of how many people socialise and celebrate life in many At the end of December 2016, Franz Humer on invested capital ROIC was up 175bps to 13.8% and total shareholder return was 12%.
societies around the world, and we are retired from the Board after almost 12 years Our aim is to maintain dividend cover proud that our brands are chosen for these of service.
I would once again like to thank Franz for his leadership and assistance in a the ratio of basic earnings per share before occasions.
Diageo works with governments, partners and other stakeholders all around smooth transition.
Under his chairmanship, exceptional items to dividend per share in the range of 1.8 to 2.2 times.
The recommended the world to target specific issues such as Diageos share price grew 128% and he final dividend is 38.5 pence per share, an drink driving, underage drinking or heavy stepped down with the company on a sound footing for the future.
increase of 5% consistent with the interim episodic drinking, with programmes that aim to change behaviour and reduce harm.
In September 2016, following her dividend.
This brings the full year dividend to 62.2 pence per share.
We continue to expect Programmes such as Learning for Life, appointment as GSK CEO, Emma Walmsley to maintain dividend increases at roughly which creates opportunities for training and stood down from the Board.
Emma joined our Board as a Non-Executive Director in a mid-single digit rate until cover is back in careers in the hospitality industry, and Plan W in Asia, which empowers women through January 2016 and I would like to thank Emma range.
Subject to shareholder approval the final dividend will be paid to UK holders on learning, both support our alcohol in society sincerely for her contribution to the Board 5 October 2017.
Payment to US ADR holders agenda and demonstrate our commitment during this time.
Philip Scott stood down from his role will be made on 11 October 2017. to supporting the communities in which we operate.
We have even more scope to have a as Chair of Diageos Audit Committee in On 26 July 2017, the Board approved a share buyback programme of up to positive impact, through the full value chain December 2016, and after almost 10 years 1.5 billion in financial year 2018, following of our business, which connects us to of service will retire from the Board at the 2017 AGM.
Alan Stewart was appointed three years of consistently improving cash millions of people through the sourcing, making and selling of our products.
Chair of Diageos Audit Committee, effective flow generation.
Our supply chain work is a crucial element 1 January 2017.
Alans experience in retail, Business environment in ensuring that we are environmentally travel and banking, as well as his background in accountancy and financial management, Diageo continues to manage and respond sustainable as a business and play our part in addressing climate change.
We have made will serve Diageo well in this important role.
to geopolitical volatility around the world.
Negotiations on the UKs exit from the significant progress over recent years in In July 2017, Ursula Burns appointment European Union, a shift in emphasis in US reducing the environmental impact of our to the Board as a Non-Executive Director was announced, effective April 2018. trade policy and a broader resurgence of operations and our supply chain on water, greenhouse gas emissions, waste and Ursulas significant and senior expertise in economic nationalism create uncertainty for business.
However, our leadership position packaging.
corporate services, manufacturing and in many markets, and the work we have We are clear on the behaviours and product development will be a valuable addition to the Board.
I look forward to done to improve business agility, means values we expect all employees to live by.
This year, every employee in the business did welcoming Ursula.
we are more resilient and better positioned to navigate and respond to changes in the refresher training on our Code of Business external operating environment.
Our Conduct, to aid us all in making the right Looking ahead Diageo made good progress this year.
The experience in working with governments decisions, each and every day.
Board is confident that the company has and other stakeholders to support global trade, develop local value chains, empower Diversity the right strategy, leadership and culture to communities and promote responsible Diversity helps our business to grow.
At deliver on its full potential.
The commitment of the Board and the Executive team remains drinking, means we have a strong platform Diageo we respect the unique contribution to protect and unlock growth in the markets each person makes to our business.
I am unwavering in pursuit of delivering value for in which we operate.
particularly proud that Diageo has focused all stakeholders.
on achieving greater diversity at the most Our role in society senior level.
40% of our Board members Doing business in a way we can be proud and 40% of our Executive Committee are of has always been a priority for Diageo.
Diageos Executive Committee is a Javier Ferrn aim is to create value beyond the significant team of highly successful men and women Chairman economic contribution we make to who represent six different nationalities, communities.
speak multiple languages and have lived and Diageos approach is based on three worked across the globe in their careers to sustainability and responsibility priorities, date.
This year, Diageo was ranked 10th out of more than 3,000 companies from around which are the most material to the business and our stakeholders: the world in Equileaps Gender Equality Creating a positive role for alcohol Global Report and Ranking.
We are proud in society of this achievement and are continuing to increase the representation of women Building thriving communities in our senior leadership, towards our target Reducing our environmental impact of 35% by 2020.
