Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements OUR BUSINESS INTRODUCING IG OUR GLOBAL OPERATIONS IG exists to empower informed, decisive, adventurous people to access opportunities in financial markets.
As a global leader in online We have sales offices across Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Australia, Asia and the US, and our expertise in online marketing, search trading and an established member of the FTSE 250, we have a 43-year heritage.
engine optimisation and multi-language client service has enabled us to extend our reach into countries where we have no physical presence.
Using a centralised marketing strategy, we connect with clients in 156 countries efficiently and cost-effectively.
1 provider of CFDs and spread betting worldwide, with offices located in 15 countries and operations in a further two.
Operating globally under the IG brand, and in the US as Nadex, were the trusted platform provider for over 185,000 clients.
Our UK headquarters in the City of London is supported by two major operational hubs in Krakow, Poland, and Bangalore, India.
These are positioned to take advantage of local pools of talent in a variety of disciplines.
Our suite of products provides efficient, flexible access to more than 15,000 financial markets for a broad spectrum of financially KEY DATES sophisticated consumers, ranging from active traders to retail 2017 All-new online trading platform introduced.
Using our cutting-edge platforms and apps, our clients 2 IG Smart Portfolios launched in partnership with place almost 8 million transactions a month with us.
Stockholm BlackRock, the worlds leading asset manager.
2016 IG expands its share dealing offering into ISAs and A HISTORY OF Dsseldorf SIPPs.
Share trading launched in Australia.
Limited risk accounts rolled out across the globe.
CREATING SOLUTIONS Krakow Innovation has been at the heart of our business since we began life Dublin 2015 Sunday trading launched.
As the UKs original financial spread betting provider, we trading app for Apple Watch.
New office opens introduced a completely new, accessible way for people to trade on in Dubai.
London Geneva Tokyo gold by defining it as an index.
Shanghai 2014 Execution-only stockbroking introduced as part Over subsequent years, we went on to expand the product set and Milan of our comprehensive share dealing package.
create increasingly advanced technology to support our clients New office opens in Switzerland.
Our innovations have included the first online dealing platform for financial spread betting in 1998 and the Bangalore 2013 Spread betting and CFD offerings brought together Chicago first trading app for Apple Watch in 2015.
This year we delivered Madrid under IG.
Introduction of forex trading via a completely new trading platform that is beginning to greatly Meta Trader 4 platform.
Johannesburg enhance the trading experience for our clients.
An intuitive, Paris Singapore customisable interface offers straightforward functionality for 2012 Launch of our insight, news and analysis centre.
the less-experienced trader, while those with more demanding New office opens in Dublin.
requirements have access to a range of advanced functions.
2010 Acquisition of the Ideal CFDs business in Technology has also enabled us to continually refine our marketing Sales offices HQ Operational hubs South Africa.
As we discuss in more detail later, were now able to produce highly targeted advertising campaigns that introduce our - 2009 Nadex.
IG Markets products to the people they are most likely to suit.
Offices open in Sweden application and onboarding process then ensures that only and Luxembourg.
1,546 appropriate clients proceed gaining access to the products and Total employees educational materials that fit their objectives, knowledge and 2008 New office opens in Italy.
UKs first dedicated capital resources.
spread betting iPhone app launches.
Over the years, weve evolved and broadened our product UK EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST ASIA PACIFIC USA 2007 Launch of browser-based trading platform.
offering to meet the changing needs of traders and investors, New offices open in the US, Spain and France.
AND AFRICA and its now supported by an extensive range of tools and 1,149 employees 167 employees 161 employees 69 employees resources to help our clients.
From teaching essential trading and 2006 New offices open in Germany and Singapore.
risk-management techniques to providing market insight and alerts Entered the market in North American Derivatives Introduced the first financial Entered the market in 2002 about upcoming economic events, our educational and news Germany in 2006, with rapid Exchange Nadex based 2003 Product range expanded as binary betting spread betting product in Australia services draw on four decades of experience to help people trade expansion across Europe in Chicago is introduced.
in 1974 from 2007 and invest more effectively.
Offices located in Operational headquarters Head offices located in the Melbourne, Singapore 2002 IG Markets Australia becomes the countrys first Expanded into South Africa for DailyFX Our operating model and risk management strategy have been City of London and Tokyo CFD provider.
in 2010 and Dubai in 2015 thoroughly tested over time, and have proved highly resilient in Operational hubs Annual revenue of a wide range of real-life scenarios.
Our business has continuously Annual revenue of Received banking licence established to service 14.1 million in the 2017 1998 First company to launch an online dealing platform 114.3 million in the 2017 adapted to a changing economic backdrop, and we remain agile and opened office in the Group in Krakow financial year, with over for financial spread betting.
financial year, with almost and innovative in the face of an uncertain regulatory landscape, as Switzerland in 2014 and Bangalore 22,000 active exchange 40,000 active clients trading we look to the next phase of our growth.
members trading 1995 First UK company to allow spread betting on Offices located in Dubai, Annual revenue of individual shares.
France, Germany, Ireland, 225 million in the 2017 Italy, Spain, South Africa, financial year, with over Sweden and Switzerland 1982 First company in the UK to offer spread betting on 77,000 active clients trading the FT30.
Annual revenue of 137.7 million in the 2017 1 Based on number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK 1974 IG Index founded, becoming the UKs first spread financial year, with almost Leveraged Trading Report October 2016 : for CFDs, based on revenue excluding FX betting company.
47,000 active clients trading published Financial Statements, October 2016.
| | 6 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 7 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements OUR BUSINESS continued Contracts for Difference CFDs Smart Portfolios Nadex OUR PRODUCT SUITE CFDs are derivatives contracts that enable clients to take advantage Launched in April 2017 in partnership with BlackRock, Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US Our range of products is designed to provide solutions across the of changes in an assets price, without owning the asset itself.
IG Smart Portfolios is a discretionary managed investment and overseas investors to trade options on global spectrum of our clients trading and investment needs.
Clients can take a position in a financial instrument, buying or service.
By offering low costs and full transparency on total cost financial markets in retail-sized contracts.
Our original offering still core to our business is leveraged selling, while only putting down a small percentage of the value of ownership, we are industry-leading.
Clients have a fully online Our main product is the binary option, which trading: contracts for difference CFDs and spread betting in the of their trade as security known as trading on margin.
This is an experience supported by our customer services team if needed provides a flexible way for clients to trade with UK and Ireland, which generates the majority of our revenue.
This extremely efficient way of trading financial markets over the short with access to an elegant and intuitive platform, where their limited risk.
However, our spread product, which is also limited risk, is now complemented by a growing suite of non-leveraged share term.
We also offer clients access to a range of risk-mitigation investments and all the costs of ownership are clearly visible.
dealing and wealth-management products, suiting a broad range of measures, including stops and limits and a limited risk account.
risk appetites and trading and investment objectives throughout a Nadex is benefitting from renewed consumer interest in retail 1 We are the worlds No.
trading, and increased client volumes have been driven by ongoing We explain how a CFD works in the IG Services section on IG.
improvements to our products and platform, supported by While our original products are designed for active traders, our enhanced liquidity from a new market-maker partnership.
newer offering extends our reach both to self-directed investors and Spread Betting those preferring a low-cost managed-portfolio approach.
Attracting Nadex is the first and largest US-based retail-oriented exchange Financial spread betting mirrors many aspects of a CFD enabling clients who seek longer-term investments, this broader product The business has seen a two-year compound growth rate of 63% clients to take advantage of changes in an assets price without range is now fully live in the UK, and weve introduced share trading owning the asset itself, and to use the same range of risk-mitigation to Australia.
Available only in the UK and Ireland, its a tax-free We believe that IG is well placed to disrupt the long-term alternative to trading, allowing clients to bet on the price movement Our digital 100s are a type of financial derivative with limited risk: investment market and further engage our clients enabling of an asset.
The size of a clients win or loss depends on the clients know exactly how much they can potentially gain or lose at us, over the longer term, to build a new revenue stream for our magnitude and direction of the price movement.
the outset, and cant lose more than they have on their account.
Weve been able to develop our offering extremely We are the UKs largest and longest-running spread A digital 100 is a simplified form of option that offers a yes no cost-effectively, by building on our existing technology, teams and 3 betting provider outcome over a specified time period.
If the trader makes the infrastructure, and by leveraging the established strength of our correct choice, they make a defined profit.
If they choose wrongly, 4 brand and marketing capabilities.
We hold 45% of the UK financial spread betting market they make no return and lose the amount required to open IG clients are able to access over 15,000 global financial markets We explain how spread betting works in the IG Services section the trade.
including shares, forex, indices, commodities and other instruments on IG.
Timeframes can vary from five minutes to daily, weekly or monthly, via market-leading platforms and apps that provide efficient, and we offer a wide range of markets.
As well as indices, forex and secure execution.
Share dealing, ISAs and SIPPs commodities, clients can trade on special markets such as political Our online, execution-only share dealing service is powered by the events and economic announcements.
same market-leading technology as our spread betting and CFD We offer a range of portfolios designed to suit different risk offering.
It enables self-directed clients to buy and sell over 9,000 appetites, each constructed from iShares exchange traded global shares and exchange traded funds ETFs, with extremely funds ETFs and including a blend of commodities, equities and competitive and transparent transaction fees.
They can also choose fixed-income assets designed to match the degree of caution or to invest within a tax-efficient ISA or SIPP wrapper, and theres an aggression desired by the client.
option to use stock portfolios as collateral for leveraged trading.
Our asset allocation strategy is devised in partnership with Launched in the UK in 2014, our share dealing offering has built BlackRock, the worlds largest asset manager.
We manage on our pedigree in the online leveraged trading sector.
As well as and rebalance the clients portfolio for the entire lifetime of providing our current spread betting and CFD clients with facilities the investment.
to place their non-leveraged portfolio with us, were now attracting Our research indicates a growing appetite among consumers for a completely new audience to IG.
Our share dealing service is also a product that enables them to build sophisticated baskets of available to clients in Austria, France, Germany, Ireland and the investments online, rather than to choose specific shares.
Netherlands, and in this financial year we introduced it to Australia as Share Trading.
The market in the UK for online, execution-only share dealing is 5 around ten times the size of the market for leveraged products Around 80% of clients opening share dealing accounts are new to IG 1 Based on revenue excluding FX published Financial Statements, October 2016.
2 Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances.
Tax law may differ in a jurisdiction other than the UK.
3 Based on number of active UK financial spread betting accounts Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report October 2016.
4 By number of active primary accounts.
All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited.
5 Based on numbers of consumers.
|| | 8 8 IG Gr IG Group Holdings plc oup Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 9
