Strategic Report Chairmans Statement Monks has had an excellent year, as you will see from this report.
end of April 2017 it had moved to 0.6%.
Since the year end the The weakness in Sterling contributed to the result, but the key to Company has occasionally traded at a small premium.
If a clear it was the performance of our new portfolio which was premium to NAV emerges, we may issue shares to satisfy the established two years ago.
Our managers have commented on demand from the market.
this as follows: Management Fee Our approach is to focus on a range of the worlds best We have agreed a new tiered management fee with effect from businesses and to hold them for several years, often through 1 May 2017.
The annual management fee payable to Baillie political and economic cycles and uncertainties.
The long-term Gifford & Co Limited is now 0.45% on the first 750m of total revenue and profit growth potential of our investments dominates assets and 0.33% on the remaining total assets as defined in our analysis, as opposed to guesswork surrounding variations in note 3 on page 39.
Previously the fee payable was a flat 0.45% global GDP, interest rates or politics.
Indeed, one of the strengths on total assets less current liabilities.
Applying the new which defines successful businesses is their ability to adapt and arrangement to the financial year to 30 April 2017, it is estimated evolve in the face of changing external circumstances, with the that the ongoing charge would have been reduced by best managers also having the ambition and vision to exploit new approximately 508,000.
The new fee arrangement was opportunities as and when they appear.
Such companies should instigated by our managers and ensures that shareholders benefit over time contribute greatly to social and economic development: from economies of scale.
The ongoing charge for the Companys they are the wealth creators and we as their shareholders can last financial year was 0.59%.
The bulk of our investments produced revenue and profit growth in line or ahead of our expectations The Board during the reporting period.
During the financial year under review, we welcomed Belinda Richards and Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt to the Board.
Belinda We are encouraged by the results that the implementation of the Richards is a former senior partner at Deloitte LLP with a thirty new approach has produced so far, but we note the caveat in the year career specialising in business operations and strategy Managers Report on page 4 that performance should be judged development with a particular focus on the Financial Services and over a period of at least five years.
Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt is Performance Principal of Jesus College, Oxford, Professorial Research Fellow In the year to 30 April 2017, the total return for the FTSE World in the Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford and Index was 31.0% while the Companys net asset value total return a visiting Professor of Artificial Intelligence at the University of NAV, with borrowings at fair value, was 40.0%.
He specialises in open data and artificial total return was greater at 53.9% because of the narrowing of the intelligence.
The Companys one year net asset value performance As a consequence of the increase in the number of Directors and ranked it third out of 23 AIC Global sector peer trusts.
with a view to giving flexibility for the future, we are seeking shareholder authority at the Annual General Meeting to increase Earnings and Dividend the Companys aggregate Directors fees limit from 200,000 to Earnings per share increased from 2.31p to 2.36p.
This aggregate level was last increased in recommending that a single final dividend of 1.25p should be paid 2003 and the Board has no intention of increasing the Directors for the year, compared to a total of 1.5p last year.
This is the fees this year.
minimum required to maintain the Companys investment trust status, reflecting our priority which is capital growth.
No interim Outlook dividend was paid during the year.
Despite the present political uncertainties, the global economy is enjoying its most rapid expansion for many years.
US consumer Borrowings and Gearing confidence is high, and the European economy is now recovering As advocates of the potential for strong real returns from equities strongly.
As long-term investors in growth, our portfolio managers over the long term, our managers will typically maintain a geared see many bright spots about which to be optimistic, based on position.
At present, we have agreed with them a gearing range of their analysis of the companies in our portfolio.
5% net cash to plus 10% invested in equities.
As at the financial year end, Monks equity gearing was 6.2%, which was unchanged Annual General Meeting over the year.
I hope shareholders will come to the Annual General Meeting, In addition to the 40m debenture that expires in 2023, the which will be held on Wednesday 2 August 2017 at 11.00 am at Company has a multi-currency revolving credit facility with the Institute of Directors see map on page 50.
The managers will National Australia Bank, of which US$87m is drawn at present.
give a short presentation and there will be an opportunity to ask questions and to meet them and the Directors informally.
Discount The discount has narrowed substantially over the last two years.
When the current team was appointed in March 2015 the James Ferguson discount when calculated with borrowings at fair value was 27 June 2017 14.3%: by end April 2016 it had narrowed to 9.5% and as at the Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
