CHAIRMANS STATEMENT OVERVIEW OUR PEOPLE AND OUR PRACTICES FY17 has been a transitional year for the Company and for We have made positive progress across the business as we our people, whom I would like to thank for their continued continue to strive to ensure that all of our people are treated commitment and loyalty.
Management stated our strategic with dignity and respect.
Following publication of the Working priorities in our H1 announcement as being our people: the Practices Report in September 2016, the Board and senior elevation of the Groups sports retail proposition towards our management have continued our comprehensive review of our long-term aspiration to make Sports Direct the Selfridges of arrangements for staff, both in stores and at our Shirebrook sports: and, improving stakeholder engagement.
As part of this work, we have launched a rolling initiative to capture staff feedback called Your Company, Your Voice.
FY17 Underlying EBITDA was down 28.5% to 272.7m, largely as This enables all of our people within the UK, along with agency a result of the devaluation of GBP and subsequent deterioration workers in Shirebrook, to raise any issues of concern or in the Groups gross margin, and the requirement to increase the suggestions for improvements.
All contributions are carefully Groups inventory provisions and onerous lease provisions over monitored so that early action can be taken where appropriate.
Underlying PBT was down 58.7% to 113.7m, and was Details of other measures, including a new staff Health & Safety further impacted by an increase in the depreciation charge as a Committee and a staff Wellbeing Service, are included elsewhere result of a change in capitalisation threshold, a reduction in the in this Annual Report.
A recent survey of workers in Shirebrook, useful life of certain assets, and the depreciation related to the to which 3,300 people responded, showed that an overwhelming Companys strategic property investment to elevate the sports majority of people in our warehouse currently feel they are treated retail business.
We have used the results of this survey to identify any areas that require further attention.
However, we recognise During the year, the Group generated free cash flow of 173.7m, there is no room for complacency and our work remains ongoing.
and undertook capital expenditure of 419.5m, including With this in mind, the Companys first UK Workers Representative, 317.0m in property acquisitions.
Net Debt increased from Alex Balacki, was elected by staff, and I have no doubt that Alexs 99.7m to 182.1m, mitigated by managements decision to contribution will prove invaluable to the Board as the Sports Direct divest some of its strategic investments during the period, which family continues to move forward together.
resulted in net proceeds on disposal of investments of 165.5m.
The Group maintains substantial financial resources and a strong BOARD & MANAGEMENT CHANGES balance sheet.
The Board appointed Mike Ashley as the Chief Executive, following the departure of Dave Forsey in September 2016.
I was pleased STRATEGY AND STRATEGIC PRIORITIES to note that Mikes appointment was positively welcomed by a The elevation of our retail proposition continues to be a key number of shareholders.
Our long-serving key staff members objective.
We have made good progress in laying the foundations Karen Byers and Sean Nevitt were promoted, to the roles of Global for this in the UK and elsewhere through the management of our Head of Operations and Global Head of Commercial respectively, property portfolio.
We continue to open more new generation alongside Mike in the senior management team.
In December, and flagship style stores to enhance our offering to customers we were pleased to appoint a new non-executive director, David and further improve our relationships with third party brands.
David brings to the Board over 30 years experience in terms of managements plans to change the Groups approach in investment and commercial banking.
In addition to the departure International Sports Retail, we have commenced developing more of Dave Forsey, FY17 saw the departure of Matt Pearson as tailored approaches to key local markets, and have begun initially Acting Chief Financial Officer.
We are pleased to have appointed implementing this in selected countries.
Jon Kempster as Chief Financial Officer CFO.
Jon will join the Company as CFO and an Executive Director on the Board Sports Direct and ASICS are excited to announce the formation on 11 September 2017.
Jon joins Sports Direct with a wealth of of a new strategic partnership in response to the ever changing public company experience in multinational organisations across demands of the running consumer in todays Sporting Goods multiple sectors, and has a strong track record of delivering marketplace.
The two businesses have been in dialogue over the operational performance transformation, corporate development last few months on how best to serve runners with a relaunch of and restructuring, strategy implementation and investor relations.
ASICS statement product offer within an ASICS managed space at Since period end, Claire Jenkins has stepped down as a NonSports Directs premium flagship stores which they aim to bring Executive Director and Dave Singleton has announced that he will to market in early Spring 2018.
This is an important step in Sports not stand for re-election at the AGM in September 2017.
Directs journey to being recognised as the Selfridges of Sport We were pleased to announce David Daly as a new Non-Executive and aims to build upon the retail brands most recent positioning Director.
Mr Daly will join the Board and the audit committee with as The Home of Football with a renewed focus on another effect from 2 October 2017.
David has 30 years international innovative performance sports category with great potential experience in the sporting goods industry working for Nike until for growth.
his retirement in 2015, most recently as Senior Director for Nikes Club and Federation Business based in Amsterdam.
42 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT We announced in January that a further 360 review of the The Board has decided not to pay a dividend this year.
Company, to include working practices and corporate governance, We will continue to keep this under review.
The Board ensures would be led by Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP RPC, who that sufficient capital is retained within the Group to meet its are legal advisors to the Company.
In FY17, this process primarily strategic objectives.
We continued to conduct our Share Buyback focused on our people, as set out above.
In terms of stakeholder Programme during the period, pursuant to the authority granted engagement, Mike Ashley and I have attended collective meetings to us at the 2016 AGM.
During the period to 30 April 2017 the with stakeholders on set dates in the financial calendar.
Details of Company has purchased 37,173,026 ordinary shares at a cost our current engagement policies are set out in our Engagement of 108,689,056 excluding purchasing costs and representing Statement on the Group website.
Meanwhile, an independent 5.80% of the issued share capital.
The maximum number of third party, NJMD Corporate Services Ltd, has carried out our trishares held in treasury by the Company during the period was annual Board evaluation and we intend to review the results in due 79,310,534 representing 12.38% of the issued share capital.
In relation to my own position, I did not receive support shares have been disposed of by the Company.
As at 18 July 2017 from a majority of independent shareholders who voted at the the Company has purchased an additional 31,702,877 ordinary 2016 AGM, and therefore I stood for re-election on 5 January shares at a cost of 93,482,879 excluding purchasing costs 2017, when I was re-elected.
I am grateful for the support that I and representing 4.95% of the issued share capital.
No shares received and I hope that the progress we have made over the last have been disposed of by the Company to this date.
The Group has 12 months will be taken into account by shareholders prior to the invested 317.0m in FY17 in property assets, consistent with our next shareholder vote at our AGM in 2017. announced intentions to invest in excess of c. 300m in property assets per annum over a 2 to 4 year period.
ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTMENT In respect of cash and borrowings, the Board regularly monitors The Group identified a number of strategic acquisitions and the ratio of net debt to underlying EBITDA, the working capital divestment opportunities.
This included continuing to capitalise requirements, and forecasted cash flows.
While no minimum upon international opportunities where they may arise.
In our or maximum ratios are set, following careful assessment, the FY17 H1 statement, the Group announced it had acquired Board has revised our objective of keeping the ratio of net debt the remaining 49% interest in Cacifo Comercio fide Artigos fide to underlying EBITDA, from 2.5x to 3x, in order to give the Group Desportos S. A. our sports retail business in Portugal.
Net debt to underlying EBITDA is currently 0.6x.
announced the acquisition of approximately 50 retail stores comprising Bobs Stores and Eastern Mountain Sports in the US, OUR ACHIEVEMENTS AND OUR VALUES which completed after the year end.
This acquisition will provide Finally, I feel it appropriate that I should conclude by recording the a footprint in US retail and a platform from which to grow US fact that 2017 sees the passing of ten years since Sports Direct online sales.
We also announced the divestment of the Dunlop became a public company.
During that time, we have helped to brand to Sumitomo Rubber Industries Ltd.
This was in line with change lives by paying our people around 320 million in share the elevation of sports retail, as it facilitates greater bandwidth bonuses and other rewards on top of their normal wages.
to develop our relationships with third party brands, and focus on We have also contributed over 1.8 billion towards the UK the other distinctive brands within the Group.
Over the same period, we have created LONG TERM INCENTIVES c. 4,800 new jobs in the UK, as the Sports Direct family has grown.
We have invested millions in our stores, which is increasingly The Groups Share Schemes are a key element to attract and being recognised by local councils for the rejuvenating effect that motivate employees.
With the 2015 Share Scheme having lapsed it has within communities.
in FY16, the Board and management team have been working to develop a new incentive scheme for the Group, and this remains I am also pleased to announce that Sports Direct has recently the case.
The final tranche of the Share Awards relating to our joined the Retail Trust, the leading staff welfare charity, which 2011 Share Scheme are due to vest in September this calendar enjoys the patronage of Her Majesty the Queen.
It is my firm belief year and will result in c. 14 million shares vesting to c. 2,000 that Sports Direct is a company of which Britain can rightly feel eligible participating employees.
As announced at FY17 H1, as very proud.
a result of the continued volatility in Sports Directs share price, the Company has decided to commit to delivering a minimum value for the Share Awards made under the 2011 Share Scheme.
QPM The minimum value will be fixed at 3 for each share awarded to Non-Executive Chairman participants and is designed to reduce the impact of recent share 19 July 2017 price volatility on the financial outcomes of our people.
If eligible employees choose to postpone vesting until 2018, the 3 minimum value will rise to 4.
