STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans statement SUCCESSFUL INTEGRATION Dividend Reflecting this performance and confidence in our long-term prospects, the board has recommended a final dividend of 24.4p, giving a total dividend for the year of 33.2p.
This represents growth of 3.6% compared to last year and continues the long-term track record of progressive dividends.
The board continues to target minimum dividend cover of around two times earnings.
People We have 44,000 talented and hard-working team members.
The continued success of the business during the Spirit integration demonstrates the effort they have put in over the last 12 months.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who has worked so hard during the last year helping us to deliver these results at the same time as completing the integration of Spirit ahead of schedule.
Board changes At the AGM in September 2016, Ian Durant retired from the board after In my first statement a year ago, I stated that Greene King was a strong nine years, latterly as chairman of the audit committee.
Rob Rowley took business with an excellent track record which, following the Spirit acquisition, over as audit chair at the same time.
In December 2016, Gordon Fryett was at an exciting time in its development.
A year on, this remains the joined the board bringing a wealth of experience of both retail and property case.
The team has worked extremely hard over the last two years on the through his career at Tesco.
I should like to record the boards thanks to integration, which has completed one year ahead of schedule.
This means Ian for his contribution to Greene King over such a critical period.
we can now give all our focus to pursuing opportunities to grow and take share, prioritising long-term value creation, while delivering continued strong cash generation and maintaining a robust balance sheet.
Ours is a strategically Looking ahead strong and well managed business which is positioned to address the We are excited about the opportunities we see in our core pub retailing tougher trading environment forecast for the next few years.
brands, where the results from our brand conversions are showing very positive sales uplifts.
We will continue with the programme over the coming years, ensuring our pubs remain attractive and relevant to our customers Overview as they face into the challenges that the economic uncertainties will We achieved another year of record results and market outperformance, undoubtedly bring.
driven by a good performance from the underlying business and an additional seven-week contribution from Spirit.
Group revenue grew 6.9% Within the pub sector, Greene Kings combination of brands, teams and to over 2.2bn, while operating profit before exceptional and non-underlying assets leaves us well placed to deliver long-term growth and returns to 1,2 items increased by 4.9% to 411.5m.
Profit before tax, exceptional and shareholders.
Uncertainty affecting both business and consumer confidence 1,2 non-underlying items grew 6.6% to 273.5m, leading to a 1.3% increase is likely to continue following the recent election and the unknown length 1,2 in adjusted earnings per share to 70.8p.
and outcome of the Brexit negotiations.
Alongside the rest of the industry, we are experiencing significant cost pressures but Greene Kings scale and the consequent cost efficiencies, not least from the Spirit integration, should enable us to mitigate much of the cost increases.
Our aim is to ensure that The team has worked Greene King emerges from the near-term period of uncertainty stronger than ever and I look forward to reporting on our progress towards this goal in a years time.
extremely hard over the last two years Philip Yea on the integration.
Adjusted measures exclude the impact of exceptional and non-underlying items Chief executives review page 12 asdetailed in note 5 of the financial statements.
The directors use a number of alternative performance measures APMs that areconsidered critical to aid understanding of the groups performance.
Corporate governance statement page 46 Keymeasuresare explained on page 127.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 5
