Strategic report Chairmans statement When we invest, financial discipline is paramount, and I am pleased to report that we have once again achieved all our financial targets, with our return on average capital employed at the top of our range, at 14.9 per cent, and I am delighted with this result.
Proposed acquisition in the US Today, DS Smith is announcing that it has entered into a conditional agreement to acquire 80 per cent of the total issued share capital of Interstate Management Resources, Inc for US$920 million plus assumed debt of c. US$226 million.
Interstate is a family-owned integrated packaging and paper producer concentrated on the East Coast of the United States, operating from 19 production sites and having approximately 1,500 employees.
There are detailed announcements available on our website.
I am delighted, because we have seen significant customer pull for our innovative packaging solutions in the US and are excited by the opportunity to grow and support our customers needs over a wider geographic area.
It is a further important step in our strategy, representing an attractive US market entry point and strengthening DS Smiths global supply chain, and we look forward to working with all Interstate stakeholders and contributing to the overall growth of DS Smith.
Dividend For the year 2016 17, the Board recommends a final dividend Performance of 10.6 pence, which together with the interim dividend of 2016 17 has been another year of delivery against all our targets 4.6pence gives a total dividend for the year of 15.2 pence per share and of growth by DS Smith.
We have grown the business both 2015 16: 12.8 pence per share.
This represents an increase of organically and by acquisition, and continued to invest in areas 19 per cent on the prior year and cover of 2.1 times in relation to where we see the greatest opportunities, such as display adjusted earnings per share before amortisation and exceptional packaging and e-commerce packaging.
items, in line with our policy.
In the past financial year, we have invested 85 million in targeted acquisitions, expanding our expertise and geographic coverage.
Delivering sustainable value All acquisitions are rigorously assessed against our financial Since May 2010, under current leadership, the business has criteria to ensure that they will deliver value to shareholders.
consistently delivered growth and returns.
Total shareholder These acquisitions follow on from the previous year when we return, which is a measure of growth in the share price combined expanded our businesses in Iberia and south eastern Europe with the benefit of reinvested dividends, has grown 483 per cent, substantially.
As those businesses have now been owned for considerably out-stripping the FTSE 250 at 129 per cent over around two years, it is gratifying to see that they are now an the same period.
Adjusted EPS has grown at a compound annual integral part of the overall DS Smith business.
We work hard to rate of 28 per cent over the same period, with the dividend per ensure that all colleagues understand from the outset how they share growingat 25 per cent.
and their work fits into the overall aims of the Group, and that can be seen from the excellent growth in those new regions.
Outlook On behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome colleagues who have joined in the year and to thank everyone throughout Total shareholder return from May 2010 DS Smith for their commitment over the past year.
That hard work has delivered these excellent results, with more customers than 483% 600 ever looking to DS Smith for their sustainable packaging solutions.
The Board has great confidence in the future.
500 400 300 129% 200 100 0 17 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Gareth Davis DS Smith Chairman FTSE 250 See page 46 for a Q&A with our Chairman, Gareth Davis Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 9 2017 at a glance Building a customer-focused international packaging solutions business DS Smith is a leading provider of corrugated packaging in Europe and of specialist plastic packaging worldwide, supported by paper and recycling operations.
In Europe our corrugated packaging business operates in UK four geographic segments.
Recycling and paper form an integrated part of our operations.
962m c. 4,900 Plastic packaging is a global business with manufacturing Revenue Employees sites in the US, in Europe and in Asia Pacific.
Its products are sold globally.
1 DCH and Northern Europe 37 989m c. 4,700 Revenue Employees countries worldwide 1 Germany and Switzerland Western Europe 9 27 1,264m c. 6,300 Revenue Employees Impact Centres PackRight Centres Central Europe and Italy 9 c. 200 1,239m c. 7,900 Revenue Employees packaging manufacturing sites paper mills Global consultancy and sourcing capability Plastics We have an independent packaging consultancy business, to help our customers make their packaging design work better for their brands by enhancing product utility and 327m c. 1,900 reducing environmental impact.
Our consultants offer a Revenue Employees global solution from offices based in the UK, Belgium, the US, India and China.
We also offer global sourcing support through our Total Marketing Support TMS operations for customers who seek a consistent approach from their packaging sourced in regions beyond DS Smiths current manufacturing footprint.
For a more in-depth look at our business see page 20 and the operating review on page 31 10 Strategic report 9 paper mills North America Asia Plastic packaging Corrugated packaging sales office in Packaging consultancy Shanghai, China services Packaging consultancy Europe services in India and Corrugated packaging HongKong Plastic packaging Plastic packaging Packaging consultancy in Thailand, Australia services and New Zealand Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
