19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 2 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Our investment policy is to protect and increase in that order the value of shareholders funds per share otherwise known as net asset value per share, or NAV over the long term.
To borrow a turn of speech from Mrs May, the long term means the long term.
We dont think of it as being over five years or even ten years.
To us, it means going back to 2000 or even to 1990, when Personal Assets became self-managed and so began its existence in its present form.
Since 30 April 1990, the NAV has risen at an annual compound rate of 7.5% compared to 5.1% for the FTSE All-Share Index and 2.9% for the RPI.
The rise in share price at an annual compound rate of 9.0% is because at 30 April 1990 the shares sold at a discount to NAV of 30.2%.
On 30 April 1990 Personal Assets share price, after adjusting for the 1 for 100 consolidation in January 1993, was 39.50 and its therefore pleasing although not particularly important to note that during April 2017 the share price touched an all-time high of 410.70, falling back slightly to end our financial year at 405.40.
Last year I mentioned that the Board was giving thought to how best to measure how we have performed in pursuit of our stated objective and then communicate the results to you, the owners of the Company.
The Board is still working on this, but for some years now we have ceased to use total return as a key performance indicator and in future we may drop it altogether from the Annual Report.
We have also become more sparing in the use of the FTSE All-Share and instead have highlighted the RPI as a measure of how we are succeeding in protecting the real value of shareholders funds.
To measure how Personal Assets protects and then, if possible, increases shareholders funds per share the Board looks at investment performance from two angles the result achieved, and the degree of risk accepted in achieving it.
The result achieved is shown in Key Features on page 1 while the degree of risk accepted is indicated in the bottom chart on page 10.
This shows how over the past seventeen years Personal Assets has been not only less volatile than UK equities in general but also less volatile than most investment trusts in the AIC Global Sector, in which we were included until December 2015, and the AIC Flexible Sector, in which we have been included since January 2016.
Last year I reported that as a result of the change in the Articles of Association to permit the Company to distribute realised profit as dividend the Board had been able to commit to paying the dividend at the present annual rate of 5.60 per share for the foreseeable future without interfering with the balance and composition of our investment portfolio.
In the year to 30 April 2016 we drew on realised profits for this purpose to the extent of 735,000.
I am pleased to report that in the current year the dividend has been fully covered by revenue earnings and we have been able to transfer 1,128,000 to reserves, thereby repaying the amount withdrawn from reserves last year.
During the year we bought 4,861 shares to be held in Treasury for a total consideration of 1.8 million and issued or sold from Treasury 220,146 shares for a total consideration of 87.6 million.
It is the policy of the Board that our shares should at all times be readily realisable by individual holders at as close as possible to their net asset value, and it is satisfying to report that since 8 November 1999, Discount Freedom Day, when investment trusts were empowered to use capital to buy back shares and hence to control the discount to net assets at which their shares sell, Personal Assets share price has risen almost exactly in line with shareholders funds per share while the number of shares outstanding has risen by more than five times, from 369,121 to 1,960,127.
In June last year the UK voted to leave the European Union.
Whatever one thinks of the decision itself, there is no denying that the stock market welcomed the result of the vote or, perhaps more accurately, it welcomed the fall in Sterling which it precipitated.
This June we face a General Election.
Anything can happen after a year which gave us Brexit and President Trump, and the Board is taking nothing for granted.
Last year I welcomed Jean Sharp to the Board and we have already benefited from her fresh thinking and incisive contributions to our debates.
This year we bid farewell to Stuart Paul, who is retiring after eight years as a Director.
Personal Assets owes him a great debt for his stimulating and provocative insights.
We shall miss him in our deliberations and we wish him well for the future.
