Strategic Report Section CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We ended our financial year with net assets of 1.25bn and the net assets per share rose by 56.1% portfolio will end.
After this date, the Company will only RESULTS pay best execution for transactions and research will be In my last year as Chairman, I am pleased to report on an extra cost.
We are in lengthy talks with the an excellent year for the global technology sector and a management company about how best to pay for it in the banner year for Ben Rogoff, our portfolio manager, and future.
For a rapidly evolving sector like technology the Investment team.
They managed to add value in all access to good research is vital so the team tend to pay a geographical regions and across all capitalisation high rate for research, much of which is provided by US bands, with the only slight detractor of holding some brokers.
So there are several hurdles to surmount prior cash, including Sterling, in front of the Brexit vote.
Shareholders can see on page 94 the ended our financial year with net assets of 1.25bn and brokerage costs which are paid in US Dollars, when the net assets per share rose by 56.1% versus a 53.4% translated in to Sterling at the exchange rates prevailing total return for the Benchmark in Sterling, but in local at the end of our financial years, show the combined cost currency terms the Benchmark rose by 35.5% due to its of purchases and sales was 2.3m 2.7m in 2016 of Dollar weighting.
Our share price mainly fluctuated in a which 1.5m was for research 1.8m in 2016. discount range of 2%6% with short lived extremes of a 2.5% premium and a 13.8% discount.
Towards the end of SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION our financial year the shares were trading on a premium We are witnessing an accelerating move to digital and we had the opportunity to issue just over 150,000 communications in all aspects of our lives and thus we new shares.
By ending the year very slightly above net continue to spend money on improving your website.
asset value versus a 6.5% discount at the previous year As digital forms of providing information to investors end the share price increased by 67.3%.
With our fairly have improved, so several companies have decided to recently tiered fee structure and spreading expenses stop printing their half year reports and instead are over a larger asset base our ongoing charges ratio directing their shareholders to reading the results on declined by 8.2% from 1.10% to 1.01%.
We have decided to follow this example about our results including the impact of Brexit and and so will not be printing our half year results for the President Trump can be found in the Managers report.
6months to 31 October 2017 but these will be posted on the website.
We will however continue to maintain the REGULATION printed version of the Annual Report for those I was hoping to bring you some positive news that the Shareholders who wish to receive it, and the enclosed dreaded MiFID II had been abandoned or at least letter explains what you must do if you prefer to have deferred for another year, but no such luck.
This piece apaper copy sent to you.
I would encourage all of EU led legislation is now scheduled to come into Shareholders to visit our website and look at the Annual force at the start of January 2018.
While it has the Report as well as the monthly factsheets and other laudable objective of providing investors with greater current information on your investment.
transparency in the costs of their investments it is not of universal application and will not apply to asset DIRECTORS managers in the USA, Switzerland et al, so could put I am delighted to welcome Tim Cruttenden to the Board European managers and investors at a disadvantage.
who joined us on 23 March when we held our annual Historically the cost of primary research, mainly strategy day.
He has extensive experience in early, mid provided by brokers, has been bundled into the and late stage venture capital fund investing and commission rates paid when we transact business and consequently has exposure to the possible Apples, included in the expenses borne by the Company.
The Facebooks and Googles of the future.
He is the Chief good news is that equity commission rates have been Executive of VenCap International plc which specialises steadily declining for many years and currently average in investing globally in top-tier venture capital funds.
0.12% versus the 1.65% in 1966 when I was a blue button.
The Board decided to advertise the position and With the arrival of MiFID II in January 2018 the current engaged an online Board level recruitment firm for this arrangements of bundling best execution and research appointment and our thanks should go to Sarah Bates in to a single cost for buying and selling shares in the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 08 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 We are witnessing an accelerating move to digital communications in all aspects of our lives and thus we continue to spend money on improving your website who suggested this route and volunteered to manage Many of you may know it from the other AGMs held there the process.
Tim comes up for election at the AGM and by investment trusts.
The proceedings will start at I would urge Shareholders to vote in favour as he will 2.30pm on 7 September 2016 with the usual lively be a valuable addition to the Board.
presentation by Ben Rogoff, followed by the formal business and afternoon tea.
I urge Shareholders not to Last year we had a thorough external review from miss this event, but if you do Bens presentation will be Lintstock of the Directors, Chairman, SID and the work of published on our website shortly afterwards.
Members the Board and its Committees.
This year we reverted to of the technology team and all the Directors will be our own internal review.
There are no major negatives to available to meet Shareholders and answer questions report but we decided that all independent Directors after the AGM.
would sit on all the Committees, the only exception being that the Chairman would not be a member of the Audit OUTLOOK Committee.
The continued appointment of Brian AshfordGlobal equity markets continue to grind upwards Russell as a Director is reviewed each year as he is not supported by modest growth, low inflation, ultra low considered independent of the Investment Manager, as he interest rates, and a lack of highly liquid alternatives was the Investment Manager until 2006, and has been a to earn a return on cash.
As you would expect from a Director since the formation of the Company in 1996.
The mature eight year old bull market, valuations look a independent Directors are unanimous in recommending bit stretched but still provide value relative to the that Brian should remain on the Board if he is willing to return available on government bonds.
His knowledge of the sector over many past cycles Shareholders are kept sweet by dividend increases and is difficult to match and he has a wealth of experience in share buybacks.
Even the relative political earthquakes how the sector performs within wider markets when it of Brexit and Trump have been digested and construed moves in and out of fashion.
So I frankly have no idea when we will see another recession or global financial catastrophe and, By the time you receive this report I will have been on with large and growing deficits and debt levels in most the Board for 10 years and six months, the last six years developed economies, politicians and central bankers as Chairman and I intend to retire from the Board at the are keen to keep interest rates and bond yields as low AGM in September.
My elevation to Chairman in 2011 as possible.
The technology sector continues to deliver was, in hindsight, incredibly fortuitous as there has been both superior sales and earnings growth without the an extended bull market ever since fuelled by post need for vast capital expenditure so the sector continues financial crisis Central Bank support and the Technology to be popular with general investors.
sector fulfilling the promise to transform our lives.
However my thanks are due to Richard Wakeling, the VALETE former Chairman, who had to endure the aftermath of the TMT boom and invited me to join the Board in 2007.
I should like to thank Shareholders, my fellow Directors I am handing the reins to Sarah Bates who is very well both past and present and the excellent team at Polar qualified to look after Shareholders interests having for your support and patience over the past ten years.
recently been Chairman of two investment trusts.
She is For me it has been a most enjoyable experience being also Chairman of St James Place, a FTSE 100 company.
a Director of this great investment trust and I send I cannot promise her such benign equity markets but everyone concerned my best wishes for the future.
like me she loves being on this Board and I am so grateful that she has agreed to accept the Chair.
AGM AND MANAGER PRESENTATION This year the AGM is being held at Trinity House, Trinity Michael Moule Square, London EC3N 4DH as our usual venue, the Chairman RAC, is refurbishing its main conference room.
Trinity 10 July 2017 House is located opposite the Tower of London and beside the entrance to Tower Hill tube station.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 09 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
