com stock code: NTG CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2017 has proved a challenging year for Dividend Northgate with a number of factors The Group remains in a strong financial impacting the Groups performance.
position, with healthy cash generation and During the year it became increasingly a robust balance sheet.
This underpins our clear that, notwithstanding the competitive progressive dividend policy and the Boards environment within which Northgate continued confidence in the outlook for operates, there are significant opportunities the Group means we are proposing a full for our business which need to be developed year dividend of 17.3p, an increase of 8% in a consistent and focused manner.
compared to the 2016 full year dividend of 16.0p.
This means a final proposed dividend Performance of 11.6p 2016 10.9p.
The Groups underlying profit before tax was 75m which represented a 10% decline on This gives a full year dividend cover of 2.7x the previous years 83m.
The performance on underlying earnings, in line with our of our UK business was disappointing with intention to keep cover in the range of underlying operating profits declining by 3.75x to 2.5x.
11.5m which represented a fall of 21% on Board changes the prior year.
We have taken a number of During the year we appointed Kevin actions to address this and these are set out Our core objective is to grow Bradshaw as our Group CEO.
Kevin in detail in the CEOs report.
Our Spanish has a background in both B2B and B2C and Irish businesses performed well and shareholder value and we organisations and he has a strong track continue to make excellent progress with record of developing businesses through will do this by developing a business good growth in vehicles on hire VOH clear strategic direction with a focus on and with the potential for further growth capable of delivering long term, consistent execution.
He previously led Avis in VOH, revenues and profits.
VOH grew UK and, more recently, was CEO of Wyevale by 2,200 in Spain and Ireland: in the UK sustainable and growing cash flows, Garden Centres, with both businesses there was a decline of 2,900 which was enjoying strong profitable growth under achieved through a disciplined particularly disappointing as we had his leadership.
anticipated a steadily improving pick up approach to deployment of capital during the second half of the year.
and a rigorous focus on execution.
Cash generation was strong with free cash flow of 43m.
This provides good scope to further expand our business, including ANDREW PAGE I CHAIRMAN our move into term hire, and also to return cash to our shareholders in the form of increasing dividends.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four The way forward Our people Our core objective is to grow shareholder I would like to record the Boards thanks to value and we will do this by developing a all of our 2,900 team members throughout business capable of delivering long term, Northgate.
They are the people who, day in sustainable and growing cash flows, and day out, make sure that our customers achieved through a disciplined approach to receive a superb service and we are most deployment of capital and a rigorous focus grateful to them.
Our touchstones will be cash Outlook flow and returns on investment.
Northgate is, fundamentally, a very good There is significant potential for Northgate business with a superb group of people with opportunities to develop the business and an infrastructure capable of supporting and grow revenues and profits.
With strong leadership, areas of our business we need to do better, clear strategic direction and a clear sense of with consistent and effective day to day purpose I believe that much can be achieved.
There is good demand for our The current year has started encouragingly, product and services and we intend to with some exciting prospects in the pipeline, harness this effectively through marketing and our team will be working hard to deliver clear customer propositions and ensuring we an improved performance.
meet or exceed our customers expectations.
Andrew Page There are also previously untapped market Chairman segments which we have the infrastructure and skill set to service and I am pleased to report that we are already starting to gain good traction in the term hire segment.
Under Kevins leadership, we anticipate a significant uptick in pace, sharper focus on consistent execution and improved strategic direction.
There is much to do at Northgate and significant opportunity to grow our businesses in the UK, Spain and Ireland.
