Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Executive Chairmans statement plan laid out five and a half years ago.
Micro Focus sets out to deliver The year ended 30 April 2017 was a significant year for the consistent long-term shareholder returns of between 15% and 20% per Group.
On 7 September 2016 the Company and Hewlett annum.
The board is confident that medium-term low single digit revenue Packard Enterprise HPE, announced that they had agreed growth, industry leading margins and strong cash conversion will ensure that that Micro Focus would acquire HPEs software business Micro Focus can deliver on that strategy.
These returns can be further enhanced segment HPE Software by way of merger Merger with by the appropriate deployment of capital in value enhancing acquisitions.
a wholly owned subsidiary of HPE incorporated to hold the The Company has a business strategy, a financial strategy, an operating plan business of HPE Software.
This major transaction is on track and an incentive strategy that all support our objective to achieve 15% to 20% to close at the beginning of September this year with the compound annual return for shareholders.
Since IPO in 2005 until 30 April 2017, listing of consideration shares on the London Stock Exchange the annual compound shareholder return over 12 years has been 29.3%.
LSE and the simultaneous listing of American Depositary Adjusted diluted earnings per share have grown from 14.23 cents in 2006 to 175.65 cents in 2017 and dividends per share have grown from 6 cents to Shares ADS on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE 88.06 cents with respective compound annual growth rates of 25.7% and Completion.
Micro Focus existing shareholders will also 27.7% respectively.
be entitled to receive a Return of Value which in total will be $500m that will be declared immediately prior to Completion.
When we announced the acquisition of TAG on 15 September 2014 we set out the four phase plan on page 4 for the combination of the businesses whilst This will create a global infrastructure software business with pro-forma continuing to deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
revenues in the 12 months to 30 April 2017 of approximately $4.4 billion and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of approximately $1.4 billion making it one of the The only changes to this original plan which are reected in the table on largest dedicated software companies in the world and a leading technology page 4 are that our detailed review concluded that the integration of systems stock on the LSE.
Following Completion we will align our financial year end supporting the new business will extend throughout the four year period to 31 October and will initially report an 18 month financial period ending and the rationalization of legal entities will extend through FY17 and beyond.
This will enable us to launch the new Companys financial This has now been superseded by the plan to adopt new systems being year with effect from 1 November 2017. implemented in HPE Software.
This software stack will give us one of the most up to date system stacks in the industry and serve as a scale platform During the year ended 30 April 2017 the Micro Focus business traded in line for further Mergers and Acquisition M&A integration.
with the expectations we had set at the beginning of the year.
This was achieved during a year of significant change and distraction as we: We have set out a new four phase plan on page 4 for the combination of the Micro Focus and HPE Software businesses whilst continuing to deliver Completed the acquisition of Serena Software Inc. Serena together sustainable shareholder returns.
with three other smaller acquisitions: The acquisition of HPE Software may delay the return to revenue growth as we Integrated Serena into the Micro Focus Product Portfolio: consolidate the HPE Software products.
As with prior transactions we expect HPE Softwares revenue trend to continue its historical decline until significant Entered the FTSE 100 on 6 September 2016: change has been implemented.
This integration will be delivered by the four year plan that will consolidate and strengthen the combined business, with the Became the spin merge partner for HPE Software: goal of delivering modest revenue growth in the medium-term as well as underpinning our margin improvement objectives.
Began to work on the plan for integrating HPE Software: We are building a strong platform with the addition of HPE Software.
Completed required regulatory lings in the UK, USA and elsewhere: Once we achieve our target cash conversion ratio for the Enlarged Group of 90% to 95% we will generate significant free cash ows from which we can Renanced the Companys existing debt: and deliver significant returns of value to our shareholders and or further highly accretive acquisitions.
Raised new banking facilities to enable the Completion of the HPE Software transaction and the Return of Value.
Following our integration review in 2015 we decided that the Group should operate two product portfolios, Micro Focus and SUSE, and have reported the We have believed for some time that there are significant segments of the business this way since 1 May 2015. infrastructure software market that have matured.
The response to this is consolidation.
To be successful in this stage of a market both operational Since April 2011, I have held the roles of both Chairman and Chief Executive effectiveness and scale are critical.
We believe that Micro Focus is now officer CEO.
In December 2015 we announced that effective from well positioned to lead in this space.
1 February 2016, I would be Executive Chairman and that Stephen Murdoch and Nils Brauckmann would become CEO of Micro Focus and CEO of SUSE There is a clear customer requirement for a company that can innovate and respectively.
Stephen and Nils discuss the operating performance of their extend the life of mature software assets.
respective portfolios for the year completed in the CEO reports.
Like the Attachmate Group TAG and Serena acquisitions, the combination with HPE Software has clear business logic to extend Micro Focus market presence in mature infrastructure software segments: to increase the operational efficiency of the combined Group: to deliver effective product management focused on customer centred innovation and improve sales productivity.
It is 100% consistent with the Companys strategy which, as you will see in the following pages, has not had any significant changes from the Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 03 Executive Chairmans statement continued Our original four phase plan FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 Phase 4: Growth Phase 3: Actions: Stabilization T op line growth Phase 2: S tandardize systems Actions: Integration Rationalize Legal entities Stabilize top line Phase 1: Improve GTM productivity Actions: Assessment Growth from new areas S tandardize systems I mproved profitability Rationalize Properties Actions: S tandardize systems Rationalize Legal entities Deliver plans for FY15 Rationalize Legal entities New Go to Market Detailed review of GTM model combined businesses Maintain improve cash Invigorate Product conversion Management R ationalize underperforming elements New market initiatives Our new four phase plan FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 Phase 4: Growth Phase 3: Actions: Stabilization T op line growth Phase 2: Click and repeat!
Actions: Integration Stabilize top line Phase 1: Improve GTM productivity Actions: Assessment Growth from new areas S tandardize systems I mproved profitability Rationalize Properties Actions: S tandardize systems Rationalize Legal entities Deliver plans for FY17 Rationalize Legal entities New Go to Market Detailed review of GTM model combined businesses Maintain improve cash Invigorate Product conversion Management R ationalize underperforming elements New market initiatives 04 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Our Business Model strong and established technology franchises As the Linux market and Open Source business have unique characteristics, we have a dedicated focus on the SUSE Product Portfolio.
This focus is essential if we are to capitalize on the growth potential of these offerings and be responsive to the Open Source community and strong heritage of SUSE.
In 2017 we continued to increase the headcount dedicated to development, customer care and sales and marketing of the SUSE Portfolio and made the first acquisitions in this product portfolio.
This investment has delivered revenue growth ahead of the market and so we will be further increasing this investment in 2018.
Micro Focus specializes in managing mature infrastructure software assets which have been delivering value to significant numbers of customers over long periods of time.
Our product portfolios have some or all of the following attributes: 1.
Broad based covering all industrial sectors 2. significant numbers of customers 3. significant maintenance streams 4.
Relatively high switching costs 5. significant market positions In any IT system the customers business logic and data remain critical to their competitive advantage.
The key is unlocking this competitive advantage through exploitation of the latest technology innovation such as OpenStack, Software-dened Distributed Storage, mobility, big data, virtualization and cloud.
All of this needs to be done with the appropriate security to ensure customer data, company data and intellectual property are protected at all times.
Typically customers would be forced into costly, disruptive and risky change to make this possible but with Micro Focus, customers can take a different approach that we characterize as bridging the old and the new.
We focus on Customer Centred Innovation that enables customers to exploit new technologies without undue disruption.
By enabling our customers to link their investments in established technology with the latest innovation, Micro Focus helps customers gain incremental returns on investments they have already made and to preserve and protect their data and business logic.
The most striking example of this is that an application written in Micro Focus COBOL 40 years ago before anyone had thought of Linux, Windows, virtualization, cloud or wireless communications will work today in all of those environments.
Micro Focus has made this a reality.
By contrast, if a COBOL application had been rewritten in another language, to execute in Java or.
NET the customer would have to undertake additional incremental re-writes and incur significant costs every time there was a major technology change.
Our acquisitions broaden the range and depth of our core infrastructure software solutions and bring outstanding new capabilities in Linux, OpenStack Cloud Infrastructure and security, the combination of which enables us to further extend the philosophy of bridging the old and the new across much more of our customers I. T. footprint.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05 Executive Chairmans statement continued Current portfolio underpinning the business model with clear execution and investment discipline The typical stages of a product life cycle are from new product introduction through to high growth to broad adoption and maturity, to decline and ultimately obsolescence.
Product Lifecycle Micro Focus area of primary focus Customer Focused Innovation Potential change in trajectory Me too return to growth models Reduce rates of decline New tech models Introduction Growth Maturity Decline Nature of software Nature of software Innovative and often disruptive technologies Infrastructure software: embedded products with high switching costs High capex and R&D Limited growth capex User base rapidly expanding products repeatedly enhanced Margin expansion and efficiency opportunities Investment strategy and valuation Investment strategy and valuation Investing in growth valuation and returns Returns driven by maximising cash ow Rich valuations Lower valuations Micro Focus is a software company focusing on operational efficiency and scale to lead consolidation in the mature infrastructure software market When considering investment priorities, both organic and inorganic, we evaluate our options against a set of characteristics mapped to each stage of this adoption cycle enabling the categorization of our product portfolio into one of the four quadrants represented in the chart FOUR-BOX MODEL.
Portfolio management New Models Growth Drivers Products or consumption models cloud and subscription that open new Products with consistent growth performance and market opportunity opportunities could become growth drivers or represent emerging use to build the future revenue foundations of the Group.
cases that we need to be able to embrace.
Optimize Core Products with declining revenue performance driven by the market or Products that have maintained broadly at revenue performance but execution where the trajectory must be corrected to move back to the represent the current foundations of the Group and must be protected core category or investments focused to optimize long-term returns.
06 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Our approach to each category is summarized below: In addition to strengthening and developing our strong franchises across the product portfolio, we are uniquely positioned to help customers solve key New Models: here our focus is on identifying new innovation in the challenges as they seek to be more effective, more competitive and more marketplace that is applicable to our core and growth driver propositions.
Decades of technology innovation has opened up tremendous This is the case where new innovation is needed to connect or leverage opportunities for companies in almost every market but typically this has existing IT or application assets to deliver returns or open new opportunities.
resulted in very complex IT environments.
Most organizations operate An example of this is Silk Performer Cloudburst, a cloud based infrastructure and applications which have emerged over time, often years implementation of our highly successful on premise Silk Performer product.
apart, such that core legacy platforms sit alongside distributed systems, This combination enables customers to execute a hybrid on premise cloud which more recently have been extended further again with web, cloud solution ensuring day-to-day operations are handled effectively on premise and mobile technologies.
but offering broadly unlimited additional capacity as and when needed to support business operational peaks, underpinned by the exibility and ease This is set to continue as todays business environment is characterized by of use of a common solution in both cases.
In SUSE our investments in unprecedented levels of change.
Companies need to embrace this change OpenStack Cloud Infrastructure and Software-dened Distributed Storage in a way that protects their most prized assets their intellectual property: are also clear examples.
their business logic: and their business data.
Growth Drivers and Core: this represents the majority of our revenue Our core objective is to deliver consistent shareholder and investment focus.
We look to identify critical technologies that have returns of 15% to 20% over the long-term delivered significant value for customers and where the costs and risks The underlying premise behind Micro Focus business strategy is that the of replacement or re-write are high and the returns from such activities Company should consistently and over the long-term deliver shareholder are questionable.
We determine how to enable these technologies for the returns of at least 15% to 20% per annum.
To deliver this objective the latest IT innovations whether new operating environments such as Linux, Company has adopted an operational and financial strategy underpinned OpenStack, JAVA or.
NET or new use cases such as the cloud or mobile.
by consistent and effective management and reward systems.
This strategy For example, Visual COBOL enables customers to take COBOL applications is capable of execution over the long-term.
forward with confidence into the next phase of IT industry innovation, specically cloud and mobile, whilst protecting their investments in The Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange on 12 May 2005 at business logic and data built up through prior investments.
Security is a a price of 130 pence and in the year ended 30 April 2006 Diluted Adjusted major focus area for customers as they seek to balance being open and EPS was 14.23 cents and total dividends for the year of 6 cents per share was accessible to their customers with the need to protect condential data declared.
In the year ended 30 April 2017 Diluted Adjusted EPS is 175.65 cents and intellectual property.
Through our suite of identity, access and security and the proposed full year dividend is 88.06 cents representing a compound solutions we offer industry leading capabilities to help customers nd this annual growth rate of 25.7% and 27.7% respectively.
These capabilities span multiple portfolios and significant opportunities for leverage and cross portfolio synergies exist.
Dividends paid on our shares since the IPO to 30 April 2017 have totaled 228.64 pence 350.21 cents and in addition since January 2012 we have Optimize: as the I. T. landscape shifts in response to new opportunities made four Returns of Value totaling 215 pence per share.
On 30 April 2017 or challenges some technologies require repositioning or to be re-focused our share price had increased to 2,588 pence.
A shareholder who invested at to identify and exploit remaining or new growth potential.
This requires the time of the IPO and had reinvested the Returns of Value would have grown much more granular analysis and targeted investment.
Our model forces their investment by 2,167% which is a compound annual return of 29.3%.
Inevitably, some technologies eventually approach end of life In addition the Company has announced that there will be a Return of Value as some customers replace them with new solutions.
For the remaining of $500m payable to existing Micro Focus shareholders on the register customers they still represent significant value.
Our approach is to continue immediately before closing the HPE Software transaction.
to offer exible commercial and support models to enable customer access to the intellectual property and capabilities of these technologies for On 28 March 2011, on the back of two profit warnings and poor performance extended periods, again ensuring protection of customer investment for in the year ended 30 April 2011, the Company announced a share buy-back as long as possible technically and commercially.
The closing share price on 25 March 2011, the day before the announcement, was 308.6 pence and the dividends received since IPO at that Within this overall portfolio we have some products that are growing time were 43.56 pence.
The annual rate of return for the shareholder from IPO signicantly and others that are stable or in decline.
Our business model to 25 March 2011 was 18.5% per annum.
The Companys market capitalization means the way we manage the portfolio is analogous to a fund of funds with on that date was 635.0m and by 30 April 2017 this had increased to 5,944.0m.
the objective of generating moderate growth over the medium-term, delivering high levels of profitability and strong cash generation and cash conversion ratio The Company made cash returns to shareholders during this period of with a balanced portfolio approach.
We will continue to focus investment in 764.9m, consisting of share buy-backs of 65.0m, ordinary dividends of growth and core products and will not dispose of declining products unless 360.3m and Returns of Value of 339.6m.
These cash returns represent we can achieve greater than the discounted cash ow they would generate 120.5% of the market capitalization of the Company on 25 March 2011 and in our ownership.
the annual compound return for shareholders from that date to 30 April 2017 is 29.3% per annum.
Micro Focus intends to remain a high growth company in terms of returns to shareholders.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 07 Executive Chairmans statement continued Adjusted diluted earnings per share and dividend per share in cents 175.65 146.70 129.43 97.48 88.06 84.87 70.93 66.68 56.07 53.81 48.40 44.00 40.32 40.00 31.27 31.60 23.72 23.40 21.80 16.00 14.23 13.00 10.00 6.00 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 CAGR FY2006 to FY2017 Adjusted diluted EPS 25.3% Dividend per share 27.7% Our performance in the year Operational strategy to deliver our core objective Micro Focus Group delivered revenues and Underlying Adjusted EBITDA Operational excellence of $1,380.7m and $640.9m respectively 2016: $1,245.0m and $532.5m.
Micro Focus has set out to be the most effective company at managing a On a pro-forma constant currency pro-forma CCY basis the revenue portfolio of mature infrastructure software assets.
This shows in our industry reduced by 0.9% which is just above the mid-point of the guidance range leading EBITDA margins and our strong cash conversion.
We believe that our given at the beginning of the year and re-confirmed at the interims.
proven ability to execute not only delivers significant amounts of cash and consequently great exibility, but also a competitive advantage in the Our net debt at 30 April 2017 was $1,410.6m and represents a multiple of acquisition of other similar assets as demonstrated this year.
2.1 times Facility EBITDA of $673.4m, against our target of 2.5 times.
The aims of our portfolio focus and operational strategy are: We would like to thank our employees for their continued dedication, commitment and hard work in delivering the full year results.
Revenue growth: For the year ended 30 April 2017 bonuses will be paid to executive 2.
Operating leverage: and management and non-commissioned staff in Micro Focus in line with the improvement in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of the Group on a pro-forma CCY 3. significant cash generation.
basis excluding the impact of in year acquisitions.
Staff bonuses will be paid at 45.0% of their on target amount reecting a 4.5% increase in Underlying Our key areas of operational focus in order to deliver single digit revenue Adjusted EBITDA of Micro Focus on a CCY basis excluding the impact of growth to achieve our core objective are Financial Discipline in M&A, in-year acquisitions.
Executive Management received the same percentage.
Go-to-Market GTM including indirect channels and Product Development.
Non-commissioned staff fully aligned with SUSE, were targeted 50% on improvement in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of the Group on a CCY basis excluding the impact of in year acquisitions and 50% on delivery of Annual Contract Value ACV growth targets in SUSE.
Their bonus payment is 75.5% of their on target amount, reecting stronger than targeted achievement in the ACV component.
The amount charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the Corporate Bonus plan in the actual results for the year ended 30 April 2017 was $20.8m 2016: $45.6m.
08 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information At the time of the TAG acquisition shareholder approval was obtained for an Financial discipline, mergers and acquisitions M&A Additional Share Grant ASG of up to 5,412,240 ordinary shares, representing Micro Focus has a strong financial discipline around the uses of cash.
The a maximum of 2.5% of the enlarged Groups share capital at announcement Company has a base case model that estimates the returns to shareholders which could be awarded to up to 15 senior managers in the 18 months from organic execution and the return of excess cash.
This gives a sound basis following Completion.
The performance period expires on 1 November 2017 on which to evaluate M&A where any acquisition contemplated would need and vesting is dependent upon shareholder return of between 50% and 100% to generate a risk adjusted return greater than the base case.
Successful over the performance period, with straight-line vesting of the ASG between execution of M&A has been instrumental in achieving an annual compound 50% and 100% of shareholder return.
total shareholder return of 29.3% since IPO compared to a base case target of 15% to 20%.
The TAG and Serena acquisitions demonstrate this strong As at 30 April 2017 ASGs are outstanding over only 3,262,420 ordinary discipline and the returns that are achievable.
shares granted to seven senior managers representing 1.4% of the voting rights of the Company at 30 April 2017.
As it is more than 18 months since the Industry and market dynamics mean that there are significant numbers of Completion of the acquisition, no further ASGs relating to TAG will be made.
potential assets that could t with our business model.
These are either: This means that if, at the date of vesting, the share price is a minimum of 1,490.27 pence per share or more, then 100% of the shares granted would 1.
Bolt-on transactions like those completed in FY13, FY14, FY16 and FY17: become exercisable.
This is based on the current dividend per share of 148.58 pence for the relevant period.
2. significant transactions such as Serena in FY17: or The ASG was essential to the delivery of value and has proven to be a very 3.
Transformational deals such as the acquisition of TAG in FY15 and effective incentive from a shareholder perspective.
Shareholders voted to HPE Software.
repeat this scheme for the HPE Software transaction which received 99.98% support at the general meeting on 26 May 2017.
If successfully executed, the Each year the world of IT gets another year older and we should remember plan will deliver approximately an increase in shareholders investment of that IT is still a relatively young industry.
Whilst the vast majority of companies 7.9 billion including ordinary dividends for full vesting of the ASG from the will choose to focus on the new and exciting: we believe that there will be an base price of 1,817 pence per share.
increasing opportunity to help clients derive value from their existing and often highly complex IT investments.
As we look to the consolidation of the market the Company will be at a disadvantage to US listed companies and private equity rms when negotiating Since the Completion of the TAG acquisition, the Company continues to acquisitions if it is not free to negotiate appropriate management compensation.
receive significant numbers of approaches from owners of companies who would be interested in becoming part of the larger Group.
Key performance indicators to check that we are on track are Underlying Adjusted EBITDA absolute amount and growth percentage, cash conversion GTM and Product Development are covered in the CEO reports.
absolute amount and conversion percentage, free cash ow and earnings per share.
Linkage of management incentive to shareholder returns Delivering value to shareholders Micro Focus has deployed a simple model to link management incentives The board has adopted a very clear plan of value creation.
to the delivery of shareholder returns.
This model has worked successfully in motivating management to deliver exceptional returns to shareholders and Our priority is to improve the performance of the business in order to maximize is well understood and supported by our investment manager population.
the opportunity to generate modest revenue growth in the medium-term.
At the same time we have created exibility to allow value creation to shareholders The annual cash bonus applies to all members of staff in Micro Focus through cash distributions or acquisitions as appropriate.
We deliver value to excluding those on sales incentives.
If the Groups Underlying Adjusted our customers through customer centred innovation.
We will do nothing that EBITDA is no greater than the prior years CCY comparative at budgeted will constrain our ability to achieve organic growth and we are currently exchange rates there is no bonus.
The bonus for executive directors and investing significant amounts on activities designed to enhance growth.
operating committee members is maximized on achieving 10% growth over the prior year CCY Underlying Adjusted EBITDA with a straight line between The TAG and HPE Software transactions are transformational in terms of the two points and for other staff there is no maximum.
The staff neither the size of the Group from an operating point of view.
It involves the type of benets nor loses from elements outside of their control such as exchange transformation that many companies would have said that they needed to rates with the board taking a view that these items balance out over the go private to achieve out of the public eye.
The board and management of business cycle.
In year acquisitions are not included for bonus purposes.
Micro Focus believe that it is quite possible to do this on the public market and deliver the resulting increase in value to existing shareholders.
The board sees no value in bonuses being based on soft or non-financial measures as evidence would suggest that these tend to serve to increase The HPE Software transaction was also transformational in terms of market bonuses to levels not merited by financial performance.
Such targets are best capitalization.
The day before the announcement of the transaction Micro Focus achieved by executives managing and having appropriate management and had a market capitalization of 4,480.7m which had increased to 5,944.0m control systems in place.
This increased scale drew the attention of a new set of public company institutional investors and also meant that some existing institutional The normal stock plan starts to vest at EPS annual growth over the investors would be unable to hold their investments as we had become too big.
performance period of RPI plus 3%, with maximum vesting at RPI plus 9%.
We will also list in the USA, through an ADS, which further expands With RPI per annum over the three years to 30 April 2017 of approximately Micro Focus relevant investor base.
1.9% full vesting required 10.9% growth in EPS and dividend yield of approximately 3% this means that full vesting is aligned to lower end of the overall objective of 15% to 20% shareholder returns.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09 Executive Chairmans statement continued Working with our brokers, Numis Securities, we set about establishing a Steve Schuckenbrock and Tom Virden both resigned as Directors of significant increase in our investor relations and outreach to the HPE Micro Focus, effective 25 April 2017, to ensure that the composition of the shareholder base.
Following this activity approximately 30% of the Companys board remained in line with the UK corporate governance code and met the shares are now held in North America.
requirements of the Merger Agreement.
We would like to thank Steve and Tom for their significant contributions to Micro Focus.
The board continues to target a net debt to Facility EBITDA multiple of approximately 2.5 times.
This is a modest level of gearing for a company with Stephen Murdoch remains CEO of Micro Focus until Completion and will the cash generating qualities of Micro Focus.
We are confident that this level then become COO and simultaneously step down from the board.
Stephen of debt will not reduce our ability to deliver growth, invest in products and or will remain a key member of the management team going forward and was make appropriate acquisitions.
As the integration of the businesses continues instrumental in operationalizing our FOUR-BOX MODEL during the integration the board will keep the appropriate level of debt under review.
We would like to thank him for his contributions as a board member and his continued commitment to Micro Focus as COO.
In order to complete the acquisition of HPE Software the Company has extended its revolving credit facility from $375.0m to $500.0m, renanced its We welcome the new members of our board and biographical details of all term loan debt of $1,515.2m with an improved repayment prole and raised board members are available on pages 52 and 53. new term loan debt of $3,485m to complete the transaction and make the Return of Value.
Outlook Following completion of the acquisition of HPE Software, the Group intends to At 30 April 2017 we had net debt of $1,410.6m representing a net debt to align its financial year end to 31 October and will report an 18 month financial Facility EBITDA of 2.1 times.
On closing of the HPE Software transaction net period ending 31 October 2018.
Assuming the transaction remains on schedule, debt will be approximately $4.6 billion representing approximately 3.3 times net the first six months will comprise six months of the current Micro Focus business debt to pro-forma Facility EBITDA for the 12 months ended 30 April 2017. and two months of the HPE Software business.
There will then be a full 12 months trading of both businesses.
The board has adopted a dividend policy of being two times covered by the adjusted earnings of the Group.
This policy has delivered a proposed second We anticipate revenues for the current Micro Focus Group business for the interim dividend of 58.33 cents 2016: 49.74 cents per share, which represents six months to 31 October 2017 will be broadly at on the comparative period.
a 17.3% increase on last years final dividend and gives a total proposed In anticipation of the impending integration of the Micro Focus and HPE dividend for the year of 88.06 cents per share 2016: 66.68 cents, an Software businesses in November we have put on hold any operational increase of 32.1%.
changes in the existing Micro Focus business.
We will provide guidance for the combined 12 month period to 31 October 2018 when we report in January The dividend will be paid in Sterling equivalent to 45.22 pence per share, 2018 on the Groups performance in the six months ending 31 October 2017. based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.29, the rate applicable on 11 July 2017, the date on which the board resolved to pay the dividend.
The dividend will be Having delivered 12 years of approximately 29.3% compound annual returns paid on 25 August 2017 to shareholders on the register at 4 August 2017. to investors we believe we have a strong operational and financial model that can continue to scale and provide excellent returns to our shareholders.
Board changes and succession planning At the Completion of the HPE Software transaction the board has announced that Chris Hsu will become CEO and Stephen Murdoch will become Chief Operating officer COO.
Nils Brauckmann will continue as CEO of SUSE.
To ensure delivery of the integration the board has agreed that I will remain Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman until the announcement of the first full year results after Executive Chairman Completion.
This is currently expected to be January 2019.
17 July 2017 During the year there were a number of other board changes which arose due to the conditions of the agreement to acquire HPE Software Merger Agreement.
Effective 15 May 2017, Silke Scheiber and Darren Roos joined the board as two of the three independent Non-Executive Directors nominated by HPE pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Upon Completion, John Schultz, the Executive Vice President and General Counsel of HPE, will join the board as the Non-Executive Director nominated by HPE.
The board has determined that Mr Schultz will not be independent.
In addition, Chris Hsu, who will become CEO of Micro Focus upon Completion, will join the board at that time.
An additional independent Non-Executive Director nominated by HPE and to be approved by the Micro Focus Nomination Committee, is expected to be appointed after Completion.
10 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
