Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans introduction and compliance statements Good governance is essential for enabling ourBoard to operate effectively in the leadership of the Group and in promoting the success of the Company inthe long term.
Paul Walker Chairman Introduction Leadership On behalf of the Board, I am pleased Our focus on improving the quality topresent Halma's Corporate and performance of Halma's Governance Report.
This Report management team continued aimsto provide shareholders and other throughout 2016 17.
Senior stakeholders with an appreciation of management appointments have how our Group is managed and the beenmade in a number of key areas governance and control framework tosupport Halma's growth strategy, inwhich Halma operates.
Good including sector talent, M&A, governance is essential for enabling communications and strategic ourBoard to operate effectively in development in Asia Pacific.
theleadership of the Group and in promoting the success of the At Board level, we promoted Jennifer Companyin the long term.
Ward in September 2016, to an expanded role and main Board position Our culture of openness, transparency, of Group Talent and Communications constructive challenge and support, Director.
In October 2016, Jo Harlow facilitates management in embedding joined the Board as a non-executive our governance and control procedures Director.
Jo offers complementary and throughout the business.
new skills to our Board and her global experience in innovation, product The Board is committed to maintaining development and marketing has been the highest standards of corporate particularly valuable.
As I highlighted governance and this Report sets out inlast year's Report, Carole Cran how we have applied the main assumed the role of Chairman of the principles and relevant provisions of the Audit Committee in July 2016 and UK Corporate Governance Code 2014. successfully led a competitive audit tender process during the year.
68 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 At Executive Board level, Paul I believe that we continue to have the Halma's business model is set out on Simmons was promoted to Sector right balance of skills, experience and pages 4 and 5 and an explanation of Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety, knowledge on our Board to deliver the strategy and longer-term following Nigel Trodd's retirement.
strong leadership, to make clear and objectives of the Company is Wealso created a new Executive effective decisions and to harness the contained within the Strategic Board position of Chief Innovation and open and transparent culture which Reporton pages 1 to 67.
Digital Officer to assist our businesses encourages our businesses to be in the development and execution of innovative and entrepreneurial.
Board priorities digital strategies and support them Our priorities for 2017 18 are to: inadvancing innovation.
The search Compliance statements focuson delivering a robust process for this position has now Throughout the year ended 1 April performance across all sectors concluded and Inken Braunschmidt is 2017, the Company has complied with duringa time of political and economic joining the Group in July 2017 from the provisions as set out in the UK change in many regions: build on the innogy SE, a renewables energy Corporate Governance Code 2014 foundations we have established with company spun out of RWE in 2016. acopy of which is available on the talent and innovation: continue to Financial Reporting Council's website encourage our businesses to innovate, I am proud of our achievements at www.
The Group's collaborate and seek out opportunities ongender diversity at Board level approach to risk management and that keep pace with digital andam mindful of theneed to internal control is set out on pages developments: and seek acquisition increase ethnic and cultural 20to 21. opportunities in new and existing diversityat a senior level.
markets which complement our The Directors confirm that they strategy and portfolio and can Biographies for each of the Directors consider the Annual Report and deliverthe growth that we expect.
and for the Executive Board are Accounts, taken as a whole, to be setout on pages 70 to 72.
You can fair, balanced and understandable and read about our progress in talent provides the information necessary development and diversity in the Our forshareholders to assess the Paul Walker People section on pages 52 to 55.
Company's position and performance.
Chairman 13 June 2017 How the Board supported strategy Governance at Halma, like its business model, is ingrained in the operating culture throughout the organisation and within the Board of Directors.
With a model that has had great success in terms of consistent dividend growth and financial performance, the Board has not needed to oversee any large scale changes but has not been complacent and has continued to improve the discipline around its processes and procedures to ensure that they are fitting for a company that is near thetop of the FTSE 250.
Strategy The Boards governance role What we have achieved The Board has set a clear strategy for Our autonomous, but supportive, business 1 growth and provides businesses with the model has enabled our Process Safety sector necessary resources and support to enable companies to respond rapidly to changing 4 grow 2 them to contribute to the Group's growth market conditions and to diversify into new objective.
markets, while maintaining a presence in the 3 oiland gas markets.
The Board monitors the diversity of the The increase in M&A resource within the sectors 1 Group's portfolio of businesses to ensure during 2016 17 has enabled the Group to build that proposed acquisitions or new market more relationships and explore more opportunities 4 acquire 2 niches of strategic interest complement to collaborate with other businesses, which will the strategic objectives of the Group.
assist us in securing appropriate acquisitions to 3 support our growth objective.
The Board empowers local management Our biennial HITEx conference, which 1 to operate with relative autonomy, within encourages innovative thinking and a clear structured governance framework collaboration between our businesses, was empower 4 2 that provides the necessary tools and attended by over 200 of our business leaders, guidance without stifling the agile and providing our companies with the tools and 3 entrepreneurial approach that underpins insight that they will need to adapt their Halma's business model.
respective businesses quickly to changes in this digital age.
The Board recognise that part of Halma's Investment in developing new products and 1 fundamental strength is derived not services in existing and adjacent markets is a key onlyfrom its selection of specialist strength that our businesses can leverage by 4 innovate 2 technologies in markets with resilient being part of Halma.
Our R&D investment growth drivers but also in targeting across the Group has been over 50m in the 3 investment in the development of new past year.
