04 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CHAIRMANS STATEMENT This year Steve has set out clear and decisive plans.
I will leave an M&S that is well equipped for the digital age and totally focused on its customers.
This more relevant M&S is underpinned by eff ective succession planning, good governance and active shareholder engagement which have been my focus during my time as Chairman.
ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN INTERIM FINAL TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR 2016 17 6.8p 11.9p 18.7p PAID ON 13 JANUARY 2017 TO BE PAID ON 14 JULY 2017 OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE Our International business had a challenging year.
However, we announced This is my last Annual Report as Chairman I believe our food is, without exaggeration, a clear strategy to focus on our strong after more than six years at M&S.
It has among the best in the world.
Once again, franchise partnerships and our established been an extraordinary honour to serve we delivered a good performance in a joint ventures, and operate in fewer owned this company.
Sales grew as customers markets, by exiting ten owned, loss-making responded to the quality of our food and Since Steve Rowe became Chief Executive, markets and 53 stores.
the convenience of our stores.
We are very he has set out clear plans to accelerate the pleased with the overall performance of Overall, adjusted pro t before tax was pace of change across M&S.
By simplifying the Simply Food stores opened during 613.8m, down 10.3% on last year.
However, the way we do things and by focusing on the the year.
The return on capital from the due to charges of 437.4m, Group pro ts customer, we have laid solid foundations format remains compelling.
The main elements of the for growth.
We repositioned our Clothing & innovation remaining the backbone of our charges relate to the cost of implementing Home business, made important decisions Food business and a strong, but measured, the new pay and pensions arrangements, about the future shape of our UK and store opening programme, we have a clear and the cost of the International store International store estates, and put in place path to growth.
I was Chairman when about half of fairer pay and bene ts for our employees.
these 53 stores opened and so must accept We repositioned our Clothing & Home It has been a year of great change outside my full share of the responsibility for this business for sustainable growth by ending M&S as well.
Last summers vote to leave disappointing result.
However, consumer a damaging cycle of promotions and the European Union has caused inevitable behaviour has changed in the intervening discounts.
We also refocused our ranges on uncertainty.
Nobody yet knows what the years.
We had already signi cantly scaled stylish, wearable, great-quality essentials.
long-term eff ect of Brexit will be.
Like many back our ambitions in owned markets By implementing a sensible, competitive businesses we have been impacted by the before we announced these closure plans, pricing architecture for our customers, depreciation of sterling, but it is our job to and just as there was a rationale for opening we have seen encouraging improvements seize the opportunities ahead and prepare the stores then, there is one for closing in full-price sales.
As expected, fewer for all eventualities.
It is essential that we adapt to our promotions and less discounting resulted customers changing needs and recognise We have made some hard decisions.
There is much work still to the current realities of the markets in which have led to signi cant adjustments to our do but we are beginning to see signs of we operate, despite the short-term cost.
pro ts this year and also, in the case of recovery.
Steve made it clear a year ago repositioning our Clothing & Home business, that this repositioning would have a shortHaving the right stores in the right places to some short-term reduction in our term negative impact on pro ts but would is also why we are reshaping our UK store adjusted pro ts.
However, these changes set us up for sustainable performance and portfolio, as we focus on having less, more needed to be made for the long-term a stronger business in the long term.
A year inspiring Clothing & Home space and health of the business.
Decisive action and on, we are even clearer that this was the growing our Food space.
At the end of this strong execution have never been more right thing to do.
five-year programme we will have increased important to compete in a fast-changing our space overall and employed more retail environment.
These actions allow us people.
Our stores will be more relevant to embrace the future from a position of to the changing needs and habits of our strength, well equipped for a digital age customers in a digital world.
and with a sustainable business model.
05 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 remains well covered on a cash basis.
A VALUES AND PLAN A HIGHLIGHTS OF THIS YEARS Given the cash costs associated with our Our values of Inspiration, Innovation, GOVERNANCE REPORT strategic change and the uncertain market Integrity and In Touch run through conditions, we consider it is prudent everything we do at M&S.
This is a business The Governance report provides: not to make additional returns of cash that tries to do the right thing and this is A clear and honest review of the year: to shareholders under our enhanced demonstrated in many ways, from our Long return programme.
A clear map illustrating our stakeholder Service Awards to helping disadvantaged considerations and engagement: people into work, to the charity support The outcome of our independent A STRONGER COMPANY delivered through Plan A.
Board Evaluation: I will leave M&S a stronger company.
We are Greater disclosure around Board This isnt new: it is part of what has fide ned now set up to compete, with a modern discussions and associated actions: and us for over a century.
In 1964 Lord Sieff, distribution and logistics backbone and Our approach to risk and risk appetite.
our then Deputy Chairman, spoke about excellent digital, design and sourcing our values.
The main purpose of building capabilities.
I have been committed to As a Board we regularly discuss: up a great business should not be strong governance throughout my tenure Strategy and Cyber and IT merely to make money, Lord Sieff said.
and your Board today has a balanced performance The M&S brand A company has its responsibilities, not only breadth of talent, both among the Culture and to shareholders but also to the staff, the International executives and the non-executives.
behaviour customers and the whole community in Supply chain Succession We have worked to increase engagement which it trades.
Unless it gives satisfaction, Risk planning with our shareholders and employees.
and even happiness to all concerned, Property Ecommerce Over the last six years, we have engaged it will fail in its aims in the long term.
Plan A our major institutional shareholders in His comments are as pertinent as ever depth in our business to ensure as much and this philosophy continues to guide Read more on p34-83 transparency as possible.
Now, through the way we do business at M&S.
our Shareholder Panel, we are engaging This year marks the tenth anniversary of 44 45 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 with our private shareholders in an DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE Spark Something Good Business community Plan A. I am extremely proud of the work Over the last two years, engagement We help shape 4 cu, 0 s 0 t0 omer empl vo oy lu ee nt and eers have our business environment by helped over 240 community r and esp indust onding ry t c o go ons v ulta ernmen tions t unprecedented way.
In addition, through Marks & Start Training, projects across 12 cities.
and contributing to industry OUR STAKEHOLDERS: work placements and Global Community discussions and events.
employment have been Programme We continue provided to thousands of to improve the lives of over disadvantaged people.
40,000 people across our HOW WE LISTEN & ENGAGE global supply chain.
From becoming a zero Our rich network of stakeholder relationships upholds the values on which channels such as my regular meetings M&S was founded.
These remain vital to building a sustainable business.
A PLAN A Our pioneering social Sp cus ar to k m s Car ers n do 5.6m w receive and en Pl vir a onmen n A tal waste to land ll business and sourcing Webcasts We have been Ongoing engagement Annual Governance Event Annual perception study tailored off ers plus sustainability programme providing live webcasts of Members of our senior The Chairman hosts this Each year the Board receives the chance to engage cont w inue e do s b to u underpin siness at M th &e S w. ay our AGMs and preliminary management and Investor annual day of dialogue an independent report from with a Plan A charity COMMUNITY with the Chair of our Business Involvement and interim announcements Relations teams held 406 and debate between Makinson Cowell into our partner.
Over 2m has for over ten years.
meetings with 245 diff erent directors and the Company's major investors' views on our been raised to date.
Annual Report and institutions during 2016. largest investors.
Acco our obl un ig ts a W tio e n g so t b o pr eyo ov nid d e a holistic and engaging Mark 2016 C eting hrist m We a c s W reia tt h e L d o o vu er view of the business.
campaign in direct response Business Involvement to feedback from thousands Consumer Barometer raw materials more responsibly, to our Group BIG Engagement with of customers.
Each month we listen Annual General Meeting our employees is facilitated to c. 70,000 customers AGM Our 2016 AGM was through BIG, our network t co o cr ns eat umer e a s sn en at p imen shot of t. Groups BIG, M&Ss network of elected well attended and all our of elected employee Exhibitions and events proposed resolutions Institutional Director breakfasts representatives from each Customer Insight Unit CIU Our Marks in Time exhibition w ine fr a e v pa our s r sed anging, with f v rom otes investors Discussions between directors store and business area.
Our CIU gathers feedback and programme of events 90.53% to 99.99%.
and groups of employees from through surveys, reviews and brought M&Ss heritage all levels within the business.
focus groups to learn what t during o life f 2 or 0 3 18 6, 0 17 0.0 people customers want from M&S.
CUSTC OMERS ambitious programmes to support workers Schools programme SHAREHOLDERS Listening groups In early 2017 Our award-winning our colleagues shared their pr 12ogramme, 000 pupils ha sin s r ce eac 20 hed 12, employees, and his attendance at our views on a range of customerhaving recently broadened focused questions.
its reach through M&S COMPANY videoconferencing.
Your Say survey Our ARM& CHS IVE March 2017 employee survey a Cr sk u e n d a chl Cos l our e tsm In p 2 lo 01 y6 e w es h e ow Our archCo ive sa mfp egu an ar y ds M&Ss Partnership with University Shareholder Panel showed that engagement we could drive down costs heritage aA nd s rchiv haree s it with the of Leeds Now in its fifth year, throughout our global supply chain, we Regular discussions was up by 3%.
We used the public through exhibitions and del our s iver tra ste co glilc p abora artn te iv r e s hip between the directors 20m saved to add over 3,000 events as well as online.
research projects and unique and groups of private colleagues to our stores.
Board, we are engaging with our people shareholders.
EMPLOYEES Quarterly Skype updates Private Our quarterly CEO CFO shareholders Performance Overview trading updates are Customer Research Reminiscence work O ove ur a rvn ie n w u d al b esi u g sn in e e d s a s nd broadcast via Skype to our Panel Our dedicated We provide support to written speci cally for store management teams.
panel of c. 231,000 people with dementia and have sought to lead the way on truly the private shareholder.
Making Special E Wv eer he yl Momen d an exte t nsive c val us u tabl om e e input rs give on s u s t sh eeir ssi c on ar se a rn s t d t hr h o e n ugh ew dr lyopin programme of in-store products in development.
Monthly CEO updates events to nd out from our as never before.
We have introduced a monthly employees how we could CEO update to c. 50,000 make every moment special employees via social media.
SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS COMMUNITY sustainable change.
We recently relaunched The main purpose of building up a great business should We are always looking for ways to develop The Boards engagement with the Companys diff erently to Make Every Moment Special Our Customer Insight Unit constantly 2017 marks the tenth anniversary of not be merely to make money.
This year 85,000 employees is facilitated through for our customers.
Through 75 regional gathers feedback from our customers to Plan A, our social and environmental we introduced our regular Shareholder our Business Involvement Group BIG, leadership events and 1,500 events involving understand what they want from M&S.
Central to A company has its responsibilities, Panel, where a small group of private a network of 3,500 elected employee all our store employees, we found new insights are shared with the directors and Plan A is our goal of creating a positive not only to shareholders but shareholders is invited to participate in representatives from across all parts of the ways to help empower our people to put are critical to informing strategy.
During impact in society and improving people's Having focused on these three pillars also to the staff, the customers face-to-face discussions with members business.
Local BIG teams regularly feed customers at the heart of the business the year, customer feedback resulted in a lives, be they employees, customers, and the whole community in of the Board and senior management.
back to National BIG, whose chairman in more about this on page 8.
Engagement number of store improvements including workers in our supply chain, charity Plan A and the latest version is aimed at For our large institutional investors and turn represents the collective employee can also start in the community: Through additional staff on shop oors.
We also partners or local communities around the which it trades.
Unless it gives investor advisory rms, we continue to hold voice through regular meetings with the Marks & Start we off ered work placements engage with our customers to create world.
Find out more at marksandspencer.
satisfaction, and even happiness our Annual Governance Event.
Our 2016 Chairman and CEO, plus annual attendance to over 2,900 disadvantaged people in marketing campaigns that are relevant to com plana.
This year also marks the fifth to all concerned, it will fail in event was hosted by the Chairman and at Board meetings.
Over 65% of those who completed the them, such as Christmas With Love in 2016 anniversary of the M&S Company Archive, its aims in the long term.
attended by the Senior Independent Director, engagement extends far beyond BIG: One programme went on to nd work, either with and the creation of Spend It Well.
For more whose educational and social activities the committee chairmen, Group Secretary, example from the year was a collaborative M&S or other employers.
For further details on customer insight and engagement, see have enriched the lives of thousands of LORD SIEFF DEPUTY CHAIRMAN OF M&S, 1964 and a senior representative from our exercise where we asked our store about how we engage with our employees, Market & Customer Insights on pages 6-7 local people.
Visit the Archive's website at governance, succession and engagement Plan A team.
colleagues what we all needed to do see 'Employee Involvement' on pages 81-82. and 'Engaging Our Customers' on page 25. marksintime.
being even more relevant to customers I believe M&S is now better prepared and the communities in which we trade.
for the further changes ahead.
BOARD CHANGES There is no business I would have been Since I became Chairman in 2011 I have prouder to chair than M&S.
I will miss being consistently focused on succession part of it, its values and the place it holds planning as one of the most important in customers hearts.
My colleagues at tasks for the Board.
Last year, after a M&S are the most dedicated I have ever rigorous process, we appointed Steve as worked with and I never fail to be impressed Chief Executive, the first internal appointee by their commitment to the business.
Steves strategy is rmly in They want M&S to succeed and they know place so this is now the right time for a new what doing the right thing means.
Chairman to take over as plans for growth The last six years have seen profound in the longer term are developed.
changes in retail and at M&S: technology After an equally rigorous process led has transformed the way that people shop.
by Vindi Banga and our Nomination Under Steve, change will continue unabated INTRODUCTION Committee, I will be replaced as Chairman it must.
To meet the challenges ahead, by Archie Norman in September.
Archie M&S must be bold, ambitious and decisive.
brings a breadth and depth of relevant It must think big and execute eff ectively.
experience to M&S and an extensive track And, as Lord Sieff said, it must also give record in retail and brands.
I am delighted satisfaction and happiness to its customers, with Archies appointment and I wish him its employees and its communities.
ARCHIE NORMAN great success in this role.
Finally, I would like to thank our customers, CHAIRMAN DESIGNATE our employees and our shareholders for SHAREHOLDER RETURNS their support.
It has been an unforgettable In May, we announced that Archie AND DIVIDENDS privilege to be Chairman of M&S and Norman will join M&S as Chairman on We know how important our dividend I wish the business every success in the 1 September 2017.
Archie has signi cant is to shareholders.
Our policy remains years ahead.
retail experience and a long-term track progressive, with dividends broadly covered record of value creation in several twice by earnings.
Despite a reduction major British companies.
He has led of 10.3% in our adjusted pro ts, we have transformations of major businesses decided to maintain the total dividend per in the UK and abroad, and served on the share for the year at the same level as last boards of several others, most recently ROBERT SWANNELL CHAIRMAN year with the proposed payment of a final as Chairman of ITV plc.
dividend of 11.9p per share: this dividend FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
