AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 10 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AVEVA DELIVERED A RESILIENT PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR.
WE WILL CONTINUE TO TARGET GROWTH, STRENGTHENING CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS, WINNING NEW CUSTOMERS AND DEVELOPING OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO.
I am pleased to report that AVEVA The Group also increased cash from Delivering on our strategy delivered a resilient performance operating activities by 58.2% to In addition to delivering solid during 2016 17, despite two of our key 57.2 million 2016 36.1 million.
results, we have remained focused end markets, Oil & Gas and Marine, We are maintaining our progressive on executing upon our strategy, in remaining subdued.
Revenue increased dividend policy and propose to order to position AVEVA to achieve 7.1% to 215.8 million 2016 201.5 increase the total dividend for the growth well into the future.
million assisted by currency translation year to 40.0 pence per share 2016 and profit before tax was 46.9 million 36.0 pence.
This represents an AVEVA achieved good momentum in 2016 29.4 million, supported by increase of 11.1% over the prior year, sales of products beyond the core 3D strong cost discipline.
On an adjusted underpinned by our confidence in the design software that currently makes basis, profit before tax grew 7.4% to long-term prospects for the business.
up the majority of our revenue.
also made good progress with our AVEVAs net cash position at the year strategy of increasing our sales to end grew to 130.9 million Owner Operators OOs, growth in 2016 107.9 million.
The Board the key North American market and believes that it is important to maintain in broadening our market exposure a strong balance sheet.
This gives our outside of Oil & Gas and Marine.
For customers confidence in the strength example, during the year we had of our business and allows us to have considerable success in the Power at hand sufficient resources to market, winning contracts with invest in AVEVAs future growth, for companies including KEPCO E&C, example, by investing in Research & Southern Company and TerraPower.
Development and capitalising on acquisition opportunities as they These successes were made possible become available.
by the strength of our technologies and people.
We continued to enhance our existing products and develop new offerings during the year through our development centres 58.2% in Cambridge and Hyderabad.
Increase in cash from Board developments operating activities before tax At the end of 2016, after 33 years with the Group and 17 years as Chief Executive, Richard Longdon stepped down from his role as Chief Executive 11.1% and as a Director of the Company.
Increase in total dividend Richard oversaw the most successful phase in AVEVAs history and was the driving force in developing it into a global company.
The Board and I are grateful to Richard for his contribution to AVEVAs success.
Philip Aiken Chairman STRATEGIC REPORT 11 We were delighted to appoint James Summary Kidd as Deputy Chief Executive AVEVA is now in its 50th year, having in July and as Richards successor been founded in 1967 as a governmentas Chief Executive from 1 January funded research institute created by 2017.
James had been Chief the then UK Ministry of Technology at Financial Officer and a member of Cambridge University.
The Companys the Board since January 2011. original mission, to develop computeraided design techniques for use by We were also pleased to appoint British industry, has been achieved David Ward to the Board as James and indeed greatly exceeded.
successor in the role of Chief Financial Officer in July.
David had been Head The Group now operates in more of Finance at AVEVA since 2011. than 30 countries across the globe and provides the design technology James and David were both key to that has created some of the developing AVEVAs strategy and I worlds largest and most complex have been impressed with the sharp engineering assets.
As I look ahead, focus that they have demonstrated the opportunities are as exciting as in executing it in their new roles.
they have ever been, as industries look to drive efficiencies by adopting We also had changes within our Nona Digital Asset approach throughout Executive team.
Jonathan Brooks and the life cycle of the physical asset.
Philip Dayer both reached their nineyear tenures during the year.
Jonathan We will continue to target growth, stepped down from the Board in strengthening customer relationships, November 2016 and Philip will retire winning new customers in new areas at the AGM in July 2017.
I would like and developing our product portfolio.
to thank them both on behalf of the Board for their contributions to AVEVA.
AVEVAs progress would not be possible without the hard work and dedication We welcomed two new Non-Executives of all our employees.
The Board would to the Board.
Christopher Humphrey like to express its sincere thanks for joined the Board in July 2016 and their considerable efforts.
We would assumed the role of Chair of the Audit also like to thank our customers, Committee in November.
Rohinton shareholders and other stakeholders Ron Mobed was appointed to the for their continued support.
Christopher and Ron have a wealth of technology and information management experience, Philip Aiken AM which will add further breadth and Chairman depth to the skills of the Board.
