Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder Pennon Group performed well in the year, delivering on its strategy of market-leading performance, efficiency and investing for growth.
The Group has the UKs top two water businesses as measured by return on regulated equity RoRE while Viridors expanding portfolio of Energy Recovery Facilities ERFs is on track to generate further growth in earnings over the next few years.
The Groups Shared Services Review addressed a key strategic objective to drive value through increased efficiency during theyear.
The Groups final dividend of 24.87 pence per sharereflects an increase of 7.1% and maintains ourlong-standing sector-leading dividend policy ofRPIplus 4% year-on-year growth.
This should seedividends per share almost doubling over 10years to 2020.
Pennon is committed to providing a safe place for our Sir John Parker people to work, where health Chairman and wellbeing comes first.
Since my previous report we have continued to make good progress in establishing an effective Group Pennon Group performed structure by drawing together all aspects of the Group under the Pennon umbrella.
Our CEO, with the support of a high-calibre executive team, is pulling well in the year, delivering on together support functions at Group level that were previously held within each subsidiary.
The two its strategy of market-leading Managing Directors who are running the water and waste businesses as operational divisions report performance across its directly to the CEO.
Pennons Non-Executive Directors are now also members of the South West businesses.
Water board, along with three dedicated South West Water non-executive directors, one of which is currently a vacancy.
Safety The position of health and safety as the first item onthe agenda for every Board meeting reflects the importance I and my colleagues attach to this crucial area.
It also underlines our determination to increase employee engagement, address the culture and behaviours that lead to accidents and learn all relevant lessons for the future from any incident.
Regrettably, a tragic incident occurred in August 2016, resulting in the death of a Viridor employee whilst at work.
Our thoughts are with his family, friends and colleagues as we work with the Health and Safety Executive in relation to this incident.
08 Governance Culture and values Key achievements during the year We are working with employees to bring together a core set of organisational values and build a The Non-Executive Directors have quickly culture that can be lived throughout the Group adapted to their expanded roles in respect of the This process is drawing on the heritage and subsidiary businesses strengths of our principal operations We have created new senior executive roles at Six pillars set out on pages 14-15 underpin our Group level and have brought in subject matter values that will be shaped by employees during specialists of a high calibre who will drive a the year ahead consistent and effective approach in safety, health Our customer-facing businesses Viridor, South and environmental impact West Water and Bournemouth Water are The new Group executive meeting arrangements established brands that are recognised and have allowed the senior executives from Pennon, valued by the public South West Water and Viridor to operate We are already bringing our businesses closer collaboratively in one forum when dealing with together under new and modern branding.
Group-wide issues The change is also facilitating holistic discussion and has improved communications across the Group with clear lines of sight into the subsidiary companies The administration required to support the Board has come together quickly.
Read more pages 54 to 62 We strive for the highest standards of health and safety to achieve our objective of a harm free We are developing a culture 7.1% environment.
Pennon is committed to providing a that can be lived throughout safe place for our people to work where health and increase in dividend wellbeing comes first.
The Board has supported the the Group.
per share appointment of a Group director of Safety, Health, Quality and Sustainability, who will devise and Meanwhile, on behalf of the Board, I would like to take implement a strategy to raise the Groups health this opportunity to thank all our employees for their and safety performance.
78% professional approach and their dedication to the of employees completed an Employees and culture many communities and stakeholders we serve daily.
annual engagement survey Throughout the Group, there is a spirit of pride and Shared services and other professionalism and these are key qualities at a time Groupsynergies of change.
We have no shortage of new talent joining Efforts to centralise key corporate services and the company too, through graduate recruitment operational functions following the Shared Services and our award-winning apprenticeship programmes.
Review reflecting our more unified Group are We are determined to recognise talent in both the progressing well.
This is part of an efficiency Groups businesses and to support development programme that is increasing integration, of people from early on in their careers, not just in encouraging the sharing of best practice and top-level succession planning.
This work has been As many aspects of the Groups structure are still facilitated by the creation of the role of Group Chief relatively new, we intend to provide more information Executive Officer, which has now been in existence about Pennons culture and values in next years for over a year and is binding the Pennon Group more annual report.
Our subsidiary companies each have closely together.
a strong sense of purpose supported by their own set of corporate values and this provides a sound Sustainability foundation on which to build.
I firmly believe that by As a leading environmental infrastructure company, getting the structure and governance of the Group the Group actively contributes to the UKs long-term right, and by attracting and developing the right needs for water, energy and waste management and people, the right culture and values will follow.
we aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive economic, social and environmental impact.
Our evaluation of risk consistently addresses sustainability requirements.
The Boards Sustainability Committee oversaw the Groups performance during the year in maintaining a responsible approach to business operations.
09 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Governance Board changes Chairmans The Groups revised framework for governance and Ian McAulay stepped down as the Chief Executive statement decision-making introduced in April 2016 is operating Officer of Viridor during the year and we thank him well and allowing us to pursue synergies across the for his contribution and wish him well in the future.
Further details are provided on pages 58 to Phil Piddington was appointed to the new role of 62.
Our Senior Independent Director, Gill Rider, Managing Director of Viridor in September 2016. completed anassessment during the year of the Thechange in the management team and structure newapproach.
This was conducted alongside an at Viridor, which mirrors the arrangements in place independent external evaluation of the Boards atSouth West Water, better reflects the objectives structure, operation and performance.
Based ofthe Group and will drive stronger accountability.
onthese appraisals and on my own experience, Moreover, the appointment of Phil Piddington Ibelievethe Group has a robust governance demonstrates that the Group is adding new skills structure that is delivering efficient and transparent andexecuting succession planning well.
decision-making while preserving the degree of Steve Johnson stepped down as a non-executive regulatory independence that Ofwat requires for director of South West Water in April 2016 following thewater business.
I commend the Groups his appointment to a new external executive position.
commitment to the new governance framework.
The Group has a robust governance structure that isdelivering efficient and transparent decision-making.
Rigorous testing is a key part of ensuring ahigh quality water supply for customers 10 Diversity Looking to the future Boardroom diversity We actively promote equality and diversity across the The Group has strong financial control, sound Group and hold a strong belief that we will be a better administration and our governance is robust and business if we can understand the views, opinions transparent.
Moreover, we are building the assets and backgrounds of our customers, communities, andthe teams to secure further growth.
With the shareholders and employees.
Currently a third of our commitment of everybody working at Pennon Group Our Board is made up Board members are women, exceeding our target of under the direction of a strong leadership, we have of 2 women and 4 men.
Additionally, the every reason to be confident about the future.
Board continues to pursue a progressive diversity Read more page 71 agenda.
You will find further information on our Diversity Policy in our Nomination Committee Report on page 71.
Sir John Parker We will be a better business if Chairman we can understand the views, Pennon Group plc opinions and backgrounds of 23 May 2017 our customers, communities, shareholders and employees.
Pennon Board visitsArdley ERF Board members regularly visit operational sites and take the opportunity to meet employees and see a plant at work.
In April 2016 the Board visited Bournemouth Waters headquarters and received a tour of the water treatment works.
The Board meeting in February 2017 was held at Ardley ERF and included a tour of the plant and its award-winning Visitor Centre which received 3,483 visitors this year.
Board members also met the Ardley-based Energy trading team that implements the Groups energy risk management strategy and has aligned energy contracts to optimise cost and carbon benefits.
This same team also manages the energy trading for both output and usage, which has helped the Groupachieve greater energy efficiency.
