Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonias The Remuneration Committee ensures Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2017. that remuneration arrangements Remuneration policy remain closely aligned to Caledonias Caledonias current policy on directors remuneration was business model and strategy, the approved by shareholders in 2014 and therefore, in accordance ultimate aim of which is to grow the with statute, must be put to shareholders for renewal at the 2017 annual general meeting.
Over the past year, the Remuneration companys net assets and dividends Committee has considered how well the current policy is linked to paid to shareholders in real terms over the companys strategy, whether alternative arrangements could be implemented to simplify our pay structures, whether the the long term, whilst managing risk to overall quantum of directors pay is appropriate and whether the mitigate volatility of returns.
rewards receivable by management remain closely aligned with shareholder experience.
This review has been conducted against an increasing public debate about executive pay and its future direction, both in political circles and in the investor community.
Focus on this area is likely to continue and could result in significant changes in market practice on executive pay, although precisely how remains unclear.
The Remuneration Committee Membership and attendance believes that it is important for Caledonia, given its long term The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration investment horizon, to maintain consistency in its remuneration Committee during the year was as follows: framework, provided it remains fit for purpose.
It will however continue to monitor the ongoing public debate and any future Meetings Meetings eligible developments in executive pay.
attended to attend C H Gregson Chairman 5 5 The Remuneration Committees review of the current policy S C R Jemmett-Page 5 5 confirmed that it remains closely aligned to Caledonias business D C Stewart 5 5 model and strategy, the ultimate aim of which is to grow the companys net assets and dividends paid to shareholders in real terms over the long term, whilst managing risk to mitigate volatility of returns.
Specifically, the Remuneration Committee considers that the performance measures adopted for the short and long term incentive plans underpin the boards aim to deliver consistent annualised returns of between RPI 3% and RPI 6%, which history has shown should lead to outperformance of most The Companies Act 2006 requires the companys auditor to equity markets, and in particular the FTSE All-Share Total Return report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Directors index, over rolling ten year periods.
remuneration report and to state whether, in its opinion, those The Remuneration Committee is however sensitive to public parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance concerns around executive pay, in particular in relation to with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups complexity and quantum, and therefore is proposing the Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. following refinements to the current policy for the 2017 renewal: The parts of the Annual report on directors remuneration that have been audited are indicated in that report.
The Annual the deferred bonus plan matching share arrangements will statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee be discontinued, although any bonus in excess of 50% of basic and the Remuneration policy are not subject to audit.
salary will still be deferred into shares for a three year period and subject to the usual bad leaver forfeiture provision.
to compensate for the loss of earnings potential under the deferred bonus matching scheme which could deliver up to 75% of basic salary with maximum compulsory and voluntary deferral, the standard annual awards under the performance share scheme for executive directors will be increased from 125% of basic salary to 150% as previously indicated, clawback provisions which will, in certain circumstances, enable the company to recover amounts previously paid, will be introduced for all elements of variable pay, in addition to the malus arrangements which enable the company to withhold amounts not yet paid already in place.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 45 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee believes that these refinements Performance share scheme awards will both simplify the companys remuneration structure and Half of the performance share scheme awards granted in reduce the maximum amount of pay that could be earned by 2014 reached the end of their performance period this year.
By substituting performance share scheme Measured by reference to Caledonias annualised NAVTR awards for deferred bonus matching, a greater proportion of over the three year period, these achieved maximum vesting as variable pay will be subject to a five year performance period, the companys annualised NAVTR of 11.4% exceeded the 10% which now applies to two-thirds of shares awarded annually needed and the Funds pools annualised total return relevant under the performance share scheme.
for Jamie Cayzer-Colvins awards of 23.7% was well above the 13.5% needed for maximum vesting.
The remaining half of the The Remuneration Committee has taken the opportunity to 2014 performance share scheme awards will be tested in 2019. consult with some of Caledonias larger shareholders and certain institutional investor representative bodies on the Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2018 revised remuneration policy.
No changes were requested, however the Remuneration Committee is nonetheless very Looking ahead to the 2018 financial year, basic salaries of grateful for the feedback received.
executive directors have been increased with effect from 1 April 2017 by 2.5%, broadly in line with inflation, which was We hope therefore that the revised policy, as set out in full on the same as the standard increase given to all of the companys pages 47 to 55 will receive your support at the annual general staff.
Following a review of non-executive directors fees in meeting on 20 July 2017. the self-managed investment trust sector and of FTSE 250 companies generally, the Remuneration Committee has Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2017 decided that, on the appointment of the new Chairman at The Annual report on directors remuneration set out on pages the annual general meeting in July, the Chairmans fee will 56 to 63 describes in detail how the current remuneration be reduced from 184,500 to 150,000 per annum.
The policy has been applied for the year ended 31 March 2017. other non-executive directors fees have not been changed.
However, I would like to highlight the following points: Subject to shareholder approval of the revised remuneration Annual bonus policy, we plan to make performance share scheme and Strong performance over the year, at company, pool and compulsory deferred bonus awards following the annual individual level, resulted in maximum bonus awards for all general meeting in July in line with the new policy described executive directors.
The performance share scheme awards will be subject to the same performance measures used for the 2016 award Deferred bonus matching awards grants, which are summarised in the notes to the remuneration The deferred bonus matching awards granted in 2014 reached policy table on pages 50 and 51. the end of their three year performance period.
In aggregate, 67% of the awards vested, as the two-thirds of the awards measured by reference to Caledonias net asset value per share Charles Gregson total return NAVTR against the FTSE All-Share Total Return Chairman of the Remuneration Committee index over the period comfortably achieved maximum vesting, 25 May 2017 outperforming by 18.9%, whereas the one-third measured against the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all-stocks Total Return index Gilts index fell short of the minimum vesting level by 1.7% and therefore lapsed.
The Remuneration Committee did consider whether the outcome of the Gilts index measure was anomalous given the extraordinary performance of the gilts market over the past three years due to the effects of quantitative easing and, more recently, the Brexit vote and therefore did not provide a fair measure of Caledonias performance over the period.
It concluded, however, that it would be inappropriate to change the performance target post-grant.
46 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: NEW P46.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
