02 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Chairmans statement Creating value for society, delivering results for shareholders Vodafones purpose is to connect everybody to live a better today and build a better tomorrow.
We believe that by pursuing this goal in a sustainable and responsible way we will create long-term value for society and, as a result, for our shareholders.
This has resulted in the announced merger But we cannot yet be satisfied by the returns Good progress in converged proposal between Vodafone India and that we are achieving on the substantial communications in Europe Idea Cellular, which will create a new, more organic and inorganic investments that the Europe remains our single biggest market competitive market player with the scale Group has made in recent years.
and investment area and is at the heart to invest in Indias digital future, while also of our Gigabit Vodafone converged As our CFO Nick Read explains in his capturing substantial synergies.
Building on the introduction to our business model on page success of Project Spring we continue to invest We are very pleased with our progress 16, the solution to this challenge is threefold: in network quality and customer experience, in Africawhere we have further strengthened continued profitable revenue growth, with tight driving subscriber growth across mobile, our leadership positions, both at Vodacom cost control: portfolio management to gain broadband and TV.
We are making good in South Africa and Safaricom in Kenya.
sufficient in-market scale to earn attractive progress in our major markets, Germany, Italy long-term returns: and a compensation Please see Vittorio Colaos comments on pages and Spain, while in the UK our priority, for the approach which focuses more on adjusted EBIT, 12 to 15 for further insight into our strategy.
moment, has to be on getting the basics right i. e. the profits after capital investment costs, again.
The completion of our merger in the and less on adjusted EBITDA, a change which Our contribution to Netherlands with Ziggo is another big step we hope the industry will follow.
society is substantial forward for our convergence strategy.
During the year the Vodafone share price We are convinced that over the long-term In order to enable an adequate return on the on a total return basis has been broadly stable, the success of our business is closely tied massive investments that will be required underperforming the FTSE 100.
This partly to the success of the communities in which to provide Europe with the infrastructure reflected a strong recovery by commodity we operate.
Consequently, a core part of our required for a competitive economy in the producers and cyclically exposed companies, strategy and business model is to ensure that age of digitalisation, a predictable regulatory which accelerated after the US election results, Vodafones digital networks and services act framework is required that supports both as well as concerns over rising competition as a catalyst not only for economic growth, investment and competition.
In this regard in the telecoms sector following new entrants but also for equality and empowerment.
we are encouraged by the European in India and next year in Italy.
Commissions EC revised European Our sustainable business strategy section Overall, the Board remains confident that the Framework Review for Telecoms.
In particular, outlines our approach, including our ambition Groups cash generation, and consequently the focus on passive infrastructure remedies to connect an additional 50 million women its return on capital, will continue to recover.
and co-building arrangements, which have living in emerging markets by 2026 see This confidence is reflected in our unchanged proven so successful in Spain and Portugal, pages 26 and 27, as well as our commitment intention to grow the dividend, as exhibited is encouraging, as is the proposal to extend to operating responsibly.
For example, our by the 2.0% increase in the dividend to spectrum licence terms to at least 25 years.
report on Taxation and our total economic 14.77eurocents for the year.
As the negotiations on the revised Framework contribution to public finances highlights enter a critical phase, we need to ensure our total contribution to governments In concluding, on behalf of the Board I would that these well-balanced proposals are not of 15.6 billion in the 2016 financial year.
like to express our appreciation to Nick Land diluted both to avoid future incumbent Our charitable activities are also expanding and Phil Yea, who will not seek re-election at our re-monopolisation risks, and to pave the way in scope, as the Vodafone Foundation Annual General Meeting in July 2017 after for competitive investment in Europes future.
leverages our technology and expertise more than ten years of valuable service.
I would with funding from external NGOs and other also like to thank our employees and business partners to expand its impact.
I recommend partners for their efforts and contribution Driving consolidation in India: you take a look at our website for more to Vodafones progress, as well as our strengthening leadership information on the activities of our Foundation.
shareholders for their support and confidence.
in Africa It has been a turbulent year in India.
The launch Improving returns on capital of free services by a new entrant has disrupted remains a key priority an already hypercompetitive market and We are confident in our strategic direction, clouded the near and medium-term outlook our adjusted EBITDA growth continues for the industry.
As a consequence Vodafone to improve and our adjusted EBIT is also decided to stop the IPO process and instead Gerard Kleisterlee now recovering.
Chairman lookfor in-market consolidation options.
