4 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans statement The expertise of our people is in high demand as customers look for innovative ways to defeat new threats to security.
In defence and security, we are seeing increasing complexity with nations facing multiple global threats from both state and non-state actors.
In this environment, QinetiQ continues to play a vital role making connections between technologies, across supply chains and internationally to support government customers with the rapid development of new capabilities to combat these threats.
In April 2015, we appointed Steve Wadey as CEO of QinetiQ.
Steve has significant defence sector experience and is implementing a strategy to deliver sustainable growth founded on a thorough understanding of the dynamics in our markets and the needs of our customers now and in the future.
The Board and I are encouraged by the progress that is being made by Steve and his leadership team, and the momentum that is clearly building in the implementation of our strategic priorities.
Performance In the year to 31 March 2017, we delivered increased orders, revenue and profit.
We will continue to prioritise Mark Elliott the delivery of sustainable growth with ongoing capital Non-executive Chairman discipline as key elements of QinetiQs investment case.
Context New CFO FY17 will be remembered as the year in which many On 1 March 2017, the Board was delighted to welcome of the worlds most newsworthy events were influenced David Smith as Chief Financial Officer, following an by the challenges being created by globalisation and extensive blue-chip career as CFO of both Rolls-Royce a marked return to national politics.
Over the summer, I and of the technology group Edwards, and as CEO of engaged in discussions with Non-executive Directors of Jaguar Land Rover.
Our previous CFO David Mellors other companies listed on the London Stock Exchange left QinetiQ at the end of 2016 to join Cobham plc.
about the risks and opportunities presented by Brexit.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank David In the United States, where I have spent much of my Mellors for his contribution to QinetiQ: he drove working life, some of the political and economic a significant strengthening of the balance sheet conventions that have been in place for many years providing a solid foundation for our future growth.
are being challenged and the Board and I are working We would also like to thank Dr Malcolm Coffin, closely with QinetiQs US leadership team to ensure QinetiQ Group Financial Controller, who assumed that we are responding effectively to the new realities.
the CFO role on an interim basis.
A chieving our ambition of becoming the chosen partner requires a relentless focus on meeting the needs of our customers both in our home markets and overseas.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Chairmans statement 5 Progressive dividend policy Strategy QinetiQs leaders play a vital role of delivering day-to-day The Group has articulated its Over the last 18 months, Steve and his executive team operational performance and driving change.
Steves priorities for capital allocation led an Integrated Strategic Business Planning process, first decision as CEO was to establish a Leadership which include a progressive which was thoroughly discussed in a two-day meeting Community at QinetiQ and bring together the top 100 dividend policy.
In addition to this active involvement leaders every month.
Non-executive Directors have in the development of future strategy, the Board attended these Leadership Community events during Full year dividend also ensures the effective scrutiny of mergers and the year, contributing to workshops and witnessing how acquisitions.
In FY17, the Group completed the purchase leaders are driving the future direction of the Company.
2017 6.0 of two businesses to support our strategy, Meggitt We will continue to focus on leadership and succession 2016 5.7 Target Systems in the UK and Canada, and RubiKon planning in FY18.
2015 5.4 Group in Australia, its first significant acquisitions since 2008.
I would like to add my personal welcome to the Customers 2014 4.6 employees of these two companies and wish them Achieving our ambition of becoming the chosen partner 2013 3.8 many rewarding years as part of the QinetiQ Group.
requires a relentless focus on meeting the needs of our customers both in our home markets and overseas.
To 4.0p With a significant amount of activity under way to drive achieve this, we are establishing productive partnerships Final dividend to be paid growth in the UK, in international markets and through with others from the largest global companies to on 1 September 2017 innovation, the Board is undertaking deep dives into small businesses and universities and aim to be open 2016: 3.8p a number of topics to monitor delivery of the strategy.
and professional in our relationships with our supply These deep dives are scheduled throughout the year chain, basing them firmly on mutual respect.
Return of capital with relevant members of QinetiQs executive team The Group has also returned and papers are submitted in advance so the focus Shareholders capital to shareholders by is on two-way discussion rather than presentations.
Along with employees and customers, shareholders buying back shares.
We returned Topics scheduled for FY18 include those related to are key stakeholders in QinetiQ as the owners of the 150m between May 2014 and our strategic priorities, progress of the transformation Company.
This year, Michael Harper, Senior Independent September 2015, and a further 50m between November 2015 of the Company, and focus on our key stakeholders Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and March 2017. customers, employees and shareholders.
has consulted shareholders about the new remuneration policy to ensure it is aligned to their interests.
We also Annual General Governance enjoyed a constructive dialogue with investors during Meeting 2017 In addition to the implementation of the Groups strategy the CFO transition, with a number of them meeting 11am on 19 July 2017, at for sustainable growth, an ongoing priority for the Board David Smith before he joined.
We would like to thank the offices of Ashurst LLP, is strong governance and the effective stewardship of our investors for their continued support.
Broadwalk House, 5 Appold the Company.
During the year, Board members visited Street, London EC2A 2H2.
a number of sites including QinetiQ North America Capital allocation in Waltham, MA, and MOD Boscombe Down, where Unlocking QinetiQs potential requires focused a number of activities associated with the Groups investment in growth coupled with continued capital strategic priority to modernise UK test and evaluation discipline to ensure growing, sustainable returns.
In are currently under way.
These visits provided the recognition of this, our priorities for capital allocation opportunity to see at first-hand how we are are: organic investment complemented by bolt-on implementing strategy and managing risk.
acquisitions where there is a strong strategic fit: the maintenance of balance sheet strength: a progressive Employees dividend: and the return of excess cash to shareholders.
The visits have also provided the opportunity to spend time with a number of our employees.
I never fail to Dividend be impressed by our scientists and engineers, whose The Board proposes a final dividend of 4.0p per expertise is in high demand as customers look for share for the year ended 31 March 2017 2016: 3.8p, innovative ways to defeat new threats to security.
making the full year dividend 6.0p 2016: 5.7p.
Id like to thank all of our employees for their Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, ongoing dedication to our customers.
the final dividend will be paid on 1 September 2017 to shareholders on the register at 4 August 2017.
The knowledge and skills of our people are at the The full year dividend represents an increase of 5%, heart of our business and so development of our reflecting our commitment to a progressive dividend.
Equally important is the ongoing commitment to the next generation through Finally, I would like to thank Board members for their offering apprenticeships and graduate schemes ongoing counsel.
I value their considerable experience and outreach programmes with our local schools.
and the significant contribution that they have made this year.
Across the Group, our employees have done what they do best: acting with integrity, working collaboratively Mark Elliott and focusing on performance for the benefit of our Non-executive Chairman customers three values that underpin the way we 25 May 2017 work at QinetiQ.
We know its not just what we do that is important but how we do it.
In FY18, the Board is committing more time to consider how we want our culture to evolve to deliver our vision and strategy, how we nurture that culture and how our transformation can contribute.
