An introduction from our Chairman As I write my tenth and final chairmans letter, Ilook back at the progress BT has made over the past decade.
Investing in the UKs digital future As we look ahead to the UKs exit from the European Union, it is more important than ever that we have strong British companies investing in our countrys future.
We invested around 2bn in the UKs fixed and mobile communications networks this year, taking fibre broadband further and vastly expanding 4G mobile network coverage.
Looking ahead, we have bold ambitions to reach 12 million premises with ultrafast broadband by the end of 2020, as well as covering 95% of the UKs landmass with 4G.
We also take seriously our responsibility to invest in the UKs workforce.
We hired 900 apprentices this year, with plans to increase this to over 2,000 next year.
And our investment in people is leading to better outcomes for our customers.
We hired 1,500 people into Openreach this year, mostly engineers, helping to halve the number of missed customer appointments in the fourth quarter, year on year.
Meanwhile, we have also hired more than 5,000 new As I write my tenth and final chairmans This report includes further information people into customer-facing roles at our letter, I look back at the progress BT has on these matters, as well as details of the contact centres in the UK and Ireland, made over the past decade.
It has been a measures we have put in place to resolve meaning that 100% of EEs contact centre privilege to oversee a period in which BT them.
The Board takes them very seriously calls are now handled in the UK and Ireland, took the decision in 2008, at a time of and has extensively investigated the causes with considerable onshoring progress also great macroeconomic uncertainty, to begin to ensure that they cannot happen again.
made at Consumer this year.
a rollout that has now passed over 26.5 million premises with fibre broadband.
Other Changes to the Board We are also investing in innovative highlights include launching BT Sport in In March, we announced that Jan du technologies, continuing BTs proud history 2013 and acquiring EE in 2016.
Over the Plessis will join the Board on 1 June 2017, in this area.
We have been the UKs third past decade, we have also returned over before becoming chairman on 1 November largest investor in research and development 1per share to shareholders in the form 2017, when I retire.
I am delighted Jan over the past decade, and this year launched of dividends.
I am pleased to say that BT is has been chosen to succeed me as the Tommy Flowers Institute, a new Higher an immensely stronger company than it chairman.
He brings great experience, Education ICT training institute at our was ten years ago.
having been chairman of British American research laboratories at Adastral Park.
Tobacco, SABMiller and Rio Tinto.
I wish However, 2017 has presented its him every success as he leads BT at this We are also using technology to support challenges.
While we have made significant important time.
This year we helped generate progress in many areas, concluding the 95m towards good causes.
We also Ofcom Openreach review and successfully Simon Lowth joined the Board on continue to train teachers in tech literacy, integrating EE into the BT Group, we 12 July 2016 as group finance director.
giving more than a million children the skills have also had to address some significant Simon brings a wealth of knowledge they will need for the future, with an aim to issues.
In particular the fraud in our Italian having previously been CFO of BG Group, reach five million by 2020. business, trading in the UK public sector AstraZeneca and ScottishPower.
and international corporates, and the fine that we received from Ofcom for historical process failures in Openreach are very disappointing.
10 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Investigation into BT Italy Rewarding our shareholders As I leave BT I would like to thank my Following allegations of inappropriate Our goal remains to deliver sustainable, colleagues on the Board, Gavin Patterson, behaviours in our Italian business, we profitable revenue growth.
Together with our CEO and the management team whose conducted an investigation, including an our cost transformation activities, this will support I have valued highly over the years.
independent review by KPMG LLP.
I am support long-term cash flow growth and very disappointed by what we discovered, therefore create value for our shareholders.
In my first chairmans message ten years ago, including extensive improper accounting I closed by saying there was every reason practices and a complex set of improper The strength of our business means that for optimism.
Looking forward, I have great sales, purchase, factoring and leasing despite some difficulties this year, we can confidence that remains the case today.
These activities led to the still fulfil our policy of paying a progressive overstatement of earnings and assets in our dividend.
The Board is proposing a final Italian business.
We have detailed on page 6 dividend of 10.55p, up 10%.
This gives the issues that arose and the steps that we a full year dividend of 15.40p, also up have taken in relation to these matters.
However, given the importance of maintaining flexibility for investment, Agreement with Ofcom on Openreach dividend growth in 2017 18 will be lower governance than the 10% previously anticipated.
The An important step this year was the rate of future dividend growth will reflect agreement reached in March with Ofcom a number of factors, including underlying on the future governance of Openreach.
medium-term earnings growth, the level This agreement comes after two years of of investment spending and other cash Sir Michael Rake discussions, and will see Openreach become commitments.
The Board believes that this Chairman a distinct, legally separate company within dividend policy appropriately balances the 11 May 2017 the BT Group.
It will see Openreach assume interests of all stakeholders and provides greater independence under its own board.
a solid foundation for future growth, We appointed Mike McTighe as Openreach underpinned by an ongoing commitment to chairman in November 2016.
Sir Brendan investment that delivers sustainable longBarber, Edward Astle and Liz Benison term value for customers and shareholders.
then joined the new Openreach board as independent members in early 2017.
Clive Whilst we have undoubtedly faced Selley, the Openreach CEO, will report into challenges this year, we must not lose sight Mike McTighe, with accountability to the of the people, infrastructure and services BT Group, as the CEO of a wholly-owned that make BT a great company, with an subsidiary.
This includes accountability to important role to play in the future of how the BT Group chief executive with regards to people in the UK and around the world live certain legal and fiduciary duties that their lives.
are consistent with BTs responsibilities as a listed company.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 11
