CHAIRMANS REVIEW Continued growth in uncertain times Paul Roy Chairman I am delighted to report that NewRiver REIT plc NewRiver produced excellent financial results for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Funds From Operations grew by 24% to 58 million, and the Company increased the ordinary dividend for the period by 8% to 20.0 pence per share FY16 18.5 pence, as well as declaring an additional special dividend of 3.0 pence per share.
Following graduation from AIM to a Premium Listing founding principles of active asset management and on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange riskcontrolled development.
in August 2016, the Company became a constituent NewRivers specialism is owning convenienceled, of the FTSE 250 and FTSE AllShare indices on communityfocused assets, primarily serving 19 December 2016.
From the same date, it was also family shopping and leisure requirements.
Its included in the EPRA indices which measure the occupiers are, in the main, valueled retailers, performance of the European listed REIT sector.
paying affordable rents and providing shoppers with I would like to welcome all new shareholders joining everyday nondiscretionary items such as clothing the register as a result of these significant events.
From the perspective of the landlord, On admission to the Main Market, NewRiver REIT plc this sector consistently proves itself to be a highly became the ultimate parent company, replacing resilient segment of the retail market, capable of NewRiver Retail Limited.
The change in name sustaining cash flows in most economic conditions.
reflected the combination of the Companys The strength of the Companys key operating portfolio now including both retail and leisure metrics demonstrated the soundness of its business assets as well as its high dividend payout ratio as model during what was at times a turbulent year a UKregistered Real Estate Investment Trust.
The for the retail sector generally.
Notably, likeforlike core business strategy remains unchanged and the footfall and occupancy levels both improved Company continues to operate according to its strict compared to the previous period.
12 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT The Company showed agility in the acquisitions A track record market over the year with the purchase of a major shopping centre in Bexleyheath, South East London, of delivery a retail park in Dumfries and a retail warehouse in Sheffield.
The latter purchase subsequently generated cash receipts of 11.5 million, which, in accounting terms, fall within the definition of Funds From Operations Funds From Operations.
The Board has therefore approved a further special dividend of 3.0 pence tobe paid on 4 August 2017 to shareholders on the 58.2m register on 16 June 2017.
The exdividend date will FY16: 47.1m be 15 June 2017.
I am also delighted to announce that the first quarter FFO per share dividend for FY18 will be increased to 5.25 pence per share Q1 FY17: 5.00 pence, payable on 4 August 2017 to shareholders on the register 24.9p on 16 June 2017.
The exdividend date will be 15 June 2017.
FY16: 26.6p As previously announced, Chris Taylor, Senior Independent Director, stepped down from the Board Total dividend per share with effect from 9 April 2017.
On behalf of NewRiver, I would like to thank Chris for his major contribution over five years as a NonExecutive Director and 23.0p to wish him well for the future.
On behalf of the FY16: 18.5p Board, I would also like to thank NewRivers management and employees, whose hard work, enthusiasm and entrepreneurial flair delivered Assets under management another strong performance.
Finally, I am grateful to the Companys advisers and shareholders for their continuing support.
1.3bn While the Board is aware of general economic FY16: 1.1bn caution in light of uncertainty over Brexit negotiations and the potential for rises in inflation and interest rates, it believes that NewRiver is well placed to meet the challenges that could arise in this environment.
The Company owns a sizeable portfolio with critical mass.
It is highly cash generative with an occupier base representing some of the strongest covenants in the UK retail and leisure sectors.
Assets are geographically diversified with a focus on day to day shopping needs which the Company considers to be significantly less volatile than other segments of the retail market.
The Board remains optimistic in its outlook for the Company and looks forward to the future with confidence.
Paul Roy Chairman 15 May 2017 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
