Governance and directors report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Charles Gregson Chairman Dear shareholders, Leadership It is with great pleasure that I am introducing the first During the year, the board undertook a detailed review of corporate governance statement and directors report its composition, skills and experience in order to ensure asChairman of NEX.
During the year, the focus for the that it is made up of members with the experience to board and senior management was, to a very large challenge and contribute to NEXsvision.
As a result of extent, on ensuring a successful completion of the this review, I am delighted that Anna Ewing will be Transaction with TP ICAP.
This was complex and took joining the board of NEX as a non-executive director in longer than anticipated and consumed a great deal of May.
Having previously worked for Nasdaq and Merrill the board and senior managements time.
The result, Lynch, she brings significant technology and operations with completion at the end of December 2016, was a experience to NEX which I am confident will support very good outcome for shareholders.
our development and growth as a financial technology company.
We look forward to working with Anna.
In This focus led to the deferment of a number of other accordance with the articles of association of NEX, she strategic priorities which had previously been identified is expected to stand for appointment at the annual for action and or completion during the financial year.
Because of the importance of the Transaction, the board supported the Remuneration Committees views on John Sievwright was appointed to the board in July theimpact this had on the executive directors bonus 2009 and has been Chairman of the Auditand Risk arrangements.
Further details of the outcomes relative Committees and the senior independent director for to the performance goals for 2016 17 are detailed in the much of this time.
With Johns length of service reaching remuneration report.
nine years in July 2018, we are seeking to appoint a non-executive with the appropriate experience to take over, in due course, the chairs of both the Audit and Risk Committees.
34 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions While these recruitment processes remain ongoing, For leadership we recognise that our diversity, in terms of gender and Our board Our key achievements in 2016 17 ethnicity, fell short of prescribed targets during the year.
Our executive team All board appointments will continue tobe made on see pages 36-40 and 50-51 merit with due regard for the benefits of diversity.
In the interim, we are confident that our diversity in terms of For relations with shareholders thinking and challenge remains strong within An overview of our shareholder engagement activities during the year Details for our 2017 annual general meeting and the outcome of ICAP plc the boardroom.
shareholder meetings held during the year see page 41 Governance With the launch of NEX and its new position in the For effectiveness competitive financial technology marketplace, we Our approach to performance evaluations and update on key actions from 2015 16 have started a review of our governance framework.
Update on a review of our board composition, skills and experience We recognise that, in this different competitive space, see pages 42-44 we must be fit for purpose with all functions appropriate tothe new environment, whether regulated For accountability or not.
While there is more work to be done, the Risk Update on a review of our governance framework Our Audit Committees and Risk Committees key activities during Committee has begun its debate on its focus for the year 2017 18 and the outcome of this discussion is see pages 43-48 documented within the risk management and Risk Committees activities sections of this Annual Report.
For remuneration Our Remuneration Committees key activities during the year As a result of the Transaction and the subsequent review Our remuneration report and directors remuneration policy of the governance framework for NEX, we undertook see pages 49 and 56-72 internal evaluations of the board andits committees during the year, focusing on the outcomes of previous reviews and the requirements for the new Group.
When our governance review has completed and the proposed changes to our board have been embedded for a suitable period during 2017 18, we will undertake an externally facilitated evaluation of the board and its committees.
Culture We have always recognised the need for a strong and identifiable culture and we want everybody within the Group to feel and be part of the NEX family as our business continues to develop and grow.
As part of the rebranding to NEX, we are redefining our corporate values and the behaviours that support them.
Once formalised, these values and behaviours will be embedded and reinforced throughout the Group.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all board members for their time commitment during the year and continued commitment and enthusiasm for NEX going forward.
In the new NEX world, we continue to strive to be a good investment, a great employer and a valued contributor to our communities, year after year.
Thank you for continuing to support these goals.
Charles Gregson Chairman 15 May 2017 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 35
