PIGIT pp01 16 01 06 2017 10:39 Page 05 STRATEGY CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Performance For the year ended 31 March 2017, the Companys net asset value total return was 9.6%.
Although this is satisfying in absolute terms, it is less so when compared with the 22.0% return posted by the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys benchmark.
Also, the discount of the share price to the underlying net asset value widened during the year, from 5.1% to 9.7%, reducing the share price total return to 4.2%.
The longer term performance continues to be strong with five and ten year total returns on net assets of 87.1% and 122.2%, respectively, compared with 58.7% and 73.7% for the benchmark.
The shortfall in the relative return for the year derived mainly from a combination of holding few resources stocks, which performed strongly in the first half of the year, the downgrading by the market of domestically focused companies following the Brexit vote and certain stock specific issues amongst portfolio holdings.
Your portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, provides further detail on the performance of the portfolio during the year and sets out his strategy and outlook for the coming year in his report on pages 7 to 8.
Your Board continues to support Marks long term conviction approach, which has stood the Company in good stead over the years.
This approach means the portfolio is not closely aligned to the benchmark and can result in short term under-performance, as well as the more familiar overperformance, relative to the index from time to time.
Discount During the period under review, the Board has been well aware of the Companys discount level and that it has widened beyond its usual narrow range.
I have discussed this issue with my fellow Directors and the Companys corporate broker.
We believed the discount to be largely a result of the Companys relative performance against the wider market over the last year rather than anything fundamental and, therefore, the Board decided against buying back any shares.
We remain of the same belief that performance will drive demand for the shares and narrow the discount in due time.
Meanwhile, we continue to monitor its level closely.
Dividend For the year ended 31 March 2017, three interim dividends of 3p each were paid to shareholders in September and December 2016, and March 2017.
The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 4.35p per share for the year, to be paid on 30 June 2017 to shareholders on the register on 9 June 2017.
This gives a total dividend excluding specials for the year of 13.35p per share, representing an increase of 4.3% on the previous year and extends again the Companys record of year-on-year ordinary dividend increases since 1999.
Continuing the policy of recent years to pass on to shareholders special dividends received the Board has also declared a special dividend of 0.7p per share, also to be paid on 30 June 2017 to shareholders on the register on 9 June 2017.
This is less than last year and reflects the lower level of special dividends received special dividends are, by their nature, non-recurring and this fall is not unexpected.
It is also why we choose to pass on these dividends separately from the ordinary dividend payments.
Borrowing and Gearing The Boards policy is to permit gearing up to a maximum of 25% of total net assets and the Board allows the portfolio manager some discretion up to that level.
Borrowings are provided by 60 million of 4.37% senior secured notes redeemable in 2029 and a bank overdraft facility of 140 million.
The Board believes that these arrangements provide the portfolio manager with a good balance of fixed and flexible borrowing capacity.
The gearing level ranged between 14.0% and 19.4% during the year and ended the year at 15.5% 2016:16.0%.
Management Arrangements I am pleased to report that, being mindful of the need for the Company to be competitive in the wider marketplace and responsive to that market and to shareholders, your Board has negotiated the removal of the performance related fee and an adjustment to the calculation of the base management fee.
From 1 April 2017 the Manager will no longer be entitled to a performance related fee and the management fee, which continues to be based on funds under management, will be PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05 PIGIT pp01 16 01 06 2017 10:39 Page 06 STRATEGY CHAIRMANS STATEMENT continued 0.15% per quarter up to 900 million, previously 500 million, and 0.10% per quarter above that level.
Mark Barnett continues to be the Companys portfolio manager and we are confident that the changes to the management fee arrangements, allied to the stock picking skills exhibited by Mark since 1999, should help to ensure that the Company remains an attractive investment in the future.
The Board Having served as your Chairman for the last ten years, the time is right for me to step down from the Board at the conclusion of our Annual General Meeting.
I am delighted that Richard Laing has agreed to succeed me as Chairman of the Board and the Management Engagement Committee.
Richard has excelled in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Victoria Cochrane, who joined the Board in 2015, has agreed to succeed him as the new Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board has a formal succession plan in place and regularly reviews its composition to ensure there continues to be an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience, diversity and independence.
The Miles Partnership have been engaged to find a new non-executive director following my departure.
I would like to thank Mark Barnett and the team at Invesco Perpetual for achieving excellent performance on your behalf during my time as Chairman of your Board, and long may it continue.
Annual General Meeting AGM Shareholders attention is drawn to the special business in the Notice of AGM which includes the annual renewal of powers to issue and buy back shares as well as allow application of the minimum notice required for general meetings other than the annual general meeting by the Companies Act 2006.
An additional ordinary resolution has also been added this year to provide shareholders with an opportunity to vote on the Companys dividend policy.
This is in response to concerns raised by certain voting agencies that the dividend timetable precludes a vote on a final dividend.
Further information on all resolutions can be found in the Directors Report on pages 29 and 30.
The Directors have carefully considered all the resolutions proposed in the Notice of the AGM as set out on pages 57 to 60 and, in their opinion, consider them all to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
In response to requests from shareholders last year, this year the Companys AGM will be held at Invesco Perpetuals West End office, 1st Floor, 43-45 Portman Square, London W1H 6LY at 11.00am on 11 July 2017.
I hope this will allow more shareholders to attend.
The Directors and the portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, will be available at the meeting to answer shareholders questions.
