Strategic Report Introduction Chairmans Letter Good early progress against Burberrys ambitious plans.
As Carol Fairweather and John Smith had signalled their intention to step down as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer respectively, focus was also on the succession of these roles, with the decision to combine them to align with the change programme.
The Board unanimously supported the appointment of Marco Gobbetti as Chief Executive Officer who will join the Board on 5 July 2017 with Christopher transitioning to his new role at that time, and Julie Brown who joined the Board as Chief Operating and Financial Officer on 18 January 2017.
The Board believes that the combination of Christophers creative talent and vision for Burberry and Marcos extensive skills in luxury and retail, as well as Julies financial and commercial track record, Sir John Peace will provide strong leadership for the next phase of Chairman Burberrys evolution.
Last year I highlighted the fundamental changes taking The Board would like to thank Carol Fairweather for her place in the luxury sector and in consumer behaviour.
immense contribution to Burberry over the past ten years, These were influenced by a challenging global environment, and John Smith for his contribution to Burberry over the which had impacted the performance of the sector as a past seven years, first as a non-executive director and whole, as demand slowed sharply in many of Burberrys latterly as Chief Operating Officer.
We wish them all the key markets.
To stay ahead of these changes and to best for the future.
create future value for shareholders, we announced an acceleration of our productivity and efficiency agenda, Financial performance and shareholder returns particularly looking at our ways of working.
We identified As a whole, the luxury sector has continued to remain significant future organic revenue growth opportunities challenging during the year, with some signs of and a programme of actions to deliver at least 100m of improvement during the second half.
We have made annualised cost savings by FY 2019. strategic long-term choices to strengthen the brand and reposition Burberry for growth over time, and good The Board also considered with Christopher Bailey, the progress with the implementation of our programme shape of the leadership team required to maximise our including the establishment of our five key pillars to growth opportunities and to successfully implement these underpin our growth and productivity agenda.
It was concluded that there was a need for a new detail on our progress is set out in Christophers letter chief executive with strong luxury retail experience to lead and in this Report.
on the commercial, operational and financial elements of the business, who could partner closely with Christopher, Burberry has delivered 2016 17 revenues of 2.8bn who would continue his leadership of the brand and design down 2% underlying, and adjusted profit before tax of elements of the business as President and Chief Creative 462m up 42m and down 21% underlying.
Since taking on the combined role of Chief Creative part impacted by a decrease in licensing profit due to the and Chief Executive Officer, Christopher has made planned expiry of our Japanese licences and other actions significant progress against a backdrop of challenging we have taken to build and reinforce our brand positioning.
The Board is appreciative of his efforts We also delivered the planned 20m of cost savings in in working with the Board to identify a new chief executive FY 2017.
This is expected to build to c. 50m in FY 2018 to partner with him on the execution of our growth plans.
and is on track to deliver the target of at least 100m annualised in FY 2019.
10 Strategic Report Introduction The Group ended the year with a strong cash balance Governance and diversity of 809m, up 149m year-on-year after 97m of share The Board seeks to operate to the highest standards buyback and 164m of dividends.
Consequently, the of corporate governance.
The work of the Board and its Board has recommended a 5% increase in the full year Committees during the year, along with the assessment dividend to 38.9p, in line with our progressive dividend of its performance, is set out in the Corporate Governance policy resulting in a 50% pay-out ratio based on adjusted Report on pages 70 to 86.
Burberry continues to support earnings per share.
This reflects the Boards confidence diversity in all its forms across the organisation including in the future growth of the business.
While all Board appointments are made on merit, the Board continues to believe in the importance of Our approach to capital allocation is based on a framework a diverse Board and has always had strong gender diversity which defines our priorities for uses of cash, underpinned amongst its membership, including at executive level.
The by our principle to maintain a strong balance sheet with Board will continue to monitor diversity, including across solid investment grade credit metrics.
This underlines our the business, and to take such steps as it considers commitment to increasing shareholder returns over time, appropriate to maintain its position as a meritocratic which remains a key priority for the Board.
Over the past five years, Burberry has returned around Looking ahead 700m to shareholders through dividends, and in April 2017 To conclude, this has been an important year of change completed 100m of a 150m announced share buyback.
for Burberry, not only due to macro trends but also the A further share buyback of 300m will be completed way that Burberry operates as a business.
Looking ahead in FY 2018, in addition to the 50m already announced.
to 2017 18, we will continue to focus on our brand, our This is inclusive of the distribution of the Coty upfront sum.
products and the execution of our key strategies.
Although there is still much to be done as Burberry continues its Other Board developments multi-year programme, the Board firmly believes that The composition of the Board has evolved significantly the new leadership team coupled with the actions we over the past few years with the appointment of four new are taking, will significantly enhance our ability to deliver non-executive directors and one longer-serving Board long-term sustainable growth.
Further changes are planned over the coming year.
The aim is to continue to refresh the Finally, I would like to thank all of our people for their hard Board while ensuring stability and continuity, particularly work and dedication, particularly during this time of change in the context of significant management change.
I would also like to thank the Board for its hard work and commitment to Burberry, and to thank you, our Following a previous review of the Board Committees, shareholders, for your support over the past 12 months.
changes were implemented during the year.
This included the appointment of Jeremy Darroch as Chair of the Audit Committee and Fabiola Arredondo as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, as well as changes to the composition of those Committees.
People and pay Our new Remuneration Policy will be presented to shareholders for their vote at our upcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, and so our Remuneration Committee Chair Fabiola Arredondo has been meeting with our shareholders and consulting with them on the proposed Policy.
You can read more about the Policy in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 87 to 111.
