Chairmans statement The Groups response to the tragic incident was led by Tim OToole, Chief Executive, who attended the scene that afternoon together with Transport for London TfL to ensure all necessary steps were being taken to provide assistance to the victims, their families and friends and to the emergency services.
The Board is fully apprised of all matters relating to the incident and endorses the The derailment of a tram in comprehensive, swift and appropriately focused response.
It is absolutely essential Croydon on 9 November 2016 that the reasons for the derailment are established, and we continue to provide was a tragedy that shocked and fullsupport to all ongoing investigations.
The thoughts of Strategic progress During the year, the Group has continued to everyone at FirstGroup remain make progress in enhancing its long term ability to generate sustainable value, by investing in with those affected, their families, itscapital assets and customer offerings while working to deliver improved margins through friends and colleagues.
pricing and cost efficiency programmes.
The substantial improvement in First Students margin this year reflects a step change in thevalue creation we derive from our market leadership in the North American school bus industry.
First Transit continues to extend its 60 years of expertise in transport contracting into additional service lines and geographies, while Greyhounds results are beginning to benefit from our investment in the transformation of its entire business model.
While we continue to face macroeconomic uncertainty in the UK, First Bus has developed tailored local plans topreserve value in the face of mixed market conditions, and we are confident that our First Rail business represents a source of long term value, buttressed by the recent award of the South Western franchise with our partner MTRCorporation, which was won by focusing on quality of service to the passenger.
This reflects our increasing focus throughout the Group on listening to our passengers and understanding their needs, and then bringing expertise and innovation together from across our organisation and beyond in order to deliver quality services for our customers.
04 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report In May 2017 we welcomed Martha Poulter to Overall, I am confident that the Group has Results for the year the Board as an independent Non-Executive made important steps in the year to realising Overall, the Group achieved its financial Director.
Martha brings a wealth of information the promise that its significant scale and objectives for the year.
While Group revenue technology and business process experience confers, both within each of the was broadly flat in constant currency, Group transformation experience to the Board from markets served, and as a Group.
adjusted operating profit in constant currency her senior executive career at General Electric increased by 2.3%, with significant progress There are significant challenges still to face, GE and most recently at Starwood Hotels inFirst Student, our largest division, and in commitments to deliver and opportunities and Resorts.
Marthas strong background FirstTransit, partially offset by rebased toimprove our services ahead, but with a andexperience in customer-focused, marginsin First Rail and the higher cost clearstrategy for delivering further financial technology-led businesses will be a great offuelin Sterling terms in the UK.
efficiencies and a growing focus on attracting addition to the Board.
new customers to our services, the Group is In reported currency, adjusted operating In May 2017 we also welcomed Jimmy well placed to continue to deliver sustainable profitincreased by 12.7%, benefiting from the Groombridge to the Board as our new Group cash generation and increasing shareholder strength of the US Dollar on the translation of Employee Director.
Jimmy has been a bus value in future.
results from our substantial North American driver for just under 40 years and currently operations, while adjusted EPS increased by Wolfhart Hauser works in our First Eastern Counties bus 20.4%.
Statutory operating profit and EPS Chairman operation.
He was nominated by his alsoincreased significantly.
1 June 2017 colleagues to the role following Mick Barkers As set out in my statement to you last year, resignation earlier this year.
The Board would theGroup has achieved its goal of returning like to thank Mick for his conscientious service togenerating significant net cash inflow this over the last five years, and look forward to financial year.
This is key to reducing the thecontribution Jimmy will make to our Groups leverage and interest costs towards deliberations, given his important and unique an optimum long term level, and enhances perspective as an employee of the Group.
theBoards flexibility to support sustainable Corporate governance shareholder value creation.
Sound corporate governance is a vital facet The Board recognises that dividends are an ofour responsibilities to all our stakeholders, important component of total shareholder and in the year the Board has focused return for many investors and remains onfurther development of the Boards committed to reinstating a sustainable understanding and approach to risk appetite, dividend at the appropriate time, having succession planning and talent management regardto the Groups financial performance, for the Boardand senior management, delivery balance sheet and outlook.
The Board will of thetransformation plans, development of notbe recommending payment of a dividend the Groups strategy and business objectives, in respect of the year to 31 March 2017 at and reviewing the Board performance in light theGroups Annual General Meeting but oftheinternal Board evaluation.
willcontinue to review the appropriate timing Our people for restarting dividend payments.
In the course of using many of the Groups The Board services during the year, I have continued to A strong, experienced and diverse Board with meet many frontline employees throughout the right mix of skills and experience lies at the thefive divisions.
I have been extraordinarily heart of a successful and sustainable company.
impressed by the commitment and dedicationthat our more than 100,000 I am pleased therefore that in February 2017 colleagues bring to the task of providing the we were able to welcome Richard Adam to vital transportation services on which millions the Board as an independent Non-Executive of our customers rely.
Director and Chair of the Audit Committee on the same day that Brian Wallace retired from On behalf of the Board I would like to extend those roles.
I am confident that Richards my sincere gratitude to all of our employees strong background and long experience in fortheir hard work during the year, which has contract-based international infrastructure allowed the Group to begin to demonstrate businesses will be of immense value to the itspotential for further success in future.
Group, while on behalf of the Board and everyone at FirstGroup I would like to thank Brian for his immense dedication and significant contribution to FirstGroups progress over the last five years.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 05
