CHAirmAnS STATemenT Value-added ingredients We have now completed our investment at our cheese creamery at Davidstow, Cornwall.
We are producing demineralised whey, an added value by-product of the cheese-making process.
Demineralised whey is the base ingredient for infant formula and by March 2017 over 80% of production was meeting the exacting standards required for use in infant formula recipes.
Furthermore, we have also started manufacturing GOS at Davidstow.
GOS is a prebiotic which is added into premium infant formula to help aid digestion and growth in babies.
Both of these products are being marketed and sold into global infant formula manufacturers by our partner, Fonterra.
We also continue to research other potential applications for GOS in both human nutrition and animal feed.
In December 2016 Dairy Crest announced that it had entered into a research partnership with Danisco Animal Nutrition, part of DuPont, to explore further the potential uses of GOS in poultry and swine.
If successful, this work would help to broaden the potential market for GOS beyond infant formula.
our culture and values review of the year Our success has been built on our links to the countryside, This year we have delivered a set of results which demonstrate our dairy heritage and the people in our business.
From this the underlying robustness of our business.
Adjusted profit before foundation we will grow through a shared passion to create tax has increased by 5% to 60.6 million and profit margins have exceptional food, loved by every generation.
This performance has been delivered despite Dairy Crest remains committed to doing the right thing in the a highly volatile background in global dairy markets.
way we conduct ourselves and do business.
Following the sale of In the first half of the year, milk volumes were strong across the Dairies business, we have refined our corporate responsibility the UK and falling milk and cream prices reflected this.
However, agenda into 14 new pledges.
These pledges set demanding after two years of pronounced deflation, UK and global dairy targets across areas such as environmental impact, employee markets strengthened in the second half of the year as supply fell.
safety, diversity and development, delivering to our consumers In this environment, we increased the price we pay our farmers for and contributing to the communities in which we operate.
We will milk by 38% between the summer of 2016 and March 2017.
The measure ourselves against these pledges and report on progress annually.
impact on cream prices was even more pronounced and butter input costs doubled in the second half of 2016. increased dividend recommended Despite this background, we increased profits and delivered The Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.3 pence per a strong branded performance, especially across our butters, share, making a full year dividend of 22.5 pence per share.
In spreads and oils portfolio.
Furthermore, 2016 17 saw the start line with our progressive dividend policy, this is a 1.9% increase of demineralised whey and GOS production at our Davidstow on last year.
The dividend is covered 1.6 times by adjusted basic creamery.
Sales of functional ingredients represent an important earnings per share.
A key part of our strategy remains to continue future growth opportunity for the business.
to increase dividends each year, aiming for a target cover range of 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Developing brands Developing brands is at the heart of our business and 2016 17 Summary saw good progress across our portfolio.
Cathedral City, Clover Our performance this year is not only a result of the Groups longand Frylight have each benefited from refreshed packaging during term strategy but also a reflection of the significant contribution the last 12 months and the level of overall marketing activity was and dedication of all of our employees, for which I would like to increased compared to the prior year.
We aired two new TV thank them.
advertisements for Cathedral City and Frylight and supported The Board remains confident in the future prospects for Dairy a significant programme of consumer-facing and in-store Crest.
The business has a strong management team who are advertising, and promotional activity across our key brands.
delivering against a clear business strategy of building brands, adding value, driving simplicity, generating cash and reducing risk.
innovation at the core I am delighted that our success in innovation and product Stephen Alexander Chairman development was recognised this year.
Clover won the spreads 17 May 2017 category Product of the Year 2017 award in the worlds largest consumer survey award for product innovation.
This is testimony to the work undertaken to remove all artificial ingredients from the recipe.
Furthermore, in October 2016 Frylight won the Institute of Grocery and Distribution Health and Wellness award.
Innovation is critical in order to continue to grow our business and 13% of the Groups revenue in 2016 17 resulted from products that are less than three years old.
This is well ahead of the 10% target we set ourselves.
