Strategic report C hairmans introduction My focus for the Company is growth, cashgeneration and profit in that order.
We will be smart about how we invest, focusing on our fixed network, and avoiding capital intensive distractions.
Sir Charles Dunstone Executive Chairman We made solid progress during FY17 in transforming our systems and In February we announced the departure of Dido Harding as processes and improving our network, to deliver a better experience ChiefExecutive Officer.
Dido has helped transform TalkTalk into for our customers and reduce churn from last years elevated levels.
amuch stronger business andshe leaves with our thanks and very This allowed us to refresh the TalkTalk brand and launch our Fixed best wishes for the future.
Wewere delighted to announce the Low Price Plans FLPP that, in a move unique to the UK market, we promotions of Tristia Harrison MD Consumer to succeed Dido also made available to existing customers.
Recontracting activity asChief Executive Officer, and Charles Bligh MDTalkTalk Business anddemand from new customers exceeded our expectations and tothe new role of Chief Operating Officer, while I have assumed the weended the year with a higher percentage of the base in contract.
Also during the year, we were pleased to Therefore, while across the full year the On-net base and On-net welcome Cath Keers to the Board as a Non-Executive Director and revenue contracted, the combined success of these measures is amember of the Groups Audit Committee.
Cath previously served evident in the return to net adds growth that we delivered in our asaNon-Executive Director of Telefnica Europe plc, prior towhich Retail base during the last quarter of the year, together with much she had been Customer Director and Marketing Director ofO2 UK.
TTB had another successful year, with strong Recent regulatory decisions on the roles and responsibilities of growth in Data revenues from 8,000 connections during the year.
BTOpenreach BTOR, and the pricing of some of our key input Group revenues declined year on year, driven by the contraction of costs, confirm our view that a supportive regulatory framework the On-net base, but, with lower SAC and Marketing expenditure and willcontinue toprovide an essential backdrop to our role as a value operating costs, Headline EBITDA grew by 17% year on year to304m.
I am excited at the prospect of We have entered the new financial year with solid foundations from spending more time on TalkTalk, and working with the new leadership which we will be able to return the business to revenue and customer team as it focuses on delivering successfully for our customers base growth, improve cash generation and reduce leverage.
be smart about how we invest, focusing on our core fixed network The Board and I would like to thank our employees for their efforts and avoiding capital intensive distractions.
and their continuing commitment to TalkTalk and our customers.
In light of these new priorities, we have also decided to reset the dividend as we look to deliver growth and strong sustainable shareholder returns over the long term.
As a result, the Board has declared a final dividend for FY17 of 5.0p FY16: 10.58p.
Looking Sir Charles Dunstone forward, the Board recognises the importance of dividend income Executive Chairman to shareholders and will continue to review the Groups dividend 10 May 2017 policy as the business delivers its growth and leverage objectives.
For FY18, the Board expects to declare a total cash dividend of 7.5p FY17: 10.29p.
Looking beyond FY18, the Board expects to resume dividend growth once the business returns to earnings growth and has reduced leverage towards the Groups netdebt Headline EBITDA target of 2.0x.
1 S ee note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for Headline EBITDA definition and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a reconciliation of Headline information tostatutory information.
04 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 F Y17 business review 17% growth in Headline EBITDA: strong foundationsinplace for futuregrowth.
Tristia Harrison Chief Executive Officer We made solid progress in establishing the operational foundations 1.
Over 1 million customers now on FLPP and59% for future growth, with clear improvements in customer experience of On-net base in contract metrics, tangible network enhancements, the relaunch of our brand During FY17 we built upon the substantial operational and customer and Retail propositions, and excellent growth in TTB.
Asa result we service improvements delivered by MTTS, and extensive customer exited the year with stronger than expected recontracting and gross research, to launch a comprehensive brand refresh and our simpler, additions activity driving growth in the broadband base, lower churn fairer FLPP.
and a higher proportion ofthe base in contract.
We launched FLPP at the beginning ofOctober 2016, ahead of the Group Headline revenues fell by 3.0% with On-net revenues wider industrys move to all-in pricing.
Existing and new customers down4.1%, Corporate 3.4% and Off-net 2.5% of total: FY16: 3.0% responded extremely well to the new plans through H2, with the declining by 20%.
The decline in On-net revenues reflects the c. 3% 24month plans introduced in Q4 showing particularly strong demand.
lower average base during the year as a result of churn and lower As a result we now have over 1 million customers on the new plans.
connections activity, On-net ARPU, which was 1.3% lower year on year Many more customers chose to take fibre than expected and at 28.16, reflecting the higher proportion of Wholesale customers attachment rates for calling boosts and TVhave also been stronger on the base 24%, FY16: 21%, and, during H2, the dilutive impact of than we had expected, reflecting both theattractiveness of our simple FLPP offset in part by increased fibre penetration and price increases.
and clear pricing, and the much improved online experience that we have delivered through MTTS.
The heightened churn that weexperienced Corporate revenue growth of 3.4% was driven by Data revenues 31% during the first quarter ofthe launch, from the re-pricing of legacy which benefited from c. 8k net adds to our Ethernet and Ethernet in propositions, reduced sharply in the final quarterof the year to 1.40%.
Growth in Data and Next Generation Voice 20% offset Legacy Voice -17.9%, with Carrier revenues broadly 2.
Delivered lasting operational and customer service benefits flat year on year.
We made significant progress during FY17 across all our customer experience improvement programmes, which have driven materially FY Headline EBITDA of 304m FY16: 260m grew by 17% statutory better outcomes for customers and, as a result, 34m of gross income operating profit grew by 150% year on year as a result of the higher, statement savings.
Key areas in which we made strong progress include: cyber related exceptional costs in FY16, driven by a significant improvement in SAC and Marketing, and 34m of savings from our New technical support and repair processes introduced for front-line transformation programme, MTTS.
In SAC, we benefited from the service representatives, built on technology deployed in FY16, extension of our agreement with a major distribution partner for a reducing customer effort and increasing first-time fix rates, with fewer five year period, to provide the Group with a lower cost outsourced customers with a broadband issue calling back within seven days.
solution for the management of fixed line customer acquisitions.
More than 600,000 customers enrolled on TalkSafe, TalkTalks During the year thisenabled us to accelerate gross additions, whilst innovative, secure and low-effort new voice biometric deferring a proportion of the upfront SAC cost, which contributed verificationsystem.
24m, net ofexpensed hardware costs of 17m.
By delivering a growing and higher quality base, at a lower cost per add, we expect to see Tailored Next Best Action technology deployed across online and both revenues and gross profit increase in future years.
phone channels, increasing Net Promoter Scores NPS andupsell.
Net debt at 31 March 2017 was 782m 30 September 2016: 847m, Introduced a redesigned, simpler, more informative and with Headline leverage falling from 2.82x to 2.57x and committed transparent online bill.
headroom, reflecting the issuance of the Groups debut bond, at Re-platformed the highest traffic parts of our websites to optimise 31March of 412m.
for mobile as well as desktop devices and improve performance.
With all the initiatives that comprised MTTS now fully embedded 1 S ee note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for Headline revenue, EBITDA within the business, the programme is now substantially complete, and leverage definitions and note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for a with cumulative financial benefits of 87m delivered.
reconciliation of Headline information tostatutory information.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 05 Strategic report F Y17 business review continued 3.
Ongoing network investment has improved 5.
Growth in triple and quad play penetration customerexperience In line with our strategy of growing fibre, triple and quad play In addition to improving customer experience through MTTS, penetration, we saw strong take-up of fibre 223k and mobile wecontinued to invest in our network across four major areas: 214k.
There were 927k customers taking fibre at the year end 25.5% of the On-net base, with H2 net adds nearly double the level Backhaul and core network enhancement to ensure the best in H1 as customers responded to our pricing initiatives and easier outcome for customers at peak time.
As a result we are ranked online upsell journeys.
best with SamKnows for peak time throughput.
In Mobile, we ended the year with 913k SIM and handset contracts, We replaced our Dynamic Line Management DLM system for again with H2 net adds stronger than H1 as we introduced an improving speed and line stability and rolled out a new secure upgraded SIM as part of our launch of FLPP.
Domain Name System DNS to improve resilience, security andresponsiveness.
While the TV base contracted during the year by 101k, we saw an inflection in the rate of decline during Q4 -14k as customers responded We completed software upgrades to the collector nodes and positively to the improving functionality and performance of our began our major access network upgrade to 10gb capacity, next generation YouView interface and our multi-device TV App.
withover 100 exchanges fully migrated to date.
At the end of the year our On-net base comprised c. 42% dual play We deployed more Netflix caches at the edge of our network to customers taking voice and broadband, c. 39% triple play customers improve streaming experience by pushing content closer to the taking voice, broadband and either TV or mobile, and c. 12% quad play customer.
For customers taking sports boosts, we engineered a customers taking all four products, with strong fibre penetration substantial uplift in video quality, which, combined with the DLM across all three.
improvements, has translated into an improved viewing experience.
Continuing strong growth at TTB: Corporate 4.2% We have made excellent progress with our fibre to the premise andData 30.8% FTTP trial in York.
The initial roll-out to over 14,000 homes was TTB delivered another year of strong performance in Corporate.
completed in March 2017, with penetration of serviceable homes Revenues ex-Carrier grew by 4.2%, with an acceleration in H2 to atc.
27% c. 2,500 of whom are TalkTalk customers.
Data revenues grew 30.8% year on year wereunder our500 per home target, with take-up and customer withthe number of Ethernet and EFM lines up by 8k during the year.
satisfaction also ahead of targets.
Following the success ofthis first Legacy Voice revenues declined -17.9% in line with the established phase, we have now started the planning work to extend the network trend but we saw strong take-up of our new next generation voice toafurther 40,000 premises across the rest of York.
product, with revenue growth during the year of 20%.
Improving customer satisfaction, churn and a return Carrier revenues were broadly flat year on year 1.7%.
tobasegrowth Following our acquisition of tIPicall in April 2015, our next generation The combined effect of MTTS, our network quality improvements voice portfolio continued to gain good momentum.
116 partners and the launch of FLPP helped deliver substantial improvements have signed up to sell this new service and the total base of Session incustomer satisfaction, churn and base growth during FY17.
Initiation Protocol SIP channels onthe platform, including acquired Churn across the year fell to 1.45% FY16: 1.60% with year on year base, increased by7,340 channels 65% during the year.
The improvements in both H1 1.40%: H1FY16: 1.48% and H2 1.51%: acquisition has continued our diversification into next generation H2FY16: 1.72%, despite elevated levels of churn in Q3 from the telephony services, further demonstrated by our hosted telephony planned tariff rationalisation and re-pricing of legacy propositions platform which saw the user base grow by 43%.
FY18 strategic priorities Customer satisfaction with our service agents, and the number of We have a clear and defined strategy of driving profitable growth complaints to Ofcom which are drivers of churn, also improved during byleveraging our extensive network assets, improving the customer the year.
Critically, these improvements, combined with falling costs experience and driving operational efficiency.
Under our new leadership per add as aresult of more efficient distribution channels through team and operational structure we will now focus on delivering growth our extended outsourcing arrangement with a major distribution in the On-net base and On-net revenues: sustaining strong growth in partner, allowed us also toincrease new acquisition activity in the TTB: continuing to improve and future-proof our network: driving a final quarter of the year.
The resulting gross additions exceeded our step change in customer experience: and realising further efficiencies.
expectations and, coupled with lower churn, enabled a return to Retail base growth.
Asaresult we exited the year with 3.947 million 1.
Returning the Retail base to profitable growth On-net customers FY16:3.996 million.
Within this, the Retail base There is compelling evidence that our new propositions are delivering declined by 178k during the year, while the Wholesale base continued not only reduced churn but happier, more satisfied customers, the to grow robustly 129k.
vast majority of whom are signing up to 24 month contracts, wanting certainty in pricing and service, early life churn on the FLPP base isless than 1%: FLPP customers' reported Net Promoter Score is significantly higher than for non-FLPP customers: and TalkTalk brandsatisfaction has grown in each of the last four months.
1m For more information see Over 1 million customers now on FLPP 09 our strategy and59% of On-net base in contract 06 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 This, coupled with simpler, better value propositions for new Following this network investment programme, we expect the entire customers, materially improving customer service and reducing data network to be at the latest switching and network technology.
costs per add, underpins our confidence in driving profitable Itwill be simplified, more resilient, using the latest Tier 1 networking subscriber growth in our Retail base through gross adds activity.
technologies both software and hardware, and will future-proof thenetwork for the expected needs of consumers and businesses.
As outlined above, our TV business has seen significant improvements in service and customer satisfaction and our aggregator approach 5.
Operational excellence tofree and pay TV across multiple devices is paying off our Delivering better quality at a reduced cost of operation is fundamental investments in TV continue to lead to broadband churn reduction.
Our new operating structure will allow us to further simplify our service footprint and customer insight systems: In Mobile, while we remain committed to offering all our customers a reduce the costs of failure: and better leverage our procurement compelling proposition, we have decided not to pursue an inside-out and cost assurance processes.
Over the medium term, this will mobile network strategy, and instead we will continue to work closely result in a fundamentally higher quality of operation and reduce with Telefnica UK on the right platform and customer offering.
ourcost revenue ratio, whilst also allowing us to reinvest efficiencies Weexpect to have more information to update on this in due course.
into further customer experience improvements.
Sustaining momentum in TTB Our market share of Ethernet circuits c. 10% offers significant further Looking forward opportunities for growth, supported by the pricing optionality from Our priorities in FY18 are to sustain the momentum built during Q4FY17 favourable Ethernet and dark fibre regulation.
We are seeing increasing to deliver growth in the On-net base and On-net revenues: sustain demand in the future pipeline from small businesses looking to use strong growth in TTB: continue our fixed network investment: focus our high-speed Ethernet products as they transition to hosted voice on customer service improvements and operational efficiency: products.
We are also growing the pipeline with large corporates looking improve headline cash flow: and reduce net debt.
to take advantage of our new managed network connectivity products.
We expect continuing lower costs per add and reducing churn Having expanded our portfolio of data products to offer a complete tosupport more economically attractive gross additions during portfolio of FTTC and Ethernet products, we expect to see strong FY18, however incremental volume growth will require higher SAC demand from both our partners and direct customers.
As a result we expect to deliver Headline of partners wholesaling FTTC from us has grown in the last year and EBITDA of 270m300m, year on year growth in Headline we expect continued growth in this area.
revenues, and improved headline cash flow allowing us to reduce net debt.
Beyond FY18 we expect the growing On-net base, comprising 3.
Delivering a step change in customer experience higher quality lower churning customers, to support a return to Having delivered progressive improvements in customer experience Headline EBITDA growth.
from MTTS, our focus over the next twelve months and beyond will be on consolidating these achievements to drive a step change in We have reorganised the business under our new leadership team three key areas: consistency of service across all channels: joining tofocus on fewer, clearer priorities that are focused on investment and repair processes: and in-home connectivity experience.
As part of our review of how we allocate Theinvestments we have already made in simplifying and upgrading capital and our clear focus on investing in fixed connectivity we have our customer-facing systems and processes have begun to deliver reassessed our mobile strategy.
While we remain committed to measurable returns in the form of higher customer satisfaction, offering all our customers a compelling mobile proposition, we have lower complaints volumes and improved churn.
Our overall focus decided not to pursue an inside-out mobile network strategy, and from here on will be to continue to put the customer at the heart of instead we will continue to work closely with Telefnica UK on the the service experience to make sure whichever channel they choose right platform and customer offering.
We expect to have more online, social media or call centre wegive a consistent experience information to update on this in due course.
and advice which increases loyalty tothe brand.
This also includes our B2B customers, where we have good customer satisfaction with Dividend both direct and wholesale customers and we have plans to improve The Board is committed to returning the business to revenue and this to industry leading levels.
These improvements will require customer base growth, improving cash generation and reducing modest incremental investment that will be covered within our leverage, and in this context has declared a Final dividend for overall commitment of capex revenues of 6%7%.
FY17of5.0p FY16: 10.58p, taking the total dividend for the year to10.29p FY16: 15.87p.
For FY18 the Board expects to declare an 4.
Network investment Interim cashdividend of 2.5p FY17: 5.29p and a Final cash dividend Continuing investment in the network over the next two years within of 5.0p FY17:5.0p taking the total cash dividend for the year to 7.5p our 6%7% capex revenue commitment will deliver a fully upgraded FY17: 10.29p.
Looking beyond FY18, the Board expects to resume access layer switches and backhaul with over 1,000 exchanges dividend growth once the business returns to earnings growth and equipped with 10gb backhaul circuits, to support growing FTTC has reduced leverage towards Net Debt Headline EBITDA of 2.0x.
We also plan to scale dark fibre deployment across the entire network, helped by a more favourable regulatory pricing environment.
This will allow us to support the expected increase in capacity utilisation at reduced unit costs, and significantly mitigate future network operating costs that otherwise would grow Tristia Harrison substantially as we expand our Ethernet, FTTC and FTTP bases.
Chief Executive Officer 10 May 2017 1 S ee note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for Headline EBITDA definition and note 9 to the financial statements for a reconciliation of Headline information tostatutory information.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 07
