Chairmans statement In a year characterised by This success was delivered Looking forward, with a strong significant political events and through the hard work and pipeline of refurbishments and the market uncertainty that commitment of everyone at redevelopments, ongoing inevitably comes with that, I am Workspace.
We genuinely think demand for our space from a pleased to say that Workspace differently in this business, with growing customer market and a has performed strongly.
The each individual adopting a strong balance sheet to take resilience of the business, customer-first mentality, advantage of further acquisition underpinned by the right innovative thinking and bringing opportunities, I feel confident in strategy and a clear customer deep market knowledge to their Workspaces ability to deliver focus resulting in ongoing various roles, whether on the value to shareholders over the demand for our offer, reinforces ground in our centres or in our long term.
our conviction around our marketing, systems development business model.
or finance teams at head office.
The Board and I thank all our As Jamie, our Chief Executive, colleagues, as well as our outlines in his statement, we suppliers and partners, for their have seen the market move part in delivering the Workspace Daniel Kitchen Non-Executive Chairman more and more towards our Advantage.
Over the year, it has become clear that the We work hard to deliver that Workspace Advantage, our high advantage to our customers but quality, connected space and also to all the stakeholders we tailored customer offer, is have relationships with.
I am attractive to businesses from particularly proud of the work many different sectors at any the business has done this year stage in their life cycle.
in inspiring Londons young people through providing work We have continued to deliver experience placements with our strong results with a 6.9% customers, helping to place increase in net rental income, to apprentices with our suppliers 79.2m, and a 3.3% increase in and holding CV workshops in EPRA NAV per share, to 9.53. our centres.
We regularly consider the positive role we can Our focus is on driving income play in London and the duty of across our portfolio, efforts care we have to the wider which have been enhanced community in which we operate.
during the year by the successful letting up of our completed London continues to be the right projects.
Thanks to this focus, market for Workspace and it and the strong trading profit holds significant growth growth we delivered as a result, opportunities for us.
Clearly, this the Board is recommending a is not without risk, and share 40% increase in the interim and prices across the real estate final dividend for the period.
This sector were impacted following is in line with our progressive the EU Referendum last June dividend policy and, of course, amid concerns that London our distribution requirements as would lose its unique attraction a Real Estate Investment Trust as a centre for business.
It also demonstrates Operationally, we saw no such the Boards confidence in the impact on demand but we future success of the business.
remain alert to the risks that further political and economic uncertainty could bring to the business.
2Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Investor proposition 1.
Strong and Five consistent property and financial returns.
driving rental growth and strong pipeline of projects to come.
Diversified customer base ensuring consistent demand.
Strong brand and unique customer offer that blends inspiring spaces and the right facilities.
Deep understanding of the London market poised to take advantage of opportunities.
3W 3Wo or rk ks sp pa ac ce G e Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A Annu nnua all R Re ep por ort t an and d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 20 201 17 7
