Chairmans Statement A year of excellent progress Tate&Lyle delivered a strong performance with impressive financial results I am delighted to be making my first annual statement to you following my appointment as Chairman of Tate & Lyle from 1 April 2017.
I am passionate about food, having started my career as a food scientist, and have remained close to the industry ever since.
My path has crossed Tate & Lyles on several occasions during my career and I am very Dr Gerry Murphy, Chairman excited to join a company that I have long admired for its strong heritage, values and expertise.
Delivering responsibly I am honoured to succeed Sir Peter Gershon who retired on 31 March 2017 after serving on the Board Tate & Lyle is committed to achieving strong for eight years.
I would like to thank him sincerely for performance for shareholders whilst maintaining a his outstanding service and significant contribution sharp and relentless focus on the safety and to Tate & Lyle during his tenure.
Peter leaves the sustainability of our business.
Company in great shape, performing well with a In January, we launched an extensive Group-wide clear strategy and strong governance.
review of all our safety processes and procedures, I look forward to working with the Board and the supported by an independent external expert executive team to realise Tate & Lyles potential consultancy with deep experience in global safety for development, growth and value creation for assessments.
This follows an industrial accident at shareholders.
one of our grain elevators in the US, in September 2016, when sadly one of our employees and a local Delivering for shareholders farmer died.
A number of significant management actions have already been implemented in our US I am pleased to report that Tate & Lyle delivered excellent performance in the year ended 31 March 2017 grain elevator network to strengthen safety processes, further explained in the Corporate with profits and earnings per share both well ahead of the prior year.
Cash generation was particularly Responsibility section on page 44. strong and the balance sheet remains robust, We expect the external review will conclude in the providing flexibility to support future growth whilst first half of the current financial year.
The Board and maintaining dividend distribution to shareholders.
the executive team will work together to ensure that the reviews findings are carefully considered and The Board recognises the importance to our recommended actions implemented shareholders not only of the dividend, but also comprehensively and with urgency.
Our ultimate of its sustainability, and the need to re-build cash goal remains to have no accidents and no injuries dividend cover over time.
Accordingly, the Board and this incident has made us all the more recommends an unchanged final dividend for the determined to build a safer Tate & Lyle for all our year ended 31 March 2017 of 19.8p to make an employees, contractors and visitors.
There is no unchanged total for the year of 28.0p.
Looking to the higher priority in the Group.
future, as dividend cover is re-built, we remain committed to a progressive policy of growing the dividend over time, taking into account the earnings prospects and investment needs of the business.
12 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Four years ago, Tate & Lyle set itself ambitious Summary sustainability targets to reduce the environmental Tate & Lyle has performed well this year and I would impact of the business.
We achieved our targets for like to thank our management team and employees packaging and sustainable agriculture and at the for all the hard work, dedication and skill essential end of March 2017 we had exceeded our 2016 CO e 2 to this success.
Since my appointment to the Board, emissions target.
We also achieved a leadership I have already visited a number of the Groups position of Ain the CDP formerly the Carbon facilities in North America and Europe and look Disclosure Project.
Building on these achievements, forward to seeing some of our sites in Asia and we have set ourselves new stretching targets for Latin America in the coming months.
I have been 2020 full details on page 48. impressed by the unwavering passion, enthusiasm Our commitment to the United Nations UN and commitment of all the colleagues I have met.
Sustainable Development Goals SDG remains Like many global businesses, we are facing an a key part of our sustainability agenda.
A key evolving and challenging geopolitical landscape, but objective for the year ahead is the acceleration we do so with confidence as a strong and financially of our progress towards the UN SDG targets.
I am excited about Tate & Lyles future.
With our clear strategy, strong product portfolio and outstanding people, we are wellpositioned for continuing and sustainable growth.
I look forward to working with the Gerry Murphy Chairman Board and the executive team to 24 May 2017 realise Tate & Lyles potential for development, growth and value creation for shareholders.
Governance and Board composition There have been a number of changes to the Board since the last AGM.
I joined the Board on 1 January 2017, succeeding Sir Peter Gershon as Chairman on 1 April 2017.
Liz Airey retired as Senior Independent Director on 31 December 2016 and, after 10 years of service, will retire from the Board at the AGM in July 2017.
Douglas Hurt assumed the role of Senior Independent Director from 1 January 2017, in addition to his role as chairman of the Audit Committee.
William Camp stepped down as a Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 31 March 2017, having served on the Board since 2010.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank both Liz and William for their outstanding service and significant contribution both to the Board and to Tate & Lyle.
In October 2016, Jeanne Johns joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Jeanne assumed chairmanship of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 1 April 2017 and is also a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
During her 30-year career in the oil industry with BP, Jeanne held numerous leadership roles in Europe, the US and China and latterly served as the Head of Safety and Operational Risk for BPs global downstream business.
