Strategic Report About SSE Chairmans introduction Im pleased to introduce this years Strategic Report.
Since becoming Chairman of SSE Providing the energy in July 2015 Ive had the privilege of seeing first hand a business made up of talented and committed people who are focused on people need exceeding the expectations of customers: building, owning and operating assets that power our low-carbon energy future: working constructively with stakeholders: and making a positive contribution to the This Strategic Report sets out our performance over 2016 17, communities and wider society it serves.
and looks at our future strategic priorities.
There is more detail about all of these areas in this Strategic Report.
Energy underpins modern society: its at the centre of economic growth and industrial strategy, and it powers the daily commute to work and how our customers engage with friends and family.
Yet the energy sector never stands still and 2016 17 brought further changes and challenges.
In all of this SSE is a business built for the long term.
The fundamentals of the business are strong and our proposition to shareholders, to increase annually the dividend payable to shareholders by at least RPI inflation, remains firm.
A business investing, building and operating long-term assets SSE is a business that focuses on what it does well.
As well as efficiently operating our assets that provide energy to the UK and Irelands homes and businesses, in 2016 17 we invested over 1.7bn as part of plans to invest around 6bn in the four years to March 2020 of which around two thirds is investment in regulated networks and government mandate renewables.
This investment adds to the diversity of SSEs operations and the balance of our business.
It also helps to stimulate sustainable economic activity, principally by supporting around 120,000 peoples employment.
The sheer scale and impact of the Caithness-Moray transmission link and the engineering feats at the Beatrice offshore wind farm, SSEs two largest projects to date, can not fail to leave a positive impression.
The projects are on track for completion in 2018 and 2019 respectively.
Of course, SSEs assets are not confined to plant and machinery: SSE is a people business.
The stable, experienced and increasingly diverse team are committed to adding to the human capital of the organisation.
This stretches from our engineering apprentices helping to deliver an efficient distribution network whatever the weather: those who operate our diverse portfolio of power SSE plc Annual Report 2017 6 1.
3. stations: through to the teams dedicated to We are very aware that energy is an essential Fulfilling its duty to act in the interest of making energy fair and simple for customers.
service and energy suppliers have to treat all stakeholders should make a significant Our highly skilled teams cover the length their customers fairly.
We have taken action, contribution to a healthy organisational and breadth of the UK and Ireland and their be it investment in smart metering or culture.
As well as our commitment to commitment to their roles has formed outlining a proactive programme to engage reduce carbon emissions from our electricity the basis of SSEs success to date, and will with our customers to ensure they are on generation output, the achievement of drive it to succeed in the future.
the right products for them.
There is always the Fair Tax Mark for the third year in a row, more to do, particularly as the regulatory supported by more accessible tax disclosure, A changing energy sector environment evolves, following the UK and SSEs four year commitment to the Change is a theme running throughout General Election.
The Board is committed accredited Living Wage are symbols of all aspects of SSEs businesses.
Some to fostering constructive relationships with fairness that are valued by stakeholders, political uncertainty is a fact of life for the governments and regulators as they pursue customers and shareholders.
It is again evident with the their priorities: and to ensuring that SSE is as UKs decision to leave the European Union, well-placed as possible to respond to the I have no doubt that continuous improvement political parties in the UK considering challenges and opportunities that those in openness and transparency at the same possible intervention in the Retail energy priorities represent.
time as recognising the strategic role of the market and the calls for a second Scottish stakeholder voice will benefit SSE in the short, independence referendum.
This is Creating a culture for medium and long term.
something on which the Board is clearly long-term success focused, not only to manage any risks from In July 2016, the Financial Reporting Achieving our first politics and regulation but also to foster Council FRC published a report on financial objective constructive working relationships with the importance of corporate culture to At SSE our financial objective is to government and regulators, to best long-term business success.
SSEs Board increase annually the dividend payable to represent customers interests and identify endorsed the FRCs definition of culture shareholders, by at least RPI inflation.
SSE opportunities that may emerge.
and the active management and oversight has delivered a dividend increase every year of SSEs culture has been a growing theme since 1999.
Im pleased that the Board is Politics is just one factor driving change.
for the Board throughout 2016 17. recommending a final dividend that will take Energy markets are now changing at a the full-year dividend for 2016 17 to 91.3 rapid pace as competition changes market There are, of course, distinctive responsibilities pence per share.
dynamics and the costs of some low-carbon between Board and Executive in relation to technologies falls rapidly.
This brings notable corporate culture: it is the role of the Board to In all, SSE provides the energy people need changes to every part of SSEs operations.
agree a healthy culture and for ensuring there in a reliable and sustainable way.
We made SSE has shown before it can respond and is an appropriate framework of control with a 9.3bn contribution to the UK economy adapt when market conditions change, from regard to culture-related issues: and it is the this year and we know we have a unique role becoming a leading investor in renewable role of the Executive team to ensure that the in the energy sectors in the UK and Ireland energy to spearheading calls for tax attitudes and behaviours demonstrated in which comes with responsibilities and the transparency on the part of large business.
day-to-day operations are consistent with need to earn the right to make a sustainable The Board held several discussions this year an appropriate culture.
profit over the long term.
There are complex to help the SSE team pursue emerging issues to manage and additional challenges opportunities, whilst mitigating risk.
I have been pleased with early progress in a facing us in 2017 18 yet SSE has the strategy, more systematic and methodical approach culture, and a team of talented people Putting customers at the to defining, nurturing and monitoring SSEs required to succeed in 2017 18 and beyond.
heart of everything we do internal culture.
From a new code of ethics The Strategic Report was approved by and Almost everything SSE does is paid for for employees to the development of ethical on behalf of the Board of Directors on by consumers.
It must therefore put their training packages, SSE made a good start in 16 May 2017.
This Strategic Report provides interests and needs at the heart of its 2016 17 with much to do in the years to come.
you the shareholder with an update on our activities.
We cant control the underlying approach and performance.
cost of energy, particularly wholesale prices Acting in the interests or many of the costs associated with the of stakeholders low-carbon transition, and it was with regret Over the last year, there has been significant that we announced an increase in our GB debate about the UKs strategy for economic domestic electricity tariffs, which took effect growth.
Creating an Industrial Strategy and at the end of April 2017, and increases for giving greater importance to the voice of the Richard Gillingwater CBE customers in Northern Ireland also.
While stakeholder in business decision making are Chairman we have been able to hold gas prices at their increasingly coming into focus.
May 2017 current levels, and we protected customers from an increase in energy costs during the Stakeholder interests are explicitly outlined preceding winter, the fact is that the costs in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, of programmes to upgrade and decarbonise as is the impact of a companys operations our ageing energy infrastructure are on the community and the environment.
ultimately borne by the bill payer.
At SSE, SSE has always sought to live by the spirit we do everything we can to keep the impact and the letter of Section 172 of the Act.
of that on customers to a minimum.
