4 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Dear Shareholder Chairmans statement Assura has continued togrow over the last 12months.
Assuras purpose is to provide Our property portfolio expanded significantly, through both acquisitions GPs and patients with the and new developments.
In the past year we have added 170 million of property buildings they need today and this, together with the 141 million of property additions in the previous year, has increased our net rental fortheNHS of tomorrow.
We arenow the UKs largest developer and owner-manager of primary healthcare property with a property portfolio valued at over 1.3 billion.
The increased scale of our operations and our strong financial position have EPRA EPS Dividends paid per share assisted us in obtaining better terms onour debt.
We have signed new unsecured debt facilities of 350 million, 2.4p 2.25p lowering the overall cost of borrowings up by 20% up by 9.8% by 78 basis points to 4.06%.
Last year we set a lower medium-term Simon Laffin loan to value LTV target range of Non-Executive Chairman between 40% and 50%.
At the year endour LTV was 37%, well positioned relative to this range.
We are continuing to source attractive investment opportunities and we currently have a pipeline of further property acquisitions and developments of 153 million insolicitors hands.
This will in time increase the LTV.
We shall continue tomonitor what the right LTV range isfor the Company.
A key part of our strategy is our uniqueproposition of offering all of theelements of the property service forGPs.
This provides GPs with a long-term partner approach throughout the lifecycle of a medical centre, from first idea of a new surgery through: theNHS business case: development and build of the new surgery: moving in:disposal of the old property: and maintenance of the premises over thenext 25 plus years.
Our ability to develop, invest and manage gives us a crucial advantage when securing new development opportunities and other asset management initiatives with GPs.
Moreover, it provides a highly scalable model that means that, as we grow, thebenefits of scale accrue to shareholders and drive our progressive dividend policy and shareholder returns.
Thebenefit of this model has been illustrated again this year as rent roll rose by 17% to 74.4 million and EPRA earnings rose by 58% to 40.3 million.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 5 Dividends We aim to deliver superior risk adjusted Our investment case returns to our shareholders.
A key component of this return is a growing, covered dividend.
In January 2017 the By following our strategies we can deliver long-term Board increased our quarterly dividend shareholder value through: payment by 9% to 0.60 pence per shareor 2.4 pence per share on an Low volatility of property returns annualised basis.
This represents an Low default risk increase of over 33% from the level of0.45 pence per share paid three years ago.
Linkage to cost inflation Shareholder engagement Scalable, internally managed model We are committed to the highest Covered, progressive dividends standards of financial transparency andbelieve a significant investment Excellent risk adjusted returns.
ininvestor relations activity is a key responsibility for any public company.
We have held 95 meetings with Read about our business model and strategy on page 10 investors during the year and I am delighted to welcome a number of newshareholders onto our register.
Culture, values and ethics Looking ahead Our people and the Board The NHS is Assuras prime customer, With the support of our shareholders, The past year was marked by the tragic accounting for 86% of our total rent roll.
Assura has the strongest balance sheet death of our previous CEO, Graham We strongly support the NHS and believe in the sector and we are well placed Roberts.
Graham stepped down in in its vital role in the countrys health.
We tocontinue investing in what remains a March 2016 and passed away in July, aim to provide the NHS, GPs and patients very fragmented market.
In addition, we having been suffering from cancer.
with the buildings needed for the NHS remain focused on carefully managing Graham was a great leader and CEO oftoday and tomorrow.
These buildings our existing portfolio with our in-house forAssura over his four years in charge, provide the essential social infrastructure management team continuing to deliver delivering a period of remarkable required to improve the health of the the highest standard of customer success which saw the Group grow from communities in which we operate.
We service and operational excellence for a market capitalisation of 152 million to direct private sector capital to provide, the nations GPs, while also maximising become a FTSE 250 company valued at develop and enhance primary care the value of our portfolio through asset over 900 million.
He had a clear vision, premises.
Some 6% of the UKs NHS management initiatives.
inspired investor confidence and built a patients now use our premises.
strong team, all of which transformed Although the NHS and primary care Assura into a leading player in the sector.
This important social dimension to policy consensus across all mainstream ourwork is reflected in our alignment parties is now more positive than ever I became Executive Chairman in March with the values of the NHS and our before, we remain frustrated by the last year to cover for Grahams absence.
commitment to the highest standards slowprogress in transforming policy In October 2016, the Board appointed ofethics and integrity.
We have robust into meaningful investment in primary Jonathan Murphy as Interim CEO and ethical policies and control procedures care premises.
It looks as if the general confirmed him as permanent CEO in which help us ensure that good election will result in a continuity February 2017.
Jonathan had been business ethics are embedded across inbasic primary care strategy by Finance Director since January 2013. the Group.
The Government and NHS whichever party wins it.
Everyone He brings extensive knowledge and control both new asset investment and seems to agree that better healthcare experience to the role, as well as the rental increases, based on a transparent hinges on more care being provided commitment and ability to continue to market mechanism.
This reflects the inthe primary care sector.
Having more deliver on our strategy.
We are currently mutually beneficial partnership that doctors and better leveraging of their recruiting for a new Finance Director.
wehave with the public sector.
skills through ancillary healthcare professionals will require more and I am delighted to welcome Andrew For a number of years, we have been better premises.
We are ready to Darke onto the Board as Property working on designing and developing support this essential investment in the Director.
Andrew has been with Assura anenergy neutral building, which brings infrastructure of the NHS by offering the since its flotation in 2003 and brings to together the latest thinking in sustainable right skills, relationships and capital to the Board an unparalleled knowledge design practice and construction make the plans a reality on the ground.
and understanding of the specialist techniques.
Our first project under this primary care property market.
initiative is now nearing completion and Simon Laffin we hope to apply these innovative Non-Executive Chairman We have 43 people employed in approaches to future schemes in our 22 May 2017 Assuraand, on behalf of the Board, development pipeline.
This is in addition Iwould like to thank them all for their to our commitment to meeting the highest hard work, dedication and contribution possible BREEAM accreditation for our to the success of the business through schemes as evidenced by us achieving suchabusy year.
aVery Good accreditation for both properties completed in the year.
