STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 STRATEGIC REPORT VIEW FROM THE CHAIRMAN The implementation of the Vision 2020 strategy is going well, with record trading results and good cash flow generation.
The results for the Group reflect good underlying Selective consolidation in Europe continued organic growth and the realisation of synergies, apace with the organisational integration of supported by the full year effect of acquisitions GCS completed and four further European based and the translation effect of the weakening of acquisitions made.
The acquisition of BPI August sterling during the year 73% of the Groups 2016 provides a successful entry into the flexibles turnover is reported in non-sterling currencies.
packaging market, and the Groups platform in Sales for continuing businesses grew to 2,747m healthcare was enhanced by the acquisition of 1 2016: 1,642m, adjusted operating profit Plastiape November 2016.
The acquisitions of reached 308m 2016: 174m, whilst adjusted Sanders Polyfilms and Jagtenberg both October 2 earnings per share increased to 62.2p 2016 2016 strengthened the Groups existing European restated: 40.4p.
Cash flow was robust, with market positions.
net cash from operating activities at 277m The Groups presence outside of Europe has also JAMIE PIKE 2016: 151m.
Statutory net profit for the year been extended through the BPI acquisition for Chairman was 132m 2016: 55m with the basic earnings example its agricultural films business in Canada, per share more than doubling.
Return on capital two small bolt-on acquisitions in Australia and employed ROCE at 15.1% 2016: 15.7% remains one in China.
The acquisition of Letica Corporation at a robust level and is well ahead of the Groups March 2017 has added a further 13 sites to the weighted average cost of capital.
4existing businesses that RPC operate in the OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 1 Adjusted operating profit is defined as operating profit for continuing USA.
In addition further internal investments operations before restructuring, impairment charges, other exceptional I am pleased to report another year of significant and non-underlying items and amortisation of acquired intangibles.
have been made by the Ace Division in the Far progress for the Group.
The implementation of 2 Adjusted earnings per share is defined as adjusted operating profit East at Hefei in developing RPCs packaging sales the Vision 2020 strategy is progressing well, forcontinuing operations after interest and tax, but excluding presence whilst further investment has been non-underlying finance costs and tax adjustments, divided by the with record trading results and good cash flow weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
made in the start-up business in Brazil in support generation.
The integration of the larger GCS and of a major customer.
BPI acquisitions has been largely completed with STRATEGY a better than expected business performance.
The non-packaging businesses have also grown The Group continues to deliver its Vision 2020 The Letica acquisition is making a good start in their respective markets, both through the strategy, with its objectives of continuing focused under RPCs ownership, providing a platform for acquisitions of ESE World, a leading European organic growth based on innovation: selective future organic growth in North America supported supplier of temporary waste storage solutions, consolidation of the European market through by the Groups extensive product range and and through organic growth, particularly targeted acquisitions: creating a meaningful customer relationships.
in the horticulture and automotive sectors.
presence outside Europe where growth rates Further growth is foreseen with the third are considerably higher and pursuing added electroplating line coming on stream in China.
value opportunities in non-packaging markets.
Acquisitions help to strengthen existing market The organisational integration of the GCS and BPI positions and diversify into adjacent markets businesses are complete with synergy realisation with attractive return and growth profiles activities nearing completion, and the more recent whilst enhancing the Groups overall strategic acquisitions bedding in well.
The steady state cost buying position.
synergies estimate for the GCS BPI Promens acquisitions has been increased by 5m to at least Underlying sales growth remained strong 105m by the end of 2018 19.
3 with like-for-like sales 3% higher than the previous year, ahead of GDP, with continued investment and innovation driving organic growth.
Significant capital expenditure has been committed to support future organic growth.
3 Adjusted for constant exchange rates and polymer prices, pro forma for acquisitions completed in 2016 17 and adjusted for businesses divested or exited.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT VIEW FROM THE CHAIRMAN Continued Since the Vision 2020 strategy was launched PEOPLE in 2013, the overall performance has improved Our employees are undoubtedly our most considerably as evidenced by an increase of important asset and the opportunities for 1,765m in revenues whilst enhancing the long-term growth within the Group, including return on sales from 9.3% to 11.2% and the for those within the newly acquired businesses, RONOA from 20.6% to 26.0% when comparing will ensure that they find RPC a place where the performance of 2016 17 with 2012 13. they will continue to enjoy rewarding careers.
Underlying organic growth of 3% has been The Board would like to welcome all of those achieved over this period, ahead of GDP, and the new colleagues who have joined the Group, thank strategic buying position of the Group enhanced everyone who has contributed to what has been by increasing the scale in polymer purchases yet another successful year and look forward from 310kt 2013 14 to 1,100kt.
The anticipated to their continued contribution in achieving our return on acquisitions made since the launch of strategy going forward.
Vision 2020, based on expected full realisation of cost synergies, is estimated at 12% whilst DIVIDEND the Groups overall market positions have been The Board considers the dividend to be an strengthened and diversified resulting in better important component of shareholder returns and, cross-selling opportunities.
as such, has a policy to deliver a progressive dividend year on year targeting a dividend cover BOARD of 2.5x adjusted earnings through the cycle.
It is I am pleased to welcome Dr Ros Rivaz who recommending a final dividend of 17.9p per share was appointed an independent non-executive making a total for the year of 24.0p restated and director on 30 March 2017, and is a member 2016 restated: 16.0p, which is a 50% increase on of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination the previous year.
This will be the 24th successive Committees.
Heike van fide Kerkhof resigned year of dividend progression since RPCs flotation.
A key strength of the The total dividend and 2016 comparator have Board lies in its breadth of skills, experience, been adjusted for the bonus element of the rights gender and nationality, and our discussions issue made in the year in connection with the this year have benefited from this diversity.
I have been well supported by the members of Subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM, the Board and am grateful to them all for their the final dividend will be paid on 1 September valuable contributions.
2017 to ordinary shareholders on the register at11 August 2017.
GOVERNANCE One of the main responsibilities of the Board is to ensure that the Group operates to the highest JAMIE PIKE standards in all aspects of governance and risk Chairman management.
The Board continues to focus on ensuring that the UK Corporate Governance Codes 7 June 2017 principles are applied.
As corporate governance continues to evolve, emerging practice has remained a regular subject for discussion at the Board.
04 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 STRATEGIC REPORT RPC THE ESSENTIAL INGREDIENT 05 WWW.
