Chairmans Statement OUR MAIN FOCUS REMAINS ON DRIVING EARNINGS THROUGH OCCUPANCY GROWTH, AS WE TARGET OUR NEXT GOAL OF AN AVERAGE OF 85% OCCUPANCY ACROSS THE PORTFOLIO.
Growth Of Revenue and Earnings Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow, the Group or the Company, the The Group has net bank debt of 298.0 million at 31 March 2017 UKs brand leader in self storage, is pleased to announce its results for 2016: 295.0 million.
This represents approximately 25% 2016: 26% the year ended 31 March 2017. of the Groups gross property assets totalling 1,190.5 million 2016: 1,126.2 million and 31% 2016: 33% of the adjusted net assets Against a backdrop of increased economic uncertainty, we are pleased of 963.4 million 2016: 899.0 million.
The Groups interest cover for the to have delivered another year of occupancy, revenue and adjusted year, expressed as the ratio of free cash flow pre working capital earnings growth.
Our main focus remains on driving earnings through movements against interest paid was 6.2 times 2016: 6.0 times.
This is occupancy growth, as we target our next goal of an average of 85% comfortably ahead of our internal minimum interest cover requirement occupancy across the portfolio.
Like-for-like closing Group occupancy is up 2.8 percentage points to 78.1% compared to 75.3% at 31 March 2016.
Investment in new capacity Developing stores in our core area of London and the South East In the quarter to March, with less churn in the business and a more remains challenging.
Sites are scarce, and faced with a housing stable demand environment, we successfully increased occupancy shortage, policy makers are focussed on residential provision at the by 115,000 sq ft, and by a further 54,000 sq ft in the current quarter expense of commercial development.
Despite the referendum result, to date 2016: quarter to date gain of 7,000 sq ft. As of 22 May 2017, we still expect Londons population to continue to grow, intensifying our occupancy across the portfolio is 79.2%.
This makes the creation of new supply difficult and Average rental growth over the year was 1.7% with closing net rent we are aware of only a handful of stores likely to open in London in the of 26.03, representing an increase of 0.5% from the same time last next few years as legacy sites acquired before the downturn have now year, with our focus remaining on driving occupancy in the stores.
We believe that this leaves our existing platform We remain focussed on occupancy gain with 85% for the time being almost irreplaceable.
We and others are looking to acquire sites but our primary objective.
It remains our firm belief that occupancy gains even if successful, it can take three to four years to open a purpose are hard won and are of significantly more value than short term built store.
As our occupancy rises the rate growth will We have commenced construction at Guildford Central in the year, with come through driven by our yield management systems.
a planned store opening of March 2018, and have also started on the extension to our store at Wandsworth, which is planned to complete Financial results in April 2018.
Revenue for the year was 109.1 million 2016: 101.4 million, an increase of 8%.
The like-for-like revenue growth excluding Nine After lengthy consultations we anticipate submitting planning Elms and Twickenham 2 acquired in April 2016 was 6%.
applications on Battersea, Kings Cross and Manchester in the next few months, but as always the process is subject to the vagaries of the Free cash flow after interest costs and pre working capital planning system.
movements increased by 5.0 million 10% to 58.3 million for the year 2016: 53.3 million.
The Groups operating profit before property We are pleased to announce that in May 2017 we acquired an existing revaluations increased by 5.5 million 9% to 65.3 million.
building on a 0.8 acre site on the Highway in Wapping, just east of The Groups statutory profit before tax was 99.8 million, compared Tower Bridge, with main road frontage, for 10.75 million.
This is an to 112.2 million in the prior year.
The movement is due to a lower gain area with very little supply of self storage and significant self storage in the valuation of the Groups investment properties in the current drivers given the changes to the built environment over the past two year compared to the prior year.
decades, with high density residential and other mixed use schemes.
A combination of self storage and short term tenancies under our Given that our central overhead and operating expense is largely ownership will provide an interim income while we investigate embedded in the business, this revenue growth has delivered refurbishment or redevelopment options.
an increase of 11% in the adjusted profit before tax in the year of 54.6 million 2016: 49.0 million.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 11% to 34.5p 2016: 31.1p with an equivalent 11% increase in the dividend per share for the year.
14 THERE HAS BEEN A FURTHER IMPROVEMENT IN OUR CUSTOMER NET PROMOTER SCORES TO AN AVERAGE OF 77 OVER THE YEAR, A VERY PLEASING RESULT.
The future cost of the current pipeline of eight development sites and Outlook extensions, with a potential capacity of over 450,000 sq ft, six of which Trading over the last few months has been better than we anticipated, are subject to planning, and including Wapping, acquired post year end, and is encouraging as we head into our seasonally stronger summer is provisionally estimated to be approximately 70 million.
Nevertheless, these are uncertain times and we remain excludes any net proceeds that may be received on the redevelopment fully prepared for any economic reversals which could cause demand of our Battersea store and adjoining retail units into a mixed use to fluctuate.
scheme of residential, retail and self storage.
We can expect to break through 80% occupancy this summer putting The acquisitions of the Lock and Leave portfolio in April 2016 and the us within touching distance of our for the time being long held goal Quickstore portfolio since the year end are a continued demonstration of 85%.
Occupancy gain remains the primary point of focus.
of our willingness to buy existing stores for rebranding as either Big As our vacant capacity reduces, it increases the imperative to create Yellows or Armadillos, from which we can drive performance through more.
The tight supply of land in our core areas of activity, and a our market leading operational and digital platform.
planning regime broadly focussed on housing, remain very significant barriers for our competitors and ourselves.
We have the required Dividends property and planning skills, an ability to take the necessary risks, The Groups dividend policy is to distribute 80% of full year adjusted a strong balance sheet and we are prepared to take long term views.
The final dividend declared is 14.1 pence per share.
These factors work in our favour but unlocking new opportunities for The dividend declared for the year of 27.6 pence per share represents new stores remains challenging.
an increase of 11% from 24.9 pence per share last year.
That said, we believe that Big Yellows market leading brand and Our people operating platform can deliver attractive and sustainable growth over A business will only succeed if it has a fully motivated and engaged the medium to long term from its existing portfolio.
From the start we have always aimed to create a culture which is accessible, apolitical, non-hierarchical, socially responsible, and very importantly, a fun and enjoyable place to work.
During the year, we appointed an external consultancy to conduct an engagement survey of our employees, which delivered very pleasing levels of employee engagement of 90% in the stores and head office.
In addition, we focus on customer service and engagement, measuring Nicholas Vetch and responding to their feedback.
Commensurate with the high levels Executive Chairman of employee engagement, there has been a further improvement in our 22 May 2017 customer net promoter scores NPS to an average of 77 over the year, a very pleasing result.
I would like to thank all those in the business for their efforts in contributing to another year of growth.
Board Mark Richardson has announced that he is stepping down as a Non-Executive Director at the Groups next AGM.
He joined the Company in 2008 and over the ensuing nine years has been an excellent Audit Committee Chair and a source of sound advice and judgement.
I and the Board would like to thank him for his valued contribution to Big Yellows success in his period of tenure.
It is our intention to appoint his replacement as Audit Committee Chairman before the July AGM.
