Chairmans statement Group Adjusted EBITDA losses for the period were 2.1m marking Geoff Cooper an improvement against prior year losses of 3.9m, with strong Chairman performance from the UK business more than offset by the trading losses incurred in our Europe business as we continue to build scale and achieve critical mass.
UK Adjusted EBITDA was 24.4m, up 41.7% from the prior year and Europe Adjusted EBITDA losses were 26.5m, an increase of 25.5% against the prior year.
On a statutory basis, our operating losses were 12m such losses increasing 13.4% year on year due mainly to the share-based payment charge this year with a credit in 2016.
Cash at year end was c. 29.4m, before taking account of net placing proceeds, which were received just a few days after the year end.
In February we announced a transition in our Executive Director roles, with Steve Caunce taking over as CEO and John Roberts assuming the role of Founder.
This was a natural evolution and the Board is confident that Steve is the right person to take on the role from John to deliver the It has been a year of further progress for AO, with strategic significant growth potential of the Group.
Johns new role will enable developments on many fronts.
him to continue to play to his strengths as an innovator and a visionary leader, helping develop and test high level strategy.
Steve and John AO has continued on its mission to become the best electrical retailer remain very much a partnership and together they will ensure that AO in Europe delivering on all aspects of its four pillar strategy, the 4Cs: continues to deliver for customers, colleagues, suppliers and our investors.
Developing new countries: Rolling out new categories in existing and new countries: There have also been some changes to the Boards Non-Executive Delivering a market-leading proposition to customers: and composition, following the retirement of Rudi Lamprecht as a Developing and protecting our unique culture that underpins Non-Executive Director and we are looking to appoint two further our brand.
Non-Executives to the Board over the next few months.
Further details are set out in the governance section on page 52.
Over the period, AO has established a new fully operational 35,000 sq.
metre Regional Distribution Centre in Bergheim, serving In summary, the Group has continued to make good progress against its Germany and the Netherlands which has now been trading for a full strategy.
Whilst the Board continues to be cautious given the uncertain year : successfully launched new categories audiovisual AV in UK economic outlook and broadly expects the patterns of trading seen Germany and computing in the UK: maintained consistently high in the second half of FY2017 to continue into the year ahead with UK customer metrics and furthered our brand awareness.
business profits being reinvested in our European operations the Board is confident of achieving its stated goals over the years ahead.
In the last quarter of the financial year the Board reviewed the capital structure of the Group and raised, shortly after year end, c. 50m via a Since taking the role of Chairman in July 2016 I have been impressed by placing of new shares.
This capital injection strengthens the balance the quality and enthusiasm of the Executive Directors and of the teams sheet, provides flexibility to react to market opportunities and changes of people that support them and I look forward to working with them on and, importantly, suitably capitalises the business to support our their way to become the Best Electrical Retailer in Europe.
continued growth and increasing scale.
We have delivered another good year of top-line growth albeit with Geoff Cooper a challenging second half of the year which meant we missed our Chairman internal expectations.
Group revenue increased by 17% to 701.2m.
5 June 2017 Year-on-year UK revenue was up 12.7% to 629.7m with AO branded sales accounting for 557.9m, up 14.5% year on year.
Revenue for our European segment was 71.5m 84.7m: up 52.3% year on year on a constant currency basis.
Over the past few months John left and Steve right have transitioned seamlessly into their new roles, each playing to their key strengths.
Both remain as committed as ever to AO and to driving our unique culture.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 16 16 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 17 17
