STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Overview Since setting out our Moving Up A Gear strategy 18 months ago, excellent progress has been made across each of the five key pillars that underpin the strategy.
This has been reflected in robust sales growth, an expanded knowledge of our customer preferences, further improvements in service levels, many new and unique product introductions, progress in building a fit for purpose infrastructure and strong growth in our value-added service offerings.
To this end, and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our Management team and our 10,000 plus colleagues for their hard work and commitment in driving the business forward and for their passion to help our customers on their journeys.
Performance We achieved solid sales growth from our Motoring activities, in both Retail and Autocentres, and strong Dennis Millard growth in Cycling where we continued to register Chairman market share gains and can uniquely offer customers the full range: from childrens balance bikes to high end performance road bikes.
Whilst the depreciation in Sterling following the EU referendum and other cost headwinds, such as the introduction of the National Living We believe that excellent progress Wage, clearly impacted earnings, the underlying business has been made across each of the performance was positive and cash flow was robust.
five key pillars that underpin the We applied our capital allocation policy consistently: strategy.
firstly, by further investment in our colleagues and our infrastructure: secondly, with an increased ordinary dividend: thirdly, with two complementary acquisitions 100% of Tredz and Wheelies in May 2016 and a minority Outlook stake in TyresOnTheDrive.
com in January 2017: and, The year ahead brings challenges in the form of further thereafter, by paying a special dividend of 10 pence per cost headwinds, particularly from a full years impact share in February 2017.
Progress was thus made towards in the fall in Sterling, and uncertainty around consumer our debt target of 1 times EBITDA.
In line with our policy spending, but we approach these from a position of of paying an increasing ordinary dividend, the Board has strength.
We hold leading positions in fragmented recommended a final dividend of 11.68 pence per share, markets, have detailed plans and initiatives to mitigate payable in August 2017 which would result in a total full-year cost headwinds and our growing service and services ordinary dividend of 17.51 pence per share, up 3.0% over propositions set us apart as a specialist retailer.
It was disappointing that, earlier this month, our CEO Jill Investment in our colleagues continues to reap benefits McDonald tendered her resignation to take up a senior and I am pleased that Halfords was, for the 4th year in a role at M&S at the end of October.
We are grateful for the row, awarded an improved place in the list of Top 30 Best positive contribution she has made across the business Big Companies To Work For.
This was also confirmed by and she will leave Halfords with a clear direction to an increased internally measured engagement score, drive future growth.
The Moving Up A Gear strategy is improved customer ratings and lower colleague turnover.
well underway and is delivering significant momentum We are also proud of the recognition we have achieved, across the organisation.
Crucially, we have a talented and the awards won, for our community partnerships, group of engaged colleagues who remain focused on including many individual local projects, and for our work implementing our strategy and providing customers with in prisons to help provide employment to prisoners on the very best customer service: in doing so we will drive release.
Our colleagues in Retail have progressed strongly sustainable long-term growth.
through the Gears training programme, gaining increased pay awards and career development opportunities in Dennis Millard return.
We also continued to invest in our leadership Chairman development programmes and apprenticeship schemes.
24 May 2017 Read more about Our Strategy on Read more about Corporate Social pages 16 and 17 Responsibility on pages 30 to 35 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
