4 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1.
Building a Sustainable Business Chairmans Statement Celebrating Johnson Matthey at 200 Towards the end of the year, we undertook a review of the groups strategy and have begun to refine it to ensure I am extremely proud to be Chairman of Johnson Matthey in Johnson Matthey is robust, yet agile and flexible enough to its 200th year.
It is remarkable to think that in 1817, when grow in an uncertain environment.
The review reconfirmed Percival Norton Johnson founded his gold assaying business the benefits of a more focused and collaborative organisation.
in London, it would be a further 14 years until Darwin set sail I believe this, together with our continued investment in R&D, on the voyage that would crystallise his theory of evolution.
infrastructure and our people, will help us create long term The company has a long and fruitful history and has made a value for our shareholders.
significant contribution to the modern world: supplying platinum for the first electric light bulbs and fuel cell electrocatalysts for NASA space missions: developing platinum therapies to treat Values and Culture cancer and, of course, emission control catalysts that make a A key part of the boards role is to take effective steps in shaping major impact on global air quality.
Being part of the team and developing a healthy corporate culture.
During the year, which looks after the business to pass on to others in the future we continued to enhance governance and compliance with is a great privilege.
We are celebrating our 200th anniversary the ongoing embedding of our code of ethics.
Our ethics panel with our employees, customers and other partners by working reports to the board, demonstrating our commitment to doing together to develop solutions to some of the most pressing the right thing and holding those who are found lacking in this global challenges that we face today.
Health and safety remains a priority.
Disappointingly, Group Performance after several years of improved performance, 2016 17 saw some reversal in the trend.
During the year, and recognising We saw an improving performance this year despite some the importance of driving continuous improvement, we have tough markets, as we benefited from our technology strengths continued to emphasise our health and safety culture and from the decisive action taken last year to improve our programme.
For 2017 a key goal is to ensure that we translate efficiency.
Our strong, customer focused technology enabled this into improved performance.
us to outperform in key markets, particularly in Emission Running a sustainable business has long been at the heart Control Technologies.
We have made good progress in building of Johnson Mattheys culture.
So when the UN announced its our platforms in future growth drivers: active pharmaceutical 17 sustainable development goals we knew this was something ingredients for improved health and high energy battery that was aligned with our aspirations.
This major initiative to materials to enable zero emission vehicles and cleaner air.
tackle the worlds most serious environmental, economic and As always, it is our employees around the world that have social challenges over the next decade calls upon companies delivered the inspiring science that has enhanced peoples lives.
to work together and play their part by contributing positively On behalf of all our shareholders, Id like to thank them for to communities in which they operate.
their hard work and commitment over the past 12 months.
And it is fitting, in our anniversary year, that we also pay tribute to the many thousands of people who have worked for the Board Matters company in the past for the part they have played in making Todays business world presents a range of risks and opportunities Johnson Matthey the great success it is today.
operational, commercial, geopolitical, environmental and financial.
This is why its essential to maintain the right mix Strategic Focus of attributes and skills on the board to effectively monitor and manage these and work with the executive team to deliver the The global geopolitical backdrop remains volatile.
We understand that to do this it is necessary the past year, developments, such as the UKs vote to leave to keep the membership of the board refreshed to meet the the European Union, reinforce the need for us to remain changing needs of the business over time.
agile and focused in the way we pursue our strategic goals.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank again We must concentrate on getting the right balance between Den Jones and Dorothy Thompson who both stepped down exploring new opportunities and developing those areas where from the board on 20th July 2016.
We wish them well in their we are already leaders.
It is the boards responsibility to ensure future endeavours.
the executive team are making the right business decisions to achieve this.
5 Tim Stevenson Chairman The board is extremely pleased to have welcomed Anna Manz and In Summary Jane Griffiths to Johnson Matthey.
Both have made early contributions Proposed ordinary to the boards activities.
Anna was appointed Chief Financial Officer on dividend of 75 pence 17th October 2016, joining us from Diageo plc where she held a number up 5% on last year of senior financial roles including Group Strategy Director.
She brings strong credentials in financial leadership along with international experience Board focused on working and deep commercial awareness to Johnson Matthey.
with the executive team Jane Griffiths joined the board as a Non-Executive Director on to deliver the strategy 1st January 2017.
Jane is Company Group Chairman of Janssen EMEA, the research based pharmaceutical arm of Johnson & Johnson.
She brings Johnson Matthey is well a wealth of experience and understanding of the management of global positioned to deliver businesses to the board, especially in the pharmaceutical sector, together long term performance with a strong interest in diversity.
for our shareholders Chairman Succession In May 2017, I informed the Nomination Committee of my intention to step down as your Chairman at the latest by 31st December 2018.
By then I will have served for over seven years and believe that it will be the right time for me to hand over the Chairmanship of the group.
Johnson Matthey is in a strong position for the future and it has been an honour to serve as Chairman of such a great company.
The Senior Independent Director, Alan Ferguson, will lead the search for my successor.
Outlook Johnson Matthey represents the best of science, heritage and industry.
Our ability to navigate change and adapt to uncertainty has always been, Celebrating and continues to be, a huge strength.
With that strong foundation we will continue to use our expertise to provide cleaner air, improved health and more efficient use of natural resources.
We will achieve this through investing for enduring, long term impact, positioning our businesses to 200 years deliver strong, consistent and sustainable results, holding ourselves accountable for our responsibilities and putting our people first.
of innovation In that context, 2017 18 will see us further strengthen our business.
Johnson Mattheys role in providing solutions to major global challenges of our time is as relevant today as it was in 1817.
With 200 years of inspiring science as our foundation and a robust strategy for the future, I believe that Johnson Matthey is well positioned to deliver long term performance for our shareholders.
Read more about our culture and values on page 56.
Read more about health and safety on pages 60 to 65.
Tim Stevenson Chairman See our Board of Directors on pages 72 and 73.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
