Chairmans Statement Market Overview and Investment Performance In the year under review we experienced a recovery in the performance of emerging markets.
As I reported at the half year stage, for UK-based investors the weakness in the value of sterling following the result of the UKreferendum to leave the European Union enhanced the strong market returns.
The tables on page 1 set out performance over the year and over other key time periods and the drivers of our investment performance this year are described in detail in the Investment Managers Portfolio Report.
31 March 2017 marks the end of the first full accounting year in which Carlos Hardenberg has been our lead portfolio manager and 18 months since Carlos took over this role.
Our Investment Manager has increased exposure to stocks related to technology and also marginally reducing risk by increasing the number of stocks held.
However, the fundamental approach has not changed and our Investment Manager has continued to focus on seeking longterm value.
The Board is encouraged by recent performance but mindful that on a five year basis we still have some ground to make up relative to the benchmark.
Nevertheless, Carlos and his team have made a very good start and we are grateful for their efforts over the year under review.
Asset Allocation and Borrowing On 31 January 2017 we announced that TEMIT had entered into a three year 150 million unsecured multicurrency revolving loan facility with The Bank of Nova Scotias London Branch.
Under the facility up to 150 million in total may be drawn down in pounds sterling, US dollars and Chinese renminbi CNH.
The maximum amount of CNH which may be drawn down is the equivalent of 30 million.
The Company has no other debt.
The Board recognises that gearing increases volatility but we have concluded that it may be in shareholders interests to borrow at a time when the outlook for emerging markets remains positive and interest rates are low.
The Investment Manager was granted discretion by the Board to draw down the debt as investment opportunities arise, subject to oversight by the Board.
The Investment Manager has deployed the facility carefully and, as at 31 March 2017 the level of gearing net of cash in the portfolio was 0.8%.
If all of the facility were to be drawn down and no cash were to be held in the portfolio, based on the net asset value as at close of business on 31 March 2017, gearing would be 7.4%.
Revenue, Earnings and Dividend Revenue earnings per share in the year under review were 6.59 pence 2016: 7.05 pence.
Your Board has decided to recommend to shareholders that we maintain the dividend at 8.25 pence, the same level as last year.
Part of this dividend will be funded by TEMITs substantial revenue reserves.
In light of the decision to employ borrowing, the Board has reviewed TEMITs allocation of expenses and has decided that, with effect from 1 April 2017, 70% of the annual AIFM fee and 70% of the costs of borrowing will be allocated to the capital account.
This allocation, which reflects the Boards assessment of the likely ratio of long-term capital and revenue returns, complies with the AIC Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Companies and Venture Capital Trusts.
The effects of this revision in future years will be to increase revenue earnings and reduce capital returns by equivalent amounts, and to reduce the volatility of www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 5 TEMIT ANNUREP 04 p02-07 Strategic Report.
indd 5 6 29 17 7:08 PM Chairmans Statement continued revenue earnings per share.
If this policy had been in place from the start of the financial year under review, the revenue earnings per share for the year to 31 March 2017 would have been 11.72 pence.
Managing the Discount During the year to 31 March 2017, TEMITs shares traded at discounts of between 10.3% and 15.3%, and on 31March 2017 the discount was 13.3%.
Your Board continues to exercise its right to buy back shares when it believes this to be in shareholders interests.
We dealt in the market on the majority of working days over the year and, in total, bought back for cancellation 16,395,704 shares, or 5.5% of the shares in issue at the start of the financial year.
An effect of buying back shares at a discount was to increase the NAV per share for remaining shareholders by 0.8%.
Having been so proactive with share buy backs, and in light of the strong investment performance which I describe above, it is disappointing that the shares continue to trade at such a wide discount to their net asset value and your Board continues to monitor the situation closely.
Your Board has also agreed with Franklin Templeton that the resources devoted to marketing will be increased, with the aim of stimulating demand for the Companys shares.
Treasury Shares All shares bought back to date have been cancelled.
However, it is common practice in the investment trust sector for a company to cancel shares which are bought back or to place them into treasury.
We are proposing TEMIT should place shares which it buys back into treasury or to cancel them, at the Boards discretion.
The key advantage of shares held in treasury is that they can be reissued quickly and at minimal cost.
If we do place shares which TEMIT buys back into treasury, in order to protect the interests of existing shareholders, they will only subsequently be reissued at a price at or above the prevailing NAV per share at the time of reissue.
AIFM Fees The current annual AIFM fee is 1.1% of net assets per annum.
We have agreed with Franklin Templeton that, with effect from 1 July 2017, the annual AIFM fee will be reduced to 1% of net assets up to 2 billion and 0.85% of net assets above that level.
The Board Your Board has a succession plan which will result in a number of changes over the next few years.
As reported last year, Simon Jeffreys joined the Board at the conclusion of our Annual General Meeting AGM on 15July 2016 and David Graham joined the Board on 1 September 2016.
Peter Harrison and Chris Brady have both served as directors for nine years and will retire following this years AGM.
I would like to record the Boards thanks to Peter and to Chris for their diligence and wise counsel since both were appointed in 2007.
Following Peter Harrisons retirement, Simon Jeffreys will take over the role of Chair of the Audit Committee.
6 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 04 p02-07 Strategic Report.
indd 6 6 29 17 7:08 PM Hamish Buchan, the Senior Independent Director, will have served nine years in June 2017 and has agreed to stay on for a further year to ensure an orderly succession.
Our current plan is that Hamish will retire from the Board at our AGM in 2018.
Investor Communications The Board and Investment Manager aim to keep shareholders informed and up-to-date with information about the Company as well as seeking feedback and comment from investors.
co. uk displays the latest news, price and performance information, portfolio details, updates from the Investment Manager and a blog dealing with topical issues in emerging markets.
Via the website you can also ask to have the latest Company information e-mailed directly to you.
I encourage all shareholders to register on our website and make full use of the facilities and materials available to help keep you informed about your Company.
I am aware that shareholders may, on occasion, wish to contact me or my fellow Board members directly and not via our Investment Manager.
While our Investment Manager will, in most cases, be best placed to handle enquiries, I am at your disposal to receive any questions or comments, as is the Senior Independent Director or any of the other Directors, all of whom may be reached via our brokers whose contact details are enclosed at the end of this report.
Outlook Following the recent recovery in emerging markets equities, some consolidation is likely.
Nevertheless, relative to developed markets, many emerging markets are trading at interesting valuations and the prospects remain attractive.
Your Board continues to encourage the Investment Manager to focus on finding value, and we are confident that this will lead to good long-term returns.
Annual General Meeting I would like to invite all shareholders to attend the AGM to be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, Londonat 12 noon on Thursday 13 July 2017.
There will be an opportunity to meet the Board and the Investment Manager and to hear the latest news on your Company, its investments and the markets, as well as take part in the formal annual meeting of the Company.
More details of this meeting can be found on pages 83 to 86 of thisreport.
Paul Manduca Chairman 7 June 2017 www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 7 TEMIT ANNUREP 04 p02-07 Strategic Report.
