This is an additional tailwind to the ongoing structural Fidelity China Special Situations PLC changes happening in China related to rising wealth, increasing offers a direct exposure to Chinas consumption and world-leading innovation.
growth story for those investors who seek it in their portfolio.
Over the reporting period, the MSCI China Index rose by 37.6% and Nicholas Bull the Companys NAV posted a 38.8% total return.
Encouragingly, the Chairman Companys share price recorded a 45.8% total return as a result of the reduction in the share price discount to NAV.
The end of the financial year also marked three years for This is my first year as Chairman of Fidelity China Special Dale Nicholls as Portfolio Manager of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC and I have pleasure in presenting the seventh Situations PLC and the Companys seventh anniversary.
Dale has Annual Report of the Company for the year ended 31March 2017. continued the good work by previous portfolio manager Anthony Bolton and has increased the NAV over his tenure, returning It is now increasingly accepted by investment professionals that 101.8% versus an Index return of 60.6%.
Chinas sheer economic size, along with its record of delivering year on year growth, means that anyone building an investment Due Diligence visit to China portfolio should consider having an exposure to China.
The Board undertook its annual due diligence visit to China in October 2016 and met with Fidelitys investment analysts and The purpose of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is to provide various brokers, bankers, research specialists and economists and investors with that exposure through a spread of investments in continued to see at first-hand developments in China.
In addition, companies involved in China.
several company visits were carried out in Beijing Car Inc. China Biologic Products, China Online Education, China Renaissance, The Directors, who visit China each year, have observed at first Didi, Momo, New Oriental Education & Technology, Noah, Phoenix hand the growth of the Chinese middle class both in number and Healthcare, Sinotrans, Tarena and Yihai, Kunming CRCC High in spending power.
It is this growth that underpins the strategy of Tech, Yunnan Baiyao and Yunnan Water and Chengdu Sichuan the Portfolio Manager, Dale Nicholls, in his focus on investing in Swellfun and Virscend Education, giving the Board invaluable the New China economy.
insight into some of the companies which are held in the Companys portfolio or in which the Portfolio Manager is potentially The purchase of shares in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is looking to invest.
Throughout the busy few days, the Board was intended to be a decision for the long-term, as the China market very encouraged by what it saw and continues to believe that the can be volatile and the performance of the stock market is not rebalancing of Chinas economy towards being more consumer-led necessarily correlated to the economic growth rate.
will carry on being the engine of its growth in coming years.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is a closed-end fund, which the Board believes is the best structure for an investment of this sort.
The stability of the funds under management, with no redemptions, enables the Portfolio Manager to investin smaller companies which may have limited liquidity, to invest in unlisted companies ahead of their IPO and to add gearing to the portfolio.
The Directors are confident in the continuing growth in the New China economy and in the long-term growth prospects for the Company.
Risks The principal risks facing the Company and investors, as identified by the Board, are set out on pages 11 and 12.
Performance Review Fidelity China Special Situations PLC has significantly rewarded The Boards visit to CRCC High Tech.
Within China, improving economic data, a relatively stable political landscape and ongoing reforms have offered a fairly stable environment for companies and markets to Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 3 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Chairmans Statement continued Shareholders may choose to reinvest their dividends to purchase more shares in the Company.
Details of the Dividend Reinvestment Plan are set out on page 72.
Discount Management The companys discount narrowed from 17.2% at the start of the year to 13.2% at the end of the reporting year.
The Board recognises that the Companys share price is affected by the interaction of supply and demand in the market and investor sentiment towards China, as well as the performance of its NAV per share.
Recognising these factors, the Board has conducted a detailed review of the discount policy, and it is the Boards belief at present that the discount is best addressed by repurchasing the Companys shares according to market conditions.
Any shares repurchased can be held in Treasury or cancelled.
The Board and Manager visit Yunnan Baiyao.
During the reporting year, the Board authorised the repurchase Gearing of 1,425,000 ordinary shares by the Company.
These shares The Company entered into a new three year unsecured fixed rate are held in Treasury.
The share repurchases will have benefited facility agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for US$150,000,000 all shareholders as the NAV per share has been increased by on 14 February 2017.
The interest rate is fixed at 3.01% per annum purchasing the shares at a discount.
Since the year end and as until the agreement terminates on 14 February 2020.
The new at the date of this report, the Company has neither issued nor facility was used to replace fully the Companys US$150,000,000 repurchased any ordinary shares.
multicurrency revolving facility agreement which ended on the same day.
The Board is seeking to renew the annual authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys shares at the forthcoming AGM, To achieve further gearing, the Company uses contracts for as we have done each year previously, and assure shareholders difference CFDs on a number of holdings in its portfolio.
that we will keep both the discount and the share repurchase Further details are in Note 20 on page 64. programme under review.
The Directors regularly review and discuss the discount and the ways in which it might be reduced At 31 March 2017, the Companys gearing, defined as the Gross so that the shares can trade at a level closer to the NAV.
The Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets, was 27.6% 2016: 27.2%.
Directors also monitor market practice amongst peer group trusts This is within the limit set by the Companys Prospectus of 30%.
and take regular advice from the Companys Broker.
Unlisted Investments Fidelity as Manager At the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2016 the shareholders The Board has contracted with Fidelity to manage the fund, agreed to an increase in the limit of unlisted investments that the through a management agreement.
In reviewing Fidelity as Company could hold: from 5% of the fund to 10%.
During the year Manager, the Board notes Fidelitys leadership position in fund the Company invested in Shanghai Yiguo E-commerce and since the management in China where it employs a significant number of year end has invested in Aurora Mobile.
Following an increase in analysts on the ground in both Shanghai and Hong Kong.
the value of our investment in Didi Chuxing and China Internet Plus, the unlisted investments account for 4% of the fund.
A description of Management Fee each of these four investments can be found on page 16.
Until 31 March 2016, the management fee was calculated and paid on a quarterly basis.
With effect from 1 April 2016, it has Dividend been calculated and paid by the Company on a monthly basis The Board recommends a final dividend of 2.50 pence per in order to align the fee with average assets under management Ordinary Share for the year ended 31 March 2017 for approval and the basis on which ongoing charges are calculated.
by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This represents an increase of 38.9% over the 1.80 pence paid in Allocation of Expenses respect of the prior year.
The Company has, since launch, allocated investment management fees and finance costs equally between revenue The dividend will be payable on 31 July 2017 to shareholders on and capital.
Over the life of the Company, capital returns have the register on 30 June 2017 ex-dividend date 29 June 2017. contributed considerably more to the total returns of the Company 4 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 than revenue returns have.
The Board feel it is reasonable to expect that future return levels will be similar and that a proportion larger than the current 50% should be charged to capital.
Therefore, with effect from 1 April 2017, 75% of investment management fees and finance costs will be charged to capital and the remaining 25% will be charged to revenue.
Whilst the total return will be unaffected by this change, the capital return will decrease and the revenue return will increase.
Consequently, the amount available for distribution as dividends out of revenue reserves will increase.
Board of Directors After serving as Chairman of the Company since its launch, John Owen stepped down from the Board on 22 July 2016, and I succeeded him as Chairman.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank him on behalf of the Board and shareholders for his invaluable contribution to the Company.
I am pleased to say that Elisabeth Scott was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on my appointment as Chairman.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code for Directors of FTSE 350 companies, all Directors are subject to annual re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors biographies can be found on page 20 and between them have a wide range of appropriate skills and experience to form a balanced Board for the Company.
Annual General Meeting Wednesday, 26 July 2017 The AGM will be held at 11.00 am on Wednesday 26 July 2017 at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB.
Full details of the meeting are given on pages 65 to 67.
This is an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Portfolio Manager and the Board.
I hope that you are able to join us.
Nicholas Bull Chairman 9 June 2017 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 5 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
