Strategic Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have led our sector in a number Our strategic approach is based on long term trends.
We track consumer and occupier expectations and key themes impacting our of outstanding deals reflecting the business to ensure we address these in creating Places People Prefer.
As the worlds of work and quality of our portfolio leisure become increasingly connected this has led to our assets becoming more mixed use, so that people can fulfil the needs of multiple demands on their time.
Our London office campus approach and multi-let retail centre focus has proved to be a real differentiator in this respect, creating not only outstanding buildings but enabling us to make substantial improvements to the overall environments in which they sit.
Many of our investments over the year have been to structure our portfolio around these themes and of course work on the majority of them started before 23 June 2016.
We had already positioned our business to respond.
So despite the uncertainty caused, British Land has performed well and I would like to thank everyone who works for and with us for their contribution during this unpredictable time.
Underlying Profit for the year was 390 million up 7.4%.
The valuation of our portfolio was marginally down 1.4% with EPRA NAV down just 0.4% at 915 pence per share with both occupier and investor demand remaining good over the year.
Significantly, valuation performance in the second half was stronger than the first.
John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Chairman The Board has recommended a fourth quarter dividend of 7.3 pence per share making a total Not many people predicted the political of 29.2 pence for the year.
Together with the 1 Total accounting return outcomes seen over the last 12 months, not movement in net asset value, this brings total only in the UK, but around the world.
It was accounting return to 2.7%.
We have proposed certainly an eventful year.
a first quarter dividend of 7.52 pence per share 2.7% and 30.08 pence for the financial year ending 2016: 14.2% But good businesses become stronger when 31 March 2018 representing a further 3% they are put to the test and I am delighted to increase, signalling our confidence in report that, despite uncertainty caused by the growing income over the medium term.
Dividend per share UKs decision to leave the EU, we have not only demonstrated the resilience of our business Last year I commented that macro-economic and but also shown how our strategic approach political risks had affected the FTSE 100.
Shares 29.2p enables us to respond to such issues.
in real estate have been significantly impacted by 2016: 28.36p uncertainty.
As a largely domestically focused In the weeks following the EU referendum business operating in sterling, UK REITs are more there was a peak of uncertainty around the exposed to the implications of Brexit on the UK full impacts that would be felt by businesses economy than the majority of the FTSE 100. and the UK as a whole.
For us in very broad Experience also shows that gaps between 33% terms, we considered the potential impact share price and reported values expand during womens representation across Executive 2 Committee members and direct reports on consumer confidence affecting our retail times of uncertainty and there continues to business and what the result could do be a wide range of views on the potential to business confidence, in particular the impact of the UKs decision to leave Europe choice of global organisations to locate on our markets.
97% large parts of their businesses in London.
of all electricity we purchase comes from So while our business is in good shape we renewable sources, working towards 100% acknowledge that the environment is more as an RE100 partner uncertain.
We have led our sector in a number of outstanding deals reflecting the quality of our portfolio.
Just a couple of weeks after The Queens Award the EU referendum we exchanged on the sale for Enterprise 1 Please see the Glossary for definition.
of Debenhams flagship store on Oxford Street British Land was awarded the UKs 2 Hampton-Alexander Review, November 2016. highest accolade for business success, for 400 million, on terms agreed before the vote.
for economic, social and environmental achievements over five years.
And in March 2017, together with our JV partners 4 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Oxford Properties, we exchanged contracts for Highlights of the year the sale of The Leadenhall Building for a headline price of 1.15 billion, the most expensive building 1.3m sq ft of lettings ever sold in the City of London.
across our Retail portfolio, 1 11% ahead of ERV Weve also had good letting activity over the year: Attracting new occupiers, upsizing solid evidence that our properties are delivering existing retailers and increasing what our customers want.
As a result our portfolio leisure and food & beverage.
In a changing world, Continued outperformance of footfall sustainable places are becoming increasingly and sales growth benchmarks.
sought after and continue to create value as they are both resilient and well positioned to respond to changing customer needs.
We are proactively designing new buildings with a focus on health, wellbeing and productivity of the consumers and employees who will use those buildings.
In addition, initiatives to deliver our Local Charter Progressed 1m sq ft make positive local contributions and help our of lettings across our 2 places become part of their local communities.
Office portfolio 279,000 sq ft of lettings completed As the Governments Minimum Energy with over 700,000 sq ft under offer or Efficiency Standards have the potential to affect in advanced negotiations: this includes property values, our award-winning efficiency 140,000 sq ft of lettings at 7 Clarges programme has positioned our portfolio Street and 4 Kingdom Street shortly well and we have become a partner of RE100, after completion on terms ahead of committed to using 100% electricity from pre-referendum ERVs.
Our target for 3% of our UK supplier workforce to be apprentices by 2020 also aligns with Government ambitions and our Supply Chain Charter supported Exchanged 1.5bn of asset our first Modern Slavery Act Disclosure.
sales, 9% ahead of valuation 3 Including our 50% interest in We continue to be recognised for our leading The Leadenhall Building for 575m, stance on sustainability issues, following our the 400m disposal of Debenhams, 2016 Queens Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Oxford Street and 226m of superstores, Development.
Our industry-leading energy and reducing superstore weighting in the carbon reductions resulted in British Land being portfolio to 4%.
named European Sector Leader in the 2016 Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark for the third year running, and winning the CIBSE Test of Time Award 2017.
We have cut energy intensity by 35% and carbon intensity by 44% across our portfolio since 2009, as we make strong progress towards our challenging 55% Progressing our development reduction target by 2020. pipeline with 2.3m sq ft of 4 planning consents secured and Details of the changes to our Board and a further 1.3m sq ft submitted Committees during the year, and since Includes planning secured at the year end, are set out in the governance Eden Walk, Blossom Street reports which begin on page 60. and 2&3 Finsbury Avenue and submissions for Meadowhall Leisure and 1 Triton Square.
John Gildersleeve Non-Executive Chairman Established our Bright For the Chairmans governance review, Lights skills and employment 5 see pages 60 to 66. programme for our suppliers, occupiers and local Global Real Estate Sustainability communities Benchmark 2016 European sector Includes 70 placements on our Starting leader for retail offices listed Out in Retail programme, with 75% moving into long term employment.
1.7% apprentices in our tier 1 supply chain pilot study as we work towards our 2020 target of 3%.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5
