pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 06 Strategy Chairmans Statement and dividend growth over the medium-tolong term to the benefit of the Companys Dear Shareholder shareholders.
From time-to-time, his It has been an eventful year.
Potential strategy will be out of kilter with trends in risks were highlighted in my Chairmans the UK and world markets, as has been Statement this time last year but to witnessed over the last 12 or so months.
witness both the start of the process However, it remains a testament to his skill for the departure of the UK from the and diligence that he will not be swayed by European Union and the election of short-term market sentiment.
Mark, who President Trump in the US was believes a fund manager is also a risk probably long odds.
Add to that the manager, remains focused on valuation recently-announced UK General Election and fundamentals when choosing stocks and you have all the evidence required to for his portfolio and your Board is wholly explain why you need to have high supportive of his approach.
conviction and great confidence to be a long-term investor.
The portfolio continues to be concentrated Jim Pettigrew in a relatively small number of stocks Chairman Whilst the expected Trump Effect has yet 56 at the year end as well as sectors, and to be fully realised several of his its overweight or underweight positions in vote-winning initiatives are yet to see the various sectors continue to be material 25 May 2017 light of day or will be somewhat diluted drivers of the Companys relative long-term this has not stopped the US market from investment performance.
rallying in the expectation that US real GDP will accelerate and inflation rise but, so far, Performance there have been few signs of either.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, the Companys net asset value NAV total It is Europes turn to see events dominated return was 14.1% with debt at par whilst by political outcomes, with Macrons victory the Companys benchmark index returned in the French Presidential elections, the 22.0%.
For the same period the NAV with all-important German elections to come in debt at market returned 14.4% and the September, all the while dealing with share price total return with dividends intensely complicated Brexit negotiations: reinvested was 11.2%.
this partly explains the expectations that the near-term economic outlook will The Companys share price ended the year remain subdued with inflation about half at 713.5p, an increase of 7.3% from the the target rate.
The Board has considered previous year end price of 665p.
With debt any potential direct impact to the Company at market value, the discount moved out as a consequence of the Brexit from 4.4% to 7.2%, reflecting the general negotiations and has concluded that it widening of discounts in the Companys does not consider that this will be a peer group over the same period.
At principal risk for the Company.
24 May 2017, the latest practical date before signing this report, the NAV and The gloomy predictions about the share price were respectively 809.2p and implications of the vote for Brexit have not 754p, and the resultant discount was6.8% materialised with the UK stock market debt at market value.
performing much better subsequently than expected.
Against this background, the The longer term performance of the portfolio, whilst in positive territory, fared Company continues to be strong with less well than the Companys benchmark three, five and ten year NAV total returns index the FTSE All-Share Index as debt at market value of 39.7%, 96.1% explained in the Portfolio Managers and 124.6%, respectively, compared with Report.
Returns to shareholders were Investment Strategy 33.9%, 73.8% and 131.8% respectively.
In One of the great strengths of the addition, the following graph shows total Companys portfolio manager, Mark returns since the appointment of Invesco Barnett, has been his construction of a Perpetual in 2008. portfolio of stocks in which he has high conviction and believes will deliver capital 06 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 07 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc final dividend, which is subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 21 July Total Returns Since Appointment of Invesco Perpetual on 15 September 2008 2017 to shareholders on the Companys register on 23 June 2017.
Figures rebased to 100 at 15 September 2008.
Dividends have been paid from revenue 300 and the Companys revenue return has Share price increased consistently over the past four Net Asset Value - debt at market value years.
The increase in dividends over the 250 FTSE All-Share Index years has been funded by the growth in dividend receipts as well as special 200 dividends, with dividends receipts for this year also benefiting from the fall in 150 sterling.
Outlook 100 The General Election on 8 June 2017 will represent the third time in two years that 50 the UK electorate has gone to the polls.
Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 Sep-16 Mar-17 This, coupled with further elections in the Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
EU together with Brexit negotiations, gives rise to an ongoing background of continuing uncertainty.
As shareholders Borrowings and Gearing are well aware, the Companys portfolio is designed to generate capital and dividend The Company has in place a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt.
These growth from a relatively concentrated comprise the Companys 100 million portfolio of stocks many of which generate 7% debenture 2022 and a 150 million, their returns in dollars or euros: whilst a 364 day bank credit facility.
By this stable environment and continued means, Mark has the ability to vary the underlying economic growth in the UK gearing level of the portfolio depending on provides a solid base, an improving his view of the market.
During the year the situation in the US and Europe would also aggregate borrowings ranged between be beneficial.
To this end, although 180.0 million and 247.2 million, and President Trump is finding the business of ended the year at 209.7 million government harder than he thought, it is equivalent to gross gearing of 13.7% still likely that some of his election debt at par.
promises increased infrastructure and military expenditure, reduced corporation Dividend tax could stimulate the US economy and The Board wishes to continue its aim to thus the worlds, at least in the short-term.
rebalance the interim and final dividends towards the interims whilst at least Whilst the future remains as difficult as maintaining the final dividend.
However, ever to forecast, there is an element of notwithstanding this medium term confidence in predicting a continued low objective, the decision was taken this year interest rate environment in developed to increase the final dividend by more than economies with reasonable growth the percentage increase in the interim expectations.
Mark remains resolute in his dividends to enable shareholders to benefit approach to portfolio construction and from the current years particularly confident that his stock selections will provide the right balance of capital and buoyant net revenue return.
Consequently, for the year to 31 March 2017 the Board dividend growth for shareholders over the had declared three interim dividends of medium-to-long term.
As I stated in the 5.4p 2016: 5.2p and recommends a final outlook section of my Chairmans dividend of 9.15p 2016: 8.75p per Statement at the interim stage, Marks share.
This increases the total dividend to high conviction approach to investment 25.35p for the year, an increase of 1.0p will inevitably lead to portfolio performance on last years total dividend of 24.35p.
The that will diverge from the index and, as total dividend increase of 4.1% is in excess seen, may result in periods of of the annual increase in the Retail Price underperformance.
However, the focus Index of 3.1%, and demonstrates the remains on adding significant value over Companys commitment to its long-term the long term and your Board continues to endorse Marks approach.
objective of providing income growth which exceeds the rate of inflation.
