Overview Chairmans statement I am delighted that the Group had Finally, opening new countries, via a joint another very good year delivering venture, remains a key priority and we have customer and profit growth, with made good progress in FY17, with discussions continued investment to deliver our in progress with multiple prospects.
We have a clear vision to be the worlds most trusted provider Dividend of home repairs and improvements Given the Groups performance this year and we have agreed the strategic and the Boards confidence in its future priorities see page 12 for our prospects, the Board is proposing an increase strategic framework to ensure we in the final dividend to 11.2p a share, bringing achieve it.
the total ordinary dividend for the year to 15.3p FY16: 12.7p, an increase of 24%, which There are four areas of progress in the is 1.76x covered by the FY17 adjusted earnings year that I would like to specifically per share compared to 1.72x in FY16.
Board changes Firstly, the rate of progress in North During the year David Bower was appointed America has been very positive.
Through as Chief Financial Officer and Johnathan the strength of the existing business, Ford as Chief Operating Officer.
We have enhanced with the acquisition of Utility also strengthened the Board with the Service Partners we have achieved the appointment of three new Directors with 3m customer milestone and 50m affinity effect from 23 May 2017.
Tom Rusin has partner households great progress been appointed as an Executive Director toward our 80m household target.
and Katrina Cliffe and Edward Fitzmaurice have both been appointed as Non-Executive Secondly, the strength of affinity Directors.
Katrina will also join the Audit partnerships is the bedrock of our & Risk Committee.
Tom has been Chief business and I am delighted with the Executive Officer of HomeServe USA since launch of Aviva Response in the UK and July 2011 and is currently a member of the the new joint venture with Edison Energia HomeServe plc Executive Committee.
Digital marketing is already live with both partners, a demonstration of People our mutual commitment.
HomeServes success is driven by the commitment of its people.
On behalf of the At the Capital Markets Day in June Board, I would like to thank all our people for last year, we said we wanted to offer their contribution to another set of very good a compelling on demand service to results.
We have accelerated our plans with the investment in JM Barry Gibson Checkatrade in the UK and the Chairman acquisition of Habitissimo in Spain.
23 May 2017 4 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 I am pleased to welcome USP, Checkatrade and Habitissimo to the HomeServe family and look forward to making the most of our on demand opportunity.
JM Barry Gibson 5. u o y e k i l s r e m o t s u c m o r f, s Strategic report Put customers at the heart of everything we do Our global values Put customers at the heart of everything we do Develop and encourage great people who are passionate about taking responsibility and making things happen Combine relentless innovation with integrity and professionalism % 93 of customers would Strive to be the best in the buy again.
world at what we do by 6 w e i v e r l a e r 70 9, 1 n o d e s a B Annual Report & Accounts 2017 We aim to make it easier for customers to get home repairs done easily and quickly their emergency is our emergency.
