Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Dividends and Free Shares Our employees own a significant proportion of the Company.
In fact, I am delighted to be able to say that, following the disposal of HMGovernments holding in 2015-16, 12percent of the Company has been awarded to eligible colleagues.
This means that eligible full-time employees have now received a maximum of 913 Free Shares, regardless of grade.
The Board is committed to our progressive dividend policy.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 15.6 pence per ordinary share on 28 July 2017, giving a total dividend of 23.0 pence per share for 2016-17, subject to shareholder approval at our 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The proposed total dividend is a fourpercent increase on the total dividend of 22.1pence per ordinary share for 2015-16.
Connecting companies, customers and communities We are the proud provider of the Universal Service.
We are committed to the Governments overarching policy objective delivering a high quality Universal Service without recourse to public subsidy.
The postal Universal Service Obligation USO is vital for economic growth.
It is a key part of the digital economy and is a key enabler of the Governments broadband strategy.
As the physical fulfilment arm of the digital Chairmans statement economy, I am pleased to report that the USO has high customer satisfaction ratings.
As Ofcom recently noted, 82per cent of 2016-17 has been another year of significant change.
residential consumers are either fairly or very 1 satisfied with Royal Mail services.
Inmy first full year as your Chairman, I have seen th Royal Mail is the delivery partner of choice first-hand in this our 500 year the pivotal role for UK SMEs.
Research we commissioned thisinstitution plays supporting households, businesses from Triangle Management shows that the Universal Service provides depth of coverage, and communities.
value for money and convenience for SMEs seeoverleaf.
The substantial investments We connect companies, customers and communities we are making in our business major across the UK through Royal Mail and overseas through digitisation programmes such as the roll-out of Postal Digital Assistants PDAs are GLS, our pan-European parcels business.
GLS is helping SMEs to develop their e-commerce strategically important to the Group.
It is a focus for proposition by providing more information to their customers about the journey of their investment to help drive growth as it continues to expand, parcels.
The vital role of the letter for many including into newgeographies.
businesses, including SMEs, also remains very much in place.
We are committed to the Universal Service, delivering We are an international parcels business, sustainable value for our shareholders and being a high both through our UK and GLS operations.
GLS provides geographical diversification of quality employer.
Our delivery services, including the our earnings.
It is well positioned to grow Universal Service, are an important part of the digital in new markets.
This includes careful and focused expansion outside Europe.
We are working with our key stakeholders to This year in Europe itself GLS acquired provide the Universal Service, deliver innovation and ASM in Spain.
Further afield, it purchased growth and create sustainable shareholdervalue.
1 Ofcom, Review of the Regulation of Royal Mail, 1March 2017, paragraph 3.16.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 05 Royal Mail plc | Chairmans statement 2 GSO and Postal Express.
As our gateway Alongside our direct and indirect economic will be very helpful as we continue to to Europe and the US, GLS is a strategically contributions, there is, of course, the broader transform Royal Mail.
important part of the Royal Mail Group.
That is why I have once In December 2016, Matthew Lester informed again been humbled by the dedication and the Board of his intention to step down as Value for money: commitment of our people to raise money Chief Finance Officer CFO and leave the Board for good causes.
March 2017 saw the end of Royal Mail offers a very competitive following the Companys AGM in July2017.
our successful partnership with the Stroke service across lighter parcels.
Matthew has made a very considerable Association, for which we have raised a total contribution to our business across a wide Other than Royal Mail, only one of 2million, including matched giving from range of areas during the seven years he has alternative provider offers Saturday Royal Mail.
We in short, our colleagues been with us.
We are grateful he is staying delivery at no extra charge.
hold the Guinness World Record for the most beyond his contractual notice period.
Moya registered charities supported by a payroll and I join the Board in offering him our sincere Depth of coverage: giving scheme.
Since the scheme began in thanks and best wishes for the future.
1989, almost 58million has been raised Royal Mail provides universal for hundreds of registered charities and On 15 May 2017, we announced that Stuart coverage.
Only two other companies good causes.
Simpson, Director of Group Finance, will be offer all their products everywhere, appointed CFO and join the Royal Mail Board including rural areas.
GLS is active in supporting community causes at the conclusion of the AGM on 20July2017.
In November 2016, GLS 80percent of UK addresses are Stuart's appointment follows a comprehensive Denmark was named as one of the top five within one kilometre of a Royal Mail search that included both internal and large Danish companies to work for by the parcel access point.
international Great Place to Work Institute.
In the Netherlands, GLS launched a partnership Turning to broader issues, as I mentioned in with Heppie, a charity that provides outings and last years Annual Report, the effectiveness activities for disadvantaged children.
of the Board, its Committees, the Executive A responsible employer Directors, Non-Executive Directors, and the Last year, I touched on the importance of mental Royal Mail is proud to be a responsible Chairman was assessed from January-March health.
Poor mental health is a leading cause of employer.
We offer the best pay and terms 2016 by an external consultancy.
The review illness in the UK and our workforce.
This year and conditions in our industry.
We welcome covered a range of topics, including succession we will be devoting more resources to this key the ongoing Taylor Review: it is currently planning, operations, composition, skills and issue.
We are a signatory of the Time to Change looking at employment conditions across the experience.
This year, the review was carried pledge, which aims to end the stigma of mental UK, including the delivery sector.
We believe out internally and the main findings are set ill-health.
We became an official supporter of co-ordinated and effective Government action out on page57.
The review concluded that the the Heads Together campaign, led by their is required to lift labour standards.
Better Board and its Committees are effective but Royal Highnesses, The Duke and Duchess of labour standards will lead to better service identified areas of focus that will strengthen Cambridge, and Prince Harry.
We launched a standards for consumers.
the performance of the Board overall.
ground-breaking partnership with The Princes We are committed to continuing to provide Trust, providing funding for the charity to develop Thank you the best pay and terms and conditions in our a mental health strategy.
This will ensure that th This is a very special Company.
In return, however, we continually every young person accessing a Princes Trust anniversary of the postal service in 2016 was work with our unions to agree changes to programme has the mental health support a major milestone that deserved celebration.
our working practices and labour model.
At a special 500 years event we hosted, process of change is about sustaining our We are expanding our support for mental Moya and I were delighted to welcome Their business now and in the future, particularly health by launching a strategic partnership Royal Highnesses The Prince of Wales and given the decline in letter revenues.
We are seeking The Duchess of Cornwall.
In his speech, the The safety of our employees is always to increase peoples awareness of mental Prince praised our contribution to the British our first priority.
In 2016-17, we delivered health and support more of our own economy and offered his heartfelt thanks and 3 a 12.3percent reduction in road traffic people with mental health problems.
It was a privilege to introduce collisions, one of our 2016-17 key partnership covers a number of key pillars: the Royal couple to so many inspirational performance indicators KPIs.
mental health training, awareness-raising, people from across our business.
communications, pro-bono support, work Thanks to the continued hard work, A responsible company placements and fundraising.
We hope to commitment and dedication of our people, Royal Mail is a great British brand.
We are raise at least 2million to enable Action for Royal Mail is making a difference on a daily part of many local communities.
We deliver Children to employ specialist youth workers basis.
I look forward to playing a part in our to all parts of the country to the same service to deliver face-to-face support sessions for continued focus on delivering shareholder standards and have a dense network of 8,000young people aged 15-18. value.
This is about working together with access points for local communities.
As the our people, our unions and our customers to Government seeks to stimulate growth Our Board deliver innovation and growth and become a outside major metropolitan areas, we There have been some changes to our Board more efficient business.
have an important role to play in this key over the last 12 months.
Nick Horler, who has policy area.
been with us for nearly seven years and during Peter Long a time of unprecedented change, stepped Chairman down from the Board in February 2017.
17May 2017 Nickmade an invaluable contribution and will be missed.
Rita Griffin, a senior executive at 2 Postal Express was acquired after the financial BP, joined us during the year: her expertise in yearend.
marketing, logistics and change management 06 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17
