Chairmans review Aligning our business and supporting our people presence, which is afocus for us over the next several years.
To achieve the level of international growth we are aspiring to, we will need leadership which reflects our businesses and the environments in which they operate.
Thismeans a continued focus on recruiting, developing and retaining toplocal talent from all demographics and across all genders and ethnicities.
We will also continue to focus on supporting young people studying STEM subjects and, through our graduate development programmes, apprenticeship training andCPD, we aim to ensure that those already working in our businesses feel supported, appreciated, encouraged and keen to help us achieve our goals.
Once again, diversity is a key component Mike Turner CBE, Chairman of our success, and we will make a concentrated effort to be inclusive and open in our approach to recruitment This year the Group has continued to deliver, and development.
As ever, I am grateful demonstrating the quality of our operations to the entire team at Babcock, at every level, and am as keen to support andtheresilience of our business.
them asthey have been to support the We remain confident in the longterm our business to both internal and business.
I am very sad to say that one of future of our business and the Board is external stakeholders and provides our colleagues in South Africa lost his life therefore pleased to recommend a 9.6% a clear roadmap of growth for our after falling from a power transmission increase in the final dividend for 2017to leadership team.
line and, in January 2017, anemergency 21.65 pence per share 2016: 19.75 rescuehelicopter crashed in Italy resulting The realignment also means some new pence per share.
This will give a total in the loss of six people on board.
Our members of the Executive Committee.
dividend for the year of 28.15 pence per thoughts are with their families and The elevation of Cavendish Nuclear as share 2016: 25.8 pence per share, an friends: we are committed tolearning a separatereporting sector means that increase of 9.1%.
any lessons which come from the Simon Bowen, CEO Cavendish Nuclear, investigations into the tragedies.
joins the Committee, as does Jon Hall, Governance and the Board Managing Director, Technology, reflecting Looking forward This has been a year of smooth but our commitment to drive technology important transition for Babcock.
In The strength of our order book continues across the Group.
Also, KateHill joined the September, Archie Bethel took over to provide clear visibility of future Committee in AprilasGroup Director of as Chief Executive, following Peter revenues and, together with thebidding Investor Relations and Communications.
Rogers highly successful tenure in the pipeline, offers further prospects for I am pleased to havetheir expertise post.
Archies early priority has been growth.
The Board therefore remains on the Committee and look forward to ensure the business is set up for confident in the underlying performance totheir contributions.
continued growth, and to this end he of the Group and expects to achieve has already begun making improvements good progress this year and beyond.
Our people to the business.
The realignment of our In the coming year, we will continue divisional structure into four industry to strengthen our succession planning sectors enables us to focus on our core activities, placing emphasis on promoting capabilities those areasin whichwe diversity within our leadership teams.
have deep and rare expertise and which These efforts will become more important have the greatest scalability.
It also as we continue to build our international Mike Turner CBE allows us to more clearly communicate Chairman Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 18 Strategic report 1 Our culture Directors report 80 Financials 142 being babcock In an engineering services business such as Babcock International, its the people who really make a difference to how the company is perceived, both internally and externally.
As individuals, we all make adifference to our colleagues, our customers and others who we interact with on a daily basis.
If were to remain a leading engineering services company that people are proud to work for and customers choose to work with, then each of us must embody the eight principles set out below, day in, day out.
The eight principles that make up being expects from each of us.
Whilst what we Those who have been in the Company for babcock arent new.
In fact, they may deliver for our customers is very diverse, many years, or plan on joining today, can seem rather obvious.
Thats because were all united by a common purpose use the being babcock principles as a theyalready live and breathe within our which spans the range of services we guide to determine whats appropriate business.
Theyre what we do when were provide.
The services we deliver help to behaviour within our Company.
If we all working at our best and theyve been a keep nations at the top of their game.
adopt these principles each day in our key contributor to our successful growth interactions with colleagues, customers Whether were delivering critical over recent years.
Theyve beengathered and others then more people will throughlife support for armed forces, fromthe views of employees across the experience Babcock at its best, operating aviation emergency services businesses, who were asked to consider more often.
worldwide, training the next generation the essence, or DNA, of Babcock at of engineers, pilots and firefighters or In this way we can ensure that everyone its best.
keeping critical fleets on the move, who comes into contact with Babcock being babcock pulls together these views together we ensure the smooth running International has a consistent and positive into a set of principles which explain what of many of the critical engineering experience, helping to grow our business our Company stands for and what it services on which nations depend.
and reinforcing the reputation that we are trusted to deliver.
being babcock Respect people and value Challenge ourselves and their diversity each other 8 simple principles that define This means we will: This means we will: our behaviours and actions Treat everyone with courtesy Inspire colleagues to do their best and thoughtfulness Always look for better ways of Be fair with people at all times doing things Listen to others points of view Embrace opportunities to learn Build great relationships Trust our people to deliver Safeguard based on trust customers reputations This means we will: This means we will: This means we will: Give people the authority to do the job Be easy to do business with Pull out all the stops Support each other as we work Respect colleagues expertise Achieve positive outcomes for towards a common goal each other Create an environment where Tell it as it is everyone can excel Take ownership and responsibility Never compromise on health Thrive on complexity Always strive to deliver and safety This means we will: This means we will: This means we will: Be a problemsolver Be flexible when it counts Ensure everyone goes home safe Strive to make the complex simple Be agile and responsive to every day changing needs Keep a cool head in a crisis Challenge unsafe behaviour Deliver to the highest standards, whenever and wherever Update and improve our practices, constantly Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 19
