STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that the past year has been one of further progress as we seek to simplify and refocus the Group on our Retail network business, in line with our declared strategy.
Our people are critical to the successful execution of the strategy and I would like to thank all colleagues for their hard work and dedication over the past year.
Board appointments In early 2017, Rachel Kentleton joined the board as Finance Director following George Earles retirement.
I would like to thank George for his significant contribution over his 12 years of service since joining us upon our listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2004.
Two of our nonexecutive directors, Neil Carson and David Morrison, will step down on 26 May 2017 and 26 July 2017 respectively.
The board wishes them well and thanks them for their valued contributions.
David has served as a director since Delivering our strategy 1999 and has been instrumental in the development of The sale of our Mobile payments business was completed the Company.
We welcome Rakesh Sharma, who was in December 2016 and concludes our programme of appointed to the board on 12 May 2017 and will chair the rationalisation.
In addition, we have restructured the Remuneration Committee.
Collect arrangements, enabling us to add new carriers Conclusion to our UK retail services offering.
We also successfully PayPoint is now a significantly more focused business.
launched PayPoint One, our next generation PayPoint Looking ahead, our priorities are to continue to drive growth terminal with integrated Electronic Point of Sale Solutions in retail services, manage the decline in cash payments EPoS, till and card functionality, and had rolled out 3,600 through developing new payment channels, improve our by the end of this financial year.
We also continue to drive service delivery and to run our business more efficiently.
existing and new retail services while seeking to improve We are also excited by the growth opportunities for our service delivery throughout the network.
Romanian business as we deepen and extend our presence The business is now more streamlined and focused on in a rapidly growing market.
driving value from the strength of our established retail Alongside this, we maintain our commitment to the capital network.
Whilst the board recognises there are structural allocation programme outlined in May 2016, to return 125 changes in UK cash payments and the energy sector, million of surplus cash to shareholders over five years to PayPoint is well positioned to respond to these changes 2021 alongside our ordinary dividend.
The board remains and to deliver continuing growth in its UK retail services confident in the prospects for the business and the value and Romanian businesses.
creation opportunity for our shareholders.
Delivering for our stakeholders Total dividends declared in the year to 31 March 2017 will deliver a total of 82.1 million or 120.6 pence per share Nick Wiles to shareholders.
This includes the ordinary dividend of Chairman 45.0 pence per share, the first annual instalment of the 25 May 2017 additional dividend of 36.7 pence per share and the gross proceeds from the sale of Mobile of 38.9 pence per share.
The board recognises that successful execution of the PayPoint strategy is dependent on delivering first class service to our retailers.
To ensure we are consistently measuring how we are performing against important key metrics, a new Retailer Pledge has been developed and published.
