Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 03 Chairmans statement Our objective is to own good assets with strong real estate fundamentals.
They must generate income in excess of our dividend and have ahigher value in five years time.
Whilst political and economic Exposure to the best real estate sectors uncertainty was a significant distraction is driving demand for our space for the markets in the year, the attraction resulting in high occupancy, good like of secure income continued to grow.
for like income growth and strong ERV Not only are we living in a low growth, uplifts.
Our sector leading portfolio low interest rate environment but ageing metrics have been maintained thanks demographics are accentuating the to our strong occupier and property search for income and alternatives relationships.
Over the last four years, to low yielding government bonds.
through management activity, our This need has already risen substantially occupancy level has been above and will grow further in the years 99% and our unexpired lease term has to come.
High quality companies remained at 12.8 years with only 1% of offering well-covered and growing our leases due to expire within the next dividends ought to become ever three years.
Our predictable, repetitive and growing Our significant and increasing income streams have allowed us to We will continue to build the investment in distribution is delivering progress the dividend again this year by foundations for future dividend excellent returns, sustainable income 3.4%.
An attractive dividend needs to progression.
growth and long term value for our be adequately covered by operating shareholders.
The sector is benefiting earnings and Im pleased that we have strongly from structural support as maintained the 1.1x dividend cover we UK consumers continue to migrate achieved last year.
Conversely, physical retail We will continue to build the continues to face significant challenges foundations for future dividend from this online shift with the inevitable progression.
Contractual rental uplifts Dividend per share space overcapacity this brings to the are embedded in over 50% of the retail market.
portfolio, we are achieving strong rent This ongoing structural demand for review uplifts and are adding new distribution and lack of meaningful income fromshort cycle developments.
7.5p supply has given us the confidence LondonMetric is well placed and I to increase our investment across am genuinely excited by its outlook 3.4% all distribution sub-sectors of mega and look forward to the year box, regional and urban logistics.
We continue to see good investment and short cycle development opportunities, particularly in urban logistics, and we have now fully committed the proceeds of our recent Patrick Vaughan equity placing into sensible, accretive Chairman assets.
Our distribution exposure is 31 May 2017 expected to exceed 70% within the current financial year.
