4 Chairmans statement Andrew Duff Fellow shareholders, this past year has been a successful one for Severn Trent.
CONTINUED We are building on delivering a fast start to Asset Management Plan 6 AMP6 PROGRESS and have seen excellent operational and financial performance.
Thesestrong results are built on the hard work of your Group turnover management team in striving to deliver the best possible service to our customers 1,819.2m and consistent returns toshareholders.
2016: 1,753.7m Strength in times of turbulence The macro-economic environment Group underlying profit of the past year has been turbulent, before interestand tax largely due to Brexit and the US election.
Our Company has been relatively 525.1m sheltered from the impact of these, 2016: 503.4m and has continued to offer strength and stability.
Our focus on delivering high quality service to customers and Group profit before benefits to shareholders is showing interest and tax significant results.
AMP6 has allowed a platform for there 543.7m to be winners in a world of incentivisation 2016: 504.4m and we have fully embraced this approach, driving operational performance higher, completing the year with excellent delivery Dividend per share of customer Outcome Delivery Incentives ODIs of 47.6 million.
Customer ODIs are 81.50p making us think differently to ensure we 2016: 80.66p continually improve the service we provide to our customers and this is helping us to achieve a step change in, forexample, Underlying basic earnings sewer flooding performance.
pershare Our waste water business has been at the frontier of sector efficiency and we 122.4p have made strides in aiming for upper 2016: 102.1p quartile performance in water and retail.
Whilst this is a multi-year journey Financial performance: our progress so far is encouraging.
Achieving upper quartile in all three areas Underlying EPS up 19.9% will improve the service and experience year on year we offer to our customers and enhance the returns we can make in the next Group underlying profit regulatory period.
before interest and We continue to review the suppliers taxup4.3% we work with to support us in delivery year on year efficiencies.
This means we have stronger relationships with contractors who are Focus on operational now more aligned with the way we work.
improvement: As regulation evolves we must continually look for ways to adopt and enhance Net Reward 47.6m ourcompetitiveness and we have been In 2012 13 prices pre tax successful in embracing new markets.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Earlier this year we announced the now generating the equivalent of 34% of However, we recognise that there is more completion of our acquisition of Dee Valley our energy needs and are on track for our work to be done to ensure that our leaders Water, a neighbouring water only company target of 50% by end of AMP.
and our workforce are representative of which operates in Wrexham, Chester and the customers we serve, so we remain the surrounding areas.
We welcome both Delivering returns focused on increasing the numbers of Dee Valley Waters customers and staff.
women in operational leadership positions: We delivered strong financial performance The integration of DeeValleys operations women and BAME Black, Asian and this past year and I am pleased to announce is progressing well, and represents an Minority Ethnic people in engineering that total Group turnover increased by 3.7% exciting opportunity for us to deliver better positions: and BAME people in technical to 1,819.2 million, while underlying Group service to all of our customers.
PBIT increased by 4.3% to 525.1 million and Severn Trents customers will benefit and Group reported PBIT increased by 7.8% Severn Trent has been voted as a Top from sharing best practice from both to 543.7million.
This resulted in underlying 100 Apprenticeship Employer 2016 and businesses.
The combined Severn Trent basic earnings per share of 122.4pence, up we have been ranked 24th globally in group will also benefit from a separate from 102.1 pence last year.
the Equileap Gender Equality Global Welsh water licence and a stronger voice Report and Ranking.
We were also Your Board is therefore proposing a final for ourWelsh customers.
regional winners in the National dividend of 48.90 pence per share to be We have been successful in establishing Apprentice awards.
This will take the total Waterplus our ground-breaking joint dividend for the year to 81.50 pence per During the year we bade farewell to two venture with United Utilities in the nonshare.
Having seen strong outperformance Board members and welcomed two more household retail market, which opened to in this current AMP we feel it is important to the Board of Severn Trent.
Martin Lamb competition in April 2017. to share this with our shareholders, and and Gordon Fryett stepped down after as a result we have enhanced our future Our regulator has signalled that further many years of great service and we dividend policy to growth of at least competition, for example in the opening up welcomed Kevin Beeston as our Senior RPI 4%.
of the water resources and bio-resources Independent Director and Dominique markets, will be considered in the coming Reiniche as a Non-Executive Director.
Investing for the benefit of customers years and we believe we will be in a strong Looking forward position to respond to these opportunities.
We are committed to investing for the benefit of customers and are pleased to Being a part of the regulatory debate This is an exciting time to be an engineer have made progress in our plans to invest ensures Severn Trent is prepared for any at Severn Trent: innovation in research the 120 million we announced last year changes on the horizon.
We also believe and development is enabling further in enhancing water quality, assistance to that this helps ensure continuity and operational excellence, and weve reached vulnerable customers, and security.
With two years of major milestones in improving the AMP6 now having passed we have started resilience of our water network during the Innovation in research and development looking at the next regulatory period and year.
The first of two new reservoirs has is enabling further operational excellence driving to be in the right position now.
been brought into service at Ambergate, and over the course of AMP6 we are where we are replacing and increasing investing over 3,000 million in our assets We begin our customer consultation thecapacity of storage at the site.
for the future of our network.
We are shortly and want to continue to be shapers We have also seen the breakthrough of also committed and on track to invest and changers of the regulatory world in the 1.8km Bleddfa tunnel boring element 190 million in our renewables business.
of the Birmingham Resilience Project.
However, I personally visited the Elan Valley during Our colleagues we are both ambitious and confident the year to see the great work being carried The strong operational and financial of achieving all the expectations of out, which will secure the supply of water to performance delivered this year our stakeholders.
Birmingham for the next 100 years.
is the result of the hard work and I know I speak for all our employees dedication of my colleagues and reflects Andrew Duff, Chairman when I say that, at Severn Trent, we take incentives being firmly aligned with pride in our environmental, societal and Company objectives.
We are therefore I am also proud to report our progress proud to have once again achieved on diversity.
We have been recognised the FTSE4Good accreditation and to by the Hampton-Alexander Review for be making continued progress on our leading performance in the FTSE 100 renewables agenda.
for womens representation at board Self-generation of energy is the right thing level.
Furthermore, our Board is now to do for the environment and makes good 44% female and the executive team 60%.
financial sense for Severn Trent.
We are Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6 Case study Delivering our vision and purpose, through our strategy and values SERVING OUR COMMUNITIES Strategic goals Number of customers educated 167,024 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information This year we have completed just over The remaining 95 visits were out in the Educating customers helps 700 educational visits to our customers community talking to groups such as the us perform better.
Around talking about water efficiency and how to Womens Institute or retired engineers, 75% of sewer blockages are be sewer savvy.
This equates to 125,705 landlord associations and housing people in our communities.
We have created some great a result of people disposing consisted of 532 schools where we partnerships this year, in particular the of the wrong things down carried out assemblies and classroom independent living group in Gloucester.
workshops, and 76 visits to our education The group help young people get ready for their toilets and drains.
centres at Hayden in Cheltenham and living on their own.
We have worked with Derby.
Visitors are educated on our two the students to share our messages and Malcolm Smith, key messages and then taken on a tour of then as part of a project they have been Community Relationship Adviser the sewage treatment works.
out into their local community to share the message.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
