Chairmans statement A year of change We have completed a comprehensive, independent and management review of our accounting policies, judgements made under those policies and the balance sheet the Accounting Review.
Based on the results of the review, and the new information available to the Board, the Board has taken the appropriate action and agreed substantial balance sheet write-downs and prior year adjustments.
The balance sheet has now been addressed and a number of measures implemented to strengthen the Finance function and financial disciplines within the business.
We decided during the year to focus on our core business and against continuing to fund the ongoing losses and long-term turnaround plan of our healthcare business.
The domiciliary healthcare business was exited in February 2017 and has resulted in a substantial impairment of goodwill and loss on disposal.
We have conducted a strategic review and launched a technology and investment-led strategy which will maximise the potential of our facilities management FM business and address the longer term opportunity of moving Beyond FMto the Connected Workspace.
Mitie remains a market leader in the provision of FM Overview services and has a portfolio of blue-chip clients.
Revenues, This year has been one of substantial challenges profits and cash flows have demonstrated their resilience for Mitie, with financial performance falling short of and net debt was lower than expected at the year end.
are making significant investments in our people and our transformation programme will deliver significant cost The Board has dealt with these challenges at pace and efficiencies in the future.
Leveraging technology and taken the appropriate action.
Mitie remains a resilient extending our customer proposition into strategic business with revenue broadly unchanged despite consultancy will support our future growth aspirations the challenges and wider economic uncertainties.
The and strong UK market position.
Board has implemented its succession plans, with new and effective leadership in place to guide Mitie through The challenges of the past year are now behind us, and the its next phase of growth and development.
Board can look forward, with a new management team in place and a new strategy launched, to restoring and then The Board has taken decisive action in four increasing shareholder value in the years ahead.
People We have implemented the succession plans, agreed by This has been a difficult year for the people working in the Board in late 2015, for the key roles of Chief Executive, our business and I would personally like to thank them Chief Financial Officer and Chairman.
We are pleased to for their dedication to Mitie and their determination to have appointed Phil Bentley as CEO in December 2016 provide quality services to our customers every day.
As and Sandip Mahajan as CFO in February 2017.
As a business we continue to look to the future, investing planned, following the senior management succession, the in apprenticeships and training, ensuring that Mitie is Chairmans succession will take place with the appointment a good place to work for people of all backgrounds.
of Derek Mapp at the AGM on 26 July 2017.
There have also been a number of new appointments to the Executive Leadership Team.
With refreshed leadership in place, the business is in a strong position to focus on the future.
2 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Results During the year, reported revenue reduced slightly to 2.13bn 2016: 2.15bn and the operating loss for the year We are investing in a change was 42.9 m 2016: profit 107.6m with basic earnings per share decreasing to 14.7 p 2016: 20.1p.
Adjusted operating programme to improve our customer 1 profit decreased to 82.0m 2016: 95.2m.
proposition, increase operational Net debt at the year-end was 147.2m 2016: 178.3m.
efficiency, streamline processes, The Group has agreed an amendment to its loan leverage technology and develop agreements with its debt providers that has allowed it to make more conservative accounting judgements and and retain our people.
remain in compliance with its covenants.
Net assets of the Group reduced by 271.7m to 89.8m.
Europe, for Capgemini SA and brings to the Board 2 During this period, our order book has remained flat at considerable experience in technology and selling 3 6.5bn 2016: 6.6bn.
Our sales pipeline currently stands professional services to corporate clients.
It is the intention of the Board to recruit additional NonDividend Executive Directors to make sure that the composition of the Board is appropriate, with the right balance of skills and The Board has reduced the dividend to reflect the lower experience to meet the future requirements of the business.
earnings of the business, improve the balance sheet and provide investment capability in the future.
Accordingly I will be stepping down as Chairman and from the Board at the Board has decided not to recommend a final dividend the AGM on 26 July 2017 after 10 years on the Board and this year, making the full year dividend 4.0p per share nine as Chairman.
I am pleased that we have been able to 2016: 12.1p per share.
The Board will be reviewing appoint Derek Mapp as my successor.
Derek will ensure its dividend policy in the future.
robust corporate governance and provide strong challenge to the management team.
He has substantial experience, Board and corporate governance having sat on the boards of public companies for over 20 As Chairman of the Company, one of my primary years and been in non-executive chairman roles for the past responsibilities is to make sure that the business has the nine years.
He is currently non-executive chairman of both appropriate systems and procedures in place to ensure that Informa plc and Huntsworth plc, following an extensive it does the right thing from the perspective of ethics and career in ownership, managerial, operational and values and that it acts in a way that protects the interests commercial roles in service industries.
of shareholders and wider stakeholders.
This year the Board has prioritised succession planning, the performance of the Outlook business, risk management, internal audit, the long-term It has been a challenging year but we are confident that our financial stability of the Group, and the Accounting Review.
new management team, led by Phil Bentley, is capable of taking the business through its next stage of growth In addition to the Accounting Review, the Board has found and development.
that improvements were required in the approach to risk management and internal audit and has made changes Mitie is a business with an outstanding client base, great in both those areas.
The detailed results of the review are people and a diverse portfolio of long-term FM contracts.
We are investing in a change programme to improve our customer proposition, increase operational efficiency, The Board has also decided that it will conduct a tender streamline processes, leverage technology and develop process for the appointment of new external auditors in the and retain our people.
We expect a return to modest growth in underlying profits There have been a number of significant changes to the this year.
As the transformation programme is rolled out Board during the year.
and the customer proposition enhanced over time, we Ruby McGregor-Smith left the business after nine years as are confident in our ability to restore and enhance future Chief Executive and 15 years on the Board.
left after 10 years as Group Finance Director.
The Board has implemented a comprehensive induction programme Roger Matthews for Phil Bentley and Sandip Mahajan to ensure a smooth Chairman transition into their new roles.
Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2017.
Nivedita is CEO, Cloud Infrastructure Services UK, Ireland and Northern 1.
See pages 26 and 27 and the Appendix on page 174.
Order book is the value of secured contracts at 31 March 2017.
Sales pipeline is the total contract value of opportunities at 31 March 2017. www.
