Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT A YEAR OF STRONG FINANCIAL AND STRATEGIC PROGRESS THE PAST YEAR HAS BEEN PARTICULARLY POSITIVE FOR THE BUSINESS.
CRANSWICK HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER STRONG TRADING PERFORMANCE, ACHIEVED RECORD SALES OF OVER 1.2 BILLION, AND MADE STRATEGIC PROGRESS IN A NUMBER OF KEY AREAS.
STRATEGIC PROGRESS CASH FLOW AND FINANCIAL POSITION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The human resource function is especially Strategic initiatives included the acquisition Cranswicks borrowings are conservatively The Board embraces the UK Corporate important when operating such a format and of CCL Holdings and its subsidiary Crown structured and cash generation from Governance Code as part of its culture and is a key element of the overall strategic plan.
Chicken Crown at the beginning of the operating activities was once again very a statement relating to compliance with the All colleagues are viewed as critical stakeholders, financial year which expanded the Companys strong.
In November 2016, bank borrowings Code is included within the Governance and there is a commitment to implementing a presence in poultry, the UKs largest meat were refinanced, increasing the unsecured Report on page 52. training and development strategy that delivers category.
This was followed later in the year facility to 160 million.
This is expected to workforce capabilities, skills and competencies by the acquisition of Dunbia Ballymena provide generous headroom for future ENVIRONMENT through apprenticeship schemes, development Ballymena which further strengthened growth through to 2021 along with an option Managing and reducing Cranswicks impact programmes and training courses.
Cranswicks UK pork processing capability.
to extend for a further two years.
on the environment has been an integral part of business activities under a dedicated The Board is committed to this and recognises The Companys Sandwich business, a Further details are provided in the Operating project team for some time.
Areas of focus that Cranswicks continued success would not OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES non-core activity, was sold in July 2016. and Financial Review on pages 36 to 38. include waste, water, energy, packaging and be possible without talented and motivated carbon footprint and this progressive and management teams supported by skilful and Acquisitions are an important element of DIVIDEND proactive policy has been acknowledged enthusiastic colleagues at each site.
On behalf QUALITY VALUE Cranswicks development strategy to date, The Board is proposing to increase the final within the industry with Cranswick collecting of the Board I thank all our colleagues for their and have been complementary to the dividend to 31.0 pence per share from 25.9 awards for its approach.
We are passionate about We continue to make value investments made to drive organic growth.
pence previously, an increase of 19.7 per cent.
high quality, great tasting food.
adding acquisitions and to invest The recent commencement of the construction COLLEAGUES OUTLOOK We focus on premium quality heavily in our operating facilities of a new site for the Continental Products Together with the interim dividend, which The Groups operations are decentralised The business has continued to make products and categories, using enabling us to offer innovative, business, along with other significant was raised 12.9 per cent to 13.1 pence per across product categories within the food commercial and strategic progress over authentic, artisan processes high quality, great value food investments in the asset base over the past share, this gives a total dividend for the year sector.
This structure is supported through the past year and the Board believes there wherever possible to maintain solutions to our customers from year, amounting to 47 million, continue this of 44.1 pence per share, an increase of 17.6 Group-wide collaboration in key areas.
is a solid platform in place from which to the heritage and integrity some of the most efficient food ongoing focus on organic growth.
per cent on the 37.5 pence per share paid last progress further within the pork, poultry and of our food.
production facilities in the UK, year.
This is the 27th continuous year of associated categories of the food sector.
driving growth in profitability RESULTS increased dividends.
Total revenue from continuing operations Cranswicks strengths include its customer in the year was 1,245 million.
This was 23 per The final dividend, if approved by relationships, breadth of products, growing cent ahead of the previous year and was Shareholders, will be paid on 1 September export channels and asset infrastructure.
Read more on page 10. driven by strong increases across a number 2017 to Shareholders on the register at the The current year has started positively for of product categories and significant growth close of business on 30 June 2017.
Shares the Group and the Board believes that the in exports.
Like-for-like revenue see Note 31, will go ex-dividend on 29 June 2017.
Company is well positioned to meet the excluding the benefit of acquisitions, was Shareholders will again have the option to challenges that lie ahead and to continue 13 per cent higher than the prior year with receive the dividend by way of scrip issue.
corresponding volumes 15 per cent ahead.
INNOVATION PEOPLE BREXIT Alongside record sales it is pleasing to report Exit from the EU has potential implications We have dedicated teams Our success is built that adjusted profit before tax for the year in a number of areas including availability Martin Davey researching consumer trends on our people.
increased 17 per cent to 75.5 million from of staff, food and agriculture policies, tariffs Chairman and food innovation We create a supportive but 64.4 million previously.
A number of colleagues at opportunities across the globe.
entrepreneurial environment, per share rose 18 per cent to 120.9 pence Cranswick, and throughout the sector, have 23 May 2017 We constantly research and test which allows both individuals compared to 102.8 pence in the prior year.
migrated to the UK from elsewhere in the EU new recipes and ideas, allowing and the business to prosper.
for employment purposes and are valued us to deliver unique product We work closely with our Details of trading are covered more fully in members of the business.
The sooner the offerings to our customers.
customers to develop new the Operating and Financial Review on pages prevailing uncertainty over their right to Innovation within the supply products for the rapidly 36 to 38. remain in the UK and the ongoing movement chain is also a key differentiator, changing retail environment.
of people is settled the better it will be for all.
with significant investment made in breeding systems and As regards food security and availability, in feed and genetic research to and maintenance of the UKs reputation improve product quality and for high standards of food production breeding efficiency.
and animal welfare, we anticipate this will be a priority for the government in its Read more on page 12.
Read more on page 14. determination of future policy for food and agriculture.
Read more about Corporate Governance on pages 44 to 81.
6 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 7 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GUIDING PRINCIPLES A commitment QUALITY to quality OUR COMMITMENT TO DELIVERING OUTSTANDING from the field QUALITY FOOD PRODUCTS IS A KEY DIFFERENTIATOR FOR through to the OUR CUSTOMERS.
Natalie McGrath works in our commercial retail shelf.
team and leads the relationship with one of our major retail customers.
Working with a cross-functional team, Natalie has managed the development of a premium range of pork products that deliver exceptional taste and quality as well as full traceability from farm to fork.
NATALIE McGRATH Our technical and agricultural teams NATIONAL ACCOUNT MANAGER identified a breed of pig that delivers a unique flavour profile and improved texture.
The new product development team then created a range designed to appeal to the modern pork consumer which positions pork as a great quality, affordable, convenient, modern meal solution.
15 NUMBER OF BRC GRADE A RATINGS DURING THE YEAR OUR OTHER 28% GUIDING PRINCIPLES PROPORTION OF TOTAL Value see page 10.
UK PIGS THAT ARE PROCESSED BY CRANSWICK Innovation see page 12.
8 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 9
