TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 4 Chairmans Statement primarily to a pending planning appeal affecting values at our largest asset, the Colonnades in Bayswater.
Income remains the dominant requirement from investors seeking exposure to this asset class and it is encouraging that the vast majority of the businesses that the Manager has invested in have continued to grow their earnings.
Some sectors, notably German residential companies, have been seen as bond proxies and have therefore suffered from concerns that rising yields would curtail capital growth.
Our Manager has remained resolutely of the view that businesses with solid cash ows and the opportunity for earnings growth, even where modest, are Hugh Seaborn appealing.
At the time of writing the 10 year Bund yield to Chairman redemption was 0.4% per annum, even though this gure is higher than the 0.06% available a year earlier it remains Introduction paltry and investors continue to seek income outside of traditional bond markets.
The Trusts net asset value total return for the year of 8.0% is pleasingly ahead of the benchmark as you will see The aim of reducing the funds exposure to Central below, and similar to that of the previous 12 months at London, which commenced in mid-2015 and increased 8.2%.
The other similarity with the previous year is the ahead of the Referendum, remains in place.
However positive impact of currency movements on the Funds total exposure to the rest of the UK particularly industrial and return.
When viewed in local currency terms, the total distribution has materially increased and the overweight to returns from pan European property equities were broadly this asset class across Europe has been a significant at over the year.
The weakening of Sterling really began contributor to performance.
In general, retail property in in June 2015, a year ahead of the Referendum last June.
By our year end on 31 March, the Euro had appreciated the UK remains a challenging environment and the 18% over the preceding nineteen months and this Manager has continued with his longstanding under resulted in a significant appreciation of our European exposure to the pure prime shopping centre landlords.
assets when measured in Sterling.
A surprise performer was the Swiss property companies, particularly the residential development businesses which The last 12 months have been quite clearly dominated by prior to 2016 had offered investors modest returns over geopolitical risks and their unpredicted outcomes have left many years.
These stocks were outperformers and their markets off balance.
However there has been a positive absence from the portfolio negatively impacted relative response to the most recent results in the Dutch and performance.
French elections where centrist politics have prevailed resulting in a collective reduction in the risk premium.
NAV and Share Price Performance Physical property pricing remained remarkably robust over the period across all regions.
Given the uncertainties As mentioned earlier the NAV total return was 8.0% which resulting from the Brexit Referendum result, the stability in was ahead of the benchmark at 6.5%.
Encouragingly the UK commercial property pricing, after an initial modest share price total return was 9.1% as the discount between correction, has been encouraging.
Indeed the MSCI IPD the share price and the asset value narrowed over the Monthly index has produced a positive capital return in year.
The discount at the year end at 10.8% was ahead of each of the last six months.
Our own physical portfolio the 10 year year-end average of 11.6%.
which is heavily exposed to London retail and distribution in London and the South, fell just 0.7% over the year due More detail and commentary on performance is set out in the Managers Report.
TR Property Investment Trust 4 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 5 Chairmans Statement continued Ordinary Share Class Performance: Total Return over 10 years rebased 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Mar-07 Mar-08 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 Mar-16 Mar-17 Benchmark Total Return TR Property Share Price Total Return TR Property Net Asset Value Total Return have a negative impact on the revenue account.
Whilst the Revenue Results and Dividend timing of dividend payments around our year end had a Revenue for the year increased by over 36%.
By far the modest positive effect in the period just reported, it is most inuential factor in this growth has been the impact possible that the reverse may occur in the current period.
of weakening Sterling on our income from Continental European stocks.
This together with solid income growth Debt from many of our investments has driven the income account to much higher levels than anticipated.
Timing Gearing has increased from 11.9% to 13.3% over the changes of dividends paid around our year end have also year, although the amounts drawn on our loan facilities are benefited the revenue account.
marginally lower, a higher level of gearing has been accessed through the use of CFDs, still a very cost A final dividend of 6.40p per share results in a total effective means of gearing.
dividend for the year of 10.50p, some 26% ahead of the 2016 full year dividend of 8.35p per share.
Currencies The Board has taken a cautious position on the final As reported earlier currency movements have been dividend in that whilst the increase for the full year is significant over the period.
We continue to use FX forward material, it is not fully reective of the increase in earnings.
contracts to maintain the currency exposure of our The Board is mindful of the potential negative impact of a Balance Sheet broadly in line with that of the benchmark.
reversal of the sterling weakness experienced in the last The resulting exposures are set out in Note 11 to the financial year.
Revenue Outlook Discount and Share Repurchases The results announced by some of our investee As commented above, the discount narrowed during the companies in the first few months of the financial year year to a level slightly ahead of the 10 year average have largely been positive with growth in most, but not all, although wider than that seen through 2014 15.
This is the dividends paid early in the year.
As in the prior year, a trend which has been seen across the Investment Trust the most significant inuence will be currency changes, any strengthening in Sterling from its current position will sector in many specialist and generalist funds.
TR Property Investment Trust 5 TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 6 Chairmans Statement continued A small number of shares 150,000 were repurchased historically low levels.
In this context the income during the year at an average discount to net asset value characteristics of real estate coupled to the emergence of of 15.8%.
economic growth which provides an environment for rental growth, will remain attractive to investors.
The Manager continues to seek to invest in businesses with Awards strong cash ows and the potential for earnings growth The Trust was a joint winner in the Property category in the and this combined with the mitigation of risk through a Investment Week Investment Company of the Year diverse portfolio invested across numerous submarkets Awards.
and geographies, is reected in their decision to maintain gearing levels.
INVESTMENT COMPANY OF THE YEAR AWARDS 2016 Hugh Seaborn WINNER Chairman PROPERTY 8 June 2017 Board Changes John Glen is not standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
I would like to thank John for his considerable contribution to the board over the past three years and wish him well for the future.
Outlook The UK has performed better than many commentators expected but there are clear risks due to the uncertainty of the outcome of negotiations for the UKs exit from the European Union.
Our concern is that businesses will be potentially less able to commit to longer term investment such as new leases without clarity on key aspects such as potential trade barriers and cross border supply chains.
For similar reasons it is possible that there will be a deferral of the development cycle resulting in reduced speculative construction starts.
Expectations of global growth continue to improve.
Although bond yields have risen as a result and there has been some inationary response, they remain at TR Property Investment Trust 6 STRATEGIC REPORT
