Annual Report 2017 78 Great Portland Estates Introduction from the Chairman We aspire to the highest standards of conduct and, together with a culture of continuous improvement in standards and performance, thisensures good governance extends beyond theBoardroom.
Martin Scicluna Chairman from different people in the business on both the property Dear fellow shareholder and finance side who can tell us what they are seeing and I am pleased to introduce this Corporate Governance hearing on the ground as well as from external advisors who report in which, among other things, we describe the can give us a wider perspective on market trends.
For this Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance reason, we nd it helpful that all of the Non-Executive Code, explain how the Board and its Committees have Directors serve on our Audit Committee to hear direct from operated during the past year, and describe how effective the valuers, about recent transaction evidence and changes stewardship is exercised over the Groups activities in in market conditions.
Individuals performing key roles on the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
transactions are also involved in presentations on these to As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that the Board the Board and the Non-Executive Directors meet separately operates effectively and efficiently and that it continues to with Executive Directors, Executive Committee members uphold a high standard of corporate governance for the and Heads of Departments outside of the Board meetings.
long-term success of the Company.
With our culture of continuous improvement, looking The Boards oversight of our strategic back on what went well and what we could do better on priorities during the year and monitoring each of our developments is key.
This year we reviewed ofrisks developments at 33 Margaret Street, 240 Blackfriars Road, Walmar House, City Tower and New Fetter Lane, focusing The Groups business model and strategy are outlined on on a number of aspects including the timing in the cycle, pages 1 to 11.
In our Annual Report last year we identied design, procurement and how we met tenants expectations that our strategic priorities for 2016 17 were to: in the handover process, as well as the schemes crystallise profits through recycling: financial performance.
deliver and lease the current development programme Each year, the Board formally revisits its level of oversight and prepare the pipeline: and and the monitoring of risks over a variety of areas including drive rental growth through capturing reversion.
strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure on developments, finance, people and sustainability matters.
We were successful in delivering these strategic priorities Recognising our responsibility for oversight on health and and see pages 84 and 85 for significant transactions safety and our supply chain, we also received a presentation approved by the Board during the year.
on management of health and safety on our developments During the year, much of the focus of the Board has been and refurbishments and, in September 2016, approved our on the changing economic environment and the outlook inaugural Modern Slavery Statement.
In addition, in January for the London property market, against the backdrop of 2017, we covered cyber security in a presentation on the the results of the EU referendum and US elections, along Groups IT strategy from our Head of IT and the consultants with numerous other geopolitical factors.
This year, as part of a wider review of authority challenging market conditions as a result of the uncertain levels across all aspects of the business, we increased the economic environment following the EU referendum, Board level approval required on leases, rent reviews and the focus on our strategy and business model, and the surrenders from 1 million to 2 million p. a.
However, the clear linkage back to overarching strategic priorities Board remains informed of all leases of more than 500,000 and operational parameters, have been a consistent through their approval by the Executive Committee and andprevailing feature of our Board meetings.
receipt of minutes by the Board.
Moreover, we maintained the Board approval levels for acquisitions and sales at This year, the Board met ten times with five unscheduled 25 million and for development expenditure on schemes meetings to consider specic transactions and also over 15 million.
Our high level of involvement by executive and senior management in all our activities ensures that good governance extends beyond the Boardroom and is continually borne in mind in the successful delivery of the Groups strategic priorities over both the short and long term.
We also value presentations Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 79 Following our success in delivering against our priorities Elizabeth Holden, having served as a Non-Executive during the year, our attention for this year will again be Director since 2012, will retire at the 2017 AGM and I would focused on delivering attractive long-term shareholder like to thank her for her contribution to the Board and, in returns and appropriately managing risk.
With our clearly particular, the Remuneration Committee.
identied initiatives, we will complete the current committed Following Jonathan Nicholls retirement, Charles Philipps development programme and prepare the pipeline, drive took on the additional roles of acting Senior Independent rental growth through capturing reversion and pursue Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, the latter selective acquisition activity.
until Nick Hampton subsequently took on this role, and See our strategic priorities on pages 10 and 11 we were delighted that Charles agreed to be formally appointed our Senior Independent Director from April 2017.
Succession planning and Board changes Ongoing communication with shareholders During 2016, we broadened the bench strength of our and other stakeholders Executive Committee team with the external appointments of Robin Matthews, previously with Mooreld Group, joining Communication with investors is given a high priority by as Investment Director in the summer and Steven Mew, the Board.
During the year, 270 presentations were made to formerly a Board director of McKay Securities plc joining shareholders and potential shareholders by a combination as Portfolio Director in the autumn.
Working closely with of the Executive Director team and senior management Andrew White, our Development Director, and Marc Wilder, below the Board.
Independent feedback on presentations our Leasing Director, I am delighted to be able to say Robin by the Executive Directors to all major shareholders is and Steven are settling in well and collaboratively helping provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis to manage our property teams.
Neil Thompson stepped at the scheduled Board meetings.
down from the Board mid-December and left the Group on This year we also consulted with our top shareholders, 31 December 2016, on the basis that we could not nd a role together owning more than 40% on both our proposals in that matched his aspirations within the Group.
On behalf of relation to our new three-year Remuneration Policy, outlined the Board, I would like to express my gratitude to him for his in more detail on pages 120 to 130, and retaining Jonathan significant contribution to the Group.
Short on the Board for a further year with a view to his With Jonathan Nicholls retiring from the Board at the 2016 retiring at the 2018 AGM.
The consultations explained the AGM to become Chairman of Shaftesbury plc, we were rationale for the changes to the Remuneration Policy, as pleased to appoint Nick Hampton, Chief Financial officer outlined in this Annual Report, and provided shareholders atTate & Lyle plc, who joined us in the autumn, as Chairman with the opportunity to discuss them with Jonathan Short of the Audit Committee.
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee or me, as appropriate in person.
As part of our regular succession planning for the NonExecutive Directors, we were also delighted to appoint I am pleased to be able to report that we received external Richard Mully Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset recognition for our investor relations efforts with GPE Management, Senior Independent Director of St Modwen being ranked by Extel number 1 for IR in the European real plc and a member of the supervisory Board of Alstria Ofce estate sector and our Chief Executive and Finance Director REIT and Wendy Becker formerly a Non-Executive Director were ranked number 1 and 2 respectively in European at Whitbread and Chief Executive of Jack Wills to the Board real estate in the Institutional Investor survey.
In addition, in November 2016 and February 2017 respectively.
our 2016 annual report was voted best annual report in the FTSE 250 in the PwC Building Public Trust Awards for Following an external Board evaluation process, we are Excellence in Reporting.
We also received gold awards in proposing that Jonathan Short who will have served on relation to EPRAs 2016 Best Practice Recommendations and the Board for ten years at the 2017 AGM remain as an Sustainability Best Practice Recommendations and a green independent Non-Executive Director for a further year.
five star rating in relation to GRESB.
Finally, I am very proud With his considerable property knowledge and experience to be able to report that we were ranked first in the property of numerous market cycles in his 34-year career, Jonathan sector in Management Todays Britains Most Admired is considered by all of the Board to provide wise counsel, Companies which I think is a testament to the abilities and independent challenge and judgement not only at Board efforts of each and every one of our team members.
level but also on each of the Board Committees on which he serves.
As the Board believes that Jonathan will also provide Martin Scicluna Chairman valued additional continuity, it is intended that, particularly with the continuing uncertain economic environment, Jonathan will remain as a member of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
Whilst Wendy Becker will become Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from the 2017 AGM, Jonathan will also remain as a member of the Remuneration Committee to act as a sounding board for Wendy in her new role until his proposed retirement at the 2018 AGM.
Governance Annual Report 2017 80 Great Portland Estates Introduction from the Chairman The Boards attendance in 2016 17 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings by directors and Committee members during the year was as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Board scheduled Board unscheduled 4 meetings 5 meetings 6 meetings 1 1 5 meetings 5 meetings See pages 94 to 101 See pages 86 to 93 See pages 104 to 106 Chairman 2 Martin Scicluna 3 4 5 6 Executive Directors 3 Toby Courtauld 3 Nick Sanderson 3, 4 Neil Thompson 4 4 3 3 Non-Executive Directors 5 1 1 1 1 Wendy Becker 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 2 2 2 3 2 2 2 2 3 3 Nick Hampton Elizabeth Holden 5 1 1 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 Richard Mully 6 2 2 2 2 1 1 2 2 Jonathan Nicholls 0 0 7 Charles Philipps Jonathan Short Part attendance at Committee meetings 1.
Due to the way the Board dates fell, there were five scheduled Board meetings rather than six in 2017.
There were five unscheduled Board meetings held atshort notice during the year see Board activities on pages 82 and 83.
Although Martin Scicluna is not a member of either the Remuneration or Audit Committees, in his role as Chairman of the Board, he is invited, where appropriate, to attend key meetings of the Remuneration Committee in relation to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Audit Committee meetings in respect of the review of the half-year and year-end results.
In respect of the Remuneration Committee, this year, Martin Scicluna also attended the Remuneration Committee meetings following Jonathan Nicholls retirement from the Board and prior to Nick Hamptons appointment to ensure that three Non-Executive Directors were present for all discussion in relation to the new three-year Remuneration Policy.
The number in parentheses indicates the number of the Remuneration and Audit Committees the Chairman is expected to have attended in this respect.
The Executive Directors are not members of the Audit, Nomination or Remuneration Committees, however, they are invited to attend for parts of or all of certain Committee meetings where appropriate.
Neil Thompson stepped down from the Board on 12 December 2016.
The number in parenthesis is the number of Board meetings he was expected to have attended.
Wendy Becker, Nick Hampton and Richard Mully joined the Board on 1 February 2017, 17 October 2016 and 1 December 2016 respectively and, therefore, the number of meetings in parentheses is the number of meetings they could have attended in the year.
Jonathan Nicholls retired from the Board at the 2016 AGM.
As a number of Nomination Committee meetings involved the appointment of his successor, he was stood down from these meetings.
The numbers in parentheses is the number of meetings he was expected to have attended.
Charles Philipps is not a member of the Remuneration Committee.
