Strategic Report Strategic Report This Strategic Report, which includes pages 2 to 24 and incorporates the Chairmans Statement, has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Chairmans Statement Somewhat breaking with convention for statements of this kind, performance was flattered by the devaluation of sterling.
It is only I would like to open by saying some words about my predecessor over the longer term that the impact of investing in individual as Chairman of Scottish Mortgage, Sir Donald MacKay, who died companies can be said to come to the fore.
last November at the age of 79.
Sir Donald was a remarkable Earnings and Dividends man, whose intelligence and acumen were appreciated by As we experienced in the previous financial year, our income for the governments and businesses alike.
His contribution to the period has fallen as the companies in the portfolio have found more development of this Company was profound, for it was largely productive uses for their capital than returning it to shareholders.
under his watch that the Managers were encouraged to pay less This years earnings per share were 1.07p, down 36% on 2015 16. attention to benchmarks and what their competitors were up to, and spend more time following their investment beliefs, with The Companys investment objective is to maximise total return greater freedom to back businesses anywhere in the world likely from a portfolio of long term investments chosen on a global to benefit from the transformational changes we are experiencing, basis, enabling the Company to provide capital and dividend and thus with the potential to deliver exceptional returns for our growth.
The Managers of Scottish Mortgage have been relentless shareholders.
in pursuing this growth focused investment mandate.
The Board believes this clarity of proposition and purpose is valued by As I hope is clear to all, the results have been excellent: we have shareholders.
The Board therefore has no desire to deflect the for some time been the UKs largest conventional investment Managers from their focus on finding the best growth companies trust, in March we were admitted to the FTSE 100 index, and our of the future, and encourages them not to dilute their approach by investment performance bears comparison with the very best.
investing in companies which do not fit this objective, in order to Although Sir Donald stepped down at the end of 2009, much of pursue a secondary goal of income production.
what has since been achieved at Scottish Mortgage can trace its roots to decisions taken under his stewardship.
I am therefore Whilst the stated investment objective explicitly provides for both delighted to report that the strong record of performance capital and income growth, shareholders will be aware from earlier continues, especially when measured over five and ten year Annual Reports and other statements that the clear expectation periods, both in terms of the share price and net asset value should be that this balance will be heavily in favour of capital NAV returns.
The table below shows the five and ten year total appreciation over the long term, in line with this growth focused returns for the Company to 31 March 2017, alongside the approach.
Yet the Board also acknowledges that many of our Association of Investment Companies AIC Global Sector average shareholders appreciate even the modest income component of for comparison.
the total return from their Scottish Mortgage holding.
We are recommending an increased final dividend, providing a total Total Return % Five years Ten years distribution for the year of 3.00 pence per share 2015 16 2.96p, NAV 146.6 236.3 an increase of just over 1%.
In order to achieve this, given the low Share price 177.3 302.2 level of income in the portfolio, it will be necessary to utilise most of FTSE All-World Index 97.3 148.7 the remaining revenue reserve which, once the final dividend is approved and paid, will stand at just over 0.5 pence per share.
Global Sector Av NAV 95.3 127.9 Global Sector Av share price 109.6 141.9 The Board takes this opportunity to repeat the guidance given earlier as to its intentions regarding the future payment of Source: AIC Morningstar.
Shareholders have already granted As it happens, the performance over the last financial year has the Company the power to pay dividends from capital profits but, also been very healthy, with a rise in the NAV per share of over thanks to the revenue reserve, to date these have not been 38% on a total return basis.
Whilst this is obviously pleasing to needed.
Absent a significant and unexpected uplift in income shareholders, I wish to highlight the importance of judging from the portfolio, next year the Board will be obliged either to cut Scottish Mortgage on the basis of its long term approach.
the dividend, or to make use of its power to continue to pay a However good the 12 month figures, I would urge shareholders to comparable dividend, supplemented from capital profits as well focus on the five and ten year performance record, as this is the as the remainder of the revenue reserve.
In view of the explicit test which your Board feels best represents the Managers dividend growth component of the Companys investment success or otherwise in following the stated investment policy of objective, the Board wishes to make clear to shareholders that it the Company.
Over any given twelve month period performance would be willing to make such distributions from capital profits, in may be at least as much due to the fluctuating obsessions of order to sustain or modestly increase our dividend, provided that broader markets or geopolitics as any change in the businesses the Board is of the view that the total returns being earned by the underlying the investments: in the past year, to take one example, Company over the long run justify this.
This policy was set out in some detail in my Statement last year.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
02 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report through the private placement debt market.
These notes form Low Cost part of the existing borrowing facilities for the Company and do For the year to 31 March 2017, Scottish Mortgages Ongoing not imply any change to the overall level of indebtedness of the Charges Ratio OCR fell to 0.44%, down from 0.45% the Company: they are simply a switch from short term, variable previous year.
Ensuring that Scottish Mortgage has one of the interest rate debt, to instruments which offer us a fixed cost of lowest cost ratios in the sector remains an important competitive financing over the next 25 or so years.
The Board decided to advantage for the Company, affording a clear and direct benefit to undertake this transaction at what the Company believes to be our shareholders.
The Board and Baillie Gifford continually work attractive pricing levels, with a blended rate of just over 3% per together in this area and in March 2017 all parties were delighted annum, in the strong belief that this should enable us to enhance to announce the introduction of a new tiered fee scale, with effect shareholder returns over the long term.
Most funds have already from 1 April 2017.
The annual management charge AMC will been drawn down, but one tranche will be not be accessed until continue to be 0.3% on the first 4 billion of assets under the maturity in 2020 of a 20 million debenture arranged in the management, but will fall to 0.25% thereafter.
As a result, 1980s, on which we pay interest at 14% per annum.
provided the assets of the Company remain over 4 billion, this offers the prospect of further reductions in the OCR for the Corporate Broker coming year and into the future.
The Company conducted a review of its corporate broking Liquidity Policy arrangements as part of the continuing process of revisiting our relationships with all third party providers.
Five firms, chosen by The Board believes that, just as lowering the ongoing charges for the Board, presented to the Company Secretaries to be evaluated the Company is to the long term benefit of all shareholders, so too against a framework set out by the Board.
Two of these one of is lessening the market impact of trading in its shares.
Such which was our incumbent broker, Cenkos were then selected to transactional friction is often an unseen cost to shareholders, which present to the Board.
The result was a decision to extend the is mitigated by good levels of liquidity in the market.
The Board has engagement of Cenkos and to broaden the mandate by adopted a robust liquidity policy for some time now, to lessen the appointing Jefferies Hoare Govett as joint broker to the Company.
impact of large trading imbalances between buyers and sellers, by the issuance or repurchasing of the Companys shares, as Scottish Mortgage is now of a scale where the appointment of appropriate.
This helps to prevent Scottish Mortgages shares from joint brokers is the norm and I hope that the new arrangement will moving to a substantial premium or discount to the underlying NAV.
build on the excellent work which Cenkos has done over the years to broaden the market for our shares and bring them to the In furtherance of this policy, during the year the Company bought attention of new buyers.
We believe that the additional resources back into treasury just over 7 million shares, and sold more than available to us from Cenkos and Jefferies working in tandem will 53 million shares from treasury at a premium to the net asset bring significant benefit to the Company.
The net result of these operations was an increase in the took effect from 1 April 2017.
Companys share capital of just under 155 million a slightly lower number than last year, but large in comparison to most AGM and Shareholder Engagement other investment companies in a period which in general saw a The AGM will be held in Edinburgh at the Merchants Hall, at paucity of secondary issuance.
The Directors will seek to renew 4.30pm on 29 June 2017.
The joint managers of the Company, the necessary authorities from Shareholders at the Companys James Anderson and Tom Slater, will make a presentation to Annual General Meeting AGM to facilitate the continuance of this shareholders on the investments, and take questions.
Full details of the Companys liquidity policy may be found you will be able to attend.
The Board and Managers are keen to ensure that all shareholders Gearing and Borrowing Policy have a clear understanding of the investment approach taken for The Board of Scottish Mortgage remains committed to the the Company.
One of the best ways to do this is through hearing strategic use of borrowings, in the belief that it is in the long term directly from those involved.
In recent years the proportion of the interests of Shareholders to be geared into prospective long run Companys share register represented by individual shareholders equity market returns.
The Board views the capacity to use debt has grown, particularly as more savers have invested through to enhance shareholder returns as one of the principal platforms such as that of Baillie Gifford Savings Management advantages of the investment trust structure.
In line with the long Limited.
Last year I highlighted that the Managers intended to term approach taken, no attempt is made to time short term hold an event in London specifically aiming to cater for market moves through tactical shifts in the level of gearing.
As shareholders who are unable to travel to Edinburgh for the AGM assets in the portfolio have risen on the back of strong and who would otherwise find it difficult to have an opportunity to performance, we have allowed the relative level of gearing to fall ask questions of their Managers.
This event proved so popular slightly, and it stood at a modest 9% at the financial year end.
and successful that the Managers have already held another such event in Birmingham in March of this year and have a further For some months, we have been following developments in the London based Investor Forum scheduled on 22 June.
market for fixed interest rate sterling debt, realising that we had the opportunity to lock in to long term borrowing arrangements There are plans to hold more of these Scottish Mortgage Investor which reflect the historically low interest rate environment which Forums across the country over time.
In early April 2017, the Company announced that it had all shareholders to look at the further details given in the back raised a total of 125 million in long term, fixed rate, senior, of this Report, on page 70, and on the Companys website: unsecured private placement notes, denominated in sterling www.
com with a view to attending.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 03 Strategic Report incumbents who have failed to invest to adapt to the Investment Strategy transformations these technologies are bringing.
If true investment As has been the case for a number of years, the statement of the risk is the permanent destruction of capital, the Board believes Managers Core Investment Beliefs is included within the Annual that not forcing the Managers to hold some of those companies Report and Financial Statements on page 17.
The Board which seem under greatest long term threat from such changes, continues to believe that one of the most valuable aspects of in the name of diversification, is also beneficial for the long term Scottish Mortgage is the consistency of its approach.
Further, the value creation for shareholders of Scottish Mortgage.
long term investment perspective adopted by the Managers is a clear differentiator in a crowded field.
Many claim to adopt a Having started this statement by talking about my predecessor, similar strategy, but few have consistently lived up to its I will conclude by saying a few words about succession.
After challenges in the way that the Managers of Scottish Mortgage some 16 years on this Board, I feel that it is time to move on and have done.
I have therefore decided not to stand for re-election to the Board at the AGM in June.
Following a process led through the The Board strongly believes that investment risk is a function of Nomination Committee by our Senior Independent Director, the investment time horizon chosen.
Over a period of years, Professor John Kay, the Board was unanimous in supporting investment risk is not defined by movements relative to an index Fiona McBain as our new Chairman and it is proposed that she composed of the aggregate performance of a broad and will take over from me following the AGM.
Fiona has recently somewhat indiscriminate pool of possible investments, but by the retired as Chief Executive of Scottish Friendly and in her eight prospect of permanent destruction of investment capital through years with Scottish Mortgage has proved to be a strong poor investment decisions.
Unlisted Investments In closing, I would like to say what a privilege it has been for me to Last year, we were given permission by our shareholders to hold have served on the Board of Scottish Mortgage since 2001 and in up to 25% of our assets in unquoted companies, but I explained the Chair since the end of 2009.
I joined in the immediate at the time that your Board sees this as a limit, not a target.
The aftermath of 9 11, and we were immediately tested by the fallout Managers report deals in some detail with developments in this from that atrocity, followed by the Iraq War and the Lehman crisis.
sector, and your Board continues to view this initiative with But, for those who knew how to spot them, there were investment enthusiasm and a route to gaining access to promising opportunities even in the most challenging times: sixteen years companies well before they have any need to access public ago Facebook had not been invented but today is used by more equity markets.
The level of the Companys exposure to unlisted than a quarter of the worlds population, and Apple was struggling investments at the year end 13% has not changed significantly to survive, yet today it is by a large margin the worlds most over the 12 months 11.8% as at 31 March 2016. valuable company: all our Board papers are delivered via its ubiquitous iPad, a device which was launched in 2010!
Board Changes and Outlook Throughout this period of extraordinary change I have been The world can and does change and sometimes this happens at impressed by the capacity of the Managers to remain calm in a faster rate and is more significant than at others.
It would be stormy waters, to retain their faith in the long term value of easy to focus on a number of political risks, from President equities, and to seek out and hold the ones that matter.
They have Trumps unpredictable approach to policy making, to questions shown repeatedly that they understand better than almost anyone over North Koreas true intentions, to the escalation of the else the long term changes being experienced in investment troubles in the Middle East, but the task of this Board is to markets, with the creation of huge pools of wealth from sectors consider the outlook in the context of the portfolio of Scottish which did not even exist 20 years ago, and the concomitant Mortgage.
In doing so it is important to focus on what will actually destruction of value in many of our more traditional industries.
make a significant difference to the long run prospects of the companies in which the Managers invest, and to challenge the Thanks to the skills of the investment Managers, I leave Scottish Managers as to the importance of these factors.
Mortgage as the largest conventional investment trust, a constituent of the FTSE 100 index with a market capitalisation of The flexibility of the investment policy of Scottish Mortgage is over 5 billion, offering one of the lowest OCRs in the business valuable in this regard, as it allows the Managers to go anywhere and with an investment record which, while set out in sanitised in the world to find opportunities and invest in any type of detail elsewhere in this Report, I would simply describe as stellar.
The Board views this flexibility as key to the longevity of the success of this investment strategy.
Further, the stock picking approach of the Managers, focused on the long term fundamental characteristics of businesses, tends to favour the selection of those companies with a structural element to their growth, which are aiming to provide what their customers want or need.
This should offer the potential for durable growth.
John Scott The pace of development and technological change not only Chairman represents a huge opportunity to some businesses, but is equally 12 May 2017 a significant threat to the existence of some of the index 04 Annual Report 2017
