Strategic Report 06 BTG has achieved a number of significant milestones this year and I am confident that our strategy will continue to deliver success Where is Chairmans BTG going?
BTG is building leading positions in introduction the fast-growing area of Interventional Medicine therapies.
We have the strategy, resources and capabilities to achieve our vision.
I am pleased to introduce this years Annual Report, in what has been a year of significant strategic progress for our business.
BTG is now recognised as a leading provider of innovative, image-guided minimally invasive technologies by specialist physicians who are striving to improve patient outcomes.
A strategy for success Demand for cost-effective treatments, supported by advances in imaging and device technology, continues to fuel the development and application of minimally invasive procedures.
BTG is well positioned to take advantage of these macro trends in healthcare.
We specialise in areas of therapy where physicians and their patients are poorly served by existing treatments, and where we can develop market-leading positions by delivering differentiated products that demonstrate clinical and commercial value.
People and culture BTG is a dynamic business, composed of talented individuals who are dedicated to delivering important products that make a real difference to our customers and their patients.
I would like to thank our employees for their professionalism and hard work.
We will continue to invest in enhancing our capabilities and systems to meet the needs of our stakeholders in a sustainable and responsible way.
Outlook BTG has an exciting future ahead of it.
I am optimistic about the opportunities in Interventional Medicine and confident that our strategy will enable us to become leaders in the field.
As a financially strong business, we have the ability to invest in multiple growth drivers that will create long-term, sustained value for all our stakeholders.
Garry Watts Chairman Garry Watts Chairman BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 07 Purpose Good governance Bring to market innovative is an essential part products in specialist areas of healthcare to better serve of our strategy doctors and their patients.
Strategy Vision While we continue to develop and embed a strong governance framework in the culture of our organisation, Be a global leader in we also take a proportionate approach to ensure that our providing interventional processes are efficient and support our growth strategy.
Pages 8 to 15, to read more Business performance Aim Regular board meetings monitor our operating Deliver sustained value performance and, through an annual strategy review, we concentrate on forward planning to support long-term creation for all our sustainable growth.
Pages 16 to 25, to read more Leadership & people We invest in the development of our people to ensure we have the capabilities to succeed.
Our business standards and ways of working are guided by our Code of Conduct and embodied in the day-to-day behaviours that we call the BTG DNA.
Pages 26 to 29, to read more Internal control & risk The Groups risk management framework is based on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our internal processes and controls provide us with a clear understanding of the principal risks inherent in our business operations and strategy, and give us confidence in the appropriateness of our mitigating actions.
Page 66, to read more Stakeholder engagement Ensuring good communication with our shareholders and employees is important to us.
We meet with shareholders throughout the year, and we engage with and seek input from our employees.
Page 71, to read more BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
