DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION It gives me great pleasure to report on another successful year for your Group during which shareholders funds increased by 11.9% to 1,656 million.
In the previous year we had seen a slowdown in the rate of growth of property values in both the UK and USA and it was widely believed that this downward trend would continue.
However, notwithstanding this general trend, I am pleased to report an overall net revaluation gain of 144.5 million 2016 117.9 million equivalent to 7.2% 2016 6.4%.
In the UK property values rose by an overall 7.2% 2016 5.3% mainly due to residential increases.
In the USA the overall increase was 6.2% in dollar terms 2016 9.8%.
Our overall rental income before currency gains was flat with a number of successful lease renegotiations offset by losses of rent elsewhere in the portfolio.
This year has seen service charge income reduce to a more normal level in line with the period prior to 2016.
Last years charge was inflated by the conjunction of a number of major projects into a single financial year.
Outlook My last annual report was drafted immediately after the result of the Brexit referendum had become known and it was apparent that the immediate future in the UK would be dominated by political and economic uncertainty.
So it has proved to be and the intervening year has provided no greater clarity.
Indeed the recent start of Brexit negotiations together with the added political uncertainty following the general election have only served to compound the situation.
In addition we face a period where the UK is likely to experience reduced economic growth and increasing inflation.
This combination of factors will provide a challenging environment for our UK business.
In the USA the economic outlook is more encouraging and should provide a positive environment to grow our business.
During this year we have seen a 13% decline in the sterling dollar exchange rate and this has resulted in an increase in the sterling value of our USA net assets of 29.1 million 2016 5.6 million.
We will continue to focus on situations within our portfolio where, with well judged projects of development and enhancement, we can generate significant improvements in rental and capital values.
A number of our projects are mentioned in the Strategic Review which follows.
Our philosophy of pursuing a long term, low risk strategy to the generation of growth in net asset value continues to be particularly appropriate to the uncertain times ahead.
It is more than usually difficult for me to offer you a view of the coming year.
However I am sure that by following our well established entrepreneurial, but risk averse, approach to the enhancement of net asset values your group will continue to make progress.
Dividend Against the background of another successful year the Board is pleased to propose an increase in the total dividend of 5p to 98p 2016 93p.
As ever, thanks must go to our people throughout the Group whose efforts have delivered these results.
Front cover, contents page, above and right: Strand Palace Hotel, B S E Freshwater Chairman Strand, London WC2.
