8 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Last year I reported on the consistent growth of Mediclinic over the past 30 years, for which we are thankful.
However, for the past fi financial period, the fi first full year following the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group was unable to deliver its consistent growth in underlying earnings per share achieved in the past, largely due to challenges in our Middle East platform.
Our expansion into Abu Dhabi, eff ectively doubling the size of the Middle East business following the Al Noor Combination, has not met our original expectations.
Our growth forecasts for the Abu Dhabi operations were signifi cantly impacted in the short term due to unforeseen changes in the regulatory environment and a greater need to align Al Noor with the sustainable business and operational practices of the Mediclinic Group.
As a result, revenue and underlying EBITDA margins during the year were lower than expected in the Middle East.
Despite the challenges in Abu Dhabi, our established Dubai operations continued to perform well.
The new Mediclinic City Hospital North Wing opened in the third quarter of the year and patient volumes have been encouraging.
I remain confi dent in our approach to expansion in the region, and that it will deliver the required longer-term growth and returns for the Group.
In Switzerland and Southern Africa, our largest two operating platforms, we have seen good trading performances this year.
The key metrics of patient admissions, theatre hours sold and revenue per bed day have all been positive.
As I have stated before, this indicates positive trends in patient choice and shows that we are attracting and retaining suffi cient doctors to support the business.
This enables us to continue to focus on enhancing operational effi ciencies.
In the UK, our 29.9% investment in Spire Healthcare remained stable and continues to give us exposure to the UK private healthcare market.
Overall, the Group remains in a solid fi financial position.
Group revenue for the year was up 30% at 2 749m 2016: 2 107m and underlying EBITDA was up 17% at 501m 2016: 428m, both benefi ting from the translation eff ect of weaker Sterling and the addition of the Al Noor business to the Group.
However, underlying earnings were fl at at 220m 2016: 219m Dr Edwin Hertzog while underlying earnings per share were down 19% at Non-executive Chairman 29.8 pence 2016: 36.7 pence, both aff ected by the increase in fi finance costs and poor performance of CHAIRMANS STATEMENT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 9 I firmly believe that we have the right strategy and people in place to enable us to consistently grow in the future as we have done over so many years.
Earnings per share were a transitional solution until the healthcare providers further impacted by the effect of additional shares and funders agree on a revised tariff structure.
The issued for the Spire and Al Noor transactions.
Federal Government is also preparing a framework for the outmigration of services shift of basic medical In view of the financial results and following the review treatments from the inpatient to the outpatient sector last year of the Groups dividend policy to target a across Switzerland.
pay-out ratio of 25% to 30% of underlying earnings, In Southern Africa, we continue to engage with the the Board recommended a final dividend of 4.70 pence South African Competition Commission in relation per share, bringing the total payment for the year to to the Health Market Inquiry which is undertaking a 7.90 pence per share.
review of the private healthcare sector to understand During the year under review, the clinical performance whether there are features of the sector that prevent, of the business was satisfactory across all operating distort or restrict competition, and how competition in platforms, and most patient safety and clinical the sector can be promoted.
Over the longer term, the effectiveness indicators showed improvement.
government in South Africa is hoping to address the In addition, many initiatives in support of clinical shortcomings of the public healthcare system through performance and quality improvement were launched the phased introduction of a National Health Insurance and completed during the year.
Highlights include: system over a 14-year period.
the strengthening of clinical services leadership Finally, in the Middle East, we saw the introduction at hospital and corporate level in Mediclinic in July 2016 of a 20% co-payment for Thiqa patients Southern Africa: those covered by health insurance for UAE close collaboration between Mediclinic Southern Nationals or others of similar status in Abu Dhabi Africa and supporting doctors in certain disciplines: using private facilities.
This had a material impact on patient volumes and the financial performance of the the launch of patient reported outcomes after large business in Abu Dhabi.
In April 2017, the co-payment joint surgery in Hirslanden: in Abu Dhabi was waived with immediate effect.
progress on the implementation of an integrated care model in Hirslanden: the establishment of a comprehensive cancer BOARD ACTIVITY AND CHANGES centre in Mediclinic Middle East: and the selection of a new electronic health record Following the Mediclinic and Al Noor Combination and system in Mediclinic Middle East.
the Groups listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2016, I last year reported a number of Board changes.
Much of the progress can be attributed to a strong I am pleased to say that the new Board structure collaborative effort between the clinical services teams operated efficiently throughout the year.
We continue of the respective platforms.
to look at how to improve the composition and functioning of the Board.
REGULATORY LANDSCAPE In April 2016, Jannie Durand, a Non-executive Director of the Company and the Chief Executive Officer of The healthcare industry has always been highly Remgro Limited, our major shareholder, appointed regulated with continuous changes.
We have always Pieter Uys as his alternate.
Since 2013, Pieter has managed this successfully, thanks to the well-informed held the position of Head of Strategic Investment at and responsible leadership of our management teams.
However, this year has been particularly tough in all three of our operating platforms.
Jurgens Myburgh was appointed as the CFO of the Group on 1 August 2016, replacing Craig Tingle, who In Switzerland, there was the proposed levy in the retired as announced in 2016.
Prior to joining Mediclinic, Canton of Zurich, which the Cantonal Parliament voted Jurgens served as CFO at Datatec from June 2014, and not to approve in March 2017.
National outpatient before that at The Standard Bank of South Africa as tariffs TARMED remain under revision and the Executive Vice President of Investment Banking, where Federal Government has proposed adjustments as 10 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT he was involved in several major Mediclinic corporate Having the services available of high-quality clinical, transactions.
Since joining the Board, Jurgens has operational and support staff is crucial to the made a number of signifi cant contributions to the long-term success of the business.
closely monitoring key indicators and gathering information, we continue to position the Group for On 21 February 2017, Ian Tyler, the Companys Senior sensible future growth.
Independent Director, resigned as a Director of the Company.
Ian was previously Chairman of Al Noor, and Mediclinic has been providing private healthcare we were delighted that he agreed to continue on the services since 1983, and we have always taken a Board following the Combination in February 2016. long-term view when we make investment decisions.
However, Ian is a Board member of several LSE-listed The fundamentals of the healthcare industry remain companies and believed that it would be in the best positive, and I fi rmly believe that we have the right interest of all parties to reduce his responsibilities.
people and strategy in place to enable us to consistently I would like to thank Ian for his important contribution grow in the future as we have done over so many years.
to the Board during a very busy year for him.
Desmond Smith was appointed as the new Senior APPRECIATING YOUR CONTINUED Independent Director.
He was appointed an Independent Non-executive Director of Mediclinic SUPPORT International Limited in 2008 and was the Lead Independent Director from 2010 until the Al Noor As ever, I want to express my sincere thanks to Combination took place.
everyone who contributed to Mediclinics continued success, including our Directors, management, doctors, nurses and support staff.
In particular, the support of PROSPECTS patients and medical professionals is absolutely vital to the sustainability of our business, and we deeply This year has highlighted, once again, the continued appreciate that they have chosen Mediclinic as their challenges and changing regulatory landscape in which preferred healthcare partner.
Competition from the public and private sector means we must focus on continually improving Finally, I would like to extend a special thank you to all the quality of our services while demonstrating value our shareholders for their confi dence in us.
in the healthcare services we provide to patients, funders and governments alike.
Despite these challenges, we operate in an industry where demand continues to grow for our services.
The Board remains focused on creating long-term value for stakeholders and maintaining Mediclinics leading position in the international Dr Edwin Hertzog healthcare market.
