Chairmans statement In a more uncertain retail and economic environment weare confident the Group is well placed tomeet the challenges ahead.
Gender breakdown Board of Directors In a year that has seen the introduction of The combination of our specialist the National Living Wage, the vote for the retail offer, veterinary practices and UK to leave the European Union and the pet grooming salons, all within a single Male 78% resulting devaluation of Sterling against pet-focused environment, represents a Female 22% both the US Dollar and the Euro, I am uniquely attractive offer to our customers pleased to report another year of progress and, as more of our recent investments for the Group.
While we expect some in vet practices and grooming salons uncertainty ahead as the UK negotiates mature, will deliver increasingly powerful the terms of Brexit, we remain confident financial results.
As the year progressed in the long term prospects for the Group we launched a number of important Membership of the Board based around our strategy to build a initiatives to bolster our service and unique pet-focused offer of products value propositions.
Building on our Non-Executive Chairman 1 andservices within our store estate, to investments that support omnichannel Executive Directors 2 maximise our investments in omnichannel shopping we launched a subscription Non-Executive Directors 1 which will bring more of Pets at Home platform, initially for flea treatments, Independent tocustomers more of the time, and to and Order in Store which allows Non-Executive Directors 5 develop national coverage of first opinion colleagues to serve customers from our vet practices and specialist referral extended online range via instore iPads centres within our Vet Group.
We also launched Switch & Save, Following a strong first half, Merchandise highlighting the value of our private sales in the second half were softer than brandsin Advanced Nutrition, and we anticipated, although online grew strongly willcontinue to offer better value to our reflecting the momentum gained from our customers across our product ranges.
Vet services OurVIP loyalty scheme continues to grow, again delivered strong growth driven by delivering highly targeted information and our strategy of providing a quality service offers toour customers and providing to clients across both first opinion uswith powerful data on their purchasing andspecialist referral centres.
The Board proposes an ordinary dividend of 7.5p per share.
F Y16 comparative information presented on a 52 week basis.
For reconciliation to a 53week statutory basis see page 179.
A lternative Performance Measures APMs are defined and reconciled to IFRS information, where possible, on page 179.
Pets at Home Group Plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Overview The diversification of our veterinary business has continued with the Board in action acquisitions of Eye Vet Referrals and Dick White Referrals, bringing the number of Our Non-Executive Directors specialist referral centres in the Group frequently spend time in the business, to four.
Joining Northwest Veterinary supplementing their knowledge of our Specialists and Anderson Moores, The strategy, operations and colleagues.
Eye Vet is a dedicated ophthalmology practice, while Dick White Referrals is one Tessa Green, in her role as Chairman of of the largest specialist veterinary centres the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR in Europe, offering outstanding levels of and Pets Before Profit Committees, has clinical care in state-of-the-art facilities.
focused on furthering her knowledge of We have identified opportunities to operations that have significance for the expand our network of specialist referral Groups ethical, social and environmental As part of developing a Clinical centres to give us nationwide coverage impacts.
During her time with Pets at Governance Framework for our and to maximise this opportunity we have Home, this has included a number of first opinion practices, it was established a new Specialist Division visits to our first opinion vet practices and important to me that I spend time alongside our existing First Opinion specialist referral centres, as the CSR Division in the expanded Vet Group.
Committee worked towards developing in our practices and referral a Clinical Governance Framework.
centres, getting to know clinicians Management See page 55 for further details.
in all parts of the business.
This Following the appointment of Ian Kellett as Group Chief Executive in April 2016, was crucial to furthering my we appointed Mike Iddon as Group Chief knowledge of their day to day Financial Officer in October 2016.
Mike operations and helping our Vet joined the Group from New Look, where Group develop a framework he had been the Chief Financial Officer.
He has a wealth of experience in the that ensures our vets maintain retail sector having previously held senior complete clinical freedom, whilst finance positions at Tesco plc.
He at the same time being able to qualified as a Chartered Accountant better support them in achieving withArthur Andersen.
As a consequence of Mikes appointment, Mark Adams, the best clinical standards.
who had been an excellent Interim Tessa Green Chief Financial Officer, left the Group in Independent Non-Executive Director November 2016.
I would like to welcome Mike to the business and to thank Mark for his stewardship as Interim CFO.
Colleagues Looking forward It is a shared passion for pets that forms The UK pet market has a track record We recognise the significant potential the special bond between our business, ofresilience in more difficult economic that exists for the Group, particularly our colleagues and our customers.
While we take nothing for granted, in the veterinary sector, and have again like to thank all our colleagues, in the Board believes we have the right therefore made a number of changes every part of the business, for their hard strategy and a strong and experienced to the responsibilities of our Executive work and dedication in a more challenging team to lead the organisation successfully Management Team to give us better economic environment.
through the more uncertain period ahead.
focus as we enter the new financial Accordingly, we remain confident in the year.
Sally Hopson, who was CEO of our With the adoption of the National Living outlook for the Group.
Services Division, will exclusively drive Wage we made no distinction between the development of our Vet Group.
Peter colleagues based on age alone and we Pritchard, CEO of our Retail Division, will have maintained our Earn As You Learn assume responsibility for Grooming, while approach which rewards retail colleagues pet insurance services transfers to Mike further as they develop their knowledge Iddon, CFO.
Louise Stonier will extend and specialism.
In Grooming we saw our her remit to cover people in a new role first apprentices complete their training Tony DeNunzio as Chief People and Legal Officer.
and emerge as qualified stylists.
And Non-Executive Chairman among our veterinary professionals 25 May 2017 we have launched apprenticeships for veterinary nurses, with the first cohort beginning their training at Dick White Referrals.
Governance report page 60 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17
