Dear Shareholder, market of various economic outcomes flowing from decisions which might be taken.
Letter We continue to believe in the sustainability Overview of our business model and the deliverability During the year, Landsec continued to deliver from the of superior relative returns.
Our revenue against its business objectives.
Our retail profit is up 5.5% and we are confident in the assets focus on thriving shopping destinations underlying strength and prospects for the and our teams work in partnership with our Chairman Group.
Consequently, we are recommending occupiers to deliver a great experience to our a 10.1% increase in the full year dividend.
Our London assets are prime and We expect a continuation of a wide our regeneration in Victoria has been hugely range of technological innovations in the near successful.
Landsec is in a strong financial Highlights future and we are discussing the speed at position, with historically low levels of financial which they will affect the way we work and and operational gearing and a portfolio of More time allocated to risk the requirements for our business and our first class, enduring assets.
inan unpredictable year customers businesses.
Examples of anticipated Nicholas Cadbury joined Board priorities change range from different construction theBoard Given the political events we are witnessing, techniques and materials, more sophisticated the Board has spent considerable time building management systems, greater use of Strong supportive relationships assessing the possible effects on the property pre-fabrication, the use of customer data and with shareholders and stakeholders Sector leadership in Health, Safety and Security.
56 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Dame Alison Carnwath Chairman Governance the seamless digital environment which envelops The expectations being placed on companies, us today.
Thediverse experience of our Directors and the ways in which they are being judged, has informed and expanded our debates on are changing rapidly.
The Board debates these these matters.
issues when considering specific investments The Board recognises and, by its own and more broadly when looking at future example, promotes the importance of a strong opportunities and the role that Landsec can culture within the organisation and the benefits play in a wider sense.
You will see in other parts which such a culture brings to the Company and of this Annual Report examples of how this its employees.
Our recent office move puts our is put into practice throughout the business.
people at the centre of our business by providing In our separate Sustainability Report you will a modern workplace with a cross-functional and see how we are building the business for the collaborative atmosphere.
I believe we will be a future so that we leave a strong legacy for more efficient and effective business as a result those following us.
As part of our contribution Nicholas Cadbury joins Landsec of this move.
Furthermore, during the year, Rob to the wider issues of governance currently and his executive team focused on refreshing under consideration, we responded to the the Companys brand to ensure that it reflects Governments Corporate Governance Green the values of our people and the aspirations Paper and await the outcome of that review of our customers.
I was delighted to We continue to embrace the benefits of Health, safety and security workforce diversity and the need to prioritise beappointed to The health, safety and security of our customers, the growth of leadership and development skills employees, contractors and visitors remains within our teams.
Women represent 30% of Landsecs Board a top priority for us.
We work closely with our the Board and 36% of the Senior Management and have been partners and maintain a safety record that including the Executive Committee but we still is well ahead of industry benchmarks.
Our have work to do on embracing ethnic minorities impressed by the deep leadership position over the last year on mental and disabled people.
The Board allocates health in the construction industry saw us knowledge throughout significant time on its agenda to succession recognised with the visit in December to our planning and talent development.
My Nova site in Victoria by the Minister of State for ways, Landsec is and will be better placed to Disabled People, Health and Work.
Reflecting address the pace of change.
induction programme the ever-changing threats, we remain vigilant Shareholders and stakeholders on matters of both physical and cyber security.
has enabled me to We are proud of the strength of our investor understand the business Board changes and effectiveness relations programme and during the year I was I am delighted to welcome Nicholas Cadbury pleased to meet shareholders representing a quickly, to get to know to our Board.
Nicholas joined on 1 January and significant percentage of our register in the UK brings a wealth of commercial experience that and the Netherlands to discuss the business and my fellow Directors, will inform our Board discussions.
As I said in its strategy and answer Board composition and Senior Management my letter to you last year, Kevin OByrne will succession planning questions.
The meetings be retiring from the Board later this year were timely with most being held the week and key advisers and, when he does, Nicholas will take over as following the Brexit vote.
We are grateful for Chairman of the Audit Committee having had right from the outset the time that shareholders set aside for these the benefit of Kevins oversight of this years meetings and their feedback is always welcome.
I would like to convey my special thanks There were other occasions, at Investor Days to Kevin for his nine years on the Board and and results presentations, at which shareholders understanding of the his leadership of the Audit Committee.
could meet me and our Non-executive Directors.
We conducted an internal evaluation opportunities ahead.
We have recently completed a detailed of our Boards effectiveness during the year.
third party feedback survey of our shareholders The process followed and outcome of this and were reassured by the positive results.
Nicholas Cadbury review and its results are set out on page 66.
In particular, our Senior Management and Non-executive Director execution capabilities are highly valued.
Looking ahead Shareholders contributed widely to the survey At Landsec, we are fortunate to have a and provided some constructive suggestions Board and Senior Management who are which we are including in our Board agendas very experienced and exceptionally well and discussions to the extent that they were qualified.
We are engaged with providing not already part of our normal business.
shareholders with attractive returns whilst Shareholder engagement remains a high giving customers a top-class property priority for me and the management team.
All our employees work hard We appreciate the impact which a and share our enthusiasm for the business company like Landsec can have on a wider and I thank them for their commitment.
This is reinforced by our vision to be the best in the eyes of Dame Alison Carnwath our customers, communities, employees Chairman and partners, but it goes beyond that.
