08 Strategic Report This year has been an important year Chairmans in the history of Sainsburys.
Our primary responsibility as a Board is to create Letter value for shareholders in a sustainable way over the medium and long term and we have taken significant steps this year in delivering this objective.
Strategic Report 09 Argos is making great progress, delivering As we announced in March, Mary Harris will Food is at the heart of our business.
We strong like-for-like growth of 4.1 per cent in step down as a Non-Executive Director at continue to improve the quality and ranging the six months since the acquisition.
I would like to thank of our grocery offer and with great products see a sales increase of between one to two Mary for her extremely valuable contribution at fair prices, we have a clearly differentiated per cent in Sainsburys supermarkets with to Sainsburys over the past nine years and proposition in an increasingly competitive an Argos Digital store.
We are confident that particularly for her skilful leadership of the market.
With the acquisition of Home Retail we will achieve the 160 million of annual Remuneration Committee.
We expect to Group plc, owner of Argos including Argos synergies we outlined at the time of the announce the appointment of a new NonFinancial Services and Habitat, we have transaction six months ahead of schedule.
Executive Director in due course.
Susan Rice, created one of the UKs leading retailers in our Senior Independent Director, is appointed food, general merchandise, clothing and Dividend Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
financial services providing customers with We are committed to paying an affordable a choice, breadth and quality of product dividend to our shareholders and have fixed Outlook whenever and wherever they shop with us.
dividend cover at two times cover.
We are The retail market remains very competitive.
We have also successfully implemented a therefore recommending a final dividend of However, I am convinced that we have new banking platform and introduced new 6.6 pence per share, making the proposed fullthe right strategy in place to meet future products and services at Sainsburys Bank year dividend 10.2 pence per share.
This brings opportunities and challenges.
With our which are generating increased customer our dividend payments over the last five years talented leadership team and highly engaged demand.
to 69.5 pence per share, equivalent to 1.4 and committed colleagues, we are well These changes are all in line with the billion of cash paid to our shareholders.
placed to navigate the external environment five pillars of the strategy we outlined in and to create value for shareholders.
By knowing our Management and colleagues customers well and anticipating what they Mike Coupe leads a highly talented and want, we will help to make their lives easier experienced management team.
In September every day and achieve our vision of being the 2016, following the acquisition of Argos, we most trusted retailer where people love to appointed John Rogers, previously Chief David Tyler work and shop.
Financial Officer, as the Chief Executive Chairman of Sainsburys Argos, where he has put In the competitive market conditions of the together a strong leadership team from both last 12 months, underlying profit before tax, Argos and Sainsburys.
In January, we were which includes the Argos contribution from delighted to welcome our new Chief Financial 2 September 2016, was 581 million, down Officer, Kevin OByrne, to the Company.
Underlying basic earnings per Kevin has a wealth of retail and financial share were down 9.9 per cent to 21.8 pence experience in executive leadership roles at per share.
The last three years have been Dixons, Kingfisher and Poundland and a challenging for grocery retailers and the full track record of growing businesses.
Finally, impact of the vote to leave the European we were very pleased to welcome Simon Union remains uncertain.
However, we are Roberts as Retail and Operations Director.
pleased with the resilience of our business Previously President of Boots, I am sure and the progress we are making with our Simon will make a significant contribution to strategy against this backdrop.
our business, with his strong customer focus and extensive retail experience.
Acquisition of Home Retail Our Sainsburys store colleagues provide Group plc industry-leading service to customers every In September, we completed the acquisition day and we have been awarded the Grocer of Home Retail Group plc owner of Argos Gold Awards for both Customer Service and Habitat.
Putting aside cash and store and Availability for the past four years.
On card receivables which can be converted behalf of the Board, I would like to thank to cash, we purchased the business for all our colleagues for their commitment an effective cash consideration of 156 and enthusiasm over the last year.
We believe this will prove to be a pleased to increase the standard rate of pay very economic acquisition of a valuable of Sainsburys store colleagues by four per asset.
The acquisition has accelerated our cent this year, the same rate as last year strategy, allowing us to offer our customers and well above the National Living Wage.
choice and convenience across food, general In addition, colleagues across the Group will merchandise, clothing and financial services.
share a bonus of 78 million this year.
