Strategic report Strategic report Chairmans statement We are very aware of our responsibility to ensure that this great British company We have a clear plan continues to thrive and, as such, we are focused both on driving growth and managing risk to an appropriate level, and we have made whilst exhibiting excellent corporate governance.
We operate a conservative good progress against approach to the management of our balance sheet and this provides us with a solid base in turbulent and our strategic priorities changing times.
Our Winning Teams are the key to our success and I would like to thank our Whitbread, one of Britains oldest and 50,000 employees for the fantastic most successful companies, celebrates work they do in giving our customers 275 years in business this year.
Consistent strategy I explained this time last year that the fundamentals of our strategy, which Richard Baker Although the modern day is to provide sustainable long-term Chairman Whitbread is very different from value for our shareholders by growing the original brewing business our successful Premier Inn and Costa founded by Samuel Whitbread in brands, whilst delivering a good return on capital, were unchanged.
1742, we are immensely proud of This remains true today, as we continue our history and it is a great honour undaunted by political upheaval and for me and my colleagues on the economic uncertainty.
Board to play our own part in the We have a clear plan and we have Whitbread story.
made good progress against the three The links to our heritage remain strong.
strategic priorities outlined by our Our base is still in Bedfordshire and Chief Executive, Alison Brittain, last we are delighted to be able to welcome April.
These are to grow and innovate in members of the Whitbread family to our core UK businesses: to focus on our our Annual General Meeting each year, strengths to grow internationally: and whilst our core values of investing in to build the capability and platform to our Winning Teams and being a Force support future growth.
More detail on for Good in our communities remain as our strategy can be found on pages important to us today as they always 10 to 13 and information on progress have been.
against our strategic objectives can be found on pages 41 to 45.
We have remained on course to deliver our objectives, whilst at the same time, refreshing our Board and the executive leadership team.
I believe that the new team will enable Whitbread to enter the next phase of its life with renewed vigour and confidence.
275 11 This year is our 275th Costa Foundation school anniversary projects completed in 2016 17 8.9m 6.0% Raised since 2012 to fund the Increase in full year dividend Premier Inn Clinical Building at Great Ormond Street Hospital Force for Good Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 04 Strategic report Force for Good Dividend I believe that it is important that The Board recommends a final companies act as a Force for Good in dividend of 65.90 pence per share, their communities as well as being great making a total dividend of 95.80 employers and, of course, delivering on pence per share, up by 6.0%.
The final financial objectives for their shareholders.
dividend will be paid on 30 June 2017 to shareholders on the register at the I believe that it This has always been a core value at close of business on 26 May 2017.
Whitbread and, once again, we have isimportant that The Dividend Reinvestment Plan will made some great progress this year.
Details of how to I reported in last years report that we companies act as a participate in this plan can be found on had raised 6 million for Great Ormond the Companys website.
Details of the Forcefor Good in Street Hospital Charity towards a Groups dividend policy can be found 7.5 million target.
I am delighted to their communities on page 56 in the Group Finance be able to report that this target was Directors review.
met in November 2016, with the new aswell as being Premier Inn Clinical Building due to Shareholder benefits greatemployers.
Meanwhile, a Last year, having taken account further 1.8million has been raised for of feedback from shareholders on the Costa Foundation during the year, the previous electronic system, we with72 school projects having been introduced a new shareholder benefits The third new appointment to the Board completed so far, bringing access to card.
Im pleased that the new card this year is that of Adam Crozier, with education to thousands of children appears to have been well received by effect from 1 April 2017.
Adam is Chief in coffee-growing communities.
shareholders and has, for the most part, Executive of ITV plc and has been Chief worked well.
I have certainly noticed Executive of a number of public and Modern slavery is a live topic this a significant reduction in correspondence private sector organisations over the year, as companies begin to publish on the subject.
Shareholders who last 21 years, in the media, logistics a statement on the subject on their received the card last year, should so and retail sectors.
Adam is a very high websites.
As you would expect, do automatically this year, providing quality business leader, with a strong Whitbread has published its own that they still hold the required 64 background in business transformations, statement, which can be found shares in Whitbread.
Any shareholder brands, communication and marketing on our website.
For us this is not merely who holds this number of shares, who and his expertise will be of great value about meeting a requirement though.
did not register for a card last year and to the Whitbread Board as we continue I can assure you that it is a subject we would like to do so, can find further to expand our successful Premier Inn take very seriously and we are in no details on page 173. and Costa brands.
More information on our activities in this area can be The Board Wendy Becker stepped down from found on pages 50 to 51.
As I mentioned earlier in this statement, the Board on 31 December 2016 after there have been a number of Board nine years of service to Whitbread and Corporate governance changes during the year, as well as Stephen Williams, who has also just You will see in our remuneration changes to the senior executive team, completed nine years of service, will report on pages 78 to 98 that we which Alison reports on in her review step down immediately after the AGM have proposed some updates to on page 7. in June.
I would like to thank both our remuneration policy.
The current Wendy and Stephen for their much policy was approved in 2014 and we Two new independent non-executive valued contribution to the Whitbread are required to put an updated policy directors, David Atkins and Deanna Board during a very successful period to shareholders for approval at the Oppenheimer joined the Board on for the Company.
David is the Chief significant role as a member of all three has taken the opportunity to ensure Executive of Hammerson plc, a major Board Committees, whilst Stephen has that our policy is well aligned to our UK property business with interests served both as Senior Independent strategy and has re-balanced the across a number of European markets.
Director and, more recently, as Chairman Annual Incentive Scheme so as to focus Whitbread has a clear growth strategy, of the Remuneration Committee.
I would a little more on the leading indicators of which is underpinned by an extensive also like to thank Stephen for extending future financial performance and a little property portfolio, and Davids his membership of the Board so as to less on in-year profit.
It is proposed that experience in the European retail provide handover support to Deanna LTIP targets be re-set so as to reflect property sector will provide the as she takes on the leadership of the the business plans and, in particular, the Whitbread Board with invaluable Remuneration Committee.
cost headwinds such as the National insights as we expand both in the Living Wage, business rates, commodity UK and overseas.
I look forward to seeing as many of you price inflation and foreign exchange as possible at our AGM on Wednesday Deanna is a highly experienced rates as well as planned investment 21 June 2017. executive, with a strong background of non-productive capital in Germany, in mass consumer retail, and will bring China and IT.
her experience of having worked with I believe that our approach to a broad range of leading edge digital remuneration is grounded and businesses in her role at CameoWorks conservative and that we are sensibly to the Whitbread Board.
In addition, Richard Baker positioned relative to other companies.
Deannas experience of chairing the Chairman Tesco Remuneration Committee 24 April 2017 makes her well placed to succeed Stephen Williams as Chair of our own Remuneration Committee.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 05
