Strategic report Chairmans statement Evolution of the strategy and further financial delivery leading to enhanced shareholder returns I am delighted to present another strong set of results.
We have continued to deliver on our progressive dividend policy this year, increasing our dividend by 18.1% to 8.5p.
1 This equates to a payout ratio of 62% of 2 net earnings, compared to 57% in the previous year.
Last year, we increased our target payout range from 40%-60%, to 50%-70% as a sign of our confidence that we will continue to deliver strong financial performance.
This years decision to increase the dividend again reflects the Boards ongoing confidence in the sustainability of our dividend policy, which is supported by a strong track record of profit growth and cash generation through our capital efficient model.
Financially, we have again delivered growth in underlying profit before tax of 5.6% to 187.4m and basic earnings per share by 6.0% to 14.1p.
Furthermore, we have continued to be highly cash generative, resulting in a further deleveraging such that our net debt to EBITDA ratio has reduced to 1.9 times.
Our focus on customer need has been the driving force behind the growth of the business.
Our customers remain at Our focus on customer needs the heart of everything we do and it is a great credit to the Company that so has been the driving force behind many continue to support us through sustained ownership of our shares.
the growth of the business.
They The management team has done a lot of work throughout the year to deepen remain at the heart of everything our understanding of our customers.
This is helping us to interact differently we do.
and more efficiently with both existing and prospective customers.
1 Based on profit after tax excluding derivatives and Ogden impact.
2 Excluding the one-off benefit of Acromas tax losses.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 4 Strategic report Governance Financial statements I would like to thank all of our shareholders, both institutional and retail, for their ongoing support and to welcome those who have joined us Our governance supports during the year, including the many new institutional investors on our register.
our strategic priorities I would also like to thank our employees.
Their dedication to customer care and innovation enable us to deliver the exacting standards our customers Governance highlights value so highly.
Our governance structure is now The Saga Board is a strong group of embedded within the Group to individuals who have brought relevant support growth.
and valuable experience and skills to bear in shaping Sagas thinking and Our processes ensure good strategy.
We continue to be confident stewardship as we invest for future in Sagas ability to deliver long-term growth, whilst continuing to pay sustainable returns for our shareholders down debt and enhance long-term by delivering consistent profitable growth returns to shareholders through our with a capital efficient model.
All resolutions proposed at our AGM Our Group Chief Executive, Lance were passed with a significant Batchelor, continues to effectively majority and all directors standing for deliver on the execution of our strategy.
re-election or election were Lance leads a strong Executive Team appointed.
which comprises a mix of new hires We comply with the Corporate and established staff.
Their energy, Governance Code 2016 the Code commitment and focus on key strategic recommendation that half of deliverables throughout the year have theBoardare independent had a marked impact on our results.
We conducted our first externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation exercise and agreed action plans to focus on areas of development.
Andrew Goodsell Chairman p40 28 March 2017 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 5
