Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Chairmans statement Building a business for all our stakeholders Our mission is a modest one, but we can contribute widely to society I am writing this statement with the business in It is no coincidence that Morrisons much Andrew Higginson good heart after a year of profit and dividend Chairman improved performance coincides with the growth, further debt reduction, and five appointment of David and his new senior quarters of positive like-for-like sales.
Morrisons skilled food makers and shopkeepers are loyal, passionate and Uncertain times are ahead.
Although the dedicated, and virtually all are unchanged since UK consumer remains resilient so far, the David started.
Whilst all have contributed to consequences of Brexit and significant currency the improved performance, it is the leadership movements are not yet clear.
Morrisons has that has changed.
planned and prepared for Brexit but, in truth, no one knows exactly what is to come.
This is pertinent to the discussions and AGM resolutions relating to our proposals for the By listening hard to customers something next three year Executive remuneration David Potts and his team do from shop floor policy.
In construct it is similar to our existing to Board room Morrisons will not allow policy that expires this year, however we have itself to become victims of that uncertainty.
tweaked the performance measures to reflect The Board and the senior team will work the challenges ahead enabling the Executive tirelessly whatever the trading conditions to team to earn up to the maximum bonus build a successful business for the millions of potential if outstanding long term performance customers that shop with us every week.
So, we face the uncertainties with a positive Our mission is a modest one to provide our mind-set, and there will be no excuses from us.
customers with good quality food, great service We strive to be a place Take scale as an example.
Morrisons is often and prices but our contribution to society where our colleagues accused of being structurally disadvantaged can be very wide.
We strive to be a place where and unable to compete with bigger rivals.
our colleagues can get on a meritocracy canget on That is nonsense.
Morrisons has always been where good, hard-working people can succeed relatively small, but for decades competed whatever their background, and everyone brilliantly and drove terrific returns for shares in success.
That is exactly what happened shareholders.
Scale rarely defines retail to David and many of the senior team at winners and losers.
Morrisons who have worked their way up from Dividend the shop floor.
Most often it is outstanding execution that results in a great shopping trip.
Customers have We provide training and apprenticeships for a vast choice of retailers and it is they who thousands of food makers and shopkeepers.
5.43p decide the winners and losers, quite literally, We pay the best we can, well above the by voting with their feet.
National Living Wage, and offer bonuses in line with policy to colleagues in all our stores, factories and Food retail is an ordinary business, touching depots.
Over a thousand colleagues participate most consumers lives almost every day.
It is in our Long Term Incentive Plan, including all our fiercely competitive.
To execute the ordinary store managers.
consistently well is far from easy and relies on outstanding leadership.
2 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 With over 110,000 colleagues and over 11 million Governance highlights customers per week, Morrisons sits at the heart of, and must reflect, the society we serve Board composition and membership in Britain.
With plenty of choice available to The Board comprises five independent them, our customers are our toughest and Non-Executive Directors and two best regulator.
It is right and proper that our Executive Directors.
business is scrutinised, and that our customers All Directors stand for re-election annually can see that we behave well.
values, our actions, the impact we have on Rooney Anand is the Boards Senior Independent Director and the environment, our suppliers, or in the quality a Non-Executive.
and safety of the food we sell.
We take all The Board is satisfied that Belinda Richards has our responsibilities seriously, knowing that if recent and relevant experience appropriate to we fall short, our customers may choose to her position as Audit Committee Chair.
There is clear division of responsibilities With all these demands on the business, we between the roles of Chairman and the must also remember that our reason to exist Chief Executive.
isto make a return for our shareholders.
Sir Ken Morrison CBE Board effectiveness As we build a sustainable recovery, we intend Everyone at Morrisons was very sad to hear The Directors have all attended an acceptable to also build a track record of returns for our recently of the passing of Life President, and number of Board and Committee meetings.
2016 17 was the first for our new former Chairman, Sir Ken Morrison CBE.
The Board is satisfied that Non-Executive dividend policy.
That policy is for the dividend Directors commit sufficient time to the to be covered around two times by underlying Sir Ken was an inspirational retailer and the Group and contribute to its governance earnings per share, and I am pleased that we driving force behind Morrisons for more than and operations.
recently announced a 2016 17 dividend of 5.43p half a century, transforming the company from per share up 8.6% on last year.
a small family business into one of the UKs External auditor As cash flow improves, our balance sheet is top 100 companies.
He developed the culture, The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Groups statutory auditor PwC, who were getting stronger and we are on track for our values and clear direction for the business appointed in 2014 15, are performing effectively.
target of net debt to fall to less than 1bn by which remain the bedrock of the firm today.
The Board has a policy on the engagement theend of 2017 18.
His legacy includes many enduring innovations, of the external auditor to supply nonsuch as Market Street and Morrisons unique We continue to prioritise balance sheet audit services.
As we keep improving profitability and further fide-leverage the Accountability Sir Ken will be greatly missed by many business, we will continue to be guided by The Board is satisfied with the effectiveness of thousands of his current and former colleagues.
internal control and that risk is being managed On a personal level, Ken was an enormous help effectively across the Group.
to me as we made some significant changes to Consideration has been given to financial set the business on a new course: his knowledge reporting matters with sufficient challenge of retail and his strategic insights remained as provided to management relating to relevant and intuitive as they were when he first judgemental areas.
The Groups internal audit function perform To honour his memory in the most appropriate periodic reviews of the key areas of the way we can, we will strive to develop the business, including the recognition of company that he built and loved.
Andrew Higginson Chairman See Corporate governance report on pages 23 to 32 3
