Strategic report Chairmans statement It is a pleasure to report another solid year of progress at Kingfisher.
The financial performance was ahead on all key measures with the business delivering a solid start to the transformation programme, which we announced a year ago.
The plan aims to create a single, unified company where customer needs come first.
The transformation also aims to deliver 500 million of sustainable annual profit uplift by the end of Year 5, over and above business as usual.
Turning to the figures for the year, underlying pre-tax profit was up 14.7% to 787 million.
This was driven by sales growth in the UK and Poland as well as 30 million of benefits from our Goods Not For Resale programme, which is delivering earlier than planned.
In addition, favourable currency movements contributed 52 million on the translation of non-Sterling retail profits.
The full year dividend is 10.4p, up 3.0%.
In addition, we returned 200 million to shareholders via a share buy-back programme.
In the UK & Ireland, retail profit grew by 9.9% to 358 million.
B&Q grew like-for-like sales by 3.5%, of which 2.6% resulted from sales transference th associated with store closures.
Screwfix grew like-for-like sales by 14%.
During the year, Screwfix opened its 500 store, with an increased overall target of 700 stores in the UK.
In France, retail profit was broadly flat at 353 million, despite weaker sales.
In our Other International operations, retail profit increased by 14.5% to 136 million, driven by Poland.
We have also delivered our key strategic milestones for the first year.
These include achieving 4% unified ranges across our business and implementing the unified IT platform at B&Q, with the roll-out to Castorama France now underway.
Our second year will be even bigger in terms of activity.
We are aware of the challenges as we move into the second year of our transformation and are taking steps to ensure we manage the step-up in activity.
We are committed to being a truly sustainable company.
Today, 28% of our sales come from sustainable home products, which have a lower environmental impact.
Our Offer & Supply Chain function is integrating sustainability into the development of our unique and unified ranges so we can have an even greater positive impact in future.
In March, we announced that I will be standing down from the Board at our Annual General Meeting AGM in June after eight years as Chairman, and 11 on the Board.
It has been a privilege to have chaired this business and I am very proud of its progress.
This is a particularly exciting period for Kingfisher, with an ambitious transformation plan and a dynamic leadership team, led by Vronique Laury.
We are now at the end of the first year of our plan, and I believe it is the right time for a new Chairman to oversee its full delivery.
I am delighted that Andy Cosslett will be appointed to the Board as a non-executive director and Chairman-elect on 1 April 2017, to succeed me as Chairman in June 2017, with shareholders approval.
Andy is a very experienced board director, having been CEO of Intercontinental Hotels Group for six years, as well as having a strong track record in consumer-related businesses, such as Unilever and Cadbury Schweppes.
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome Andy to the Board and wish him every success as Chairman.
And finally, I would like to pay tribute to the 77,000 colleagues who serve our customers every day.
Their hard work and commitment is the lifeblood of the business.
