Chairmans Statement The Board is excited by the opportunities, both strategic and operational, that Karen has identified to further improve an already very successful business.
Geoff Cooper Chairman Card Factory has had another good year, once again for all he has done and, when he steps down, it will be delivering a record performance in terms of both with our very best wishes for the future.
Darren has revenue and underlying profit generation.
Whilst this agreed to continue in his role until a successor has been year marks the third anniversary of the IPO, it is also the identified and through a transitional period.
The search twentieth anniversary of the Companys formation.
for that successor is well advanced and a further Having started life as a local family owned discounter, announcement will be made in due course.
the Group has developed into a high margin, national, value retailer with over 850 stores, two transactional The Board has increased the total ordinary dividend for websites and a position of clear market leadership.
the year by 7.1% to 9.1p per share, reflecting our strong During this period the Group has demonstrated an cash generation and confidence in the future prospects ability to grow sales and profit, increase market share of the business.
This is in addition to the 15.0p per share and generate significant returns for shareholders.
The special dividend paid in November 2016.
In line with our Boards objective is to continue to build on this strong stated capital policy, we currently expect to make track record in the years ahead.
further returns of surplus cash to shareholders towards the end of the current financial year.
The Group continues to focus on its successful four pillar strategy, underpinned by its unique vertically integrated model which provides significant competitive advantage, particularly in challenging retail Geoff Cooper environments, as seen in 2016.
In her report that Chairman accompanies these results, our Chief Executive Officer, 27 March 2017 Karen Hubbard, provides an update on the Groups current strategic priorities.
The Board is excited by the opportunities, both strategic and operational, that Karen has identified to further improve an already very successful business.
In January we announced that our Chief Financial Officer, Darren Bryant, intended to retire after eight years with the Group.
Throughout this period Darren has contributed significantly to the strategic development and sustained growth of Card Factory.
As our CFO, he successfully steered the Company through its 2014 IPO and its first three years as a public company.
After such an intense period of activity we understand his wish to retire.
We are extremely grateful 10 10 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s The Group has demonstrated an ability to grow sales and profit, increase market share and generate significant returns for shareholders.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 11
