Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Strategic Report Chairmans Statement 1 As anticipated, the year to January 2017 was a challenging year for NEXT, despite this Earnings Per Share declined by only -0.3% to 441.3p.
We propose to maintain our total full year ordinary dividend flat at 158p.
2 Whilst total sales for NEXT Retail declined by -2.9%, sales for NEXT Directory increased by 4.2%.
Total Group sales were broadly flat at 4.1bn for the year.
Cash flow remained strong and we returned 502m to shareholders through a combination of ordinary dividends 226m, special dividends 88m and share buybacks 188m.
We have continued to invest in the business, spending 161m on new stores, warehousing and systems.
Net debt increased to 861m, well within our bond and bank facilities of 1.4bn.
It has already been announced that I will retire from the Board on 1 August 2017.
I have been at NEXT for fifteen years and have immensely enjoyed the experience.
NEXT is an excellent company and working with the Board and executive team has been extremely stimulating and enjoyable.
I will be succeeded as Chairman by Michael Roney.
The Board appointed Michael as a non-executive director, Deputy Chairman and Chairman Designate in February this year.
Michael has extensive business experience and has had a long and distinguished career, including as Chief Executive of Bunzl plc.
He also has all the qualities that are necessary in a good chairman and I am very confident that he will make an excellent transition into the role.
I am also pleased that Jonathan Bewes has joined us as a non-executive director during the year.
Jonathan has a great deal of experience in investment banking, is a Chartered Accountant and is a very good addition to the Board.
Steve Barber, non-executive director and Chair of the Audit Committee, will step down from the Board at the 2017 AGM in May.
Steve has made a much valued and active contribution to the Board and I would like to thank him for his service over the last ten years.
Jonathan Bewes will take over from Steve as Chairman of the Audit Committee after the AGM.
The strength of the Group is built on the hard work and dedication of all the people who work for NEXT.
I would like to thank them all for their contribution throughout the year.
I have been Chairman of NEXT since May 2006.
In 2008 our profits fell and our share price halved: by the following year our profits had started to grow again and our share price recovered strongly in the following years.
Trading conditions in the year ahead will continue to be tough, however I believe that by focusing on our core strengths, as we did during 2008, we will see NEXT emerge from this period stronger than before.
Earnings Per Share growth is stated on a comparable 52 v 52 week basis.
Total sales are VAT exclusive sales including the full value of commission based sales and interest income refer to Note 1 of the financial statements.
Read more in the Chief Executives Review on Read about our Governance on pages 48 to 52 pages 4 to 25 nextplc.
