Strategic Report 04 Chairmans Introduction A strong platform for the future Over the past 12 months we have seen some extremely significant events unfold across the UK and beyond.
The announcement of a soft drinks sugars per 100ml by the autumn of 2017 Dividend sugar tax in the Chancellors budget is an extremely positive demonstration The Board is pleased to be in a position to in March 2016, and the devaluation of of how the business is responding with maintain its commitment to a progressive sterling following the UKs referendum both pace and commitment.
dividend policy and recommend a final vote to leave the European Union in dividend of 10.87p per share to give a June, added additional external Our key partnerships with Rockstar and total dividend for the full year of 14.40p headwinds in a soft drinks market Dr Pepper Snapple Group continued to per share, a full year increase of 8% on the already impacted by price deation.
progress, complementing our own prior year.
The final dividend is payable portfolio both in the UK and increasingly on 9 June 2017 to shareholders on the Despite these macro external inuences, on an international basis, where we have Register of Members at the close of the business has retained a clear focus delivered further growth, extending our business on 12 May 2017.
The ex-dividend on the execution of its strategy and in international footprint and our franchise date is 11 May 2017. particular on internal improvement actions.
Share repurchase programme Financially, the business has delivered The Funkin business, acquired in 2015, Given the strength of the balance sheet another solid performance with profit continues to exceed our acquisition and the cash generative nature of the before tax and exceptional items of expectations, and we remain highly business, the Board has decided to return 42.4m, an increase of 2.7% on the prior encouraged by the continued growth up to 30m to shareholders via an year 41.3m, and exits the year with momentum of the Funkin brand on-market share repurchase programme.
This programme is anticipated to commence in the spring of 2017 and We maintained our market share across Our drive for improvement across complete within 24 months.
The AGM in the period and continued to invest in our the business has not abated.
We have May 2017 will be requested to approve brands, with the key brands, IRN-BRU continued to invest in our asset base, the renewal of the authority granted in and Rubicon, delivering good growth.
including the installation of a new June 2016 for the Board to repurchase Innovation has been a key strategic glass lling line at Cumbernauld, and up to 10% of the Companys own shares.
focus across the year and the launches are in the process of adding new PET We do not believe that the repurchase of IRN-BRU XTRA and Rubicon Spring capability in our Milton Keynes facility.
programme will have any material impact in particular, both no added sugar In addition, we have successfully on our ability to secure acquisition products, have proven successful.
completed a Company-wide business opportunities should these be identied.
reorganisation that has both enhanced As consumer tastes and preferences our organisational capability and People continue to change, and the demand for reduced our overhead base.
The continued success of the business is great tasting, reduced sugar products testament to the commitment and skills increases, the recent announcement We exit the year with a strong balance of the whole team and I would like to that 90% of our Company owned sheet, and are well placed to exploit growth take this opportunity to extend a thank brands will contain less than 5g of total opportunities as and when they arise.
you to each and every team member for their eorts across this year of change and reorganisation.
Items marked with an asterisk are non-GAAP measures.
Denitions and relevant reconciliations are provided in the Glossary on pages 130 to 132.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 05 T he business has achieved a great deal in the past year, building a strong platform for the future while sustaining current financial performance.
John Nicolson, Chairman The Board continues to operate eectively, with a complementary mix of skills and experience providing solid and eective governance controls.
We will continue to review how to enhance both the governance model and the advisory aspect of the Board.
Prospects The business has achieved a great deal in the past year, building a strong platform for the future while sustaining current financial performance.
With great brands, an eective business model, a clear strategy and a strong team in place to deliver it, the business remains well placed to develop further and realise its long-term potential.
John Nicolson Chairman A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
