Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Executive Chairmans Statement Introduction This has been another period of very significant In November we acquired the Go Outdoors business progress for the Group with the headline profit for cash consideration of 112.3 million with the Group before tax and exceptional items increased by 56% also assuming net debt of approximately 11.4 million.
Over a three Go Outdoors had 58 stores across the UK at acquisition, year period the result has improved by more than 190% the majority of which are in destination locations which is an outstanding performance and provides the outside city centres, and was a compelling opportunity Group with a robust platform for further development.
for a number of reasons: It is active in a range of categories where the Group The foundation of this success remains our core has either no presence or only a limited presence, Sports Fashion fascias where JDs continued including cycling strength in its core markets is increasingly being Its out of town destination format is complementary complemented by momentum in our international to the high street model of Blacks and Millets development, with a net increase of 54 JD stores Go Outdoors has considerable expertise in across mainland Europe during the year.
We firmly developing consumer engagement through its believe that our approach of presenting a unique membership scheme and we believe that there are and often exclusive sports and fashion premium opportunities to enhance this further by drawing brand offer in a truly multichannel environment, on JDs expertise in multichannel retail where innovative digital technology is integrated into a vibrant retail theatre, continues to increase The acquisition of Go Outdoors is currently under the attractiveness and desirability of our product review by the Competition and Markets Authority ranges.
These factors provide our stores with a real which has issued the Group with an enforcement point of difference for both consumers and our branded order which obliges us to operate the Go Outdoors supplier partners.
business separately to our pre-existing Outdoors businesses until they have completed their review.
We are fully aware that athletic inspired footwear We are complying and assisting fully with this process and apparel has been on trend throughout Europe in order that it can be completed in the most timely and for a number of seasons.
However, whilst this tailwind efficient manner.
has clearly had a positive influence, the key to our success in recent years has been the way that we Dividends and Earnings Per Share have leveraged these favourable market conditions The Board proposes paying a final dividend of 1.30p with our strengthening profitability, a payback for 2016 restated: 1.24p bringing the total dividend the investments we have made over a number of payable for the year to 1.55p 2016 restated: 1.48p years to develop the JD retail concept and strengthen per ordinary share, an increase of 4.7%.
The our core commercial practices.
We continue to invest proposed final dividend will be paid on 31 July 2017 in these areas, particularly visual merchandising to all shareholders on the register at 23 June 2017. systems, in-store environment and creative marketing We believe that this level of dividend strikes a fair as we believe that it is JDs market leading standards balance for shareholders with appropriate capital in these areas that resonate with an increasing retained to facilitate ongoing developments, number of brands.
Having flexibility in our brand line up particularly investment in the international Sports is critical and enables us to maintain a trend appropriate Fashion fascias, which will drive success for the Group, assortment.
and therefore increased benefits to shareholders, over the longer term.
Although the UKs vote to leave the European Union means that there will be some uncertainties for the The adjusted earnings per ordinary share before immediately foreseeable future, our international exceptional items have increased by 55% to 19.04p expansion will remain a clear strategic focus.
is an ongoing process to strengthen and build the management team and other core operational The basic earnings per ordinary share have increased infrastructure to support an expansion over a wider by 83% to 18.38p 2016 restated: 10.03p.
Ov Overvie erview w Executive Chairmans Statement continued Board Effectiveness As Executive Chairman, I am responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
The Board is then responsible for the Groups strategic development, review of performance against the business objectives, overseeing risk and maintaining effective corporate governance including health and safety, environmental, social and ethical matters.
People It is a great testament to the strength and quality of the people at every level in our businesses that we have been able to consistently deliver outstanding results over a number of years.
Our continued strength is principally due to their talent, energy and commitment and I thank everybody involved across the Group for delivering these excellent results.
Given the importance of our people, we were greatly disappointed to be the subject of allegations made in late 2016 about working practices in our Kingsway warehouse, a sophisticated, efficient and fast growing facility which we are very proud of.
As the wellbeing of all staff is a key priority for the Group and it is an area where we strive continually to improve performance, the Board appointed Deloitte to conduct an independent review of the allegations made.
That review has now been completed and Deloittes conclusion was that the allegations did not represent a balanced characterisation of working practices at Kingsway.
As before, we remain committed to continually reviewing and implementing improvements in day to day procedures there.
Current Trading and Outlook Whilst we must recognise that there are external influences which may impact the latter part of the year, notably inflationary pressures arising from Brexit, the Board remains confident in the robustness of the JD proposition and believes that the Group is well positioned for further profitable growth.
Given the significant shift in the timing of Easter this year, it is not relevant at this time to report any comparative current year trading figures.
Our next scheduled update will be the announcement of our Interim Results on 12 September 2017.
Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman 10 April 2017 51 Overview
