GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to present the annual report ofGCPInfrastructure Investments Limited fortheyearended 30 September 2017.
Over the period under review, the Company Equity raisings and funding maintained its measured approach to growth During the year, the Company raised gross whilstsustaining attractive dividend distributions proceeds of 160 million through two from its underlying investment portfolio.
oversubscribed equity capital raisings, a further reflection of investor confidence in the investment Dividends and returns strategy of the Company.
The Board believes that The Company paid dividends of 7.6pence per considered and conservative growth benefits share for the fifth consecutive year.
Investor shareholders through increased share liquidity, confidence in the Companys ability to deliver this economies of scale and further investment regular and dependable income has resulted in diversification.
The Company extended its a consistently strong demand for the Companys revolvingcredit facility with RBSI from 50 million shares and a relatively stable share price to 75 million to increase its ability to respond performance during a period of wider market to investment opportunities as they arise, with volatility.
This has been particularly notable 30milliondrawn as at 30 September 2017. given the backdrop of the political uncertainty Postyear end, the facility was increased by a surrounding the UKs withdrawal from the European further 15million.
The Companys share price at the year end in March2018, the Board has begun exploring was 126.40 pence per share, which represented a refinancing options.
premium to net asset value of 14.3%.
New investments Profitability The Company made investments totalling The Company generated a profit for the year 227.1million over the year.
Of particular note was Ian Reeves CBE of 46.7 million, a reduction of 7.7 million a a significant commitment to acquire loans with Chairman compared with the prior year.
This was due to a value of up to c. 140 million over a c. two year a lower net unrealised revaluation movement period from August 2017, as part of the acquisition across the investment portfolio, with an increase of the GIB by a Macquarie-led consortium.
The in the valuation of some PFI loans being partially loans are secured against projectsin waste to offset by a downward revaluation of two of the energy, onshore wind, hydro, landfill gas and Companys biomass assets, and lower prepayment building retrofit schemes, highlighting the ability fees.
Earnings per share was also negatively of the Company to analyse and invest in projects impacted by having a material cash balance for in a diverse range of sectors.
The investment was part of the year in anticipation of the delayed also a rare opportunity for the Company to get GIBtransaction.
The GIB transaction was delayed exposure to a large, diversified portfolio of assets due to a competing bidder launching High Court with an attractive yield, whilst also confirming proceedings to request a judicial review of the the Companys ability to compete for large scale bidding process.
secondary opportunities in the renewables sector.
Other investments made during the period included loans secured against social housing and small scale anaerobic digestion projects.
Since year end, the Company has made 65.9 million of investments including c. 53 million of onshore wind farms in theUK.
4 Introduction GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 The investment portfolio Market outlook The sustained period of low interest rates in the UK The Companys investment portfolio has performed In the context of the significant infrastructure and continues to drive demand for infrastructure assets materially in line with expectations, accruing an renewable energy development of the last decade, from investors seeking dependable and predictable average yield of c. 8.5%.
During the period, the recent government policy has been less supportive income.
Despite the scarcity of new infrastructure operational and construction performance of of new projects.
PFI and PF2 are now seemingly projects within the Companys target markets most of the projects that support the Companys largely out of favour across the political spectrum and the ongoing competition for existing assets, investments was substantially as forecast and the support mechanisms for core renewables the Board is encouraged by the success enjoyed with twoexceptions.
Two biomass projects, sectors have either been withdrawn or materially by the Company in securing 227.1 million of representing 5.6% of NAV at 30 September 2017, reduced.
The Government has recently channelled new investments during the year.
The Investment continued to encounter operational challenges, support for low carbon technologies through CfDs, Adviser has enjoyed considerable success over which have been reflected in further valuation although the next projects to receive such support the years targeting opportunities with smaller reductions representing 0.7% of NAV.
In both cases will have to wait until 2019. funding requirements that are typically off-radar the Board is establishing detailed rehabilitation for large-scale institutional lenders.
This has now These policies were largely reinforced by the plans to improve performance.
At30 September been supplemented by its success in securing Chancellor in his November 2017 Autumn 2017, the Companys investment portfolio was a substantial investment in the GIB portfolio of Statement.
There was positive sounding 23% exposed to PFI projects, 59% to renewable renewable energy projects noted above.
In social commentary regarding train links, the development energy assets, 16% to social housing transactions housing, the emergence of several specialist of five garden towns and the roll-out of electric with the remainder in energy efficiency and asset investors almost exclusively focusing on supported vehicle charging infrastructure, but limited finance schemes.
Approximately 60% of loans in living will place a greater emphasis on utilising details about scale, timetable and the investment the portfolio benefit from some form of exposure relationships with existing counterparties, which structures that would be available for private sector to inflation protection characteristics.
are expected to deliver a continued, albeit reduced, capital.
As such it is expected that opportunities for pipeline of activity.
Net asset valuation primary investment in the Companys traditionally The NAV per share increased over the year from core sectors will continue to become more scarce.
Whilst competition for infrastructure assets may 109.67 to 110.57 pence per share.
This was present challenges for portfolio growth, continued It remains to be seen how the overall contribution driven by the accretive nature of shares issued demand for those assets remains positive for their of renewable sources to the UKs energy mix, which ata premium to prevailing net asset values offset capital values.
The Company continues to deliver in the second quarter of 2017 stood at a record by areduction in the earnings per share resulting on its objectives of providing regular, sustained 30%, will develop over the next few years.
It does from the significant delay in the completion of the distributions and preserving capital value for its seem that the UK is successfully weaning itself off GIB transaction and the consequential cash drag.
shareholders through a period of market and fossil fuels, with 21 April 2017 marking the first day Net portfolio valuations remained broadly stable political turbulence, an encouraging endorsement without coal power since the industrial revolution.
throughout the year, following the increase in the of its long-term strategy.
John McDonnell, the Shadow Chancellor, stated valuations on the PFI portfolio being offset by the Principal risks and uncertainties at the Labour conference in September 2017 reduction in the valuation of two biomass loans The principal risks faced by the Company include that a Labour government would bring existing detailed above.
but are not limited to execution risk, portfolio risk, PFI contracts back in-house.
Given the lack of financial risk and other risks.
Full details can be details as to what this would precisely entail found on pages 30 to 35. legally, commercially and on what scale, we believe it is difficult to draw useful conclusions as to a theoretical impact of such a policy on the Company.
In any event, the Board takes comfort Ian Reeves CBE from the fact that the Company invests in debt Chairman rather than potentially more vulnerable equity, and has a diversified portfolio that is only 23% exposed 13 December 2017 to PFI assets.
5 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT WHATS IN THIS SECTION STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Find out more on pages 8 to 11 UK INFRASTRUCTURE MARKET Find out more on pages 12 and 13 MARKET OUTLOOK Find out more on pages 14 to 17 REVIEW OF THE YEAR Find out more on pages 18 to 21 INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO Find out more on pages 22 to 29 RISK MANAGEMENT Find out more on pages 30 to 35 6 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 7
