Redefine International P. L. C. 60 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Governance Chairmans statement Through communication with its wider With a sharper focus on risk management stakeholder base, the Company strives to improve both our buildings and the and mitigation, the Redefine International environments they provide whilst contributing where possible to communities in which Board remains confident that it has the right we operate.
We endeavour to ensure that our suppliers adhere to a strict code of strategy to sustain the Company through ethics and undertake to pay them fairly and potential uncertainties ahead.
We build strong relationships with our lenders and deal with them in an open and transparent manner.
Weencourage openness amongst our employees and listen to their concerns, while supporting them to develop their careers and work-life balance through training and transition through various stages in their lives.
2017 has been a year of political and economic uncertainty with a constantly changing At the heart of our success is our culture.
With a sharper Both internally and externally, the Company focus on risk management and mitigation, is considered agile and experienced, the Redefine International Board remains hands on, proactive, efficient, personable confident that it has the right strategy to and approachable.
The personable and sustain the Company through potential experienced nature of the Board and its uncertainties ahead, whilst continuing to executive has resulted in a strong leadership provide our shareholders with market-leading team.
A team that is relentlessly inquisitive, income returns.
seeking out new opportunities with agility enabling opportunities to be harnessed.
During the year the Board has sought Boardroom culture is good natured and to strengthen the portfolio, through the constructive and relationships between recycling of assets with lower rental or growth executives and non-executives are good, potential, in favour of assets with stronger although with the uncertainty of the property fundamentals and longer-term political and economic environment, the growth prospects.
Disposal proceeds have non-executives have been increasingly largely been reinvested or used to reduce challenging management to ensure that gearing.
Refinancing initiatives have broadly the long-term success of the Company has been concluded at lower levels of gearing been properly considered.
Ananalysis was and resulted in a reduced cost of debt and a Greg Clarke conducted in January to record how Redefine stronger capital structure.
Chairman of the Board International should react to a range of Communication of the Companys strategy different scenarios that could be faced by was conveyed to shareholders at the Capital the Company in the next few years.
The Markets Day in February, which was well Board evaluation conducted at year end attended and received.
The Boards decision showed that Directors wanted more time set to rebase the dividend to better align earnings aside to review strategy, to ensure that the with operating cash flow has been clearly set current model remains fit for purpose in the out and communicated.
The Company has constantly changing economic environment.
made significant progress in becoming the As Chairman of the Board and Nominations UKs leading income focused REIT.
Committee, I have sought to expand the On 1 December 2017, the Company will be experience and diversity of the Board and rebranded to Real Estate Diversified Income I am confident that the appointment of a REIT, or RDI REIT.
The purpose of rebranding new Non-executive Director will be announced is to ensure the Company has a clear and before the end of the calendar year which independent identity as well as supporting willfurther enhance the strength of the better communication with stakeholders.
Succession planning for the executives and committee chairs will be a focus area during 2018.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 61 I thank shareholders for their support of the iii resigns or does not offer himself Corporate governance statement Companys new Remuneration Policy, which for re-election, or iv terminates his Compliance with the UK Corporate was approved at the AGM in January 2017. appointment on three months notice.
Governance Code 2016 the Code During 2016 the CEO received 62 per cent It should be noted, that, as a FTSE 250 Redefine International is a UK-REIT with a of his target income, considerably below company, all Directors are subject to annual premium listing on the Main Market of the LSE comparable peers.
The policy was amended re-election and therefore it is considered and a secondary listing on the Real Estate following a strategic review to ensure closer that the Companys terms are appropriate.
Real Estate Holding and Development sector alignment between remuneration, strategy c. Code E2.4: Notice of general meetings.
of the Main Board of the JSE.
The Company and shareholder returns.
The new policy was incorporated in the Isle of Man with Explanation: The EGM held on 25 April provides the executives with a fair and registered number 111198C in 2004 and was 2017, regarding the acquisition of the balanced package that motivates performance re-registered under the Isle of Man Companies German supermarket Portfolio, was held and rewards results.
Act 2006 in December 2013, with registered on 14 clear days notice in accordance with number 010534V.
The Companys home state For the first time this year, the Company will the Companys Articles of Association, is the United Kingdom.
be reporting under the 2016 UK Corporate rather than the 14 business days Governance Code the Code and the Audit required by the Code.
This was due to the Further to the secondary listing of the and Risk Committee adopted new model transaction being time sensitive and the Company in South Africa on 28 October 2013, terms of reference to comply with the Board was mindful that any delay would the JSE accepted that Redefine International provisions of the new Code, FRC guidance and cause a transactional risk.
will primarily comply with the Code as revised ethical standards published earlier issued by the Financial Reporting Council Compliance with the Listing Rules this year.
Focus areas for the committee this in April 2016 www.
uk as opposed During the reporting year, Redefine Properties year have been to oversee compliance and to the provisions of the King IV Report on Limited was regarded as a controlling regulatory change, improvement in internal Governance for South Africa 2016.
It should shareholder of the Company in accordance controls and riskreporting.
be noted that during the reporting year ended with LR 6.1.
As a Chapter 6 Company with a 31 August 2017 and up to the date of this With robust corporate governance, a strong controlling shareholder, Redefine International document the Company has complied with all Board and strategy, I am pleased to report has complied with LR 9.8.
4 R 14 : of the Code principles, but has not complied that the Company has delivered a solid set of 1.
The Company entered into a relationship with the following Code provisions: results and is well positioned to look to the Agreement with Redefine Properties on future with confidence.
Half of the Board should 17 November 2014 the Agreement and comprise independent Non-executive Full details of the Companys operations have the Board confirms that during the period Directors.
been laid out in this Annual Report, which the under review: Board has reviewed and considers to be fair, Explanation: At year end, the Board a. the Company has complied with the balanced and understandable and provides comprised four executives, four independence provisions included in shareholders with the necessary information independent non-executives and two the Agreement: with which to assess the Companys position non-executives who represent the major and performance, business model and b. as far as the Company is aware, shareholder, Redefine Properties Limited.
The Board recommends that Redefine Properties has complied with Although the composition fails to meet shareholders vote to adopt the Annual Report the independence provisions included the provisions of the Code, the Board and support the re-election of the Board at in the Agreement: and structure does meet the Code principles, the AGM to be held on 25 January 2018, where c. the election and re-election of with no block of individuals dominating Directors will be available to answer any independent Directors at the AGM held the decision making and includes an questions shareholders may have regarding on 23 January 2017 was conducted in appropriate combination of Executive the operation of their Company.
accordance with the election provisions and Non-executive Directors.
2F R and I have informed the Board that I intend to additional appointment expected by approved by: the end of the year, the balance will step down as Chairman during 2018.
The exact timing will be determined by the be improved, but in order to reach the i. the shareholders of the Company: required Board composition another process to recruit a new Chair and execute and anappropriate handover.
independent Non-executive Director would ii.
the independent shareholders of need to be appointed, taking the Board the Company.
By this time I will have been Chairman of size to 13, which is considered toolarge.
Redefine International for seven years, during 2.
No independent Director has declined to It should be noted that to ensure that which time we have domiciled to London, support the statements in 1 above.
there is enough independent oversight become a REIT and entered the FTSE250.
ofrelated party transactions, a committee Compliance with the Disclosure I consider it time to move on and for a new comprising solely of independent andTransparency Rules Chair to oversee the next exciting phase of Directors has been established to review The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 Redefine Internationals future.
such matters before deciding whether a of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules transaction can progress to the Board for are contained in the following pages of this Greg Clarke final consideration.
2.3: Non-executive Directors 26 October 2017 should be appointed for a specified term.
Explanation: Directors are appointed for a term which expires when either the Director i is not re-appointed following retirement, ii is removed or vacates office,
