Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Chairmans statement Well positioned for future growth Gareth Davis 2016 17 has been a year of substantial progress under the stewardship Chairman of John Martin in his first year as Group Chief Executive.
The Group has again delivered a good set of financial results and Johnhas provided fresh impetus to the rapid execution of our strategy, inparticular prioritising investment and focus on our largest growth opportunity in the USA, commencing the transformation plan in the UK and the Nordics disposals.
He has a great track record of This will bring the total dividend for the year Name change Key driving profitable growth and a deep to 110.0 pence per share 2015 16: 100.0 Let me start out by welcoming highlights understanding of the business which pence per share representing a year-onshareholders to this the first Annual makes him the ideal Executive to drive year increase of10.0 per cent.
We changed our Good trading ourfuture growth and development.
name from Wolseley plc to the name of Our investment priorities remain focused performance our business in the USA on 31 July 2017.
While the Group has made excellent on achieving organic growth, funding Orderly We strongly believe that the Ferguson progress in developing our e-commerce the ordinary dividend through the cycle name is muchmore reective of the succession platforms, the Board is aware of the need and investing in bolt-on acquisitions that completed of Group today with 89 per cent of our to stay vigilant to future potential threats meet our stringent investment criteria.
trading profit generated in the USA.
Group CFO and opportunities in the digital space.
The Board has a progressive dividend andUSA CEO Nadia Shouraboura was appointed policy for future payouts, with the aim Board changes as a Non Executive Director on 1 July of increasing dividends in line with the Increased 2017 and has spent her entire career long-term underlying growth in earnings.
Mike Powell joined the Group as Chief total ordinary working in and running large international Any surplus cash after meeting these Financial Officer CFO on 1 June 2017 dividend to e-commerce businesses including eight investment needs will be returned and he brings a wealth of experience 110.0pence years at Amazon.
com Inc. Nadia will to shareholders.
having worked in a variety of senior 2015 16: 100.0 provide support, challenge management finance positions.
He has spent many Reecting managements confidence pence and share and assist in capitalising on the significant years running large businesses in inthe business and the continuing strong buyback of opportunities in the years ahead.
North America which will stand him in cash generation of the Group, the Board 500million good stead in his career at Ferguson.
considers that the Group has surplus Governance Dave Keltners appointment as Interim cashresources available.
The Group CFO last year, after 10 years as CFO The Company remains UK-listed and willnow commence a 500 million share of the USA, enabled us to conduct a meets the requirements of the regulations buyback programme with the intention thorough search for a suitable long-term published by the UK Government tocomplete this within the next 12 months.
CFO and execute an orderly handover concerning narrative and directors Our balance sheet remains strong and ofresponsibilities to Mike.
We continue theGroup will continue to target net debt to meet these disclosure requirements, in the range of 1x to 2x EBITDA, consistent Frank Roach, formerly Chief Executive of monitor developments and adopt best with investment grade credit metrics.
the USA, also retired this year.
Frank had practice in corporate governance.
aremarkable career with Ferguson, joining We describe how we have applied the People the business 41 years ago.
In particular, UK Corporate Governance Codes main histenure as Chief Executive for the On behalf of the Board, I would like to principles in the Governance section of lasteight years has been outstanding, thank all our associates for their hard work, this report on pages 50 to 84.
The Board achieving sustained rapid growth and enthusiasm and dedication throughout places great emphasis on providing clear record trading margins.
It is the service they provide and transparent reporting and believes that delivers continually improving results On behalf of the Board Id like to this Annual Report is fair, balanced for the Group and creates value for thank both Frank and Dave for their and understandable.
customers, suppliers and shareholders significant contributions to the Groups every year.
success and wish them both long and Shareholder returns happy retirements.
The Board is committed to maximising long-term shareholder value.
We are Kevin Murphy succeeded Frank on recommending a final dividend of 73.33 1 August 2017.
Kevin joined the business pence per share 2015 16: 66.72 pence in 1999 and spent the last 10 years as the Gareth Davis per share, to be paid on 1 December Chief Operating Officer of the USA.
Chairman 2017 to shareholders on the register at27 October 2017.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
