Chairmans Statement I have pleasure in presenting to shareholders the twenty-eighth Annual Report of the Genesis Emerging th Markets Fund Limited, for the twelve-month period ending 30 June 2017.
Performance The last twelve months have been a rewarding period for emerging markets investors.
Improving investor sentiment on the outlook for the Chinese economy and a global wave of enthusiasm for internet and technology stocks combined to drive the MSCI EM TR Index up by 25.3% in US dollar terms.
For UK investors, the index return was higher still, at 27.8%, as sterling weakened slightly against the US dollar over the period.
Against this performance backdrop, the Funds net asset value per share NAV increased from 621.4p to 749.6p, representing a return of 20.6% for shareholders.
The Funds share price rose by 20.8%.
Shareholders will be aware that the Funds portfolio contains stocks which the Manager considers to be high-quality, and feels are priced attractively.
Consequently, during times when emerging stockmarkets appreciate very rapidly, and are driven by a narrow sector of the market, the Funds performance is likely to lag that of the index in the short term.
The relative underperformance we have seen over the past year has partly been a consequence of the Fund's underweight to Chinese internet stocks in particular: a position that reflects the stretched nature of the current valuations of companies such as Tencent and Alibaba rather than the Manager's assessment of their corporate quality.
That said, we are very conscious that, over the medium term, the Funds relative performance has not been at the level that shareholders have come to expect.
As a Board we are encouraged by the Manager's response to this challenging period, in terms of enhancing its investment process through the use of more precise definitions of corporate quality when assessing companies, and increased formalisation and consistency of the investment theses across the portfolio in order to address the reasons behind the disappointing results.
Nonetheless, shareholders should be assured that my colleagues and I continue to review the Funds performance very carefully at our meetings and frequent discussions with the Manager.
The Funds Portfolio and the Manager The Manager follows an investment approach which relies on fundamental analysis to identify companies it feels are able to generate attractive returns to investors over a five-year horizon, or longer, but which the market appears to be pricing too cheaply.
This approach relies strongly on assessing the quality of individual companies, which importantly incorporates not just management capability and business strength, but also how they take into account the environmental, social and governance factors to which they are exposed.
The resulting portfolio currently consists of a diversified group of 125 companies from 36 countries including several businesses at the smaller end of the opportunity set.
The typically low turnover 24% over the last twelve months and 21% per annum on average over the last five years and the correspondingly high average holding period of more than six years both reflect the Managers fundamental, long-term approach.
My colleagues and I have confidence that the investment approach and the portfolio characterised above is appropriate for the Fund.
I have noted our ongoing discussion with the Manager about medium-term performance but fundamentally given the experience of the Managers team in emerging markets and the long history of its business, as well as its response to recent challenges the Board considers that shareholders interests remain well-served by the ongoing appointment of Genesis and this is reviewed every year.
6 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com The Managers Review on page 32 of this Annual Report provides a description of portfolio activity over the year, and explains in more detail some of the factors behind the Funds performance.
Management Fee After discussions between the Board and the Manager, the management fee payable to Genesis st Asset Managers, LLP was reduced at the start of the financial year, 1 July 2017, to 0.95% of NAV per annum.
The figure was previously 1.25% per annum.
We believe that this change makes the Funds management fee competitive in the peer group of similar closed-end funds: naturally the Board continues to monitor this position.
Discount The Funds share price moved from 540.0p to 652.5p over the year, a rise of 20.8%.
The discount to NAV therefore narrowed marginally from 13.1% at the beginning of the period to 12.9% at the end.
For most of this time, however, the discount was generally tighter: the average level over the twelve months was 12.2% as it fluctuated in a range roughly between 10.6% and 13.6%.
These statistics, and the potential options for appropriate active management of the discount, are considered carefully by the Board.
The Funds ability to buy back shares remains in place, but this year as in previous years the Board felt that no action in this regard was warranted.
It is notable that while the Funds discount at present is wider than most of its history, it remains closely in line with the comparable group of peer funds.
Dividend Shareholders will be aware that the Fund's stated objective is to achieve capital growth, and that reflecting this aim has not paid shareholders a dividend for many years.
The topic of potential dividend payments has, however, been among others a point of discussion in my meetings with shareholders over the past several months, and it is clear that there is increased interest in the Fund distributing income on an ongoing basis.
The Directors have accordingly considered this matter, and have concluded that it would be appropriate to pay out, as a dividend, the available income received by the Fund from its underlying investments, and that this approach will be reviewed on an annual basis.
At the same time, the Board has also reviewed the Fund's allocation of expenses and has concluded st that starting from the beginning of the current financial year on 1 July 2017 80% of the annual management fee and certain other costs should be allocated to the capital account, rather than to the revenue account.
This reallocation is a reflection of the Board's long-term assessment of the balance of returns between capital and revenue and will have the effect of increasing revenue earnings while reducing capital returns by a corresponding amount.
For shareholders, this will result in a higher level of income available for distribution as a dividend.
We wish to recommend to shareholders that the Fund distributes a dividend of 14.0 US cents per share in respect of the 2016-17 financial year, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting 'AGM' in November.
While declared in US dollars, the dividend will be paid in sterling: we should note to shareholders that the distribution amount will not be hedged between the time of this announcement and the payment date.
The Board believes that this level of dividend represents an appropriate balance between the various differing interests, and opinions, held across the shareholder base and maintains the fundamental focus on capital growth that remains the Fund's objective.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 7 The Board of Directors We announced in July the appointment of Katherine Tsang as a Non-Executive Director.
I am very confident that Katherines considerable experience in the banking and investment management sectors will be a valuable source of knowledge and insight for the Board in their discussions, particularly on China, and East Asia more generally.
This appointment brings the number of Directors to six.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to approve Katherines appointment at the AGM, at which the remaining five Directors will stand for re-election, in accordance with the requirements of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following the Boards internal evaluation process, I wholeheartedly recommend all Directors for re-election: I hope that shareholders will continue to feel confident in our ability to protect their interests, and thus support us with their vote.
AGM, Shareholder Meeting, and Shareholder Communication th At the end of this Annual Report is the notice convening the AGM to be held on 6 November 2017 in Guernsey, along with the schedule of resolutions for consideration.
As ever, we request that all shareholders take up the opportunity to vote on these.
The Board wishes to ensure that shareholders have access to a range of up-to-date information about the Fund.
As well as releasing announcements to the London Stock Exchange and issuing the Annual and Half-Yearly Reports, we encourage all shareholders to refer to the information on investment performance and portfolio activity contained in the Funds monthly factsheets.
These and other Fund literature can be found on the Funds website www.
Shareholders will also find at the end of this Annual Report an invitation to the Funds annual Shareholder th Information Meeting which this year will take place on 7 November 2017 at the Investment Advisers office in London.
We hope that as many shareholders as possible will take this opportunity to hear directly from representatives of the Manager.
In general, the Manager will usually be best placed to address queries from shareholders.
Clearly, however, it is important for shareholders to be able to communicate directly with the Board when necessary.
I have continued to speak regularly with major shareholders over the year, but invite any shareholders to contact me or Russell Edey as Senior Independent Director, or indeed any of the Board, with comments and feedback: we can be reached via either the Manager or the Administrator at the addresses on page 76 of this Report.
Outlook My report to shareholders a year ago noted the variety of challenges facing emerging markets companies, which included increased competition, declining penetration opportunities, a lack of business-friendly reforms, along with in many cases high valuations.
While the past years 20% absolute returns are welcome, they have of course meant that valuations have become even more elevated, while none of the other issues have receded.
At the same time, a more positive view about the health of the Chinese economy may well turn out to be less warranted than many investors seem to believe, and some countries arguably Brazil, Turkey, South Africa have seen political governance quality move backwards rather than forwards.
8 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com There are thus plenty of reasons to be wary of the short-term environment.
We believe very strongly, however, that investors should keep in mind the longer-term attractions underpinning emerging markets.
The income levels of populations in developing countries populations are gradually moving towards those in developed markets: progress in governance while not linear continues to take place at both country and company level: emerging stock markets still exhibit significant inefficiencies for investors who can identify them.
A carefully selected portfolio of the right companies, capitalising on these three fundamental characteristics, still offers investors the potential for attractive long-term returns from emerging markets.
Hlne Ploix Chairman th 28 September 2017 www.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 9
