Chairmans statement I am pleased to report on a year of strong performance and significant strategic progress.
Over the 12 months 1 NAV per share increased by 12.5 per cent on a total return basis, and towards the end of the year we began the evolution of the Companys investment strategy to one focused on investing in and building global leaders in healthcare, underpinned and funded by our leading funds portfolio.
A transformative transaction The Company now has assets of In December 2016, shareholders 895.2million 2016: 472.2 million.
approved the expansion of the Companys The combination of BACIT and Synconas investment policy and the acquisition from expertise and investment portfolios the Wellcome Trust of Syncona Partners, has created an innovative and efficient a portfolio of life science investments, evergreen capital structure with a together with its highly respected successful funds portfolio providing investment management team, led by capital for compelling investment Martin Murphy.
As part of the transaction, opportunities in life science.
the Company also acquired Cancer Performance Research UKs interest in the CRT The results for the year are the first Pioneer Fund.
milestone for our strategy, with NAV per BACIT was created in 2012 to provide share increasing to 136.0p from 122.8p.
attractive returns for shareholders and Performance has been driven by the a growing income stream for cancer continued progress in the funds portfolio research, through significant annual and an increase in the valuation of Blue donations to The Institute of Cancer Earth Diagnostics, which commenced Research and other charities.
In the same sales of Axumin in the United States during year, Wellcome set up Syncona Partners the year and more recently has received with long-term, expert capital to create approval from the European Medicines and invest in sustainable life science Agency for the sale of Axumin in Europe.
businesses created from highly-innovative Since the inception of BACIT in October academic science.
2012, the annualised NAV per share total return has been 8.9 per cent.
Dividend and charitable donations We recognise that a reliable source of growing dividends is an important part of shareholder total return over both the short and the longer terms.
Accordingly, the Board has declared a final We have a very strong dividend of 2.3p per share, a 4.5 per cent increase on the previous year 2016: 2.2p.
management team, a unique We are also pleased to be making capital structure and a host significant charitable donations for the year of 4.75 million 2016: 4.75 million, taking ofinvestment opportunities.
the total since inception to 18.1 million.
Jeremy Tigue Chairman 1 Including 2.2p dividend paid in August 2016.
Syncona Limited 2 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Board Shareholders Our vision is to deliver Nigel Keen and Ellen Strahlman joined the We are very grateful to all our shareholders transformational treatments Board in December 2016.
Both Nigel and for their continued support.
In particular, to patients in innovative areas Ellen bring extensive expertise in the life I would like to welcome our new science sector and on behalf of the Board, shareholders, including Wellcome and of healthcare while generating I welcome them.
At the same time, Cancer Research UK, whose vision and superior returns for shareholders.
ArabellaCecil stepped down from the support made the new strategy possible.
Board, although she remains the Chief The future Investment Officer of our funds portfolio We expect there to be a number of team.
In addition, Colin Maltby retired from milestones in our existing life science the Board in July 2016 and Peter Hames, portfolio in the coming year and we have who has been a Board member since the a good pipeline of investment opportunities.
Company listed in 2012, will step down as Our funds portfolio provides a deep pool a Director at the forthcoming AGM.
of capital to fund these and future I am very grateful to all my colleagues opportunities, while continuing to target for their contribution and support, and in attractive returns for shareholders.
particular would like to thank those who We have a strong management team, have stepped down or will be stepping a unique capital structure and a host of down from the Board this year for their investment opportunities.
The future is invaluable contributions.
With the combination of the BACIT and Syncona businesses, the composition of the Board is evolving and we have engaged an executive search consultant to assist in the appointment of two new Directors to the Board in due course.
Jeremy Tigue Chairman 5 July 2017 Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 3
