Strategic report|Chairman's statement Chairmans statement Transforming outcomes by This was another strong year for Experian, and unlocking the power of data we continued to successfully implement our Organisations and individuals around strategy and deliver consistent growth, despite the world are generating increasingly political and economic volatility in some of our vast quantities of raw data.
Organic revenue growth was 5% is to transform this data into insights that benefit consumers and our clients.
and Benchmark EBIT rose by 6%, allowing the In doing so, we help consumers to Board to increase the full-year dividend by 4% understand and improve their financial to 41.5 US cents per share.
status, and enable organisations to connect with their customers, identify trends, predict business outcomes and plan for the future.
In North America, we made significant progress as we invested in new data sources, introduced sophisticated decisioning tools and expanded further into new industry segments, including the healthcare market.
We went from Don Robert, Chairman strength to strength in Latin America, as we greatly expanded our position with large banks and retailers, and as we introduced additional new services for Highlights 2017 small and medium-sized enterprises.
This enabled us to prosper, despite the recession in Brazil.
The breadth of our offering in the UK bn and Ireland was a major advantage in US$4.3 USc41.5 serving traditional clients and in opening Revenue Full-year dividend up new industry segments, such as per share energy, the price comparison sector and the emerging financial technology space.
In EMEA Asia Pacific, we made further progress towards becoming the leading provider of credit decisioning and fraud prevention services in our chosen markets.
bn m US$1.1 US$734 We are also transforming our direct-to-consumer businesses and Benchmark Total shareholder operating cash flow returns further strengthening our consumer relationships.
We now offer consumers in the UK, Brazil and the USA free access to their credit scores and have launched services matching individuals to the most suitable loans, credit cards and mortgages.
In Brazil, we have helped % to increase the transparency of credit 2.5 39,000 decisions by offering Serasa Score, the CO e reduction per Volunteering hours 2 first-ever free credit score for Brazilian $1,000 of revenue by employees consumers, based on both positive and negative data.
24 Strategic report|Chairman's statement Over the past two years, we have focused businesses.
Notable examples include Recognising the achievements our portfolio on those businesses which our programme in USA Health, which of our people have a clear strategic fit.
This allows identifies charitable funding for Our 16,300 employees are vital for us to target resources and investment consumers who need help with their our continued success and I am proud and to create the most value for all medical bills.
In Colombia, our financial that we are recognised as a leading our stakeholders.
In April 2017, we education programme will enable more employer and developer of talent.
Over announced the sale of a controlling than 500,000 people to build a score, the past year, we have been certified by interest in our email cross-channel so they are eligible for government the Top Employers Institute in the UK, marketing business 'CCM'.
And in Vietnam, labelled a 'Top Workplace in the USA been a great investment for Experian we are helping to link 1.3 million and recognised by the UN for our good and, under a new specialist owner, it is lowto middle-income consumers practices for employees with disabilities well placed for the future.
with the right offers from banks and in Brazil.
Our tribute to Dr Simon Ramo We continue to seek new ways to It was with much sadness that we nurture talent and widen access to commemorated the passing of Dr Simon opportunities.
When recruiting, we look m Ramo, at the age of 103.
Si Ramo was across a multitude of industries and non- 1.3 one of our original founders and his traditional talent pools, and insist on a vision was to revolutionise the credit In Vietnam, we are diverse shortlist of candidates.
Our ethos industry in the USA.
was recognised in Brazil when Serasa helping to link 1.3 Experian received the Empregueafro million people with His legacy lives on in Experian.
In Award for Valuing Ethnic-Racial Diversity November 2016, we awarded the nowoffers from banks and in December 2016.
We have also annual Si Ramo Prize to a team which telecommunications launched Women in Experian, to create developed new ways for consumers more opportunities for women and help companies.
to access instant credit through their them achieve their potential.
Exciting innovations like this are central to our future, and this Looking forward Board and senior management ability to break new ground was again Experian has a clear strategy and our recognised by Forbes magazine, which This year, we welcomed Caroline performance shows we are executing named us among the worlds 100 most Donahue as a non-executive director it successfully.
We continue to benefit innovative companies for the third and said goodbye to Judith Sprieser who people, businesses and society wherever straight year.
served with great effectiveness on our we operate, resulting in rewards for Board for six years.
consumers, client organisations, Embracing our role in society employees and shareholders.
I would Caroline brings extensive international Corporate responsibility is inherent to like to thank everyone at Experian for markets and technology experience, Experian.
We help millions of people to their hard work over the past year and and knowledge of consumer sales and access essential services by making the for their ongoing support, as we look marketing, innovation and consumermost of their data.
In turn, we make a forward with confidence.
centricity, all of which are valuable valuable difference to society and our attributes for Experian.
We do this in many ways, such as providing free credit reports Joy Griffiths retired from Experian in to non-governmental organisations, March 2017, having worked to transform delivering financial education to our prospects in Decision Analytics and community groups or helping individuals in Asia Pacific.
PowerCurve is now the to tackle debt.
You will find examples of worlds leading decisioning platform our work throughout this Annual Report.
and Joys legacy will enable Experian to extend its lead in this market and Our centrally funded Social Innovation to capture the opportunity in fraud programme uses the exceptional prevention and management.
power of our product development to support consumers and small 25
