Overview Chairmans statement The Company has had a strong year.
In a competitive market, we completed six new investments totalling 479 million and executed asuccessful capitalraise.
We have delivered our target dividend of7.55 pence per share for the year.
Performance Capital raise and liquidity 3i Infrastructure provides The Company generated a total We were delighted with the results itsshareholders with a return of 146 million in the year of our capital raise, which was clearinvestment proposition, ending 31 March 2017, or 9.4% of signicantly oversubscribed.
There delivering an attractive opening NAV adjusted on a time was a high take up from existing mixofincome yield and weighted average basis for the investors through the open offer and capital raise, in line with the target of strong interest was received from capitalappreciation.
8% to 10% per annum to be achieved new investors in the placing and The Company has continued to over the medium term.
The NAV per intermediary offers.
The equity raise deliver its objectives during the year, share increased to 169 pence.
The proceeds were fully deployed within due to the quality of its portfolio portfolio is performing in line with seven months.
and the advice it receives from the expectation.
We delivered a Total We manage our balance sheet Investment Adviser.
This has been a Shareholder Return TSR of 16.1% actively, seeking efficiency through very busy year, including the largest in the period FTSE 250: 15.3%.
low levels of uninvested cash with a equity raise in the sector since the Since IPO, the Companys annualised range of funding options available to initial public offering of the Company TSR was 11.6%, comparing favourably the Company for further investment in 2007 and a record level of new with the broader market FTSE as described in the Financial review.
investment to deploy that additional 250: 7.9% annualised over the same capital.
I am grateful to the Board period.
The Company has achieved and the Investment Adviser for their this performance with relatively low support during this busy time, and share price volatility.
inmy first full year as Chairman.
Richard Laing Chairman, 3i Infrastructure plc 10 May 2017 2 Overview Investment activity Corporate governance The infrastructure market remains The Board aims to uphold the highly competitive, driven by highest standard of corporate 1 46m the sustained low interest rate governance.
Shareholders can total return environment and availability of debt nd further detail in the improved finance on attractive terms.
Against Governance section of this report.
this backdrop, the Investment Philip Austin MBE, the Senior Adviser has sourced and completed Independent Director of the a number of new investments during Company, stepped down from the 16 9.0p the year at what we consider to be Board on 31 December 2016 having NAV per share attractive risk adjusted returns.
These been a Director since 16 January new investments are performing well 2007.
We are extremely grateful to and have helped deliver income in Phil for his valuable contribution to line with expectations for the year.
the Board over the past 10 years The Investment Advisers review and since the Companys initial 7.
85p describes the investments made public offering.
Paul Masterton was target dividend during the year, alongside portfolio appointed as Senior Independent for FY18 developments, inmore detail.
Director with effect from 1 January 2017.
The Companys Annual General Dividend Meeting was held on 7 July 2016.
All resolutions were approved by Following the payment of the shareholders, including the election interim dividend of 3.775 pence per and re-election of all Directors to the share in January 2017, the Board is Board.
This years AGM will be held recommending a final dividend for on 6 July 2017. the year of 3.775 pence per share, meeting our target for the year of Outlook 7.55 pence per share.
We expect the final dividend to be paid on 10 July The infrastructure market continues 2017.
Consistent with our progressive to offer attractive investment dividend policy, we are announcing opportunities which the Investment a total dividend target for the year Adviser is well placed to deliver.
ending 31 March 2018 of 7.85 pence Theportfolio is now larger and more per share, representing a year-ondiversied, by number, country, year increase of 4%.
This underpins a steady return prole for investors, with a good balance of dividend income and capital growth.
We remain confident in our business model and our ability to continue to deliver on our objectives and strategic priorities.
The Investment Adviser has identied a healthy pipeline of investment opportunities across our target markets, and we have the funding options and market access to continue to investselectively.
Investment Advisers review page 11, Financial review page 38 and Governance section page 53.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 3
