Health & Safety Executive Headquarters, UK Contents Overview 1.1 Summary of the Year 4 01 1.2 Chairmans Statement 8 Strategic Report 2.1 The Infrastructure Market 14 02 2.2 Business Model 15 2.3 Strategy & Objectives 16 2.4 Case Study: A Decade of Outperformance 22 2.5 Investment Advisers Report 24 2.6 Key Performance and Quality Indicators 28 2.7 Case Study: Toll Roads 30 Strategic Report: Performance & Risk 3.1 Operational and Financial Review 34 03 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio 44 3.3 Case Study: Foreign Exchange Risk 52 3.4 Investment Portfolio 54 3.5 Portfolio analysis 56 3.6 Risk & Risk Management 58 3.7 Risk Committee Report 68 Strategic Report: Responsible Investment Environmental, Social & Governance 04 4.1 Overview 72 4.2 Responsible Investment Environmental, Social & Governance Considerations 73 4.3 Review of the Year 74 4.4 Case Study: Responsible Investment in Action 76 Board & Governance 5.1 Operational Structure 84 05 5.2 Board of Directors 86 5.3 The Investment Adviser 88 5.4 Corporate Governance Statement 89 5.5 Audit Committee Report 95 5.6 Directors Remuneration Report 98 5.7 Report of the Directors 101 5.8 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 104 Financial Statements 6.1 Independent Auditors Report 108 06 6.2 Financial Statements 112 6.3 Notes to the Financial Statements 116 Glossary 148 Directors and Advisers 150 01 OVERVIEW 1.1 Summary of the Year as at 31 March 2017 A Global Portfolio of Infrastructure Investments 77% UK 8% 11% North America Europe 4% Australia TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS INVESTMENT STATUS Fully operational 98% Construction 2% MARKET SEGMENT PPP projects 88% Demand-based assets 12% 1.
Dutch High Speed Rail Link 3% 2.
AquaSure 4% 4 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 01 OVERVIEW Key Statistics for the year ended 31 March 2017 149.0p 7.65p NAV per share up 4.8% dividend per share up 2.7% 10.3% 2.38bn total return for the year Directors Valuation of the portfolio NAV per share appreciation plus dividend paid Our Business Model in Action Case Studies VALUE PRESERVATION VALUE ENHANCEMENT ACCRETIVE INVESTMENT Protecting the value of Outperforming the base case, Purchasing assets that enhance the HICLs portfolio.
delivery of the investment proposition.
Foreign Exchange Risk A Decade of Outperformance Toll Roads Preserving value for shareholders does HICL has delivered a total return since A deeper look at HICLs recent not just concern the investments in the IPO of 9.6% on a NAV per share purchases of two operational toll portfolio HICL also seeks to mitigate appreciation plus dividends paid basis, roads.
Includes information on the systemic risks where practical.
outperforming the IPO target of 7-8%.
projects, a look at traffic performance and sensitivities.
See page 52 See page 22 See page 30 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 5 01 OVERVIEW Defence Sixth Form College, UK 6 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 01 Overview Delivering Real Value.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 7 01 OVERVIEW 1.2 Chairmans Statement Ian Russell Chairman HICL has delivered another good set of results, underpinned by portfolio performance that exceeded expectations.
381.0m new equity capital raised 266.6m total net investments on an Investment Basis, comprising 10 new and five incremental investments 8 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 01 OVERVIEW I am pleased to present the Annual From IPO in March 2006 to 31 March 2017, the Company has delivered a total shareholder return of 9.6% p. a.
Report for HICL Infrastructure based on dividends paid and the growth in NAV per share.
The Company has This compares favourably to the Companys long-term target of 7-8% per annum.
Further guidance was given in the delivered another good set of results, Companys recent prospectus, being a target long-term underpinned by portfolio performance return of 5.6% p. a. based on an issue price of 159p that exceeded expectations.
During the financial year the Company successfully raised Cash received from the portfolio by way of distributions 381.0m of new equity capital and completed 15 investments was ahead of expectations.
After operating and finance for a combined value on an Investment Basis of 266.6m.
costs on an Investment Basis, a net cash flow of 122.8m In addition, since year end we have completed the 269m 2016: 107.3m covered the cash dividend 1.22 times acquisition of a substantial interest in Affinity Water.
investments demonstrate the excellent progress made in On an IFRS basis at 31 March 2017 investments at fair value delivering the Companys Acquisition Strategy.
investments are consistent with the Companys objective of delivering income to shareholders from a portfolio that is positioned at the lower end of the risk spectrum.
Dividends for the year amounted to 7.65p, an increase of 2.7% Cash received from the portfolio by on the prior year, and a yield on the share price at 31 March way of distributions was ahead of 2017 of 4.5%.
With our focus on delivering dividend income expectations.
After operating and to shareholders, we believe the investment proposition has remained attractive in a climate of persistently low interest finance costs, net cash flow covered rates.
Furthermore, with the prospect of higher inflation in the the dividend 1.22 times.
UK, the inflation-correlated returns generated over the long term by the Groups portfolio have come more into focus.
Both the Board and the Investment Adviser believe the The Portfolio Company is in a good position to make further, suitable During the year the Company completed 10 new investments investments, based on the current pipeline of prospective and made five incremental investments in existing projects.
investments and the Investment Advisers origination skills As at 31 March 2017, the portfolio consisted of 114 investments and investment network.
Financial Results The Investment Advisers Asset Management and Portfolio The Investment Adviser prepared a fair market valuation of the Management teams actively seek strong day-to-day relationships portfolio at 31 March 2017.
As in prior years, this is based on with key stakeholders and work to find efficiencies and savings a discounted cash flow analysis and it uses key assumptions across the portfolio over the longer term.
This active engagement recommended by the Investment Adviser based on its has contributed to a good performance during the year with experience and having taken into account market intelligence cash flow from the portfolio being ahead of our projections.
The Directors have satisfied themselves with the methodology and assumptions used The Companys Acquisition Strategy is focused on three and as usual have taken independent third party advice on principal market segments: PPP projects, regulated assets the valuation.
The Directors have approved the portfolio e. g. gas and electricity transmission projects: water utilities and valuation of 2,380.0m on an Investment Basis at 31 March demand-based assets e. g. toll road concessions and student 2017 2,030.3m at 31 March 2016.
The Investment Adviser maintains a between the IFRS basis and Investment Basis financial disciplined approach to assessing potential investment statements can be found in the Pro Forma Statements in opportunities based targeting those that are accretive to the Section 3.1 Operational and Financial Review.
The Net Asset Value NAV per share was 149.0p at 31 March The correlation of the portfolios long-term returns to inflation 2017, an increase of 6.8p on the 142.2p at 31 March 2016. improved during the year, being 0.7 at 31 March 2017 2016: This increase was supported by portfolio performance that 0.6, and the portfolios weighted-average asset life increased exceeded expectations, downward pressure on discount to 24.4 years 2016: 21.5 years.
This improvement to the rates, contributions from new acquisitions and share issuance portfolio was largely the result of the investment made by the at a premium to NAV.
After deducting the fourth quarterly Group in the Northwest Parkway Colorado, USA, a longinterim dividend of 1.92p to be paid on 30 June 2017, the concession toll road with an operational track record of more NAV per share at 31 March 2017 was 147.1p.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 9 01 OVERVIEW 1.2 Chairmans Statement Continued The Companys Investment Policy permits up to 35% of Distributions the portfolio to be invested in demand-based assets, assets Since IPO in 2006, the Company has met or exceeded all of under construction and or other funds.
However, it is the its dividend guidance targets and this set of results marks the current intention of the Board and the Investment Adviser that Companys tenth successive year of dividend growth.
no more than 20% of the portfolio by value will be invested in On 18 May 2017 the Board declared a fourth quarterly interim demand-based assets with returns that are correlated to the dividend for the year to 31 March 2017 of 1.92p per share economic cycle.
which will be paid on 30 June 2017.
This results in an Capital Raising aggregate dividend for the year of 7.65p per share, an During the period the Company raised equity capital of increase of 2.7% over the prior year.
A scrip dividend 381.0m, including scrip dividends.
In September 2016, alternative is available.
113.4m was raised through a tap issue.
In March 2017, The Boards confidence in the near-term forecast cash flow the Company raised 260m through the issue of new performance of the Groups portfolio underpins the dividend shares via a Placing, Open Offer, Offer for Subscription and targets of 7.85p per share for the year ended 31 March 2018 Intermediaries Offer.
The latest issue was more than three and 8.05p per share for the year ended 31 March 2019 times oversubscribed.
The Board The Board is grateful for the support from the Companys intends to continue paying quarterly dividends, with a shareholders, both existing and new.
The success of the capital scrip dividend alternative.
raisings reflects the attraction and popularity of infrastructure Risks and Uncertainties as an asset class and also the Companys track record, The risks to which the Company is exposed and the portfolio and business model.
The Placing, Open Offer, strategies employed to mitigate them have not changed Offer for Subscription and Intermediaries Offer represented materially since 31 March 2016.
They are set out in detail in the Companys first prospectus fundraising since 2013, the February 2017 Prospectus, which is available on the enabling both existing and new retail shareholders to Companys website.
subscribe for new shares at a slight discount to the prevailing market share price.
2016 was marked by political uncertainty and this theme has continued into 2017, most recently with the decision to call a The Company is in advanced discussions to partially general election in the UK.
The long-term impact of the UKs sell down up to 25m of its investment in Affinity Water.
EU Referendum is still uncertain.
Sterling experienced a This is part of a strategy to build relationships with aligned significant devaluation in the aftermath of the referendum co-investors in order to enable the Group to manage its and, as in previous years, the Companys hedging policy portfolio exposure to larger investment opportunities.
has successfully mitigated the impact of foreign exchange Once this has been completed, the Company will have movements on NAV.
Another consequence of Sterlings a net funding requirement of approximately 205m.
relative weakness during the year has been to increase The Company increased the capacity of the revolving credit inflationary pressures in the UK, although this may not be facility at Corporate Subsidiary level from 200m to 300m sustained over the longer term.
in November 2016 and to 400m in April 2017.
The facility With a large portfolio, investments with operational challenges maintains the Companys flexibility to acquire further are to be expected.
Overall, the Groups portfolio continues to investments prior to raising fresh equity.
This reduces the experience good operational performance.
Progress has been impact of cash drag on the investment returns which can made with public sector clients where there had previously result from holding uninvested cash on the balance sheet.
been disagreements over operational issues, with a series of settlement agreements being concluded.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the Group maintains an active approach by continuing to manage stakeholder relationships and monitoring and resolving operational difficulties.
149.0p The Board also recognises the importance of identifying and actively monitoring the financial and non-financial risks facing NAV per share up 4.8% the Company.
Following an external review in 2015, an enhanced risk management and reporting framework for the Company was developed with the Investment Adviser.
This was reviewed and subsequently adopted by the Directors during 2016.
A risk dashboard summarises how risks have evolved, the controls and mitigants and also uses stress and scenario analysis to quantify the potential cash flow and valuation impact of key risks.
Section 3.6 Risk & Risk Management of the Strategic Report provides more detail.
10 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 01 OVERVIEW The Board remains confident in the Companys future prospects...... and that the current pipeline will generate new investment opportunities that secure the delivery of income to shareholders for the long term.
Corporate Governance and Regulation Market Developments and Outlook Simon Holden and Kenneth Reid joined the Board of Directors Following the UKs Autumn Statement, expectations were in the year, bringing with them highly relevant financial expertise raised for the announcement of a new pipeline of PPP projects and commercial knowledge.
The Board remains optimistic that the Government will bring forward new projects after the current election has On 31 March 2017, Sarah Evans retired from the Board.
However, HICLs readiness to invest in UK joined the Board in 2008 and was chair of the Audit Committee.
infrastructure opportunities is not limited to PPP projects, as I would like to thank Sarah for the major contribution that evidenced by the Companys recent acquisition of Affinity she has made to HICL and her exemplary dedication and Water and participation in the OFTO programme, as well as professionalism.
With effect from 1 April 2017, Susie Farnon bids for a number of student accommodation projects.
The became chair of the Audit Committee and Simon Holden Investment Adviser actively continues to seek opportunities in assumed the role of chair of the Risk Committee.
the other target geographies identified in the Companys Acquisition Strategy.
As in previous years and in line with good corporate governance, the Directors offered themselves for re-election Competition across the infrastructure asset class remains at the Annual General Meeting AGM held in July 2016 and intense.
The year has seen continued muted activity in were duly re-elected.
They will be offering themselves for PPP secondary markets.
Nonetheless, the Investment re-election again at the forthcoming AGM on 17 July 2017.
Adviser has continued to source appropriate opportunities, principally from long-standing relationships.
The recent Affinity Investment Adviser Water acquisition demonstrated the value of relationships, At InfraRed, Tony Roper, who has led the Investment Advisers as the Company partnered with like-minded investors to fund management activity in relation to HICL since 2006, is secure the investment, without the need to participate in an handing over the day-to-day responsibility for leading the auction process.
Investment Advisers team to Harry Seekings, who joined InfraRed in 1998.
This is part of a two-year, well-coordinated The Board remains confident in the Companys future prospects.
succession plan that was agreed with the Board.
Tony The Investment Adviser continues to manage the existing continues as a member of the InfraRed HICL Investment portfolio to preserve value and to generate outperformance Committee and remains available to both the InfraRed team where possible.
Looking ahead, the Board is confident that the and the Board for support and advice as needed.
current pipeline will generate new investment opportunities that secure the delivery of income to shareholders for the long term.
Ian Russell Chairman 23 May 2017 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 11 02 STRATEGIC REPORT Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital, UK 12 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 02 Strategic Report Delivering Real Value.
HICL HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 13 13 S C T E O S R S P A O D R E A T T A E L A U S G S E E R T S 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.1 The Infrastructure Market The Infrastructure market can be segments offer the lowest categories of risk.
For example, PPP projects can offer some of the lowest risk investment segmented by revenue type.
opportunities in the infrastructure market due to the Within each market segment, there contractual nature of revenues and limited residual risks borne by equity investors.
However, if a PPP project is under are assets with differing risk profiles.
construction or has not been structured to fully pass down The infrastructure asset class covers a variety of sectors and key delivery risks to subcontractors, its risk profile can be risk profiles.
HICL has segmented the market using revenue incrementally higher when compared to a well-structured, risk categories.
The reason for this approach to segmentation operational PPP project.
is that in general terms infrastructure investments are HICL targets selective opportunities within each market perceived to offer long-term, stable and predictable cash segment, with a core focus on PPP projects, regulated assets flows and revenue is the fundamental building block of and demand-based assets.
The Companys positioning within cash flow.
the infrastructure market is discussed in more detail in The spectrum of risk associated with infrastructure assets Section 2.3 Strategy & Objectives.
varies within each market segment and not all market INFRASTRUCTURE MARKET MAP SHOWING RISK SPECTRUM PPP PROJECTS REGULATED ASSETS Examples: social infrastructure Examples: electricity and gas and transportation transmission & distribution: water utilities: district heating s Long-term contracts 20-30 year concessions s Owners of infrastructure assets with monopolistic s Public sector counterparties characteristics subject to INCREASING RISK strong covenants regulatory price controls s Availability or similar payments s Regulator agrees investment stable, contracted revenues requirements and determines with element of inflation linkage cost of equity s Long-term assets: low correlation with economic activity and good inflation linkage LOWER INCREASING RISK INCREASING RISK RISK CORPORATE ASSETS DEMAND-BASED ASSETS Example: rolling stock leasing Examples: toll roads, student accommodation, airports s Can cover delivery of services, not just provision of assets s Typically concessions, sometimes owners of s Contracted revenues with assets with monopolistic INCREASING RISK corporate counterparties characteristics s Often shorter-term contracts s Revenues linked to usage of the underlying assets s Usually have good inflation linkage: some but not all assets have revenues correlated to GDP 14 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 D E M S A T N C D E - J B O A S R E P D P P A S P S E T S 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.2 Business Model Investment Proposition and Business Model TO DELIVER TO A LONG-TERM, FROM A PORTFOLIO POSITIONED AT THE SHAREHOLDERS STABLE INCOME OF INFRASTRUCTURE LOWER END OF THE INVESTMENTS RISK SPECTRUM ACCRETIVE INVESTMENT VALUE VALUE PRESERVATION ENHANCEMENT VALUE PRESERVATION VALUE ENHANCEMENT ACCRETIVE INVESTMENT Protecting the value of HICLs Outperforming the base Purchasing assets that enhance portfolio, principally through case, delivering upside the delivery of the investment active management of the assets to shareholders proposition s Ensure that investments perform s Pursuit of portfolio-wide cost-saving s Only consider opportunities that in line with business plans and initiatives, leveraging economies of scale fit HICLs risk appetite regulatory contractual expectations s Initiatives at the level of individual s Make attractively priced s Focused management of issues investments to outperform base case investments that are accretive when they arise to the existing portfolio s Selectively dispose of investments s Proactive initiatives across the to the extent this delivers value s Focus on car eful portfolio portfolio to reduce systemic risks that cannot be delivered through construction to ensure balance continued ownership and maintain diversification See case study on page 52 See case study on page 22 See case study on page 30 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 15 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.3 Strategy & Objectives This section summarises the Companys Since its IPO in 2006, the Company has delegated to the Investment Adviser, InfraRed Capital Partners InfraRed, the strategy for the key activities covered by bulk of the day-to-day activities required to deliver HICLs the business model see Section 2.2. business model.
More information on the InfraRed business can be found at Section 5.3 The Investment Adviser.
It also sets out objectives against which the Directors measure the Companys Value Preservation and Value Enhancement InfraReds Asset Management and Portfolio Management teams delivery of its investment proposition to work closely together, and in partnership with the management shareholders, both during the financial teams in the Groups portfolio companies, to preserve the value year and over the long term.
of the Groups investments: ensuring portfolio companies perform in line with the relevant contractual and or regulatory framework: Strategy and delivering the forecast base case investment return.
The Companys investments are almost exclusively made as A second area of focus for the Asset Management risk capital e. g. equity in unlisted companies that operate and Portfolio Management teams is to seek opportunities to within highly-structured business environments, e. g. complex deliver outperformance from the portfolio.
This upside is often contractual frameworks or regulated markets.
In this context, shared, with benefit accruing to the Companys shareholders specialist skills are a necessary prerequisite for originating and to public sector clients or, as part of regulatory price and managing infrastructure investments.
reviews, the customers of regulated assets.
Value Enhancement and Value Preservation VALUE PRESERVATION VALUE ENHANCEMENT Delivering target returns Outperforming target returns s Provide oversight and s Monitor financial s Sponsor the implementation s Explore opportunities to governance of portfolio performance of each of initiatives within portfolio add new revenues within companies, usually through investment against Group companies to reduce existing portfolio companies Board representation forecasts ongoing costs, but not to for example, undertaking the detriment of service contract variations on PPP s Build relationships with s Improve cash efficiency by delivery for example, projects that add to the key portfolio company managing cash flow from refinancing existing senior scope of services counterparties, in particular Group investments and debt facilities public sector clients minimise cash drag on s Drive efficient financial regulators returns s Develop and implement management of the procurement efficiencies Company, seeking s Facilitate and or drive s Manage the process across the Groups opportunities to reduce resolution of operational and analysis required for portfolio, in particular by ongoing charges issues, including disputes valuations of the Groups leveraging economies portfolio s Consider where value can of scale for example, s Promote ESG awareness be improved, or portfolio management services within portfolio company s Follow prudent financial risk profile improved, and insurances for PPP management teams, management practices e. g. through selective disposals projects encouraging the pursuit of accounting and tax policies: specific initiatives treasury processes 16 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 02 STRATEGIC REPORT Accretive Investment The Company has a clearly defined Investment Policy, which can be found on the Companys website.
This sets the over-arching framework within which the Company aims to build a portfolio that delivers the Investment Proposition see Section 2.2 and is consistent with the Companys overall risk appetite.
Working within delegated parameters approved by the HICL Board, InfraRed is responsible for the selection and pricing of new investments.
The Acquisition Strategy is periodically reviewed by the Board and agreed with InfraRed, most recently in October 2016.
InfraReds Origination and Transaction Team sources opportunities that are within the scope of the Acquisition Strategy by focusing on specific strategies and applying a consistent evaluation framework, set out in the table below.
Accretive Investment Current Acquisition Strategy GEOGRAPHY MARKET SEGMENT ASSET QUALITY OPPORTUNITY TO ADD VALUE Located in Generates longAt the lower end of Enhances existing target markets term revenues the risk spectrum portfolio s Europe UK s Principal focus: s Monopoly or essential s Accretive on one or PPP projects, e. g. asset concession more metric: s North America availability payments Total return s Long-term, stable Regulated assets Yield s Australia NZ cash flows built on: supported by clear robust Inflation linkage revenues with regulatory framework Asset life good visibility Demand-based assets where relevant, good s Pricing discipline with a track record of quality counterparties usage, downside s Potential for upside where possible, longprotection or other term debt financing s Sustains prudent portfolio mitigation of cash flow at asset level construction and volatility diversification s Opportunistic approach: corporate assets with contracted revenues and acceptable covenant HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 17 GDP linked construction Hybrid payment mechanisms C S O T R E P S O S R A A T D GDP linked operational E E T A A Availability construction S L S U E G T E S R Availability operational Low GDP correlation 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.3 Strategy & Objectives Continued InfraRed uses a variety of channels to source investments for In considering this illustration, the following should be taken the Group.
These include: into account: s soliciting off-market transactions through relationships s lower risk investments are towards the centre of within InfraReds extensive network of investment partners the schematic, with higher risk investments towards and advisors: the outside: s acquiring further equity interests from co-shareholders of s not all sub-sectors are shown, in particular some higher existing portfolio companies: risk sub-sectors that are not relevant to the Company have been excluded: s participating selectively in primary investment activity, as part of procurement processes sponsored by the public s the schematic covers investments in developed markets sector: and i. e. does not include developing market investments : and s participating in competitive auctions of investments in the s grey indicates that opportunities do not typically exist in secondary market.
the relevant sub-sector across the entire risk spectrum.
The schematic below overlays the Companys Investment The diagram is designed to illustrate how the risk profiles of Policy onto the infrastructure market map see Section 2.1. market segments overlap there is not a neat delineation It also illustrates the risk spectrum of investment opportunities between the risk spectrum of each market segment based within sub-sectors where the Origination and Transaction purely on revenue type.
Risk is inherent in the scope of the team is focusing activity to deliver the Acquisition Strategy.
activities performed by the underlying portfolio companies, INFRASTRUCTURE MARKET MAP SHOWING RISK SPECTRUM AND HICL INVESTMENT POLICY INCREASING RISK INCREASING RISK INCREASING RISK LOWER RISK INCREASING RISK 18 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Expansion Enhancement Service Construction companies T I M I L D Y E M C A I S N L T D C - O B E Short-term contracts J A P S O Regulated Utilities Networks E R T D P A N P S P E S P E T M S T S E Long-term Availability contracted operational revenue V N I 02 STRATEGIC REPORT but the risk profile of investment cash flows can also be influenced by how the portfolio company has managed risk.
For example, it is possible to assess a poorly structured PPP project e. g. one that does not pass down construction risk to a subcontractor as higher risk than an operational toll road.
This is a theme that was explored in some detail at the Companys Capital Markets Seminar in February 2016, for which the supporting presentation is available on the Companys website.
Performance-based Objectives Dividends The Companys principal financial return objective is to offer long-term, sustainable income for shareholders.
This is delivered through the Companys dividend target an annual distribution of at least that paid during the prior financial year with the prospect of increasing the figure, provided it is sustainable with regard to the portfolios forecast operational performance and the prevailing macro-economic outlook.
Interim dividends are paid quarterly.
Quality-based Objectives The Company measures performance against other, important Total Return objectives to protect shareholders interests, including to: The Companys secondary financial return objective is to preserve the capital value of its investment portfolio and s maintain a diversified portfolio of investments deliver an element of capital growth, as reflected in its e. g. by reference to single asset and or counterparty longer-term IRR return target of 7-8%, set at IPO.
This target concentration and thereby mitigate concentration risk: has been achieved to date and the Directors believe that it s make accretive investments in line with the risk appetite of remains achievable looking forward.
the Company and consistent with its Investment Policy: Cash Cover s target long-term, predictable cash flow receipts from the An ability to pay cash-covered dividends is a key measure of portfolio by seeking where possible assets that maintain the Groups operating cash flow performance.
The Company or extend the weighted average unexpired portfolio targets a cash-covered dividend and performs stress test concession life: analysis to assess the robustness of cash coverage in the future.
s maintain effective treasury management processes, Inflation Correlation notably with respect to foreign exchange risk and efficient The Board considers inflation correlation to be one of the key cash management: and attributes of infrastructure investment.
The Company therefore seeks to provide shareholders who hold their investment s manage the Groups exposure to refinancing risk.
for the long term with a total return that has good positive Portfolio statistics can be found in Section 3.5 Portfolio correlation with inflation.
Analysis and more information on the Companys Acquisition Ongoing Charges Strategy can be found above.
The Board is committed to offering shareholders a competitive investment proposition through management of efficient gross portfolio level to net investor level returns.
This is achieved through attractive ongoing charges relative to the Companys peer group, with the intention to reduce such charges where possible.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 19 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.3 Strategy & Objectives Continued Treasury Group Cash Management and Financing Foreign exchange risk from non-Sterling assets is managed The Boards policy is that the Company should not hold by hedging investment income from overseas assets through material amounts of un-invested cash beyond what is the forward sale of the respective foreign currency for up to necessary to meet outstanding equity commitments for 24 months combined with balance sheet hedging through the existing investments or to fund potential acquisitions in the forward sale of non-Sterling currencies and by debt drawings near term.
New investments are typically funded initially by the under the Groups credit facility.
The Board will consider the Volatility appropriate timing and price for the issuance of new shares The Boards view is that one of the attributes of investments to repay the debt, in consultation with the Companys broker.
in infrastructure assets such as those that form part of the The Groups multi-currency revolving credit facility was Companys Acquisition Strategy is that valuations and returns enlarged during the year from 200m to 300m and to typically demonstrate low correlation to movements in the 400m in April 2017.
ING was added to the existing banking wider equities markets.
In line with this theme, the Companys group of HSBC, Lloyds Bank, National Australia Bank, share price has historically exhibited low correlation to the Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation and The Royal Bank of FTSE All-Share Index of the largest equities by market Scotland.
The facility carries a margin of 1.70% and the term capitalisation listed on the London Stock Exchange see runs until May 2019.
It is available to be drawn in cash and chart below.
letters of credit for future investment obligations.
The Directors wish to preserve this low correlation to the Treasury Group Foreign Exchange Hedging extent it is possible.
The Boards hedging policy is designed to provide confidence in the near-term yield and to limit NAV per share sensitivity to no more than 1% for a 10% foreign exchange movement.
This policy is being reviewed by the Board and the Investment Adviser.
More information can be found in Sections 2.5 Investment Advisers Report and 3.3 Case Study Foreign Exchange Risk.
HICL Total Shareholder Return TSR and Rolling 250-day Beta vs. the FTSE All-share Index 350p 3.00 300p 2.50 250p 2.00 200p 1.50 150p 1.00 100p 0.50 50p 0p 0.00 HICL Beta Utilities HICL TSR LHS FTSE All-share TSR LHS HICL Beta RHS Source: Thomson Reuters, May 2017.
Equity 1 to shareholders of 9.5% per annum, issuance, to enable growth through acquisitions, has been at a premium to the prevailing NAV per share which has added exceeding the target set at IPO further value.
In summary, analysing historic performance shows the The ten-year return comprises a combination of NAV growth benefit of accretive acquisitions combined with proactive and dividends of 109.6p per share in aggregate, 44.2p portfolio and asset management from InfraRed where higher than the earnings that could have been forecast many small incremental initiatives contribute to from the portfolio managed at IPO without any subsequent significant outperformance.
The Investment Adviser is confident that there will be future The Investment Adviser has considered the composition of opportunities to outperform current forecasts.
However, the this growth and determined that of the 44.2p, around 30p is scale of outperformance in the current portfolio may be less contributed by portfolio outperformance while 14.2p is than delivered historically given the optimisation achieved 2 attributable to changes in economic assumptions.
The chart on the right shows a bridge analysis over the Economic Assumptions ten-year period taking the NAV at IPO of 98.4p to the NAV Changes in economic assumptions have clearly benefited post interim dividend at March 2016 of 140.3p, taking into HICL over the 10 years with the largest benefit at 10.9p per account 67.7p of dividends paid or declared.
share coming from reducing corporation tax rates, mainly in the UK which was 30% at IPO and at March 2016 was Portfolio Outperformance forecast to fall to 17% in 2020.
The 30p NAV outperformance has arisen from a variety of initiatives and milestones, the attribution of which has been There has been a reduction in deposit interest rates since estimated and is shown in the chart to the right.
At IPO the UK assumption was 4% compared with the March 2016 assumption of 1% to March 2020 rising to 2.5% The Investment Advisers Portfolio and Asset Management thereafter.
This has reduced NAV by 8.4p per share which teams have delivered a substantial increase in NAV growth has largely been offset by the drop in discount rate that has over the ten years.
This has been achieved by identifying and contributed 8.3p of the total movement.
The average implementing value enhancement opportunities through discount rate at IPO was 8% rising to 8.7% in March 2010 multiple initiatives, both at asset level and across the portfolio, before reducing over time to the average discount rate of creating a number of incremental improvements.
Within the portfolio companies, the Investment Advisers Actual UK inflation over the 10-year period has averaged proactive management of project costs has generated savings 2.84%, slightly up from valuation assumption applied since across the portfolio.
For example, InfraRed created an insurance 2008 of 2.75% which is estimated to have increased NAV portfolio which has seen a reduction in insurance costs since it by 1.9p per share.
Successful asset management of construction projects has created value by successfully achieving construction completions to time and budget, leading to steady state operations, and enabling reduced discount rates reflecting the lower risk operational phase.
1 NAV per share appreciation plus dividends paid over the 10 years to 31 March 2016.
2 All data expressed in pence p is on a pence per share basis, assuming the share was acquired at the time of the IPO.
University of Sheffield Student Accommodation, UK 22 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 1 Drivers of Cumulative Change in NAV, IPO to March 2016 250 8.4 1.5 1.9 8.3 67.7 10.9 30.0 200 65.3 14.2 150 140.3 Value Enhancement 98.4 Accretive 100 Investment Value 50 Preservation 0 NAV Forecast Portfolio Tax Change in Inflation Forex Deposit Dividends NAV IPO EPS outperformance rates discount movement interest paid March 2016 rates rates declared post dividend 1 Source: InfraRed.
Attribution is based upon a number of estimates and assumptions.
1 Portfolio Outperformance Over the 10 years following its IPO in 2006, HICL delivered returns to shareholders of 9.5% per annum, exceeding the target set at IPO of 7-8%.
Lifecycle savings Other portfolio company overhead savings Accretive tap issuance Fund scale efficiency Sale of Colchester Garrison Distribution efficiency Construction projects delivered Other Insurance savings 1 Source: InfraRed.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 23 NAV in pence per share 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.5 Investment Advisers Report The year ended 31 March 2017 saw the Groups portfolio deliver performance that exceeded expectations and the addition of new investments that were accretive, as well as increasing scale and diversity.
Supporting this performance was an active year with a number of new initiatives pursued by our infrastructure team at InfraRed to increase efficiency, improve portfolio management and generate further value for the Companys shareholders.
The success of the Company is enhanced by our ability to deliver enhancements to portfolio value and cash flows.
NAV per share, excluding dividends paid, increased by 6.8p, from 142.2p as at 31 March 2016 to 149.0p as at 31 March Tony Roper 2017.
Of this growth, 1.6p per share was delivered through Director portfolio outperformance, continuing a successful trend over the last 10 years which is explored in more detail in Section 2.4 Case Study A Decade of Outperformance.
Financial Highlights The Company achieved a profit before tax of 176.8m for the year ended 31 March 2017 March 2016: 157.2m.
The increase on the prior years result was predominantly due to growth in the size of the portfolio, which was driven by acquisitions.
Cash received from the portfolio of investments on an Investment Basis was ahead of expectations at 148.9m 2016: 130.8m.
After operating and finance costs, net operating cash flow on an Investment Basis of 122.8m covered the cash dividends paid 1.22 times.
Harry Seekings Director, Infrastructure 9.6% p. a. TSR since IPO vs. 6.2% p. a. total return delivered by the FTSE All-Share Index The Companys ongoing charges for the year were 1.06% 2016: 1.12%, using the Association of Investment Companies methodology.
This compares well with other investment companies in the sector.
Total management fees accruing to the Investment Adviser amounted to 24.4m for the year 2016: 20.4m, increasing in line with portfolio value.
These fees include the tapered management fee 1.1% for assets up to 750m, 1.0% for assets above 750m, 0.9% for Keith Pickard assets above 1.5bn and 0.8% for assets above 2.25bn.
Director, Infrastructure The Companys total shareholder return TSR, based on growth in NAV per share plus dividends paid, was 10.3% for the year 2016: 9.6%.
The annualised TSR since the Companys IPO was 9.6% at 31 March 2017, which compares favourably to the 6.2% total return delivered by the FTSE All-Share Index over the same period.
Dividends declared in relation to the financial year were 7.65p per share in total, a 2.7% increase on the previous financial year.
This represented the Companys tenth successive year of dividend growth since IPO.
24 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 02 STRATEGIC REPORT Value Preservation and Value Enhancement Although the Acquisition Strategy provides a framework for The portfolios operational performance was in large part new investment, implementation depends on the ability of driven by the active management undertaken by our Asset our Origination and Transaction team to source opportunities and Portfolio Management teams.
With a portfolio the size of that are accretive to the existing portfolio.
The year saw the Groups, operational challenges are inevitable.
However, material progress in this regard with 15 investments made in during the year there were no assets where issues impacted PPP projects and operational demand-based assets that are the Companys NAV per share by more than 1%.
positioned at the lower end of the risk spectrum.
Since 31 March 2017, the Company has also announced the acquisition of a significant equity interest in Affinity Water, 1.6p of growth in NAV per share its first investment in a UK regulated asset.
As in previous years, our Origination and Transaction teams relationships delivered through portfolio were an important source of off-market opportunities outperformance during the year indeed only two of the Groups acquisitions during the year came as the result of a full market auction.
Our Asset Management team works hard to maintain relationships with key stakeholders, creating a platform to reduce the risk of commercial problems escalating.
Occasionally 13 investments made during the year issues arise that are complex and sometimes intractable.
In as the result of off-market negotiations this situation the teams focus is on bringing parties together to reach a mutually acceptable resolution.
However, reaching an or limited auctions agreement is not always possible and formal legal proceedings, although a last resort, are sometimes necessary.
In every Two new investments were made during the year in scenario, our Asset Management teams approach is proactive.
operational demand-based assets: the Northwest Parkway The Asset Management team also works closely with our toll road in the USA and the M1-A1 Link shadow toll Portfolio Management team to seek value enhancements across road in the UK.
In addition, completion was reached on the portfolio, often through cost saving initiatives.
A number the purchase of an interest in the A63 Motorway in France of variations to PPP contracts were signed during the year, announced in the year to 31 March 2016.
These three covering over 700m of new construction work for public road projects, in combination with the University of Sheffield sector clients.
The management service agreements for a Student Accommodation project, mean that demand-based group of projects were re-tendered during the year as part of assets represented 12% of the portfolio at 31 March 2017 a cross-portfolio procurement initiative, the goal being to ensure 2016: 5%.
each project company benefits from high quality management Long concessions and inflation-linked revenues are attractive services at a price that provides value to the Group.
For example, the portfolios weightedaverage asset life increased to 24.4 years as at 31 March 2017 2016: 21.5 years largely due to the impact of the Northwest Contract variations signed to deliver Parkway acquisition.
However, toll road projects also have a degree of exposure to wider economic activity and hence over 700m of capital works for public have returns that are influenced by changes in Gross Domestic sector clients Product GDP.
The Board and the Investment Adviser do not wish to fundamentally change the uncorrelated nature of returns from the Groups portfolio and the current intention More detail on Value Enhancement and Value Preservation can is that no more than 20% of the portfolio by value will be be found in Section 3.1 Operational and Financial Review.
invested in demand-based assets with returns that are Accretive Investment correlated to the economic cycle.
As Investment Adviser, we have agreed with the Board a clear More detail on individual acquisitions can be found in Acquisition Strategy for the Company, focused on three target Section 3.1 Operational and Financial Review.
Sensitivities market segments: PPP projects, demand-based assets and on GDP exposure can be found in Section 3.2 Valuation of regulated assets.
More detail can be found in Section 2.3 the Portfolio.
As in previous years the Acquisition Strategy was reviewed at a dedicated, two-day Board meeting in October 2016.
Our team presented portfolio development scenario analysis and stress tests, helping the Board to assess the alignment of the Acquisition Strategy with the Companys objective of delivering long-term, stable income to shareholders.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 25 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.5 Investment Advisers Report continued Capital Raising Investor Relations Infrastructure Market Developments Our Management team met a large number of shareholders United Kingdom during the year, both in the context of the routine reporting PPP procurement has been limited in recent years but, cycle but also in conjunction with the Placing, Open Offer, following indications in the Autumn Statement of a new Offer for Subscription and Intermediaries Offer that took procurement programme, there may be more UK PPP place in March 2017.
Retail investors have been an important opportunities announced, once the general election in June is component of the Companys shareholder register since IPO over.
In the near term, most UK PPP opportunities are likely and this capital raising represented an opportunity for individuals to be in the secondary market.
to subscribe for new equity alongside institutional investors.
Feedback from all shareholders is valued by the Board and Focus during the year was given to by us.
There was a notable change in sentiment following the 2016 EU Referendum, with investors particularly focused evolving the Companys risk evaluation on how the return of inflationary pressures might impact the and reporting systems portfolio.
The correlation of returns from the portfolio to inflation is strong, increasing to 0.7 as at 31 March 2017 2016: 0.6.
This improvement was down to a number of acquisitions The financial year saw significant activity in the regulated during the year, in particular the Northwest Parkway and the asset market segment.
This is expected to continue, both A13 index-linked senior bonds.
with transactions involving assets subject to price controls and also other models such as certain transportation assets In addition to the standard sensitivity showing the impact of and the OFTO programme.
inflation scenarios of NAV per share, a cash flow sensitivity has been provided in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio.
Demand-based assets in the UK include a small number of PPP assets which have usage risk in their revenues, such Risk & Risk Management as shadow toll roads, and an increasing number of  focus during the year was given to evolving the sponsored student accommodation projects.
The Group will Companys risk evaluation and reporting systems.
Our continue to pursue on-campus projects in partnership with Management team has developed bespoke tools to support key contractor relationships.
the work of the Companys Risk Committee.
These have been subject to in-depth review and refinement in conjunction Europe with the Directors.
Procurement of new PPP projects has continued, albeit in a limited number of countries e. g. the Netherlands, Germany, Ireland and Norway and involving a relatively small number of projects.
We expect the current rate of activity to continue in the corr elation of returns from the current financial year, with slightly more deal flow the portfolio to inflation is strong, anticipated in the secondary market for PPP projects.
increasing to 0.7 as at 31 March 2017.
We believe there will be further opportunities to invest in regulated assets in Europe.
There was notable deal activity One notable benefit of this initiative was to allocate existing over the last year and this is expected to continue.
Sectors of scenario modelling to different classes of risk.
This has the interest include gas and electricity transmission and effect of facilitating a systematic quantification of the inherent distribution, district heating and water utilities.
risks faced by the Company and b evaluation of the Demand-based assets are mostly in the toll road sector, effectiveness of available mitigation.
More detail, and a which we monitor in case suitable opportunities arise.
Other schematic of the output produced for the Risk Committee, sectors, such as car parking, have been reviewed but not all can be found in Section 3.6 Risk & Risk Management.
are considered appropriate investments for the Group.
During the year we worked with the Board to review the North America Companys hedging policy.
In particular, as the number of The new US Presidents clear statements of support for the overseas assets is expected to increase over the medium term, role of private capital in the US infrastructure market are attention is being given to the cost and benefit of the current encouraging.
However, our experience since opening an hedging policy.
Although the current policy is effective, InfraRed New York office in 2008 is that the translation of consideration is being given to whether it can be adjusted while political will in Washington into PPP procurement activity retaining the key objective of materially mitigating the impact across the country takes time.
Momentum is steady rather of foreign exchange movements.
More information can be than spectacular and the challenge for the Federal found in Section 3.3 Case Study Foreign Exchange Risk.
Government remains how best to encourage and incentivise new forms of infrastructure procurement responsibility for which is typically implemented at state or agency level.
26 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 02 STRATEGIC REPORT The Company will continue to participate in greenfield US The InfraRed Team PPP and will consider opportunities in demand-based assets Tony Roper is handing over day-to-day responsibility for principally operational toll roads to build on the success of leading InfraReds activities as Investment Adviser to Harry the Northwest Parkway toll road investment.
Tony has held the role since the Companys IPO in 2006, when the portfolio was seeded with 15 investments The 2016 Canadian federal budget promised to double from an infrastructure fund managed by InfraRed.
Harry has infrastructure spending over 10 years, with CAD60bn in new worked at InfraRed since 1998 and has recently focused on funds available to build transport and energy systems meant HICLs strategy and origination.
The change has been planned to grow the economy over the long term.
The first over two years, in close co-ordination with the Board.
Tony CAD11.9bn is expected to be allocated in the next two-toretains his role on the InfraRed HICL Investment Committee five years.
As one of the most sophisticated infrastructure and remains available to provide support and advice to both markets globally, Canada is a popular destination for private the InfraRed team and the Board as needed.
We will continue to seek opportunities but the need for pricing discipline in the face of domestic Outlook competition is expected to continue to limit the opportunity With an infrastructure team of over 60 professionals, we for the Company.
continue to actively manage the existing portfolio, seeking to preserve the value invested in the Groups assets.
In addition, Australia & New Zealand there remains scope to deliver outperformance in the medium Our Origination and Transaction team is looking for appropriate term, particularly through active management and by taking a opportunities in both the Australian and New Zealand primary strategic approach to realising economies of scale across and secondary markets, while noting the competition from the portfolio.
Australia has a long history of PPP procurement and there are some signs that the rate of The pipeline of new investment opportunities is healthy and primary investment is picking up.
In addition we continue to diversified across a number of initiatives.
Based on experience, seek opportunities to develop student accommodation projects existing relationships and the expertise of our Origination which may give rise to opportunities for the Group to invest.
and Transaction team, we are confident of sourcing further accretive acquisitions for the Group.
Competition The tight supply-demand dynamics of the infrastructure In summary, the prospects remain good for building asset class represent an ongoing challenge to source new on the Companys 11-year track record of delivering investments at suitable valuations.
However, our teams reach income for shareholders from a portfolio of attractive across geographies and sectors, through our network of infrastructure investments.
offices, will lead to further investment opportunities.
In the current market conditions, where auction processes continue to attract significant demand, relationships remain key to successful origination through bilateral negotiations.
We have a proven track record in this regard and continue to seek off-market opportunities wherever possible.
The pipeline of new investment opportunities is healthy and diversified across a number of initiatives.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 27 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.6 Key Performance and Quality Indicators The Board has identified metrics against which to measure clearly the Companys performance of its strategic objectives.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out below.
Key Performance Indicators KPI Measure 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Dividends Aggregate interim dividends declared per share for the year 7.65p 7.45p Objective: An annual distribution of at least that achieved in the prior year Commentary: Achieved.
Total Return NAV growth and dividends paid per share since IPO 9.6% p. a.
1 Objective: A long-term IRR target of 7% to 8% as set out at IPO Commentary: Achieved.
Cash-covered Operational cash flow dividends paid to shareholders 1.22x 1.15x Dividends Objective: Cash covered dividends Commentary: Achieved.
Positive Inflation Changes in the expected portfolio return for 1% p. a.
0.7% 0.6% Correlation inflation change Objective: Maintain positive correlation Commentary: Achieved.
2 Competitive Annualised ongoing charges average undiluted NAV 1.06% 1.12% Cost Proposition Objective: Efficient gross portfolio level to net investor level returns, with the intention Commentary: Achieved.
to reduce ongoing charges where possible 1 Set by reference to the issue price of 100p share, at the time of the Companys IPO in February 2006.
Previously reported on a dividends declared basis.
2 Calculated in accordance with Association of Investment Companies guidelines.
Ongoing charges excluding non-recurring items such as acquisition costs.
Key Quality Indicators KQI Measure 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Investment Percentage of the portfolio represented by the ten largest 40% 39% 1 Concentration investments Risk Percentage of the portfolio represented by the single largest 6% 6% 1 investment Objective: Maintain a diversified portfolio of investments thereby mitigating concentration Commentary: Achieved.
risk and, at all times, remain compliant with the Companys Investment Policy Risk Reward Percentage of the portfolio represented by the aggregate value of 14% 6% 2 Characteristics projects with construction and or demand-based risk Objective: Compliance with the Companys Investment Policy Commentary: Achieved.
Substantially lower than the aggregate limit of 35% for such investments.
Unexpired Portfolios weighted-average unexpired concession length 24.4 years 21.5 years Concession Length Objective: Seek where possible investments that maintain or extend the portfolio Commentary: Increase year-on-year primarily due to the acquisition concession life of Northwest Parkway 89-year concession length remaining.
3 Treasury FX gain loss as a percentage of the NAV 0.0% 0.3% Management Cash less current liabilities on an Investment Basis 2.7% 2% as a percentage of the NAV Objective: Maintain effective treasury management processes, notably: Commentary: Achieved.
Appropriate FX management confidence in near-term yield and managing NAV volatility from FX Efficient cash management low net cash position 4 Refinancing Risk Investments with refinancing risk as a percentage of the portfolio 9% 3% Objective: Manage exposure to refinancing risk Commentary: Increase year-on-year due to the acquisition of Northwest Parkway that has refinancing risk.
1 The Companys Investment Policy stipulates that any single investment being, for this purpose, the sum of all incremental interests acquired by the Group in the same project must be less than 20% by value of the gross assets of the Company, such assessment to be made immediately post acquisition of any interest in a project.
2 More diverse infrastructure investments which are made with the intention to enhance returns for shareholders as permitted under the terms of the Companys Investment Policy namely pre-operational projects, demand-based project and or other vehicles making infrastructure investments.
Further details are set out in the Investment Policy, available from the Companys website.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, 2% of projects were in construction and 12% were demand-based 14% total : in the year ended 31 March 2016, 5% of projects were demand-based and 1% were in construction 6% total.
3 Impact of foreign exchange after hedging on NAV.
4 There are two projects with refinancing risk Aquasure Desalination Plant, Australia and Northwest Parkway, USA and their future refinancing requirements are reflective of the fact that their respective debt markets do not offer debt for the concession term.
28 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 02 STRATEGIC REPORT Radclyffe School, UK HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 29 02 STRATEGIC REPORT 2.7 Case Study: Toll Roads HICL has invested in two operational Traffic Performance The Group made a commitment to acquire the investment in toll roads the A63 Motorway in the A63 Motorway in January 2016.
During the calendar year, France and Northwest Parkway in traffic has performed ahead of the forecasts made at the time of the commitment see chart.
The Northwest Parkway acquisition was signed in December A63 Motorway 2016 and completed in March 2017.
Performance to date is The A63 Motorway is a 104km road linking Bordeaux and in line with expectations.
It forms part of a Trans-European Network a corridor identified by the European Union as of strategic Inflation Correlation importance to the movement of goods and people around The expected equity returns from HICLs investments in the the single market.
At its northern end, the road connects to A63 Motorway and Northwest Parkway are highly correlated links to Paris and northern and central France: and to the to inflation and improve the overall inflation correlation of the south the road continues to the border with Spain.
The graph right shows the sensitivity of the combined returns.
On the A63, much of the car traffic is dominated by the large number of tourist destinations near to the corridor, making Long-term Income it highly seasonal.
Truck traffic on the other hand is primarily The concession for the A63 Motorway expires in 2051 34 related to trade within Europe, particularly between Spain, years remaining : and the Northwest Parkway concession Portugal and northern Europe.
As long duration assets, they improved the weighted average asset life of the portfolio Northwest Parkway which, at 31 March 2017, was 24.4 years 2016: 21.7 years.
Northwest Parkway is a 14km section of the beltway system extending around the Denver Metropolitan area.
It intersects Debt Financing with several other roads, providing convenient access to links The A63 Motorway project company was refinanced during into Denver, Denver International Airport and suburban 2015 with 15-year debt from 14 banks.
Northwest Parkway is expected to undertake several Trips to Denver International Airport form the largest proportion refinancings during the remainder of its concession which of users of Northwest Parkway.
In addition almost a quarter is due to expire in 2106.
The initial debt financing, which of road users are making regular commuting trips.
resulted in a debt to equity ratio of 35:65, will be refinanced in phases between 2022 and 2027.
The tenor of the Accretive Investment debt that is used at that time will determine the timing of The investments are expected to be accretive to the Groups future refinancings.
portfolio in terms of total return.
They have improved the correlation of the portfolios returns to inflation and extended Risks and Sensitivities the portfolios weighted average asset life.
The chart to the right shows the sensitivity of the combined equity returns for the two projects against variations in the base case assumptions made in the Groups valuation of 1 A63 Motorway Traffic the two assets.
8,000 In addition, it is worth noting that should there be no further growth in traffic on either toll road with revenue growth coming entirely from inflation neither of the project 6,000 companies will breach senior debt covenants.
As seen in the chart, demand from road users for both roads 4,000 is correlated to economic activity.
Specifically, movements in GDP growth can affect the revenues of the project companies and thus impact on equity returns.
2,000 The accretive aspects of these investments, in terms of total return, asset life and inflation correlation, are undoubtedly attractive.
However, the Board and the Investment Adviser 0 have limited appetite to change the uncorrelated nature of Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 2016 2016 2016 2016 2017 returns from the portfolio.
The current intention is that demand-based assets with returns that are correlated to Forecast Actuals the economic cycle should comprise no more than 20% 1 Source: Atlandes S. A. of portfolio value.
30 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Number of transactions 02 STRATEGIC REPORT Inflation IRR impact on the HICL Portfolio of Sensitivities impact on combined A63 Motorway and Northwest Parkway A63 Motorway and Northwest Parkway IRR 1.0% 0.5% Inflation - 1% 0.0% -1.0% -0.5% Base 0.5% 1.0% -0.5% GDP - 0.5% -1.0% Change in inflation p. a.
-2.5% -2.0% -1.5% -1.0% -0.5% 0.0% 0.5% 1.0% 1.5% 2.0% 2.5% HICL Portfolio March 2017 HICL Portfolio March 2017 -five delta five delta without toll roads with toll roads 615km A63 Motorway lane miles 56km Northwest Parkway lane miles Northwest Parkway, USA HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 31 Movement in return 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Birmingham Hospital, UK 32 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 Performance & Risk Delivering Real Value.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 33 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.1 Operational and Financial Review Operating Performance bind all parties involved.
In doing so, no material financial Portfolio Statistics impact was borne by the Companys investments, with the During the year the number of investments in the portfolio costs and penalties of rectification being either passed down increased from 104 to 114, with the 10 largest holdings to the responsible contractor, or retracted.
representing 40% of the Directors Valuation as at 31 March There are some specific instances of latent construction defects 2017 2016: 39%.
In May 2017, the Group made a that have caused operational challenges during the year.
further acquisition, being an equity interest in Affinity Water The following are examples that the Investment Advisers Group, resulting in 115 investments in the portfolio as at Asset Management team has been actively managing 23 May 2017. during year: During the year two PPP projects RD901 and PSBP Northeast s In accommodation PPP projects the adequacy of Batch completed construction.
Of the 114 investments as at fire-stopping measures in some assets has led to clients 31 March 2017, five representing 2% of the portfolio, based deducting or threatening to deduct against availability on the Directors Valuation are in construction: Irish Primary payments.
A handful of projects were affected by such Care Centres, the A9 Road, Centrale Supelec, the N17 N18 deductions and the focus of the Asset Management team Road and the accommodation project in northern Europe.
has been on ensuring that the contractual framework As at 31 March 2017 four assets were exposed to demand operates as expected and that deductions applied are risk, comprising 12% of portfolio value, an increase from passed down to the supply chain.
31 March 2016 when there were two assets exposed to demand s There has been media coverage, particularly in Scotland, risk representing 5% of portfolio value.
of the alleged deficient installation of brick wall ties which More portfolio metrics can be found in Section 3.5 secure exterior brick walls to the structure of a building Portfolio Analysis.
in relation to public buildings procured both conventionally and using PPP.
The Group takes the safety of all facilities Counterparty exposure seriously, and the Asset Management team is working On a quarterly basis the portfolios counterparty exposure to closely with management service providers to actively both the operational supply chain and the financial providers investigate this issue, including in collaboration with public of bank deposit accounts and interest rate swaps is formally sector clients.
The Investment Advisers risk and control function monitors financial creditworthiness between the formal reviews, s On the Aquasure PPP, the project company successfully while the Asset Management team actively monitors the rectified a defect with the power cable that connects the performance of the supply chain, where poor performance desalination plant to the local electricity grid.
However, the can be an early indication of looming financial difficulties.
re-powering of the facility led to a technical fault which, The review processes have not identified any material in turn, led to a delay in water production.
The plant is now counterparty concerns for the portfolios construction or performing very well.
The Directors ensure that The Investment Adviser expects that such operational issues the portfolio is diversified by counterparty to mitigate will arise from time to time but it has the resources in place, concentration risk.
An analysis of the diversification by through its Asset Management team, to help prevent, resolve exposure to counterparties can be seen in Section 3.4 and mitigate them.
At the time of the 2016 Annual Report, the Company Value Preservation highlighted some non-material ongoing issues.
These are The operational performance of the portfolio has been good updated below: in the year ended 31 March 2017 and there have been no issues at asset level that have resulted in material losses to s Progress resolving alleged building defects and operational the Company.
In this context, the threshold for materiality is issues at a hospital PPP has been slow.
Although some of defined as a loss from an investment that negatively impacts the outstanding matters were closed, a number of challenges NAV per share by more than 1%.
The commentary that follows remain.
A concerted effort will be required from all parties if in this section is therefore provided to give an insight into the further progress is to be made.
The value of the investment asset management challenges and activities within the portfolio.
in the portfolio is in the range of 0-5m.
Solid progress has been made on projects which had previously s As previously reported, a school PPP project was voluntarily suffered operational challenges.
During the previous year, terminated during the year at the election of the local some of the Companys projects experienced instances of authority client.
Certain building defects need to be solved, public sector clients who alleged asset faults and attempted and negotiations are ongoing with the client regarding the to make deductions from their service payments using a strict quantification and payment of market value compensation interpretation of contractual terms.
This year has seen the to the Group.
The value of the investment in the portfolio is Asset Management team resolve many of these issues and a in the range of 5-10m.
number of important settlement agreements have been signed that provide the solution to appropriately accommodate and 34 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK s Progress has been made on the road PPP that has suffered Programme.
Some variations do not involve new from a number of operational issues and construction defects.
construction works but can greatly assist clients to more The dispute with the construction subcontractor was efficiently manage their estate.
One example of this was proceeding to court but legal action was postponed when with the Mid Yorkshire NHS Trust where a variation heads of terms for an acceptable commercial settlement involving energy supply responsibilities saw significant were agreed between the parties.
The focus during the benefit delivered to the Trust.
coming year will be to document the agreement.
The value s Re-tendering of Management Service Agreements MSAs of the investment in the portfolio is in the range of 0-5m.
The Investment Adviser identified MSA contracts that were s The previously reported issues with a biomass boiler at capable of being re-tendered and created an innovative a hospital PPP have been resolved.
Since year end the procurement plan to ensure that the best service would project has made its first distribution, representing a be delivered by the winning provider at a price that significant milestone and an indication of the progress represented best value.
The focus of the plan was to made on the ground.
select specialist MSA providers who were able to demonstrate an ability to work efficiently and effectively s Remedial works on two grouped schools PPPs in the north for each project company and in doing so increase of England were substantially completed during the year.
robustness, resolve project issues and deliver cost savings.
The first procurement batch, involving Value Enhancement 18 projects, commenced in November 2016.
Preferred During the year, a number of cost savings and other providers for the projects have been selected and the incremental revenue-generating initiatives were undertaken by handover process from incumbent providers, where the Investment Adviser.
Examples of such initiatives include: applicable, has commenced.
The process is expected to s Contract Variations be concluded in 2017.
Public sector clients often make variation requests to s Refinancing of PPP projects amend the scope of services delivered, be it a capital Over 600m of debt and derivative products have been project or an additional or amended service.
In some refinanced in the year across four projects, where the cases the project may earn incremental revenue.
During benefits of doing so are typically shared with the public the year over 700m of new capital works commenced at sector clients in accordance with the contracts and agreed PPP projects in the portfolio, including at the Allenby & industry guidelines.
Connaught project as part of the Army Basing Accretive Investment During the year the Group made 10 new investments and five incremental investments for a total consideration of 266.6m.
Further detail can be found in Note 14 to the Financial Statements.
Market Date Amount Type Stage Asset Segment Stake Acquired Overall Stake April 16 14.5m New OperationalM1 -A1 RoadDemandbased 30.0% 30.0% April 16 New Operational Hinchingbrooke Hospital PPP 37.5% 37.5% 5.3m June 16 Incremental Operational Hinchingbrooke Hospital PPP 37.5% 75.0% May 16 9.9m New Construction Irish Primary Care Centres PPP 60.0% 60.0% September 16 50.1m New Operational A13 Senior Bonds PPP N A N A November 16 New Operational Bangor and Nendrum Schools PPP 20.4% 20.4% November 16 New Operational Salford Schools PPP 25.5% 25.5% November 16 New Operational East Ayrshire Schools PPP 25.5% 25.5% 22.7m November 16 New Operational North Ayrshire Schools PPP 25.5% 25.5% November 16 Incremental Operational Manchester School PPP 25.5% 75.5% November 16 Incremental Operational Cork School of Music PPP 25.5% 75.5% December 16 New Construction A9 Road PPP 20.0% 20.0% 19.8 m December 16 Incremental Operational Zaanstad Prison PPP 25.0% 100.0% March 17 136.8m New Operational Northwest Parkway Demand-based 33.3% 33.3% March 17 7.5m Incremental Operational Helicopter Training Facility loan PPP N A N A 266.6m Reconciles to 272.7m of investments shown in the analysis of change in the Directors Valuation in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio with the addition of a 6.1m foreign exchange movement on the Euro consideration for A63 Motorway between 31 March 2016 and completion in January 2017.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 35 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.1 Operational and Financial Review Continued Since the financial year end, the Group has acquired an equity interest in the various entities that comprise the Affinity Water Group.
HICLs share of the consideration for the acquisition amounted to approximately 269m, prior to a proposed sell-down of up to 25m of the investment to a group of co-investors.
Earlier in the year the Group bid as part of a consortium for a minority interest in one of the UKs regulated gas distribution businesses, losing narrowly to a rival bidder.
The Group continues to participate in auction processes, gaining valuable market intelligence on competition and pricing.
During the year, offers were made as part of eight separate market auction processes, with the Group successful in two of these situations.
Financial Performance Accounting The Company applies IFRS 10, 11 and 12 as well as Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27.
A further amendment to IFRS 10 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exemption Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 as issued in December 2014 has been adopted by the Company for these financial statements following endorsement of the amendment by the EU in September 2016.
The Company prepares IFRS financial statements which do not consolidate any subsidiaries, including those that are themselves investment entities.
This has resulted in a change from the March 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements in which the Company consolidated the results of HICL Infrastructure S. a. r. l. 1, HICL Infrastructure S. a. r. l. 2 and Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership together the Corporate Subsidiaries as under the current IFRS basis the Corporate Subsidiaries can no longer be consolidated.
References to the Corporate Group in this section refer to the Company and its Corporate Subsidiaries.
The adoption of the latest IFRS 10 Amendments has not changed the NAV per share or earnings per share compared to the previous approach used for the March 2016 Annual Report.
The Company and its advisers have concluded that in order to continue reporting the relevant financial performance and position to stakeholders, the Company will prepare pro forma summary financial information on the basis that the Company consolidates the results of the Corporate Subsidiaries.
This basis we designate the Investment Basis and presents the financial information in the same manner as previously in the March 2016 Consolidated Financial Statements.
In particular they provide shareholders with further information regarding the Corporate Groups gearing and expenses, coupled with greater transparency in the Companys capacity for investment and ability to make distributions.
A reconciliation between the summary financial information prepared on the Investment Basis below and the results of the Company included in the Financial Statements under IFRS can be found in the Pro Forma Statements further below in Section 3.1.
Summary Financial Statements Investment Basis Summary Income Statement Year to 31 March 2017 Year to 31 March 2016 Investment Consolidation IFRS Investment Consolidation IFRS m Basis adjustments Basis adjustments Restated 1 Total income 207.6 29.0 178.6 182.9 24.1 158.8 Expenses & finance costs 30.5 28.7 1.8 25.5 23.9 1.6 Profit loss before tax 177.1 0.3 176.8 157.4 0.2 157.2 Tax 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 Earnings 176.8 176.8 157.2 157.2 Earnings per share 12.4p 12.4p 11.9p 11.9p 1 Includes net foreign exchange gain of 0.1m 2016: 5.2m gain.
36 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK On an Investment Basis, Total income of 207.6m 2016: 182.9m represents the return from the portfolio recognised as income comprising dividends, sub-debt interest and valuation movements.
Total income has increased by 14% 24.7m reflecting a 21% increase in Investments at fair value on an Investment Basis which has been partly offset by a lower contribution from discount rate reductions in the year than in the prior year.
Further detail on the valuation movements is given in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio.
On an IFRS basis, both Total income and Expenses and finance costs are lower than the Investment Basis as they do not include expenses incurred by the Corporate Subsidiaries.
Total income of 178.6m 2016: 158.8m comprises interest income received by the Company and valuation movements in its investments.
Foreign exchange movements have not materially impacted profits.
On an Investment Basis a 17.8m foreign exchange gain 2016: 13.9m gain on revaluing the non-UK assets in the portfolio using March 2017 exchange rates has been offset by 17.7m 2016: 8.7m loss foreign exchange hedging losses.
The net gain of 0.1m 2016: 5.2m is included in Total income.
Earnings on an Investment Basis and IFRS basis were 176.8m, an increase of 19.6m against the prior year.
This reflects the factors stated above whilst Corporate Group Expenses and finance costs were higher at 30.5m compared with 25.5m in the comparable period, reflecting acquisition activity and the growth in the portfolio.
A reconciliation between the Investment Basis Income Statement and the Income Statement of the Company can be found further below in Section 3.1.
Investment Basis Cost Analysis Year to Year to m 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Interest expense 2.4 2.2 Investment Adviser fees 24.4 20.4 Auditor KPMG for the Group 0.3 0.3 Directors fees and expenses 0.4 0.3 Acquisition bid costs 1.7 0.8 Professional fees 1.1 1.3 Other expenses 0.2 0.2 Expenses and finance costs 30.5 25.5 Total fees accruing to InfraRed Capital Partners Limited the Investment Adviser were 24.4m 2016: 20.4m for the year, comprising the 1.1% p. a. management fee for assets up to 750m, 1.0% for assets above 750m, 0.9% for assets above 1.5bn and 0.8% for assets above 2.25bn, a 1.0% fee on acquisitions made from third parties, and the 0.1m p. a. advisory fee.
The increase in the Investment Advisers fees is due to a larger portfolio and includes acquisition fees of 3.4m 2016: 1.5m.
In the year, the Corporate Group incurred 1.7m of third party costs 2016: 0.8m on unsuccessful bids and bids in progress mainly legal, technical and tax due diligence.
The increase in bid costs in the year arose from greater bid activity for regulated assets and demand-based assets.
Neither the Investment Adviser nor any of its affiliates receives other fees from the Corporate Group or the Corporate Groups portfolio of investments.
On an IFRS basis, expenses and finance costs were 1.8m 2016: 1.6m as they exclude those incurred by the Corporate Subsidiaries.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 37 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.1 Operational and Financial Review Continued Ongoing Charges Year to Year to m 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 1 Investment Adviser 21.0 18.9 Auditor KPMG for the Group 0.3 0.3 Directors fees and expenses 0.4 0.3 Other ongoing expenses 1.3 1.3 Total expenses 23.0 20.8 Average NAV 2,172.2 1,852.1 Ongoing charges 1.06% 1.12% 1 Excludes acquisition fees of 3.4m 2016: 1.5m, in line with AIC calculation methodology.
Ongoing charges, in accordance with AIC guidance, is defined as annualised ongoing charges i. e. excluding acquisition costs and other non-recurring items divided by the average published undiluted net asset value in the period.
On the basis of including costs incurred by the Corporate Subsidiaries, the Ongoing charges percentage is 1.06% March 2016: 1.12% with the reduction arising from the impact of the 373m of equity capital raisings in September 2016 and March 2017 combined with the growth in the portfolio providing efficiencies.
Investment Basis Summary Balance Sheet 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Investment Consolidation IFRS Investment Consolidation IFRS m Basis adjustments Basis adjustments Restated Investments at fair value 2,347.5 71.9 2,419.4 1,932.9 40.8 1,973.7 Working capital 10.3 9.4 0.9 11.7 11.4 0.3 Net cash 82.2 81.3 0.9 52.7 52.2 0.5 Net assets attributable to Ordinary Shares 2,419.4 2,419.4 1,973.9 1,973.9 NAV per share before dividend 149.0p 149.0p 142.2p 142.2p NAV per share post dividend 147.1p 147.1p 140.3p 140.3p On an Investment Basis, Investments at fair value increased 21% to 2,347.5m March 2016: 1,932.9m, being the Directors Valuation of 2,380.0m March 2016: 2,030.3m net of 32.5m of future investment obligations March 2016: 97.4m.
Further detail on the movement in Investments at fair value is given in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio.
The Corporate Group had net cash, on an Investment Basis, at 31 March 2017 of 82.2m 31 March 2016: net cash of 52.7m, which covers the 1.92p fourth quarterly interim dividend of 31.2m due for payment at the end of June 2017.
The Group has since year-end invested its net cash holdings by completing the recently announced acquisition of Affinity Water.
An analysis of the movements in net cash is shown in the cash flow analysis below.
On an IFRS basis, Investments at fair value increased to 2,419.4m March 2016: 1,973.7m, reflecting the Investment Basis movements above as well as a 30.8m increase in the fair value of the Corporate Subsidiaries as a result of changes in net cash held by the Corporate Subsidiaries.
On an IFRS basis, Cash and cash equivalents increased marginally to 0.9m March 2016: 0.5m.
The Groups cash is mainly held in the Corporate Subsidiaries.
NAV per share was 149.0p before the 1.92p distribution 31 March 2016: 142.2p.
NAV per share has increased 6.8p, of which 2.1p was as a result of the 67m tap issue shares issued at a premium in September 2016 and the 164m shares in March 2017 issued via the February 2017 Prospectus.
The expected NAV growth, being the budgeted return attributable to the unwinding of the discount rate, less Corporate Group costs and the dividends paid, was 0.8p.
38 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK A reconciliation between the Investment Basis Balance Sheet and the Balance Sheet of the Company can be found further below in Section 3.1.
Analysis of the Growth in NAV per Share Pence per share 1 NAV per share at 31 March 2016 140.3 Valuation movements Reduction in discount rates 2.8 Changes in economic assumptions 0.5 2.3 Portfolio performance Project outperformance 1.6 2 Expected NAV growth 0.8 2.4 Accretive issuance of shares 2.1 Total 6.8 1 147.1 NAV per share at 31 March 2017 1 Post interim dividend declared, 1.92p for March 2017 and 1.87p for 31 March 2016.
2 Expected NAV growth is the Companys budgeted EPS less target dividend.
Cash Flow Analysis Investment Basis Summary Cash Flow 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Investment Consolidation IFRS Investment Consolidation IFRS m Basis adjustments Basis adjustments Restated Cash from investments 148.9 40.7 108.2 130.8 32.3 98.5 Operating and finance costs outflow 26.1 24.9 1.2 23.5 21.9 1.6 Net cash inflow before capital movements 122.8 15.8 107.0 107.3 10.4 96.9 Net cost of new investments 339.5 36.2 375.7 165.7 15.2 180.9 Share capital raised net of costs 369.7 369.7 176.8 176.8 Forex movement on 1 borrowings hedging 22.9 22.9 6.2 6.2 Distributions paid 100.6 100.6 93.0 93.0 Movement in the year 29.5 29.1 0.4 19.2 19.4 0.2 Net cash at start of year 52.7 52.2 0.5 33.5 32.8 0.7 Net cash at end of year 82.2 81.3 0.9 52.7 52.2 0.5 1 Includes capitalised debt issue costs of 0.7m 2016: 1.4m.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 39 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.1 Operational and Financial Review Continued Cash inflows from the portfolio on an Investment Basis were 148.9m 2016: 130.8m.
Growth in underlying cash generation was driven by contributions from acquisitions combined with active cash management across the portfolio.
The cost of new investments by the Corporate Group on an Investment Basis of 339.5m 2016: 165.7m represents the cash cost of the 10 new investments and the five incremental acquisitions, loan note subscriptions on three investments and acquisition costs of 2.0m 2016: 3.1m.
On an IFRS basis, the Company received 108.2m from a direct Corporate Subsidiary 2016: 98.5m.
These payments are sized by the Company to pay shareholder dividends assuming no scrip dividend take up and the Companys operating costs.
On an IFRS basis, costs of new investments of 375.7m 2016: 180.9m reflects loans extended by the Company to its direct Corporate Subsidiary in the year and broadly reflects scrip dividend take up and share capital raised net of costs.
Hedging and borrowing for the Corporate Group is undertaken by a Corporate Subsidiary and therefore the Company had no cash flows for this on an IFRS basis.
On an Investment Basis, the 22.9m cash outflow 2016: 6.2m cash outflow in foreign exchange rate hedging and borrowings arises from strengthening of the Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar against Sterling in the year, as well as including 0.7m in debt issue costs 2016: 1.4m to increase the revolving credit facility by 100m.
The Corporate Group enters forward sales to hedge forex exposure in line with the Companys hedging policy set out in Section 2.3 Strategy & Objectives.
Overall foreign exchange movement has not materially impacted the Companys total income in the year, as set out in detail under the Income and Costs table above.
The issue of 231m shares in September 2016 and March 2017 at a premium to the prevailing NAV per share provided net cash receipts in the year of 369.7m 2016: 176.8m.
Dividends paid in the year increased 7.6m to 100.6m 2016: 93.0m.
Dividend cash cover, which compares operational cash flow of 122.8m 2016: 107.3m to dividends paid, was 1.22 times 2016: 1.15 times.
The scrip dividend alternatives for the fourth quarterly interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016, and for the first three quarterly interim dividends for the reported financial year, resulted in an aggregate of 4.6m 2016: 3.6m new shares being issued in June 2016, September 2016, December 2016 and March 2017.
It remains the Boards intention to continue both the payment of dividends on a quarterly basis and to offer a scrip alternative.
Further details of the scrip alternative will be provided in July when the first quarterly interim dividend is declared.
Corporate Group Drawings and Gearing Levels As at 31 March 2017, the Corporate Groups drawings under its multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF were nil by way of cash and 30.9m by way of letters of credit.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC has published guidance in relation to gearing disclosures which is defined for a company with net cash as the net exposure to Cash and cash equivalents, expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds after any offset against its gearing.
It is calculated by dividing total assets less cash cash equivalents by shareholders funds.
Applying this to the Investment Basis, the Corporate Group had a net cash position of 2.7% at 31 March 2017 2016: 2.0% net cash.
This analysis excludes any debt in the Corporate Groups investments.
In view of the current term of the RCF, the Company is able to confirm that sufficient working capital is available for the financial year ending 31 March 2018, without needing to refinance.
The Investment Adviser will, however, consider refinancing options periodically aligned to the pipeline of potential transactions.
Further details of the Groups Revolving Credit Facility are set out in Section 2.3 Strategy & Objectives.
40 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Pro Forma Financial Statement Reconciliations Below are reconciliations between the Companys IFRS financial statements and the Corporate Groups Investment Basis financial statements.
The IFRS financial statements comprise the Company only and all subsidiaries are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The Investment Basis financial statements consolidate the Corporate Subsidiaries in the Companys financial statements, while all other subsidiaries are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
All the adjustments in the reconciliations are due to the IFRS 10 Amendments under which the Company cannot consolidate the Corporate Subsidiaries.
Further details are in Note 2 of the Financial Statements.
The below reconciliations are for the year ended 31 March 2017 for the Income Statement, Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Statement.
Further reconciliations for the year ended 31 March 2016 for the Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement and for the years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016 for the Balance Sheet can be found in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Unaudited Pro Forma Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2017 Investment IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis m m m Investment income 207.5 28.9 178.6 Total income 207.5 28.9 178.6 Fund expenses 28.1 26.3 1.8 Profit before net finance costs and tax 179.4 2.6 176.8 Finance costs 2.4 2.4 Finance income 0.1 0.1 Profit before tax 177.1 0.3 176.8 Income tax expense 0.3 0.3 Profit for the period 176.8 176.8 Earnings per share basic and diluted pence 12.4 12.4 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 41 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.1 Operational and Financial Review Continued Unaudited Pro Forma Balance Sheet At 31 March 2017 Investment IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis Notes m m m Non-current assets Investments at fair value through profit or loss 1 2,347.5 71.9 2,419.4 Total non-current assets 2,347.5 71.9 2,419.4 Current assets Trade and other receivables 1.8 1.7 0.1 Other current financial assets 5.1 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 82.2 81.3 0.9 Total current assets 89.1 88.1 1.0 Total assets 2,436.6 16.2 2,420.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 15.2 14.2 1.0 Other current financial liabilities 2.0 2.0 Total current liabilities 17.2 16.2 1.0 Total liabilities 17.2 16.2 1.0 Net assets 2,419.4 2,419.4 Equity Ordinary Share capital 0.2 0.2 Share premium 1,753.3 1,753.3 Retained reserves 665.9 665.9 Total equity 2,419.4 2,419.4 Net assets per Ordinary Share pence 149.0 149.0 Note 1 to the Unaudited Pro Forma Balance Sheet 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 m m Directors Valuation 2,380.0 2,030.3 Less: future commitments Note 18 32.5 97.4 Investments at fair value on Investment Basis 2,347.5 1,932.9 Net cash in Corporate Subsidiaries 81.3 52.2 Working capital in Corporate Subsidiaries 9.4 11.4 Investments at fair value per Balance Sheet 2,419.4 1,973.7 42 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Unaudited Pro Forma Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 March 2017 Investment IFRS Basis Adjustments Basis m m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before tax 177.1 0.3 176.8 Adjustments for: Investment income 207.5 28.9 178.6 Finance costs 2.4 2.4 Finance income 0.1 0.1 Operator acquisition investment fees 3.4 3.4 Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 24.7 22.9 1.8 Changes in working capital: Decrease in receivables 0.2 0.2 Decrease in payables 3.9 3.3 0.6 Cash flow from operations 21.0 19.8 1.2 Interest received on bank deposits 0.1 0.1 Interest paid 1.9 1.9 Corporation tax paid 0.3 0.3 Interest received on investments 92.0 16.2 108.2 Dividends received 32.0 32.0 Fees and other operating income 14.3 14.3 Loanstock and equity repayments received 10.6 10.6 Net cash from operating activities 125.8 18.8 107.0 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of investments 339.5 36.2 375.7 Net cash used in investing activities 339.5 36.2 375.7 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of share capital 369.7 369.7 Proceeds from issue of loans and borrowings 176.5 176.5 Repayment of loans and borrowings 176.5 176.5 Foreign exchange loss 22.2 22.2 Distributions paid to Company shareholders 100.6 100.6 Net cash from used in financing activities 246.9 22.2 269.1 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 33.2 32.8 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 52.7 52.2 0.5 Exchange gains on cash 3.7 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 82.2 81.3 0.9 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 43 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio Valuation Methodology and Approach Overview InfraRed, as the Investment Adviser, is responsible for carrying out the fair market valuation of the Groups investments, which is presented to the Directors for their consideration and, if appropriate, approval.
The valuation is carried out on a six-monthly basis as at 31 March and 30 September each year, with the result, the assumptions used and key sensitivities see Valuation Assumptions and Sensitivities below published in the interim and annual results.
The Groups investments are predominantly non-market traded investments, such that these investments are valued using a discounted cash flow analysis of the forecast investment cash flows from each project.
The exception to this is the listed senior debt in the A13 road project which is valued at a quoted market price of the bonds.
This valuation methodology is the same as that used at the time of the Companys launch and in each subsequent six-month reporting period further details can be found in the Companys February 2017 Prospectus, available from the Companys website.
The key external macro-economic and fiscal factors affecting the forecast of each portfolio companys cash flows in local currency are inflation rates, deposit interest rates and local corporation tax rates.
The Investment Adviser makes forecast assumptions for each of these external metrics, based on market data and economic forecasts.
The Investment Adviser exercises its judgement in assessing the expected future cash flows from each investment based on detailed financial models produced for each portfolio company and adjusting where necessary to reflect the Groups economic assumptions as well as any specific operating assumptions.
The fair value for each investment is then derived from the application of an appropriate market discount rate and year-end currency exchange rate.
The discount rate takes into account risks associated with the financing of a portfolio company such as specific risks e. g. liquidity, currency risks, market appetite and any risks to project earnings e. g. predictability and covenant of the income, all of which may be differentiated by market segment and or operational status.
The Investment Adviser uses its judgement in arriving at the appropriate discount rate.
This is based on its knowledge of the market, taking into account intelligence gained from its bidding activities, discussions with financial advisers in the appropriate market and publicly available information on relevant transactions.
The Directors Valuation is the key component in determining the Companys NAV and so the Directors seek, from a third party valuation expert, an independent report and opinion on the valuation provided by the Investment Adviser.
The Directors Valuation is the preferred valuation measure of the portfolio because it is the total value at risk for the Group, as compared to investments at fair value through profit or loss which nets off future commitments.
A reconciliation of the Directors Valuation to investments at fair value as per the Balance Sheet and on an Investment Basis is provided in Note 1 to the Unaudited Pro Forma Balance Sheet in Section 3.1 Operational and Financial Review.
Illustration of Expected Future Cash Flows to be received by the Group from the Current Portfolio m 300 3,000m The valuation of the Current Portfolio RHS at any time is a function 1,2, 3 of the present value of the expected future cash flows 250 2,500m 200 2,000m 150 1,500m 100 1,000m 50 500m 0 0m 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040 2041 2042 2043 2044 2045 2046 2047 2048 2049 2050 2051 2052 2104 2105 2106 2107 HICL Year Ending 31 March Forecast portfolio cash flows Incremental forecast portfolio Portfolio valuation Portfolio valuation at March 2016 LHS cash flows at March 2017 LHS March 2016 RHS March 2017 RHS 1 The chart represents a target only and is not a profit forecast.
There can be no assurance that this target will be met.
2 The cash flows and the valuation are based on a number of assumptions, including discount rates, inflation rates, deposit interest rates, tax rates and foreign exchange rates.
These assumptions and the valuation of the current portfolio may vary over time.
3 The cash flows and the valuation are from the portfolio of 114 investments at 31 March 2017 and does not include other assets or liabilities of the Group, and assumes that during the period illustrated above i no new investments are purchased, ii no existing investments are sold and iii the Group suffers no material liability to withholding taxes, or taxation on income or gains.
44 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Annual Project distributions Portfolio value 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Investment Portfolio: Cash Flow Profile The chart above shows the expected future cash flows to be received by the Group from the portfolio as at 31 March 2017 and how the portfolio valuation is expected to evolve over time using current forecasts and assumptions.
The chart shows the steady long-term nature of the cash flows from the portfolio, coupled with a stable portfolio valuation in the medium term.
The benefit of the new investments made in the year, increasing forecast cash flows and the valuation over time, is also shown.
Based on current forecasts over the long term, the portfolio will move into a repayment phase when cash receipts from the portfolio will be paid to the Companys shareholders as capital and the portfolio valuation reduces as projects reach the end of their concession term, assuming that the proceeds are not invested in new investments.
It is these forecast cash flows from the Groups current portfolio of investments that give the Board the comfort that there should be sufficient cash cover for the target dividend of 7.85p per share for the year to 31 March 2018 and the dividend guidance of 8.05p per share for the year to 31 March 2019.
Directors Valuation at 31 March 2017 The Directors Valuation of the portfolio at 31 March 2017 was 2,380.0m.
This valuation compares to 2,030.3m at 31 March 2016 up 17.2%.
A reconciliation between the Directors Valuation at 31 March 2017 and that shown in the financial statements is given in Note 13 to the Financial Statements, the principal difference being that the Directors Valuation includes the 32.5m outstanding equity commitments in respect of the A9, Centrale Supelec, Irish Primary Care, N17 N18 Road, Willesden Hospital and the Northern European Fire, Law & Order project.
A Breakdown of the Movement in the Directors Valuation in the year m 2,500 2,380.0 2,400 17.8 40.4 7.2 272.7 148.9 173.3 2,300 2,200 2,154.1 2,100 2,030.3 2,000 2,347.5 1,900 2,123.2 1,800 1,932.9 1,700 8.2% 1.9% 0.3% 0.8% 1,600 1,500 31 March Investments Cash Rebased Return Change in Change in Change 31 March 2016 distributions valuation discount economic in FX 2017 valuation rate assumptions valuation Valuation blocks purple have been split on an Investment Basis into investments at fair value in dark purple and future commitments in light purple.
The percentage movements have been calculated on investments at fair value as this reflects the returns on the capital employed in the year.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 45 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio Continued Valuation movements during the year to 31 March 2017 m % change Directors Valuation at 31 March 2016 2,030.3 Investments 272.7 Cash receipts from investments 148.9 123.8 Less future commitments 30.9 Rebased valuation of the portfolio 2,123.2 Return from the portfolio 173.3 8.2% Change in discount rate 40.4 1.9% Economic assumptions 7.2 0.3% Forex movement on non-UK investments 17.8 0.8% 224.3 10.6% Future commitments 32.5 Directors Valuation at 31 March 2017 2,380.0 Future commitments of 30.9m measures year-end commitments at 31 March 2016 exchange rates, while 32.5m represents the same future commitments at 31 March 2017 exchange rates.
Allowing for the investments during the year of 272.7m, and investment receipts of 148.9m, the rebased valuation was 2,123.2m.
The growth in the Directors Valuation of the portfolio at 31 March 2017 over the rebased value was 10.6%.
The increase arises from a 173.3m return from the portfolio, a 40.4m uplift from a 0.1% decrease in the weighted average discount rate used to value the portfolio combined with a 10.6m net valuation uplift from changes to certain economic assumptions -7.2m and foreign exchange rates 17.8m.
The negative movement in economic assumptions included lower forecast long-term deposit rates and near-term European inflation rates, partly offset by lower UK and French corporation tax rates.
Return from the Portfolio The return from the portfolio of 173.3m 2016: 138.0m represents a 8.2% 2016: 7.9% increase in the rebased value of the portfolio.
As expected, the majority of this return 7.4% was generated by the unwinding of the weighted-average discount rate used to value the portfolio in the year.
Incremental value was generated from the revaluation of acquisitions completed in the year as well as operational outperformance from various cost saving and efficiency initiatives, though these efficiencies were mostly negated by the adverse impact of actual UK inflation on average in the year running lower than the 2.75% p. a. forecast assumption.
Discount Rates The main method for determining the appropriate discount rate used for valuing each investment is based on the Investment Advisers knowledge of the market, taking into account intelligence gained from bidding activities, discussions with financial advisers knowledgeable of these markets and publicly available information on relevant transactions.
When there are limited transactions or information available, and as a second method and sense check, a bottom up approach is taken based on the appropriate long-term Government Bond yield and an appropriate risk premium.
The risk premium takes into account risks and opportunities associated with the project earnings e. g. predictability and covenant of the concession income, all of which may be differentiated by market segment, operational status, jurisdiction and market participants appetite for these risks.
In the portfolio there were five PPP projects in construction at 31 March 2017, all of which are located in Europe.
An investment in a project under construction can offer a higher overall return i. e. require a higher discount rate compared to buying an investment in an operational project.
However construction assets do not usually yield during the construction period and there is the risk that delays in construction may affect the investment value.
An analysis of the weighted-average discount rates for the investments in the portfolio analysed by territory, and showing movement in the year, is shown overleaf: 46 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 31 March 2017 Long-term 31 March 2016 government Risk Discount Discount 1 Country bond yield premium rate rate Movement UK 1.7% 5.5% 7.2% 7.5% 0.3% Australia 3.1% 4.2% 7.3% 7.9% 0.6% Eurozone 1.4% 6.2% 7.6% 7.8% 0.2% North America 2.8% 5.4% 8.2% 7.1% 1.1% Portfolio 1.8% 5.6% 7.4% 7.5% 0.1% 1 The long-term government bond yield for a region is the weighted average for all of the countries in which the portfolio is invested in that region for example for the Eurozone this is France, the Netherlands and Ireland.
In the UK, there is sufficient market data on discount rates and hence the risk premium is derived from this market discount rate for investments less the appropriate long-term government bond yield.
For Australia, North America and the Eurozone, where there is less market data, more emphasis is placed on the bottom up approach to determine discount rates.
The Board discusses the proposed valuation with the third party valuation expert to ensure that the valuation of the Groups portfolio is appropriate.
As long-term government bond yields in the UK, Australia, North America and the Eurozone are currently low, this has resulted in higher country risk premiums as discount rates have not fallen as far as bond yields.
The Investment Advisers view is that discount rates used to value investments do not rigidly follow bond yields, although naturally there is some correlation over the longer term.
The implication from this is that an increase from these historically low bond yields could happen without necessarily directly adversely impacting discount rates.
The 0.1% reduction in the weighted average discount rate in the year arose from a reduction of 0.2% in the weighted average discount rate attributable to a more competitive environment for infrastructure assets which was then offset by a 0.1% increase from the US$166.4m acquisition of the Northwest Parkway toll road which is valued using a higher discount rate than the weighted average.
While there is a slow supply of new PPP investment opportunities, new market entrants, attracted by the favourable risk-adjusted returns, have driven prices upwards, and hence caused discount rates to reduce during the year.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 47 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio Continued Valuation Assumptions Apart from the discount rates, the other key economic assumptions used in determining the Directors valuation of the portfolio are as follows: 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 2 UK RPI and RPIx 2.75% p. a.
2.5% p. a. UK 1.0% p. a. to March 2021, 1.0% p. a. to March 2020, 2.0% p. a. thereafter 2.5% p. a. thereafter Eurozone 1.0% p. a. to March 2021, 1.0% p. a. to March 2020, 2.0% p. a. thereafter 2.5% p. a. thereafter Canada 1.0% p. a. to March 2021, 1.0% p. a. to March 2020, Deposit Rates 2.0% p. a. thereafter 2.5% p. a. thereafter USA 1.0% p. a. with a gradual N A increase to 2.0% p. a. long-term Australia 2.6% p. a. with a gradual 2.6% p. a. with a gradual increase to 3.0% p. a. long-term increase to 3.0% p. a. long-term EUR GBP 0.85 0.79 CAD GBP 0.60 0.54 Foreign Exchange Rates USD GBP 0.80 N A AUD GBP 0.61 0.53 UK 19% p. a. to March 2020, 20% p. a. to March 2017, 19% 17% p. a. thereafter p. a. to March 2020, 18% p. a. thereafter Eurozone Various no change apart Various no change from French tax rate reducing from 33.3% p. a. to 28% p. a.
Federal and 4.6% p. a. N A Colorado State Australia 30% p. a.
30% p. a. UK 2.0% p. a. N A GDP Eurozone 1.8% p. a. N A USA 2.5% p. a. N A 1 Some project income is fully indexed, whilst some is partially indexed.
2 Retail Price Index and Retail Price Index excluding mortgage interest payments.
48 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Valuation Sensitivities The portfolios valuation is sensitive to each of the macro-economic assumptions listed above.
An explanation of the reason for the sensitivity and an analysis of how each variable in isolation i. e. while keeping the other assumptions constant impacts the NAV per share follows below.
Sensitivities are also contained in Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
2 Sensitivities for inflation, deposit interest rates, tax rates and lifecycle are based on the 25 largest investments extrapolated for the whole portfolio.
3 Foreign exchange rate sensitivity is net of Group hedging at 31 March 2017.
Discount Rate Sensitivity Whilst not a macro-economic assumption, the weighted-average discount rate that is applied to each projects forecast cash flows, for the purposes of valuing the portfolio, is the single most important judgement and variable.
The impact of a 0.5% change in the discount rate on the NAV per share is shown above.
Inflation Rate Sensitivity The projects in the portfolio have contractual income streams derived from public sector clients, which are rebased every year for inflation.
UK projects tend to use either RPI Retail Price Index or RPIx RPI excluding mortgage payments while non-UK projects use CPI consumer price index and revenues are either partially or totally indexed depending on the contract and the nature of the projects financing.
Facilities management sub-contracts have similar indexation arrangements.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 49 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio Continued The chart shows that the NAV per share is positively correlated to inflation.
The correlation and sensitivity of the portfolio to inflation increased in the year with the acquisitions of the A63 Motorway and Northwest Parkway toll roads.
The portfolios inflation correlation at 31 March 2017 was 0.7 2016: 0.6 such that should inflation be 1% higher than the valuation assumption for all future periods the expected return from the portfolio would increase 0.7% from 7.4% to 8.1%.
In the UK RPI and RPIx were 3.1% and 3.4% respectively as at March 2017.
The portfolio valuation assumes UK inflation of 2.75% per annum for both RPI and RPIx, the same assumption as for the prior year.
The March 2017 forecasts for RPI out to December 2018 range from 2.5% to 4.1% from 25 independent forecasters as compiled by HM Treasury, with an average forecast of 3.3%.
Cash flow Sensitivity to Inflation m 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Year Ending 31 March March 2017 forecast gross cash receipts March 2017 1% inflation March 2017 -1% inflation Deposit Rate Sensitivity Each portfolio companys interest costs are typically at fixed rates, either through fixed rate bonds or bank debt which is hedged with an interest rate swap, or linked to inflation through index-linked bonds.
A portfolio companys sensitivity to interest rates relates to cash deposits, which are often required to be maintained as part of senior debt funding.
For example, most PPP projects would have a debt service reserve account in which six months of debt service payments are held.
At 31 March 2017, cash deposits for the portfolio were earning interest at a rate of 0.2% per annum on average.
There is a consensus that UK base rates will remain low for an extended period, with a current median forecast for UK base rates in December 2018 of 0.25% p. a.
The portfolio valuation assumes UK deposit interest rates are 1.0% p. a. to March 2021 and 2.0% p. a. thereafter.
Once again this extends the period of 1.0% p. a. deposit interest rates and applies a lower long-term rate compared to that applied in the March 2016 valuation, which assumed 1.0% p. a. deposit interest rates to March 2020 and 2.5% p. a. thereafter.
These changes have reduced the portfolio valuation and are included within the 7.2m aggregate decrease in portfolio value attributable to changes in Economic Assumptions.
Lifecycle Expenditure Sensitivity Lifecycle also called asset renewal or major maintenance expenditure concerns the replacement of material parts of an asset to maintain it over the concession life.
It involves larger items that are not covered by routine maintenance and for a building will include items like the replacement of boilers, chillers, carpets and doors when they reach the end of their useful economic lives.
The lifecycle expenditure, together with the budget and the risk, is usually either taken by a portfolio company and hence the investor or is subcontracted and taken by a suitable sub-contractor.
Of the 114 investments, 53 have lifecycle as a portfolio company risk i. e. not subcontracted to the supply chain.
The UK corporation tax assumption for the portfolio valuation is 19% to March 2020 and 17% thereafter, which is a reduction from the rates assumed at March 2016, to reflect the legal enactment of the prospective changes to the rate of UK corporation tax.
The French corporation tax rate assumption has reduced from 33% to 28% in line with French legislation enacted in 2016.
These rate changes have resulted in an increase to the portfolio valuation, which is netted off within the 7.2m aggregate reduction in portfolio value attributable to changes in Economic Assumptions.
Gross Domestic Product GDP Sensitivity The acquisition of demand risk assets in the year has resulted in an increased sensitivity of the portfolio to changes in GDP.
At 31 March 2017 the portfolio had three investments which are considered sensitive to GDP, namely the A63 Motorway, M1-A1 Road and Northwest Parkway.
Together these projects comprised 10.0% of the Directors Valuation at year end.
At times of higher economic activity there will be greater traffic volumes using these roads generating increased revenues for the projects than compared to periods of lower economic activity and therefore we assess these as GDP-sensitive investments.
If GDP was 0.5% lower than our valuation assumptions for every future period, the expected return from the portfolio before Group expenses would decrease from 7.4% to 7.2%.
s A currency forward sale is a binding contract in the foreign FX risk in relation to assets it owns exchange market that locks in the exchange rate for the where cash flows are denominated in purchase or sale of a currency on a future date currencies other than British Pounds.
s The mechanism for determining a currency forward rate is The purpose of hedging is to provide straightforward, and depends on interest rate differentials for the currency pair confidence in the near-term yield and to mitigate the impact on NAV per s Locking in rates of future non-Sterling receipts provide greater predictability of cash receipts share of forex movements.
s Gains losses on the currency forward sale contracts offset What is HICLs objective in relation to FX risk?
gains losses on non-Sterling asset revaluations mitigating s To manage FX risk as part of the Companys aim NAV fluctuations as foreign exchange rates vary to provide investors with long-term income at sustainable levels and to preserve the capital value How is the effectiveness of HICLs hedging measured?
of its investment portfolio s Net FX gains losses, taking into account hedging gains 1 losses is measured as a percentage of NAV s To provide an appropriate balance of managing FX risk and opportunity with the cost of hedging s Non-Sterling assets and FX hedging is disclosed semi-annually How is this objective achieved?
FX risk from non-Sterling assets is managed by: Hedging as at 31 March 2017 compared to non-Sterling portfolio values: s Hedging forecast investment income from non-Sterling assets for up to 24 months through foreign exchange Value m FX hedge m % forward sales Euro 256 193 75% North America 191 150 79% s Hedging a portion of the portfolio value through rolling Australia 83 61 73% foreign exchange forward sales Total 530 404 76% s Borrowing in foreign currency from the revolving credit facility HICLs Hedging Policy s The Companys current hedging policy limits the volatility s Regularly reviewing non-Sterling exposure in the portfolio of NAV per share to no more than 1% for a 10% and adjusting level of hedging accordingly movement in foreign exchange rates i. e. the value of The level of FX hedging will vary by currency depending on Sterling vs. other currencies to which the Group is the value of the Groups non-Sterling assets, the cost of FX exposed in its portfolio hedges and over under valuation of currencies.
s In light of the cost of purchasing foreign exchange hedges, Hedging currently includes forward sales of Euro, Australian the Board and the Investment Adviser are reviewing Dollar, Canadian Dollar and US Dollar.
whether to move to policy that targets volatility of NAV per share of no more than 2% for a 10% movement in foreign exchange rates s The focus of the Board and the Investment Adviser is on cost benefit analysis such that any change continues to provide strong mitigation against FX risk in the portfolio, while managing hedging costs 1 Reported as a Key Quality Indicator see Section 2.6 Key Performance and Quality Indicators.
52 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 2 0.1% FX gain loss as percentage of the NAV for year ending March 2017 2 Year ending March 2016: 0.3% FX hedges vs Non-Sterling assets m 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Euro North America Australia Total Portfolio valueFX hedge HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 53 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.4 Investment Portfolio as at 31 March 2017 Education 20% Bangor & Nendrum Schools Ealing Schools Kent Schools Rhondda Schools Barking & Dagenham Schools East Ayrshire Schools Manchester School Salford & Wigan BSF Phase 1 Boldon School Ecole Centrale Supelec Newham BSF Schools Salford & Wigan BSF Phase 2 Bradford Schools 1 Edinburgh Schools Newport Schools Salford Schools Bradford Schools 2 Falkirk Schools NPD North Ayrshire Schools Sheffield Schools Conwy Schools Fife Schools 2 North Tyneside Schools Sheffield BSF Schools Cork School of Music Haverstock School Norwich Schools South Ayrshire Schools Croydon School Health & Safety Labs Oldham Schools University of Bourgogne Darlington Schools Helicopter Training Facility Perth & Kinross Schools West Lothian Schools Defence Sixth Form College Highland Schools PPP PSBP NE Batch Wooldale Centre for Learning Derby Schools Irish Grouped Schools Renfrewshire Schools Health 35% Doncaster Mental Barnet Hospital Oxford John Radcliffe Hospital South West Hospital Enniskillen Health Hospital Birmingham Hospitals Ealing Care Homes Oxford Nuffield Hospital Staffordshire LIFT Pinderfields & Birmingham & Solihull LIFT Glasgow Hospital Stoke Mandeville Hospital Pontefract Hospitals Bishop Auckland Hospital Hinchingbrooke Hospital Queen Alexandra Hospital Tameside General Hospital Irish Primary Redbridge & Blackburn Hospital West Middlesex Hospital Care Centres Waltham Forest LIFT Blackpool Primary Care Facility Lewisham Hospital Romford Hospital Willesden Hospital Brentwood Community Medway LIFT Salford Hospital Hospital Brighton Hospital Newton Abbot Hospital Sheffield Hospital Central Middlesex Hospital Oxford Churchill Oncology Southmead Hospital 54 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Fire, Law and Order 7% Tyne & Wear Addiewell Prison Gloucester Fire & Rescue Northern European Project Fire Stations Greater Manchester Royal Canadian Dorset Fire & Rescue Zaanstad Prison Police Stations Mounted Police HQ Durham & Cleveland South East London Medway Police Firearms Training Centre Police Stations Exeter Crown and Metropolitan Police Sussex Custodial Centre County Court Training Centre Transport 22% A9 Road A249 Road M1-A1 Road NW Anthony Henday P3 A13 Road Senior Bonds Connect PFI M80 Motorway DBFO RD901 Road A63 Motorway Dutch High Speed Rail Link N17 N18 Road A92 Road Kicking Horse Canyon P3 Northwest Parkway Accommodation 12% Allenby & Connaught Royal School of Military Miles Platting Social Housing Northwood MoD HQ MoD Accommodation Engineering Health & Safety University of Sheffield Newcastle Libraries Oldham Library Headquarters Accommodation Home Office Water 4% AquaSure Desalination Plant Key s New investment since 31 March 2016 s Incremental stake acquired since 31 March 2016 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 55 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.5 Portfolio Analysis as at 31 March 2017 GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION 2017 77% UK 8% 11% North America Europe 4% Australia PREVIOUS YEAR 2016 UK 84%Australia 3% EU 10% North America 3% MARKET SEGMENT OWNERSHIP STAKE This year 2017 This year 2017 Previous year 2016 Previous year 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 88% 95% 33% 38% s PPP projects s 100% ownership s Demand-based assets 12% 5% s 50%-100% ownership 32% 35% 35% 27% s Less than 50% ownership INVESTMENT STATUS This year 2017 Previous year 2016 2017 2016 s Fully operational 98% 99% 2% 1% s Construction 56 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK TEN LARGEST INVESTMENTS 2017 FM COUNTERPARTY 2017 1.
AquaSure 4% DEBT TENOR CONCESSION LENGTH REMAINING This year 2017 This year 2017 Previous year 2016 Previous year 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 s Less than 10 years 7% 9% s Less than 10 years 3% 3% 48% 45% 39% 36% s 10-20 years s 10-20 years s 20-30 years 45% 46% s 20-30 years 48% 53% 10% 8% s Greater than 30 years HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 57 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.6 Risk & Risk Management The Company has put a risk The Boards Management Engagement Committee reviews the performance of the Investment Adviser as well as all key management framework in place service providers at least annually and this review includes a covering all aspects of the Groups consideration of the Investment Advisers internal controls and their effectiveness.
No issues were identified in the latest business, including the formation of a review.
The Investment Advisers risk and compliance team Risk Committee.
The Risk Committee, has developed a detailed self-assessment internal control which reports its findings to the Board, report, and this is reviewed and debated on a quarterly basis by the Board.
is tasked with the identification, assessment and management of The Directors set out the principal risks relating to the Groups portfolio and to shareholdings in the Company in the risk for the Group.
Companys February 2017 Prospectus, which is available from the Companys website.
The Risk Committee reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each regular quarterly meeting, by reference to a The principal risks, which remained substantially unchanged risk dashboard developed and monitored in conjunction with during the year, and their possible mitigants are summarised the Investment Adviser.
This review includes consideration of below in seven Primary Risk Classes which the Risk any new circumstances which could arise creating additional Committee reviews each quarter.
The Dashboard below risks for the Group.
For each identified risk, a mitigation shows the results of the stress testing for each Risk Class, strategy is, where appropriate, developed and implemented, being Inherent before any mitigation at all and this can together with appropriate monitoring by the Investment include poor contractual structures, and Residual after Adviser and other key service providers as appropriate.
risk mitigations, as described in the tables which follow.
The Company outsources key services to the Investment Adviser and other service providers.
It therefore places reliance on these service providers own systems and controls, details of which the Board has received and reviews annually.
HICL Risk Dashboard: Position at 31 March 2017 Residual Valuation Impact 12 mths Cash flow Impact Risk Nav share Dividend share Primary Risk Class Rating Residual vs Inherent Residual vs Inherent 01 Political risk Medium 02 Financial market risk Low 03 Portfolio performance risk Low 04 Operational risk execution Low 05 Operational risk portfolio, administration, Very Low asset management 06 HICL central management risk Very Low 07 Operational risk r egulation Very Low and compliance 58 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 01 Political Risk Risk Description Risk Mitigation ACQUISITION PIPELINE The Board is confident that the Investment Adviser, via its Investor appetite for infrastructure assets remains at an network of established relationships, is able to continue all-time high.
As a consequence, the sourcing of new enjoying access to opportunities both in UK and abroad.
investments for the Group is increasingly difficult given In any event, a failure to make further investments the levels of competitive demand.
would not impact the performance and returns from the existing portfolio.
CHANGE IN POLICY Studies show that the need for new infrastructure and the A change in policy or sentiment towards private financing repair of existing is a huge spend requirement globally, is likely to affect the levels of procurement of new privatelyrequiring sums of money that governments will find it difficult financed infrastructure projects.
This would in due course to raise.
It is therefore likely that private sector capital will impact the availability of new transactions in the secondary continue to be used to fund infrastructure investment and market in which the Company is most active.
that there will continue to be suitable projects for the Group to invest in.
More unlikely, but not impossible, would be a PPP client reneging on the terms of an existing project agreement and Each of the Groups PPP projects and concessions is failing to make the contracted availability-based payments.
structured with a legally binding contract.
Most social and Although the Company would mount a legal challenge, the transportation infrastructure concessions provide some or legal processes and means for redress would involve total protection, through their contractual structures, in expending time and money.
This would impact the value of relation to changes in legislation which affect either the the Groups investment portfolio and affect the Companys project asset or the way the services are provided.
Finally, ability to meet its target distributions.
such a development would have wide-ranging, adverse implications for all private sector investors and supply chain stakeholders and therefore acts as a natural deterrent against such an approach.
INDIRECT LEGAL OR REGULATORY CHANGES The Company, the Investment Adviser and their advisers Various legal and regulatory changes may adversely impact continually monitor any potential or actual changes to the Group and the portfolio companies in which the Group regulations to ensure both the Group and its service providers invests.
This could take the form of legislation impacting remain compliant.
Where appropriate, the Investment Adviser the supply chain or contractual costs or obligations to will participate in consultation processes, to ensure that the which portfolio companies and therefore the equity legislature hears the concerns and views of the Company, in investor are exposed.
its capacity as a private sector investor.
CORPORATE TAX RATES Changes in corporation tax rates cannot be prevented Reductions in corporation tax rates have positively or mitigated.
The Company aims to be realistic in its tax impacted the portfolios valuation: however, there is no rate assumptions.
assurance that the lower rates will remain in place in the Investors are provided with an illustration of the portfolios future.
Subsequent changes in policy might lead to an sensitivity to changes in tax rates in Section 3.2 Valuation increase in corporate tax rates and a corresponding of the Portfolio.
reduction in the portfolios value.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 59 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.6 Risk & Risk Management Continued 01 Political Risk Continued Risk Description Risk Mitigation CROSS-BORDER TAX TREATMENT Relevant tax rules are monitored for any potentially adverse The tax treatment of income received by the Group changes to the Group.
Ultimately, the Company could may be adversely impacted from a change in choose to move its domicile to the UK, should this be a cross-border tax rules.
Equally the Group can sell overseas investments to local investors if this is a better financial outcome.
BASE EROSION AND PROFIT SHIFTING BEPS The Board and the Investment Adviser have monitored the Now the OECD has published its final reports concerning developments in countries who are members of the OECD its initiative to address BEPS, countries are now and where the Group holds investments.
implementing the recommendations if their current policies Based on published information by countries on their plans, it are not in line with those recommendations.
is currently anticipated that the impact of BEPS on the Group Any changes could have a material impact on tax liabilities, from changing tax policies will be negligible.
in particular the deductibility of interest costs of debt used to finance projects.
This action would lead to a material impact on the Groups future cash flows and therefore the portfolios valuation.
02 Financial and Market Risks Risk Description Risk Mitigation INFLATION Whilst inflation indices are currently low in countries in which Revenues received by portfolio companies typically have the Group has investments, the Board and Investment partial or full inflation-linkage.
Similarly, the outflows such Adviser believe the Groups long-term assumptions for as the operating, lifecycle and debt-capital costs are inflation remain reasonable.
The Company publishes an generally inflation-linked or fixed throughout the life of analysis of the portfolios sensitivity to inflation in Section 3.2 the project.
The consequence is that the investment Valuation of the Portfolio.
returns from a portfolio company normally have positive inflation correlation.
However, if there were to be an environment of falling inflation, such that RPI CPI was below the Companys current assumptions on average for the remainder of the assumed assets lives, or there were periods of deflation, the valuation of the portfolio would be adversely impacted and, in a period of sustained deflation, projects could suffer defaults under their loan arrangements.
60 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 02 Financial and Market Risks Continued Risk Description Risk Mitigation DISCOUNT AND INTEREST RATES The key mitigant to an increase in discount rates implied by A discounted cash flow methodology is used to value the an increase in interest rates is that it is unlikely the two majority of the Groups investments.
The appropriateness variables will move independently of each other.
of the selected discount rate for each project is key to Interest rates and inflation are also correlated over the long deriving a fair and reasonable valuation for the portfolio.
term, and they exhibit a positive relationship.
Therefore, an The rate is established by reference to knowledge of increase in interest rates over the long term is likely to result transactions involving similar investments in the market in both a higher discount rate and a higher inflation rate and this is corroborated by considering the yield on factors which materially offset one another in the portfolio long-dated government bonds plus an adequate risk valuation calculation.
premium to reflect the additional risk.
Further, an interest rate increase would have a positive impact on All else being equal, an increase in the yield on long-dated deposits held on account by portfolio companies, thereby government bonds would imply an increase to the mitigating the impact of a discount rate hike on the portfolio value.
discount rate because of its reference back to the Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio provides some analysis of risk-free rate, as described above.
The impact of a higher the impact of the portfolios sensitivity to these variables.
discount rate would be a reduction in the net present value of the portfolio.
Finally, aside from the correlation discussed above, in the present environment, the rate on long-dated Government bonds is at historically low levels.
However, the level of the discount rate applied by market participants for valuing secondary infrastructure investments such as those held in the portfolio has remained remarkably robust in recent years.
The implication is that the risk premium for the asset class is relatively high.
It may therefore support a downward trend to its long-term mean should the long-dated Government bonds rise, without impacting the overall discount rate.
REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY To manage interest rate risk, the Group may use interest rate The Company benefits from the use of a revolving credit swaps to hedge drawings under the Groups debt facility, facility RCF, so as to avoid holding material amounts of depending on the how long the debt is likely to be drawn.
uninvested cash in excess of that required to meet outstanding equity commitments for existing investments or to fund potential acquisitions in the near term.
New equity issuance is used from time-to-time to raise capital which can then be used to pay down the facility.
The Company is therefore subject to interest rate risk in respect of the RCF commitments.
PROJECT FINANCING AND CASH DEPOSITS Adverse interest rate movements cannot be prevented or fully Each project is typically financed with amortising long-term mitigated.
The Company aims to be realistic in its interest rate debt.
A requirement of this debt funding is that sufficient assumptions, thereby ensuring that cash deposits are cash deposits are maintained to support the repayments to appropriately accounted for in the portfolio valuation exercise.
In addition, cash reserves are held in Investors are provided with an illustration of the portfolios segregated bank accounts to meet contingent liabilities sensitivity to interest rate movements in Section 3.2 Valuation and the anticipated expenditure that falls to the project of the Portfolio.
company e. g. lifecycle costs.
Debt financing for projects have fixed-rate or inflation-linked The deposits are generally held in short-term interestinterest rate hedges in place on their borrowings for the full bearing accounts.
A fall in interest rates below the level term to minimise interest rate volatility.
assumed in the portfolio valuation model would reduce the anticipated cash flow to the Company and therefore its net asset value.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 61 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.6 Risk & Risk Management Continued 02 Financial and Market Risks Continued Risk Description Risk Mitigation FOREIGN EXCHANGE To mitigate the foreign exchange risk, the Group has used As the Company owns a number of investments in a combination of balance sheet hedging, and hedging jurisdictions outside the UK, where the income generated prospective income on a short-term basis through outright by the investment is denominated in a foreign currency, forward currency sales.
the investment return is received in a currency other than Sterling.
03 Portfolio Performance Risks Risk Description Risk Mitigation OPERATIONAL ISSUES Operational issues can be caused by a number of factors, Poor operational performance, the failure to meet the most likely of which is the underperformance of a service the prescribed contractual service standards, or the delivery partner.
The Investment Advisers Asset Management appearance of latent construction defects, will reduce team plays a pro-active oversight role, to ensure any trends the income of the portfolio company concerned.
in performance are picked up early and, if necessary, corrected accordingly.
In addition to the financial cost of these reductions, there is the potential for an adverse reputational impact to the When problems do arise, the relevant Asset Manager will private sector consortium including the Company from work on the corrective steps and relevant actions in order to any material operational issues.
preserve good working relations with the client and thereby minimise any potential reputational damage.
Any payment deductions for periods of unavailability or poor service delivery are typically contractually passed down to the sub-contractor who is at fault.
In a severe case, the project company can terminate a sub-contractor who fails to perform and either self-manage the services or tender for a new service provider.
The cost of this action would, where possible, also be recovered from the previous supplier.
STRINGENT CONTRACTUAL INTERPRETATION The Investment Adviser does not currently believe this risk to In the UK, certain public sector PPP clients are applying be widespread.
The Groups investment assumption remains some stringent interpretation of contract terms, leading to that contracts are both fair and balanced in protecting the material availability-based payment deductions for the interests of the respective parties.
These deductions are often disputed, continuation of the policy is unlikely as it would adversely requiring time and money to achieve a resolution affect investors appetite to make future commitments to through processes which can leave the value of the infrastructure assets, thereby impacting the public sectors investment impaired.
ability to raise private financing for necessary new projects.
62 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 03 Portfolio Performance Risks Continued Risk Description Risk Mitigation TERMINATION This risk is not considered to be high due, in part, to The public sector client is entitled to terminate a PPP the requirement for the public sector client to fund these contract voluntarily or for default typically due to serious termination costs, which include the cost of repaying the operational performance issues or a serious breach of debt secured to finance the project.
Where In the case of performance, the Investment Adviser is actively compensation is payable, it may be lower than the monitoring performance and seeking to deal with issues market carrying value of the Groups equity interest before they become major concerns.
Clearly voluntary termination will be driven by clients, their available capital and their operational requirements.
For the large majority of the Groups investments it would be entitled to be compensated at market value if a project is terminated voluntarily, thus mitigating the potential financial impact of this risk.
COUNTERPARTY RISK As one of its key objectives the Company provides investors The PPP project companies in which the Group invests with access to a balanced, diversified portfolio of investments sub-contract the provision of the services to specialist in terms of clients, funders and supply-chain contractors, providers construction and facilities management thereby mitigating concentration risk and the impact of the companies.
The failure of a supply chain provider would default non-performance by any single counterparty.
In negatively impact the project companys ability to fulfil its addition, counterparty credit risk is considered at regular contractual obligations with the client.
Availability-based intervals by the Investment Advisers internal credit risk team.
payment deductions would be made which would impact the Companys cash flow and therefore the valuation of the Groups portfolio.
CLIENTS The impact of any single client default to the overall Group is If a project companys client has financial difficulties and is considered small, as the Group has low concentration risk unable to meet its obligations to pay the availability-based associated with any individual client.
payment under a concession agreement, this could have a material impact on that projects cash flows.
OPERATIONAL COSTS As part of the due diligence process at the time of acquisition, The budget, and therefore the risk, of certain key all operating budgets are reviewed to determine if they operational costs associated with a project lies with are adequate.
Generally these relate to the In the case of insurance, there is often some protection Management Services Agreement MSA contract, the through contractual premium risk-sharing agreements with lifecycle costs and the insurance premium.
There is a risk the project companys client.
that the budget could prove to be insufficient.
The adequacy of lifecycle budgets are regularly assessed where the risk sits with the project companies.
The portfolios valuation sensitivity to lifecycle costs, is set out in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 63 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.6 Risk & Risk Management Continued 03 Portfolio Performance Risks Continued Risk Description Risk Mitigation CYBER ATTACK Whilst the Group has no IT systems, it relies on those of its A cyber attack could affect the IT systems of the Group, services providers.
The Investment Adviser has IT systems the Investment Adviser, its other service providers or a designed to withstand a cyber attack and these systems portfolio company, causing theft or loss of data, or have been subject to successful annual tests by a specialist damage to a buildings control systems and equipment.
This would have negative legal, operational and Portfolio companies tend not to have their own IT systems reputational repercussions.
and rely on their subcontractors and management companies.
Data is normally backed up and the risk, should data be corrupted or stolen, is considered low.
The Company has developed a cyber risk policy which is being disseminated to each portfolio company to ensure this matter is receiving appropriate attention by each portfolio company board.
The Group has assessed the risk of a cyber attack on the building management systems within the buildings managed by the Groups project companies.
From sampling work undertaken, it is considered this risk is low, as few systems are connected to the internet.
04 Operational Risks Execution Risk Description Risk Mitigation INADEQUATE DUE DILIGENCE The Investment Advisers Origination team has a depth of Poor or inadequate due diligence can mean an investment experience in buying and selling infrastructure assets and is purchased and then the performance does not proceed has developed a thorough checklist approach to the due in line with the assumed business plan due to matters diligence phase.
arising which were not spotted during the acquisition The Investment Adviser is supported by specialist advisers due diligence.
e. g. lawyers, technical consultants, and tax advisers who are retained to carry out specific due diligence on potential acquisitions to minimise transaction risk.
BREACH OF POLICIES This risk is considered extremely low due to the Investment New acquisitions cause the Company to breach its Advisers detailed internal sign off procedures involving a Investment Policy, its banking covenants, or other internal team independent of the acquisition reviewing against all control policies set by the Board from time to time.
64 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 05 Operational Risks Portfolio Administration, Asset Management Risk Description Risk Mitigation ASSET AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT AND The Investment Adviser has a track record of investing and TRANSACTION EXECUTION managing infrastructure investments over a period of more The Company is heavily reliant upon the Investment than 20 years.
It has developed a depth of resource and Adviser to implement the strategies and, as a result, knowledge in the asset class, as well as appropriate and deliver its objectives.
detailed sets of policies, procedures, compliance systems, and risk controls.
The Investment Advisers team is responsible for asset management, value enhancement and investment selection The Investment Advisers team benefits from a group of and pricing disciplines.
A performance deterioration of any individuals possessing relevant qualifications, relationships of these functions would have a material impact on the and experience for their roles.
The Board is satisfied that Companys performance.
there is sufficient depth of expertise within the Investment Advisers team for the Group not to be reliant on any single key man.
VALUATION SENSITIVITIES AND FINANCIAL Sensitivity analysis is a tool with limitations: it seeks to MODELLING illustrate to investors the impact that certain key variables The sensitivity analysis does not show a comprehensive have on the portfolios valuation.
It cannot provide a picture of all potential scenarios.
Further, variables comprehensive assessment of all of the risks and should do not tend to move in isolation, and the analysis does be treated accordingly.
not show the potentially infinite number of permutations, Financial models are managed by an experienced team and resultant impacts, that might arise in reality as who are adept at managing them in a manner that seeks a consequence.
to minimise the introduction of errors.
Financial models, either for the Group or the underlying project companies, may contain errors, or incorrect inputs, resulting in inaccurate outputs.
These could adversely impact the assessment of the Companys financial position.
06 HICL Central Management Risk Risk Description Risk Mitigation LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL The Board is comfortable that it is not overly reliant on any The Company relies on the Board of Directors and one director.
Similarly, it is comfortable that the teams in key service providers, including the Investment Adviser, all its key service providers, including the Investment Adviser, to manage the Group.
Over-reliance on a key have a suitable breadth and depth of resources such that if individual, the loss of whom could lead to gaps in any one individual were to depart, the services can continue the corporate knowledge.
to be provided to the required standards by the remaining team members.
FAILURE OF SERVICE PROVIDER The Management Engagement Committee reviews the The Group has no employees and relies on service performance of all key service providers annually.
Poor providers in Guernsey, Luxembourg and the UK to provide performance issues are communicated promptly back management services, the most important of which is the to the relevant service provider and, to date, this has Investment Adviser.
Failure of any one service provider had the necessary effect.
would lead to potential operating issues and a possible When necessary, changes are made, an example being the value impairment.
move of Guernsey Administrator to Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited in 2016.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 65 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.6 Risk & Risk Management Continued 06 HICL Central Management Risk Continued Risk Description Risk Mitigation POOR CONTROL SYSTEMS Detailed operating procedures have been developed and Poor control systems of either the Group or a service adopted by the Group.
These are regularly reviewed including provider lead to a loss for the Group.
reviews by the compliance team of the Investment Adviser.
Service providers also have the own control systems which are reviewed as and when required.
Changes to controls are implemented in light of industry experience and changing policies and regulation.
07 Operational Risks Regulation and Compliance Risk Description Risk Mitigation BREACH OF REGULATIONS When entering new jurisdictions for the first time, specialist The Groups activities breach regulations in the jurisdictions technical and legal advice is taken.
Once investments are in which it operates.
made, the Investment Adviser seeks to remain abreast in changes of regulations and laws to ensure companies in which the Group invests remains compliant.
66 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Viability Statement The Investment Adviser prepares, and the Directors review, The AIC Code of Corporate Governance requires the summary five year cash flow projections each year as part of Directors to make a statement in the Annual Report with business planning and dividend approval processes.
The regard to the viability of the Company, including explaining projections consider cash balances, key covenants and limits, how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, the dividend cover, investment policy compliance and other key period of time for which they have made the assessment and financial indicators over the period.
Sensitivity analysis why they consider that period to be appropriate.
considers the potential impact of the Groups principal risks summarised above actually occurring individually, and The Directors have assessed the viability of the Company together.
These projections are based on the Investment over a five-year period to March 2022.
In making this Advisers expectations of future asset performance, income statement the Directors have considered the resilience of the and costs and are consistent with the methodology applied Company, taking account of its current position, the principal to provide the valuation of the investments.
risks facing the business, in severe but plausible downside scenarios, and the effectiveness of any mitigating actions.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and The Directors have determined that the five-year period to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period March 2022 is an appropriate period over which to assess to March 2022, on the assumption that there is sufficient the viability of the Company for the purposes of this liquidity in the debt market to allow the Company to refinance statement as this period accords with the Companys or repay obligations becoming due under the Groups business planning exercises, is appropriate for the revolving debt facility and that its investments are not investments owned by the Group and is consistent with the materially affected by retrospective changes to government long-term objective of the Company.
The Company, as is common for an investment company, has a low level of expenses relative to forecast receipts from its portfolio investments.
The portfolio consists of project companies whose underlying assets are predominantly fully constructed and operating PPP or similar projects with public sector counterparties in jurisdictions with established and proven legal systems.
As a result the Company benefits from predictable long-term contracted cash flows and a set of principal risks as summarised above can be identified and assessed.
The projects are each financed on a non-recourse basis to the Company and supported by detailed financial models.
The Directors believe that the non-recourse financing and diversification within the portfolio of projects helps to withstand and mitigate for the risks it is most likely to meet.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 67 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK 3.7 Risk Committee Report I took over as chairman of the Risk Main Duties and General Approach The main duties of the Risk Committee are: Committee on 1 April 2017 from Susie s ensuring that the Company implements an effective risk Farnon, who chaired the Committee in governance structure and control framework across the the financial year.
It operates within key risk areas with appropriate reporting: clearly defined terms of reference s considering on an annual basis the Board the Groups risk available on the Companys website.
appetite, taking account of the current and prospective It comprises all the Directors and it met macro-economic and financial environment: four times in the year, coinciding with s reviewing, challenging and approving, at least on an annual the quarterly Board meetings.
basis, risk limits and tolerances, inter alia by asset type, by geography sovereign risk, by counterparty exposure, for The duties of the Risk Committee in discharging its responsibilities interest rate exposure, for currency exposure, and for comprise defining a risk appetite for the Group and a robust borrowing at the Group level: assessment and monitoring of all matters relating to the risks s reviewing, challenging and amending as appropriate, the to which the Group is exposed and their management and Companys risk appetite statement: mitigation, in particular, in respect of risk exposure and controls, stress and scenario planning, regulatory compliance, s confirming ongoing regulatory compliance as appropriate: project company controls, tax policies and matters and the three lines of defence.
s overseeing the Group risk profile, challenging the assessment and measurement of key risks whilst I, or another member of the Risk Committee, will be available monitoring the actions taken to manage them: at the AGM to respond to any questions from shareholders regarding our activities.
s reviewing and recommending scenario assumptions for inclusion in business planning and receiving the results of stress and scenario analysis to determine whether proposed mitigation is sufficient to manage the business risk profile within the Boards appetite: s making recommendations to the Board on material changes to investment and strategy, treasury policy Simon Holden and operational risk policy.
Risk Committee Chairman Statement of the Chairman of the Risk Committee 23 May 2017 The Company has put a risk management framework in place covering all aspects of the Groups business.
As the Company is an Investment Company it outsources key services to the Investment Adviser and other service providers.
The risk management framework utilises three lines of defence, being cascading approaches by which the interests of the Company and its shareholders are effectively safeguarded and protected.
The first line is the development of systems essentially the day-to-day management of risk through effective controls as documented in, for example, the Companys and the Investment Advisers Policies and Controls Manuals.
The second line is that of oversight, namely the challenge mechanism that is provided by the Risk Committee which reviews, challenges and monitors to ensure that policies are up-to-date and delegated authorities are respected complied with, and responds to new strategic priorities and emerging or changing risks.
The third and final defence is third party assurance which is utilised on an as-needed basis to provide an independent challenge to the risk management framework of the Company, an audit of key controls and guidance as to best practice, with the results reported to the Audit Committee.
68 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 03 PERFORMANCE & RISK Under direction from the Board the identification, assessment Stress test scenario impact of forecast portfolio and management of risk are integral elements of the cash flows with largest PPP investment excluded Investment Advisers and the Operators work in both the m management of the existing portfolio and in seeking new 300 investment opportunities.
This is the so-called first line of defence, described above.
250 200 The Risk Committee reviews the key risks affecting the Company at each quarterly meeting.
This review, which forms part of 150 the second line of defence, includes consideration of any 100 new circumstances which could arise creating additional risks 50 for the Group.
For each material identified risk, a mitigation strategy is, where appropriate, developed and implemented, 0 together with appropriate monitoring by the Investment Adviser and other key service providers as appropriate.
Year Ending 31 March March 2017 forecast March 2017 forecast portfolio cash flows portfolio cash flows excluding largest Health investment Significant Activities in the Year The Committee considered and noted compliance with the Approved Delegated Parameters ADPs, which are a component of the Companys risk management processes.
The Committee continued to track the impact the BEPS The ADPs, which operate within the Investment Policy, are project could have on the Groups future cash flows, designated thresholds pre-agreed with the Risk Committee noting how different governments planned to implement the and approved by the Board from time to time, in view of the recommendations and updating the Board and shareholders Companys risk appetite, within which the Investment Adviser as matters developed.
may make specific, unilateral investment and asset management A routine agenda item in the year is the project and risk review.
They provide the Board with comfort on the The content included, inter alia, an analysis of counterparty delegation of the investment management functions as they exposure and portfolio concentration, a summary of pertinent are designed to optimise risk and return by empowering the fund matters and the Companys financial risk management Investment Adviser for the more conventional investment policies and status, together with commentary on specific operations of the Group, whilst reserving Board approval for project issues warranting discussion with the Board.
other matters exceeding the ADP limits.
As part of improving controls at project companies in which During the year, the Committee and subsequently the Board the Group invests, a programme of helping them make sure considered two new potential investments, as whilst they they had an acceptable control environment in place has were inside the Companys Investment Policy they fell outside continued, to help impart best practices and lessons learnt.
the agreed ADP limits in place at that time.
This helps to give an appropriate balance between management and delegation.
The risks arising from cyber attacks have been regularly discussed during the year.
The focus of the cyber threat As noted in last years report, an external consultant was analysis covered the project companies in which the Group engaged to consider current procedures and recommend invests and the buildings such as schools and hospitals they best practices that the Committee could adopt.
This year has own or manage.
Advances in technology now mean building been a transition, moving away from considering risk via risk control systems covering heating, lighting and ventilation matrix and stress scenarios independently, to a combined may be connected to the internet to allow remote access by reporting tool.
When connected pose an opportunity to hackers Whilst maintaining the various risk management frameworks, to gain access to these systems and create material the Committee is now focused on seven risk class summaries, disruption.
Further testing in the year by a third party expert with combined stress scenario impacts, both pre and post has given comfort that those sites visited and tested were mitigation.
This is more fully set out in the Section 3.6 Risk & acceptably protected, with only a limited number of Risk Management.
The Committee has spent the year on recommendations and actions.
bedding in the new reporting tool, with special deep-dives The Committee considers, at each meeting, various regulatory to fully debate certain risk classes and mitigation measures compliance reports from the Investment Adviser and from the in place.
No significant action points or notable comments The ongoing programme of various potential stress scenarios arose in respect of these regular reviews.
for the Company, and the related analyses, was presented to the Committee via the new reporting tool.
This programme was also refreshed and enhanced, with combined stress scenarios being evaluated and the results debated.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 69 Annual Project distributions 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033 2034 2035 2036 2037 2038 2039 2040 2041 2042 2043 2044 2045 2046 2047 2048 2049 2050 2051 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE Croydon School, UK 70 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 04 Responsible Investment Environmental, Social & Governance Considerations Delivering Real Value.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 71 04 RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL & GOVERNANCE 4.1 Overview Context The Investment Adviser has incorporated the Principles within The Company via the Group, holds a portfolio of infrastructure its business where relevant.
As a shareholder in each investments.
It manages the portfolio with the objective of investment, the Group has been able to request that each delivering long-term, stable income for shareholders.
portfolio company report against the Groups approved The Groups investments typically consist of equity interests RI ESG policies.
RI ESG is discussed at each HICL Board or other risk capital in portfolio companies which provide meeting and the Group monitors RI ESG activity across services to their clients or sub-contract the provision of these its portfolio.
services to specialist construction and or facilities management companies.
In managing the Company and its Corporate Subsidiaries, the Directors have ensured that procedures and policies have been put in place and that service providers, including the Investment Adviser, manage the Group effectively and responsibly with respect to all the Groups stakeholders.
Principles for Responsible Investment The Investment Adviser recognises that Responsible Investment RI and Environmental, Social and Governance ESG are fundamental to sustainable, responsible business operations and to that end it has chosen to be a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment PRI, formerly known as the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
The PRI are widely recognised and regarded around the world and its six principles can be summarised as follows: s to incorporate RI ESG checks into investment analysis and decision-making: s to be active owners and incorporate RI ESG controls into ownership policies and practices: s to seek appropriate disclosures on RI ESG issues by the entities in which the investments are made: s to promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry: s to work together to enhance effectiveness in implementing the Principles: and s to report on activities and progress towards implementing the Principles.
72 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017
