Chairmans Statement HVPE continues to attract new investors by delivering strong, consistent returns from a well-managed, diversified portfolio.
along-term investment in private equity through Dear Shareholder ownership of shares in your Company.
The year to 31 January 2017 was a year of steady progress for HarbourVest Global Private Equity 2017 is the tenth year of the Companys existence and HVPE or the Company following the landmark the financial record since inception is shown at the foot of previous year which saw the establishment of a single this Statement.
Even approaching ten years is not a long class of voting shares, the listing of those shares on time when investing in private markets and the Company the Main Market in London and the entry of the Company is fortunate to be able to draw on, and be guided by, the into the FTSE 250 Index.
Furthermore, in October 2016 experience of our Investment Manager, HarbourVest HVPE announced that it had delisted its shares in Partners HarbourVest.
Together with colleagues, Amsterdam and in November it moved its Home State in1982 Brooks Zug, currently a Senior Managing to the United Kingdom.
Director of HarbourVest and a director of HVPE, formed the business that is now HarbourVest and over the last The Company has witnessed a continuing transition 35 years they have built a formidable track record of inits share register.
Shares have flowed East across successfully investing in private markets.
From small the Atlantic such that the percentage owned by US beginnings, HarbourVest has expanded to become a Persons is estimated to have reduced from 42% in world-wide private equity manager presently managing May 2016 to 29% as at the date of this letter.
A number inexcess of $40 billion of investors money from all of new, mainly UK domiciled, shareholders and around the globe.
It is this wealth of experience and the investment managers have become major shareholders.
global reach of the Investment Manager that underpins On behalf of the Board of HVPE I want to thank the proposition for investment in the shares of HVPE longstanding shareholders for their support and to asbeing one of the very few large a market capitalisation welcome new shareholders, wherever they are located, of 1 billion, liquid a median turnover of shares to the and particularly those institutions and private wealth value of approximately 343,000 per day and widely managers that have seen the merits of making diversified private equity vehicles listed on the London Stock Exchange.
6 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data 10.3% 30.3% NAV growth over the year $ Realised uplift See page 27 for details This Annual Report seeks both to report on the progress share total return in USD of 84.7% as against 38.6% total of the Company during the year to 31 January 2017 and return for the FTSE All World Index.
also to explain in some detail the process by which the HVPEs strategy is to deliver superior long term NAV per Company is managed with the aim of delivering long-term share performance.
The aim is that this should exceed net asset value NAV appreciation.
As a highly diversified that of listed markets by 5% per annum and as reported company with underlying investments in more than 7,000 a year ago that aim was achieved from inception in 2007 companies the NAV of HVPE is never likely to be materially to 31 January 2016.
It has not been for the year to affected by the performance of any one individual 31January 2017 as a result of a combination of rapidly company.
But over time the returns from successful early rising listed markets towards the end of the period, lags stage investing through funds in companies that have in private equity valuations and deliberately increased become household names such as Google, Facebook commitments to new funds so as to lay the ground for or, recently, Snapchat, can be significant.
Taken together growth in future years.
All in all, though, the Board with the larger element of the Companys business, considers the outturn for the 12 months to 31 January being investment in buy-outs and corporate turn-around tobe fully satisfactory.
situations, the aim is to deliver steady growth in NAV per share in normal market conditions.
Of course, conditions Share Price Performance, are not always normal and the ten-year record reminds Share Trading and Discounts us of the effect of the Global Financial Crisis.
However, Ultimately what matters to shareholders is share price since 2010 the NAV per share in US dollar USD terms performance.
For UK investors the year to 31 January has grown at a compound rate of 11.4% per annum and 2017 saw the share price as quoted in UK pounds in the year to 31 January 2017 grew by 10.3% to $18.47.
sterling GBP rise by 37% driven by NAV per share growth in USD and a decline in the GBP USD exchange Performance and Asset Values rate, resulting in a narrowing of the discount from 25.9% Although the share price does not directly track the to 18.6%.
At 31 January 2017 the share price ended the growth in NAV per share, such growth is the bedrock year at 11.95.
For US based investors there was also which underpins the company.
In the year to 31 January substantial growth, albeit lower than for UK shareholders, 2017 USD NAV per share grew by 10.3%.
Although some other companies and markets previous year when NAV performance exceeded the total materially outpaced such growth, given low inflation and return of the MSCI All Country World Index by 12%, on minimal returns on cash and near-cash assets, returns at this occasion growth of 10.3% was somewhat less than such levels over 12 months for a long-term asset must be the return on that index which accelerated markedly from considered very respectable.
The total return from the MSCI Index was 18.6% for the 12 months, and that from the Nevertheless, as with all equity type of assets with a FTSE All World Index was 18.8%.
In future the Company liquid market price, there was significant volatility in both intends to benchmark performance against the FTSE All the discount to NAV at which the shares traded over World Index which better matches HVPEs asset profile, the12 months and in the share price.
In mid-summer, albeit still not perfectly.
This is not a softening of the immediately following the shock Referendum vote in the benchmark as over the long term the FTSE Index has UK, the discount exceeded 30% and the share price was outperformed the MSCI.
By contrast at 31 January 2017 the discount was less than 19% with the share price heading towards Relative performance to any one single date is only a 12.
The Board regularly reviews the level of the discount snapshot and heavily influenced by short-term movements and considers whether the Company has feasible in listed markets as opposed to valuations of private options which might reduce the discount over the longer assets which typically are only revalued every three to term.
To date the Board remains of the view that good sixmonths.
What matters is the long-term performance.
investment performance which delivers long term growth Since inception in 2007 HVPE has delivered NAV per HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Chairmans Statement The year to 31 January 2017 continued saw the share price as quoted in sterling rise by 37% in NAV per share, together with increased acceptance from 8.71 to 11.95, or by 37.2%.
Translated back into by the market of the benefits of listed private equity USD the gain was 21.1% for a shareholder whose base asan asset class, are the key to lower discounts.
Meanwhile shareholders do need to be prepared to Investors in HVPE shares are investing in what is very tolerate volatility in both discount and share price and largely a USD asset even though the shares are quoted look beyond both to the value creation that increasing in GBP.
Within HVPE the principal currency risk is that of NAV per share will ultimately bring.
the translation of the euro assets into USDs.
The volatility During the year there was a further welcome increase of the exchange rate between the euro and the USD in the number of shares routinely traded and there was hasresulted in both foreign exchange gains and losses substantial movement in the register of shareholders.
inindividual time periods since the inception of the The Company estimates that some 42% of issued Company.
For a number of years the exchange risk was shares were traded in the year.
partly offset by the presence of borrowings in euros.
However, since 2014 the Company has had no borrowings Currency but has held substantial USD deposits and thus no hedge In earlier paragraphs I have referred to values in both against depreciation of the euro is currently in place.
UK pounds market capitalisation and share turnover and in US dollars NAV.
Currencies and their relative Company Portfolio, Balance Sheet and Fees movements have a significant effect on your Company The Investment Managers report following this Statement which needs to be borne in mind when considering gives considerable detail on the affairs of the Company results and prospects for the future.
and as with last year I will confine my comments to anumber of strategic matters.
HVPEs functional currency is the US dollar.
The Company draws up its accounts in USDs and those Once again HVPE has seen significant uplifts in individual accounts are presented under US accounting standards.
company valuations on the occasion of a liquidity event.
The majority of the Companys assets are and are This year the uplifts from carrying value on the day prior always likely to be USD assets.
At year-end the US to the announcement of the liquidity event have averaged assets represented 62% of the Companys assets and approximately 30%.
Although this is lower than the uplifts the Investment Managers target allocation is 65%.
reported for the previous five years, it still represents Inaddition many of the assets located outside of the powerful evidence that the appraised fair value of the US are heavily influenced by the performance of the companies in which HVPE has an indirect underlying USD and, with the exception of those 23% of underlying interest through its investment portfolio has regularly investments denominated in currencies other than US been uplifted on the occasion of a liquidity event.
I see no dollars, all funds in which HVPE is directly or indirectly reason why that trend should not continue in future years.
So both in terms of In order to lay the ground for future growth, and as assets and in terms of currency the USD is significantly reported by the Investment Manager, the Company the most important currency as far as NAV is concerned.
hascontinued to make substantial commitments to Currencies impact on HVPE in a number of ways.
newHarbourVest funds being the only assets that Theshare price quote is in UK pounds as is required theCompany routinely invests in.
During the year new by the rules of the London Stock Exchange.
The share commitments of USD 425 million were made and at the price finds its own level but in the long run it is heavily period end HVPE had yet-to-be funded commitments influenced by, and indeed driven by, the USD NAV per ofUSD 1.2 billion.
As has been regularly reported, the share.
So as was the case in the year to 31 January profile of draw-downs of cash for a company investing, 2017, a substantial depreciation of the GBP relative to as HVPE does, principally through funds of funds, is both the USD has boosted the GBP share price return very relatively predictable and, for primary funds, is typically substantially.
During the year the GBP share price rose spread over five to seven years.
In the judgement of the 8 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Ten-Year Financial Record Note: Italics denote figures that have been converted from US dollars or sterling At 31 January 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NAV $ 862.1 631.3 718.2 849.7 944.0 1,030.2 1,167.0 1,266.3 1,337.3 1,474.9 NAV per Share $ 10.39 7.61 8.65 10.24 11.42 12.46 14.38 15.86 16.75 18.47 Share Price $ 9.50 9.25 5.00 6.18 6.37 8.66 10.75 12.73 12.41 15.03 Share Price 4.78 6.36 3.13 3.86 4.04 5.46 6.54 8.45 8.71 11.95 Discount to NAV % -9% -22% -42% -40% -44% -30% -25% -20% -26% -19% Gearing % 0% 5% 9% 9% 16% 15% 8% 0% 0% 0% Ongoing Charges $ 6.8 6.8 6.4 8.1 6.5 7.6 9.6 8.3 7.7 9.2 Economic NAV per share Excluding management fees and non-recurring expenses $ Board and of the Investment Manager this permits HVPE of the management fees, as a percentage of NAV, to run a Balance Sheet with significant yet-to-be funded payable to HarbourVest via the funds in which HVPE is commitments in the firm expectation, built on HVPEs invested.
That has indeed proved to be the case and experience of nearly 10 years and HarbourVests of 35 management fees as a percentage of year-end NAV have years, that realisations from existing assets will flow through remained at 1.1%.
to provide funding to meet those future commitments.
The Board and Management Once again the pace of realisations was substantial in the No structural changes were made during the year.
At the 12 months to 31 January 2017 and the Company ended AGM in July 2016 shareholders confirmed the appointment the year with a cash balance of $175 million, only slightly of two partners of HarbourVest, Brooks Zug and Peter reduced from $204 million 12 months earlier.
During the Wilson, as continuing directors of HVPE for the following year there were substantial cash movements amounting 12 months.
Richard Hickman in London and Billy Macaulay to $251 million of realisations and $270 million of cash in Boston head the team and have been joined by calls for investment.
Charlotte Edgar as a Senior Marketing and Communications specialist located in London.
As Chairman, I continue to The Investment Manager has prepared cash flow models be actively involved and am in regular contact with all of covering several different macroeconomic scenarios.
All the key HarbourVest individuals.
of those models predict a Balance Sheet which remains sound even in the event of a downturn worse than the As I reported in September, in 2016 the Board Global Financial Crisis of 2008 09.
Although in most commissioned an external appraisal of its effectiveness foreseeable circumstances the forecast level of borrowing which was undertaken by BoardAlpha Ltd.
The report remains very modest, as an insurance the Board has made a number of detailed recommendations: but it also chosen to have available secured and committed bank endorsed the effectiveness of the current structure in facilities amounting to $500 million as committed jointly respect of the management of the Company and the by Lloyds Bank and Credit Suisse.
During the year the furtherance of the shareholders interests.
maturity of those facilities was extended to December I have referred in earlier Statements to the fact that a 2020.
Increased capital requirements for banks have number of directors have served for nine years and that meant that the cost of such facilities has risen and HVPE in due course new appointments to the Board would be is now paying a fee of 1.15% per annum on undrawn made.
To commence this movement the Board appointed facilities and interest at a margin over LIBOR ofupwards external recruitment consultants to search for an additional from 3% in the event that funds are drawn.
Following a robust process I was very pleased such facilities are significantly more expensive than they to be able to announce in March 2017 that the Company were in the early years of the Companys existence, the had appointed Francesca Barnes as an independent Board and the Investment Manager are of the opinion non-executive director.
Francesca has a wealth of that they provide the essential building block for future experience in the private equity world, most recently as investment performance by allowing HVPE to run adirector of Electra Private Equity PLC from which Board acommitment ratio materially higher than many of she retired in 2016.
Prior to that appointment Francesca itspeers.
It is, therefore, intended that facilities will be spent 16 years at UBS AG serving as Global Head of regularly renewed and extended such that at any time Private Equity for the last seven years and, prior to UBS, the Company will endeavour to have facilities available served 11 years with Chase Manhattan UK and US in forat least the following 36 months.
roles spanning commodity finance, financial institutions I indicated a year ago that the Companys increased and private equity.
pace of commitments would likely lead to the plateauing HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 In relation to the AGM, HVPE has recently appointed a Chairmans Statement specialist firm, Boudicca, to assist in the liaison between continued the company and its shareholders.
Most shareholdings are registered in the names of nominee companies and frequently the chain between those registered holders and the decision makers in front offices of the managers has several links in it, including some spanning oceans.
Boudicca will assist in ensuring that the relevant papers, including this Annual Report, reach the appropriate decision makers and we look forward to shareholders voting on the resolutions in front of the AGM by means ofproxies executed by the registered holders.
In advance of the formal AGM HVPE will hold an informal At present the Board has no formal policy on meeting for interested shareholders at Sofitel St James, tenure.
However, I am clear that the process which 6Waterloo Place, London SW1Y 4AN from 8.30am on commenced with the appointment of Francesca Thursday 8 June 2017.
The Investment Manager has Barnes will be ongoing with an aim always to have a recently issued invitations and details by email to major Board of an appropriate size and with individuals who shareholders.
Any shareholder who has not received are qualified and capable of directing the Company in aninvitation but would like to attend should contact the interests of all shareholders.
Charlotte Edgar at cedgar@harbourvest.
Annual General Meeting and Informal Conclusion Shareholder Meeting As always in the investment world uncertainties abound.
HVPE will hold its formal Annual General Meeting in Markets and economies have to pause, and indeed Guernsey on 20 July 2017.
Notice of the meeting, retrench from time to time.
together with the resolutions to be tabled and voting 2016 was a wonderful year for owners of many assets forms, is expected to be dispatched to shareholders in and one cannot expect returns to run so very far ahead the week commencing 22 May.
Francesca Barnes will of economic growth in the long run.
However, investing offer herself for election to the Board.
All of the other inprivate equity assets through a company such Independent Directors, save for Alan Hodson, have asHVPE, managed as it is by a highly experienced served for more than nine years, and all, including manager, should be seen as a long-term strategy to Alan, will submit themselves for re-election at the addvalue from which all shareholders should benefit 2017AGM.
This is in keeping with the AICs Code.
Under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, HarbourVest has the right to propose twopersons for election to the Board and Brooks Zug and Peter Wilson, the two HarbourVest partners who currently serve on the Board of HVPE, have been duly proposed.
Although it is relatively unusual for two representatives of the Investment Manager to serve on Michael Bunbury the Board of an investment company, as I have written Chairman before, in the special circumstances of HVPE I consider 11 May 2017 it to be wholly appropriate for this company and I ask shareholders to vote in favour of their re-election at theAGM.
NAV per Share Movement in the Year to 31 January 2017 a 10.3% Increase to $18.47 0.28 0.10 0.00 18.47 16.75 2.10 NAV per Share at Realised Gain Management and Operating Expenses Foreign Currency NAV per Share 31 Jan 2016 Value Change Performance Fees at 31 Jan 2017 10 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017
