12 13 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Open pit mining fleet The modern infrastructure and strong operational and financial Mark is a very accomplished, well operations established at Sukari, performance, including paying out respected mining engineer, who supported by a minimum of a 20year US$112 million in profit share, the brings a vast amount of relevant mine life with untapped underground board of directors are delighted to African open pit and underground resource upside, provide the solid propose a final dividend for 2017 of experience.
foundation from which Centamin will 10 US cents per share, for approval at Under the strong stewardship of your continue to generate meaningful cash the forthcoming annual general CEO, Andrew Pardey, who helped flow.
Our robust balance sheet, which meeting AGM on 26 March 2018. build Sukari in his various roles, remains debt free, allows us to This represents a proposed total including as general manager and continue investing in future growth dividend of 12.5 US cents per share, then COO, I believe that the Company whether that is organically across our full year payout of US$144 million, Josef ElRaghy is in a position of considerable portfolio of assets and or through which is equivalent to approximately Chairman strength to see sustainable and seizing value accretive opportunities 100% of our free cash flow in 2017. consistent growth over the coming which are in line with our strategic This level of payment is consistent with years.
The board has embarked on the The past year has seen the Company firmly objectives.
the Companys policy of returning process, with an executive search firm, cash in excess of US$250300 million consolidate its position globally as one of the leading Delivering substantial of finding an independent that is not required for growth stakeholder returns nonexecutive chairman to succeed low cost gold producers.
As announced recently, it is my Free cash flow generation is the Board and management changes intention to resign from my position no fundamental driver of the business, later than the end of December 2018, allowing the Company to prioritise Our commitment to robust corporate and continue my support of Centamin stakeholder returns.
The success of governance and the disciplined Dear shareholders, US$1,261 oz, generating US$676 million of production to US$554 oz for 2017, as a committed shareholder.
I want to Sukari, which today employs over execution of our fiduciary duties forms in revenue, US$326 million in EBITDA well below our US$580 oz guidance thank the board for their support 1,350 Egyptian nationals directly and a core pillar to Centamin and, in order On behalf of the board, it gives me and US$224 million in pretax profits.
for 2017 and extremely competitive during my tenure and I wish them well many more indirectly throughout its to grasp the opportunities that lie in pleasure to present the 2017 results.
Commercially in operation for eight within the global gold industry.
for what remains an exciting future for supply chain, is further underpinned front of Centamin, the Company has years, Sukari has maintained Strength throughout the cycle the Company.
by direct cash returns to date to the striven to improve on every aspect of Consistent strategy yearonyear cash costs in the lowest Testament to the quality of our team Egyptian State of US$272 million its business beyond simply producing Over the past 20 years the Company On that note, I thank all shareholders quartile in the industry, averaging and the quality of our assets, the past through royalties and profit share profitable gold ounces and lowering has been committed to building a for their support over the years, which US$614 oz since commercial year has seen the Company firmly excluding taxes on salaries, fuel and cash costs.
In this regard, we are modern gold mining industry in Egypt, has seen Centamin grow from a small production commenced in 2010. consolidate its position globally as other sources of fiscal revenue.
In delighted to welcome Alison Baker as a country which straddles the Australian listed exploration company one of the leading low cost gold total, the Company, with the support an independent nonexecutive Our aim is to deliver strong economic diversity of Africa and the into one of the largest gold producers producers.
The Sukari Gold Mine of its shareholders, has directly director to the board.
Alison will play performance under any market Middle East, a strategically vital listed on the London and Toronto produced 544,658 ounces of gold in invested, and fully recovered, more an important part in the ongoing conditions.
In what has been a more economy in a region that has been Stock Exchanges.
We welcome you to 2017, at cash costs of US$554 oz and than US$1.1 billion into the Egyptian development of our corporate challenging market, Centamins associated with several significant attend our AGM, which will be held in allin sustaining costs of US$790 oz at economy.
This simply could not have governance initiatives.
We also warmly stringent cost reduction strategies and challenges, and a country located on Jersey on 26 March 2018.
I would also an average realised gold price of happened without the patient support welcome Ross Jerrard, our chief working capital efficiencies have one of the last remaining like to thank all of our incredible staff of our Egyptian stakeholders, who financial officer, to the board.
Ross enabled the Company to generate underdeveloped gold belts, the whose contributions have made the have benefited from seeing Sukari joined Centamins senior management strong allin sustaining margins of Arabian Nubian Shield.
There have Company what it is today.
grow from an exploration licence into team in 2016 as chief financial officer, US$471 oz, down from US$562 oz in been various public views expressed one of the largest gold producing and has been instrumental in By order of the board for and on 2016, generating significant cash flow about Egypt in the international arena Our governance principles mines in the world.
transforming our reporting systems behalf of Centamin plc.
of US$359 million, only marginally that simply do not correlate with the The boards main responsibilities throughout the group.
Lastly, I am lower than the US$366 million experience that Centamin has had, as In July, we declared an interim are to develop, review and delighted to welcome Mark Morcombe achieved in 2016.
A 24% increase in one of the largest foreign investors in Josef ElRaghy dividend of 2.5 US cents per share, monitor the Companys long term to the senior management team, as fuel costs combined with a scheduled this dynamic country.
Having worked a 25% increase on the 2016 interim business strategies and provide Chairman chief operating officer COO.
30% increase in sustaining capital closely with Centamin since its payment.
Following another year of strategic direction to expenditure in 2017 largely due to founding, particularly with my father 31 January 2018 management.
See page 84 for equipment rebuilds, were offset by and family, through to todays highly details of our main governance reductions in nonsustaining experienced board, Centamin has put principles covering: exploration expenditure and cost Egypt firmly on the map of gold reduction strategies delivering allin exporting countries.
Significantly, Leadership sustaining costs of US$790 oz, exactly Sukari has produced every single Effectiveness in line with guidance for 2017.
The commercial ounce of gold that Egypt Accountability increase in production costs and the has exported over the past eight Remuneration slight decrease in produced ounces years, which by the end of 2017 stood Shareholder engagement led to an 8% increase in unit cash costs at over 2.9 million ounces.
