Chairmans introduction While the business has performed well, we are constantly reminded of the importance of governance, compliance and sustainability issues.
We have refreshed and strengthened the Board with the appointments of Martin Gilbert and Gill Marcus BaseCore Metals streams and royalties joint venture with Ontario Teachers agreed the formation of a joint venture with Yancoal for the Hunter Valley Coal Operations acquisition of the majority of voting shares in Peruvian zinc miner Volcan contribution of a portfolio of petroleum storage and logistics assets to an arrangement with HNA Safety remains a top priority for the Board.
We are committed to achieving our goal of zero fatalities.
We offer our condolences to the families of the nine people who lost their lives while working at our operations last year.
The HSEC Committee has met with the management of all the operations where the fatalities occurred to review the incidents and ensure that appropriate actions are taken to prevent recurrence.
Our numerous and wide-ranging asset base provides unique Dear shareholders Shareholders will of course note the challenges.
However, during every I am pleased to present our corporate comparative figure of $14.8 billion for year in which Ihave served on your governance report for 2017.
2017, reflecting both stronger pricing Board, I have seen considerable across the industrial portfolio and Following the down-cycle challenges efforts to tackle legacy issues from our strongest performance from of 201516, the past year has been some previous underinvestment and Marketing since 2008. one of consolidation and renewal.
a continuous and significant record During the last year we have grown of improvement.
Our wide-ranging portfolio of assets the business through delivery of together with our leading marketing We continue to invest in our major brownfield capital projects and business are unique in the industry.
considerable and committed corporate transactions on both the Even at the low point in the most workforce and will seek over buy-side and sell-side, including: recent downturn, the Groups time to widen our reporting on annualised Adjusted EBITDA considerable progress in the people matters.
was circa $8 billion H2 2015 and Katanga copper cobalt, H1 2016, supported by the generally Mopani copper and Koniambo morestable Marketing earnings.
nickel projects Glencore Annual Report 2017 84 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information While the business has performed shifting project moves into the We remain committed to well, we are constantly reminded implementation stage, we are now transparency, and in 2017 on a of the importance of governance, complying with the reporting voluntary basis we published our first compliance and sustainability issues, requests of member countries.
report on the steps we are taking to not least by some adverse media review modern slavery in our supply Following the endorsement of the and NGO reports.
chain, and will be providing a further Aiming for A shareholder resolution update this year.
The Board has overseen the at our 2016 AGM, last year we Companys response to Katangas There are many opportunities and welcomed the launch of the accounting restatement.
This has challenges ahead for resource recommendations of the Taskforce been an important area of focus for businesses.
I believe that Glencore on Climate-related Financial us in the past few months, as detailed will continue to play a leading role Disclosure TCFD.
We have stated further on pages 92 and 97. in sustainable value creation for all publicly our support for the TCFD, our stakeholders.
and details of our progress in We continue to refresh the Board.
identifying and addressing the risks Over the past twelve months we have and opportunities resulting from been pleased to welcome two new climate change for our business Directors.
Gill Marcus has led an are included in this report and the exemplary career of public service upcoming 2017 Sustainability Report.
to South Africa, which culminated in her five year tenure as head of the We face many challenging situations Anthony Hayward Reserve Bank of South Africa.
Martin at our operations, as we work to Chairman Gilbert is one of Europes leading extract resources safely, profitably 1 March 2018 asset management entrepreneurs and responsibly, to mitigate our and is now co-CEO of Standard Life environmental impact and support Aberdeen plc.
Further details of their our host communities.
We recognise experience is on page 82. the value of multi-stakeholder dialogue in addressing these complex Also during the year, Bill Macaulay situations through shared learnings stepped down from the Board.
Hehad been a Director since the Companys IPO in May 2011 and This year we have participated in a has been a strong and consistent number of such initiatives, including contributor to board debate and those focused on management of I would like to thank him again for security, development of guidance on his valuable contribution to Glencore.
human rights for the commodities trading sector, and addressing the In tax, we have seen, previously challenges associated with the cobalt through the EITI standards and value chain.
Looking ahead, we seek latterly through the EU Directive to continue to strengthen our on mandatory reporting for listed engagement in these platforms, companies on payments to and to identify opportunities for governments, a welcome move to partnerships that can help us solve transparency with regard to the tax the complex challenges we position of corporates in the resources encounter at and around sector.
Our relevant disclosures are our operations.
As the OECDs base erosion and profit Glencore Annual Report 2017 85
