Chairmans Statement Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 While it is too early to tell how the industry will respond, Stabilisation in oil market we expect companies which are differentiated whether through outstanding operational capabilities, attractive acreage positions or balance sheet strength will be provides attractive backdrop best positioned to grow value as the sector recovers.
for crystallising value Our investment in Centennial is an excellent example of RELs differentiated approach in practice.
In the span of less than two years, the company has completed three The oil market finally showed signs of a sizeable acquisitions to establish an 88,000 net acre position in the highly attractive Delaware Basin of the Permian.
sustained recovery in the second half of Under the leadership of CEO Mark Papa and his highly last year, with WTI exiting 2017 at its experienced technical team, Centennial has used leading highest levels in over two and a half years.
edge completion technology to deliver outstanding well results and grow production, while avoiding the excessive use of leverage.
Recently, the company began testing an However, prices were turbulent for much of the year, additional zone 3rd Bone Spring and has utilised its with WTI dropping below $43 per barrel over the summer relationships to enter into a long-term proppant supply as North American oil production remained resilient agreement with a local sand provider, which will help despite weakening prices.
Today, the macro backdrop has mitigate the impact of cost inflation from a tightening improved considerably, supported by robust global oil services market.
demand and OPECs production cuts, which are helping to alleviate oversupply and reduce excess stockpiles.
In the fourth quarter, REL took advantage of strength in the Centennial share price to fide-risk its position through Unfortunately, the improvement in the underlying the sale of 18 per cent.
of its shareholding for $87 million, commodity price did not translate into strong returns which resulted in strong returns to Shareholders with a for energy equities overall.
The total shareholder return 1 1 Gross MOIC of 1.8x and a Gross IRR of 74 per cent.
for the S&P Oil & Gas E&P Index was negative nine The increased share price through the fourth quarter per cent.
over the course of the year, resulting in yet however meant that the unrealised value of RELs holding another year of underperformance relative to the S&P in Centennial remained at approximately the same level Index.
This was a result of several themes that weighed as in the third quarter.
on the minds of investors in 2017.
In particular, there was a renewed focus on the ability for energy producers Overall, the portfolio is now largely invested, having to show financial discipline by prioritising returns and deployed 90 per cent.
RELs free cash flow generation over production growth.
build-up strategy has meant that the Company has gradually deployed its capital throughout the cycle, with an increased focus on oil-weighted, highly productive basins with low costs of production.
As a result, RELs investments remain centred in some of the most attractive basins in North America, with investments in the Permian, Eagle Ford and Western Canada accounting for 88 per cent.
of the Companys gross unrealised value.
Investment platforms with strategies better suited to higher oil prices have either been discounted, or seen their commitments withdrawn with minimal capital exposure to investors.
At the end of 2017, the United States Government passed and signed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which will have a positive impact for investors in REL.
The main impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act for REL is a reduction in the federal corporate tax rate from 35 per cent.
effective 1 January 2018 which resulted in a Financial Statement benefit of approximately $48 million 57 cents per share.
Going forward, the lower federal corporate tax rate will improve net returns for RELs future realisations in the United States.
increase in 2016, shares in Performance REL declined by 8 per cent.
REL ended 31 December 2017 with an NAV of $20.63 per This coincides with weakness of the U. S. Dollar, which share.
This equates to an increase of 52 cents 2.6 per cent.
Despite a when compared to NAV per share at 31 December 2016. volatile commodity backdrop since IPO, shares have The growth since RELs half year results at 30 June 2017 performed relatively well, with an increase of 24 per cent.
was even greater, with an uplift of 89 cents 4.5 per cent.
through the end of 2017 compared with the total return as the oil market rebounded from its lows.
for the S&P Oil & Gas E&P Index of negative 46 per cent.
Shares closed 2017 at a 19 per cent.
The increase in NAV over the period was primarily driven by U. S. tax reform and a recovery at RELs third The Board and Investment Manager carefully monitor largest investment, Liberty II, which grew from Gross MOIC the capital requirements of the portfolio, anticipated of 1.0x to 1.3x, on the success of its drilling programme realisations and liquidity levels.
REL finished the year in the Powder River Basin and opportunistic acquisitions with $1,316 million net invested, equating to 90 per cent.
Another key contributor was Meritage III, of net capital available.
Over the past year, REL has which completed its second gas processing facility, and focussed on maintaining capital flexibility for its existing is now marked at 1.8x Gross MOIC.
investments and as a result has not participated in new investments by Riverstones Global Energy & Power Sierra experienced the largest multiple uplift in the Fund VI.
Should REL experience a significant change portfolio following the historic discovery at its Zama 1 in capital availability due to one or more realisations, the well, though the impact on NAV is relatively small given Board will evaluate the conditions for new investment as the amount of capital invested to date.
well as the option of returning capital to its Shareholders.
Fieldwood was the largest detractor to performance The Board also continues to monitor where its shares over the period.
REL made its $59 million investment trade relative to NAV and to evaluate all options available in early 2014, when the price of oil hovered around to close any discount that would be in the best interests $100 per barrel.
Although the terms of its investment of its Shareholders.
were attractive at the time, substantial borrowings and While the improvement in oil price was beneficial to the sharp slide in commodity prices since then have RELs underlying portfolio companies, the valuation of proved challenging for the company.
This has been its investments did not move up in line with the oil price.
exacerbated by recent production issues stemming from Over the past year, the underperformance of energy third-party infrastructure downtime and tropical storm equities meant that comparable valuation multiples activity in the second half of the year.
As a result, REL generally did not experience the same level of improvement has written down its investment to 20 per cent.
In addition, net asset value analysis The company now accounts for less than one per cent.
takes into account the forward curve for the underlying of RELs gross unrealised value.
Subsequent to year end, commodity, which did not experience the same degree Fieldwood announced a comprehensive restructuring of recovery as spot prices.
As ever, Riverstone relies transaction, which is designed to reduce leverage, improve upon its disciplined investment strategy to grow value liquidity for the development and growth of its asset base, through the drill-bit rather than rely on commodity and to pursue a significant strategic acquisition.
The valuation of RELs investments is conducted I am pleased to report that there were several quarterly by the Investment Manager and subject to examples of this operational focus in 2017.
Sierra, which approval by the independent Directors.
In addition, the was established as the first private Mexican E&P company valuations of RELs investments are audited by Ernst & following the countrys energy market reform, made a Young LLP in connection with the annual audit of the historic oil discovery in the shallow waters of the Gulf of Companys Financial Statements.
With estimates between 1.4 billion and 2.0 billion policy is compliant with both IFRS and IPEV Valuation barrels of oil in place, the discovery ranks as one of the Guidelines and has been applied consistently from period largest shallow water discoveries anywhere in the world to period since inception.
As the Companys investments over the last twenty years.
Although significant work will are generally not publicly quoted, valuations require be required to bring the well to production, the result meaningful judgment to establish a range of values, and validates Riverstones strategy of being an early mover as the ultimate value at which an investment is realised may the Mexican energy market opened to foreign investors.
differ from its most recent valuation and the difference may be significant.
Further information on the Companys valuation policy can be found in the Investment Managers Report on page 21.
Chairmans Statement continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Our largest investment, Hammerhead, has grown 2017 was another good year for REL as its investments production to just under 30,000 boepd, up from 4,000 boepd continued to execute upon their strategies and the at the time of Riverstones initial investment.
Also in market environment improved.
While there are a number Western Canada, Meritage III signed several third party of factors which could disrupt the recovery, industry has agreements for its midstream services, which have emerged from the down-cycle with improved health after supported the construction of a second gas gathering slashing costs and repairing balance sheets.
This, along and processing facility, which came online in November.
with constructive fundamentals for crude oil, should In the Permian, Centennial doubled oil production over provide a fertile environment for REL to grow value, the course of 2017, to over 20,000 bopd.
Liberty II had capitalise upon improved market sentiment and make another active year, adding 40,000 net acres in the attractive realisations for investors.
East Nesson area of the Bakken on attractive terms, where it has also begun drilling.
On the U. S. side of the Gulf of Mexico, ILX III continued to achieve drilling success with three discoveries over the course of 2017, Richard Hayden resulting in a success rate of 75 per cent.
on the 12 wells Chairman drilled to date.
27 February 2018 Subsequent to year end, REL took advantage of the improved market environment to agree the sale of its investment in Three Rivers III.
This investment was formed by Riverstone in April 2015 to pursue acquisition, exploitation and development opportunities in the Permian Basin of West Texas and Southeast New Mexico, following successful partnerships with the same team.
Shortly after formation, Three Rivers III made several acquisitions to establish a contiguous acreage position in the core of the Delaware Basin, which it subsequently grew to approximately 57,000 net acres through leasing offset acreage.
As a result of Three Rivers IIIs early entry into the basin, REL was able to achieve a strong return on its $94 million investment, with the sale resulting in gross cash proceeds of approximately $205 million, 1 1 representing a Gross MOIC of 2.2x and a Gross IRR of 49 per cent.
1 Gross MOIC is Gross Multiple of Invested Capital before transaction costs, taxes approximately 21 to 27.5 per cent.
of U. S. sourced taxable income and 20 per cent.
carried interest on gross profits without a hurdle rate.
Since there is no netting of losses against gains, the effective carried interest rate on the portfolio as a whole will be greater than 20 per cent..
In addition, there is a management fee of 1.5 per cent.
of net assets per annum and other expenses.
Given these costs, fees and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC and Net IRR will be materially less than the Gross MOIC and Gross IRR.
Local taxes, primarily on U. S. assets, may apply at the jurisdictional level on profits arising in operating entity investments.
Further withholding taxes may apply on distributions from such operating entity investments.
In the normal course of business, REL may form wholly-owned subsidiaries, to be treated as C Corporations for U. S. tax purposes.
The C Corporations serve to protect RELs public investors from incurring U. S. ECI.
The C Corporations file U. S. corporate tax returns with the U. S. IRS and pay U. S. corporate taxes on its taxable income Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 RELs portfolio of fourteen active investments with a strong emphasis on North Americas low-cost basins makes it well placed to take advantage of the improving market environment.
