Chairmans statement A YEAR OF CONTINUED STRONG RETURNS Our constructive, resilient and proven businessmodel positions us well to continue to seize the opportunities generated by the flexible workspace sector.
DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND CHAIRMAN For the period Group revenue increased 2017 was a year during which we saw the Our constructive, resilient and proven from 2,233.4m to 2,352.3m, benefits of our strong and balanced business model positions us well to representing an increase of 1.9% at global portfolio.
While the year was not continue to seize the opportunities constant currency up 5.3% at actual without its challenges, most notably in generated by the flexible workspace rates.
Revenue from all our open centres London, our good performance in growth sector.
Our operational scale, diverse excluding closed centres grew 4.2% to markets across the world meant that we customer base, innovative approach to 2,322.4m 2016: 2,154.8m at constant delivered a set of results which we are service and format development, strong currency up 7.8% at actual rates.
The well-positioned to build on in 2018 and post-tax returns andcash-generative growth in open centre revenue beyond.
capabilities should enable us to deliver accelerated sequentially through the increasing shareholder returns while We were also pleased to note the strong second half of the year, which provides continuing toinvest in growth.
underlying performance of the business, astrong platform for 2018.
In line with which is shown by an annual post-tax Our strategy previous guidance, operating profit cash return on net investment made up Our strategy enables us to drive, and to declined 15% at constant currency from to 31 December 2012 of 20.8%, benefit from, the continuing and 185.2m to 163.2m, down 12% at significantly above our cost of capital.
accelerating growth of the flexible actual currency.
This performance underpins our workspace market.
continuing commitment to a sustainable We further enhanced the operational In terms of our ability to drive growth, our efficiency of the business with overheads and progressive dividend see over, market-leading global footprint means reducing in absolute terms from 262.8m underlining our confidence in the we can constantly review our investments to 237.6m down 12% at constant long-term prospects of the Group.
in growth by region, country and city.
For currency and as a percentage of Our confidence is well-placed.
All the example, Germany is a particularly revenue by a further 1.7 percentage evidence suggests that we are fast attractive market where we significantly points to 10.1%.
This was achieved whilst approaching a tipping point which will improved our profile during 2017. building the scale of our business and our see the flexible workspace option, in However, we still only provide some national networks with the opening of which we are the leading global supplier, 100centres in a country which has the 314 new centres, adding c. 5.5m sq.
ft. become the norm for progressive potential for many times that number ofworkspace globally.
Notwithstanding businesses worldwide asthey seek oflocations.
this increased investment in growth flexibility, employee satisfaction and cost including 110.2m on property, the efficiency.
strong cash generation capability of the business ensured we maintained a robust and conservative capital structure.
22 IW G PL C ANNUAL REPOR T AND A C C OUNT S 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The growth potential therefore remains Our people huge, and we intend to focus on growing Our performance in 2017 was driven by Our operational scale, diverse in this and other similarly promising the energy and commitment of our customer base, innovative markets.
This approach of reviewing our talented workforce.
investments based on evolving market approach to service and format The engagement demonstrated by more conditions and opportunities also helps development, strong post-tax than 220 attendees representing 110 us manage risk through the economic countries at our recent annual leadership returns and cash-generative cycle.
capabilities should enable us to In terms of benefiting from growth, there The participants were clearly excited to deliver increasing shareholder is no doubt that continuing to grow our be part of the leading, global flexible share of the global flexible workspace workspace operator.
returns while continuing to sector should deliver increased revenue invest in growth.
I would like to thank everybody involved and returns.
for their continued enthusiasm for We also recognise, however, that our providing outstanding service to our focus on growth should not distract us customers and growing our business.
During 2017 and Their contributions remain key to our into 2018, therefore, we focused on success.
delivering an enhanced service Dividend proposition to customers, prioritising the As I have already stated, we continue our development of key accounts.
We also commitment this year to a sustainable continued to assess and develop new and progressive dividend, which reflects formats, to gain from improved market our confidence in the long-term prospects segmentation by geography and of the business and the strength of our businesstype.
Accordingly, the Board Above all, we have continued our is recommending an 11% increase in the established efforts to improve further our final dividend to 3.95p.
Subject to the operating model with a determined focus approval of shareholders at the 2018 on simplicity, scalability, people, cost AGM, this will be paid on 25 May 2018 control, risk management and delivering to shareholders on the register at the a great customer experience.
close of business on 27 April 2018.
This represents an increase in the full-year Our Board dividend of 12% to 5.70p 2016: 5.10p.
I would again like to thank my Board colleagues for their valuable contribution during 2017, which helped the Group deliver a robust performance in the face of challenging conditions in some DOUGLAS SUTHERLAND markets.
