International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholders, I am pleased to report that 2017 was a strong year for the Company.
It delivered robust financial performance in addition to making over 460 million of new investment, committing to invest up to a further 225 million and raising over 400 million of additional capital.
Since listing in 2006, the Company has generated a Total Shareholder Return of 165.4%.
This is equivalent to an average annual return 1 of 9.2% and is ahead of our long-term target of an 8-9% return.
We remain positive about the Companys future ability to deliver predictable, inflation-linked returns to our shareholders.
The Companys combination of strong and sustained performance, growth in capital deployed into complementary assets and continued robust investor demand for new stock resulted in an increase of INPPs market capitalisation to over 2.2 billion at the end of 2017 - up from 1.7 billion at the end of the previous year.
GROWTH IN INVESTOR RETURNS The Company was once again able to achieve annual growth in dividend distributions, broadly in line with longer-term inflation expectations at an average rate of approximately 2.5%.
We achieved our targeted dividend of 6.82 pence per share for 2017, representing a c. 2.5% growth over 2016 6.65 pence per share.
The Board is pleased to reaffirm its minimum dividend target for 2018 of 7.00 pence per share and to provide new guidance of 7.18 pence per share for 2019.
We have good forward visibility of investment cash flows and, given the continued predictability of the Companys investments, we are confident of our longer-term prospects to continue to increase our dividend.
By disclosing two-year 2 forward guidance, we hope to provide shareholders with additional clarity of our future intentions.
INVESTMENT ACTIVITY During 2017, INPP completed a record level of new investment activity, making 464 million of new cash investments into four new and four follow-on investments and entered into up to 225 million of new investment commitments and binding offers across the energy distribution, waste water, education and transport infrastructure sectors.
Our ability to access high-quality infrastructure investments is testament to the collective expertise of INPP and that of our Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited Amber.
We continue to capitalise on the combination of our origination capability, leading technical expertise and strong industry relationships that allow us to deliver real value for money to both our shareholders and our clients.
All opportunities are appraised on a case-by-case basis and pursued in a disciplined fashion.
We aim to ensure that INPPs strong platform, which has been carefully developed over the eleven years since listing continues to be enhanced.
The largest investment in 2017 was 272.5 million, as part of a consortium which acquired a 61% stake in Cadent formerly known as National Grids gas distribution networks.
This landmark acquisition was originated along with a group of leading, long-term U. K. and international institutional investors.
In addition, the acquisition of a further 14% interest in Cadent was negotiated between the consortium and National Grid and is subject to put and call options between the parties, exercisable from 2019.
This investment illustrates our ability to convert strong industry relationships and technical expertise to augment further the Companys projected returns.
Progress on the Thames Tideway Tunnel Tideway is continuing in line with our expectations, with construction scheduled to complete in 2022.
A further 78.2 million of scheduled investment was made into the Tideway project during 2017, including the Companys final commitment to the project which was invested in December.
In November 2017, the Company invested approximately A$154 million 86.8 million to acquire an additional interest in the Australian rolling stock public private partnership, known as the Reliance Rail Project.
The additional investment was part of a broader asset refinancing which will also provide an attractive level of return compared to the existing portfolio.
5 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CHAIRMANS LETTER CONTINUED CAPITAL RAISING AND CORPORATE CREDIT FACILITY To support portfolio growth, we conducted capital raisings in May 2017 and December 2017 in which we secured 330 million and 80 million respectively before costs.
Both placings were oversubscribed with demand from existing and new investors.
The Companys 400 million corporate credit facility continued to provide additional capacity to support the strong pipeline of potential new investment opportunities in regulated and other public infrastructure.
It acts as a bridging facility between capital raising rather than serving as long-term, structural leverage.
The net proceeds of the 2017 issuances were used to reduce the drawn element of the debt facility as well as finance new acquisitions.
At year end, the corporate credit facility was largely undrawn, providing the Company with some financial flexibility to consider new investments.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE As well as new asset acquisitions, we continue to focus on achieving consistently strong performance from our existing portfolio.
The Board believes that an active asset management approach is fundamental to INPPs long-term success, as well as ensuring that we maintain strong relationships with partners and clients.
This strength of relationship translates into high rates of client satisfaction with facilities and services delivered.
We continue to ensure that the existing portfolio meets or exceeds performance metrics.
The value of this approach, together with the capital raising undertaken in 2017, is demonstrated by INPPs strong growth in Net Asset Value NAV, which increased 27.1% to 2,038.3 million, or 2.0% to 145.0 pence on a NAV per share basis in 2017.
The Company had an exposure to Carillion plc where the Company received construction facilities management services from Carillion subsidiaries on 3% of the portfolio, across 24 projects.
Carillion entered liquidation in January 2018 and following its collapse Amber implemented contingency plans to transition projects to new providers and manage broader project-level relationships.
Services have now been transitioned on 17 of these projects and there is a high level of confidence of successful transition on the remainder.
Full transition is expected to occur on all projects over the following six months to new providers on substantially the same terms as the existing contracts.
Pleasingly all on-site ex-Carillion personnel will be offered continuity of employment on the same terms and all projects have been fully operational throughout the period.
The Companys expectation is that the cost of transitioning to these new arrangements will be immaterial to the Company up to c. 1.5m although likely to be substantially less, and that, overall there will be minimal impact on the Companys valuation and the expectation is that there will be no additional cost to the public sector.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board values good corporate governance and continues to comply with the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance and the U. K. Corporate Governance Code as set out on page 48.
During the year, the Board undertook an external-facilitated evaluation of its own practices and the Management Engagement Committee formally reviewed the performance of the Investment Adviser and other key service providers to the Company.
As part of the Boards ongoing review of operation processes, we also procured an external review of the process for monitoring and reporting of asset availability, as this is an important metric both for our public sector clients and for the Board.
To ensure that there is continuity of board oversight and sufficient resource, the Board undertook a search for an additional director, resulting in Ms. Julia Bond being appointed on 1 September 2017.
Ms Bond has 27 years experience in the financial capital markets and has held senior management positions, including at Credit Suisse.
After a successful career in financial services, Julia brings a wealth of board experience in Investment Trusts, the public sector, professional bodies as well as the voluntary sector.
Julias skills and knowledge are complementary to the current Board and will allow for an orderly process of Board succession in due course.
In anticipation of my retirement from the Board, we are actively seeking a candidate for the Chairmanship of the Company.
While this process is ongoing, my fellow Board members and I have agreed that I should continue in the role until a suitable replacement has been identified and an appropriate transition taken place.
We are confident that there are a number of high quality candidates with the relevant experience and we look forward to updating our shareholders in due course.
In addition, further information on INPPs corporate governance developments and operational reviews over the year can be found in the Corporate Governance section of this report.
6 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CHAIRMANS LETTER CONTINUED OUTLOOK The market outlook for the Company remains positive as enhanced capital investment into infrastructure continues to rank highly on government agendas globally as a key economic driver.
We anticipate that this will over time generate more investment opportunities in the developed countries in which the Company invests.
INPP also remains focused on the completion of its committed investments while continuing to develop, track and appraise other potential opportunities that are at various stages of development.
Amber has identified a pipeline of potential opportunities that meet the Companys risk-return profile in sectors such as regulated utilities including offshore transmission, health, judicial, waste, and other accommodation and transport projects, that may be progressed as investment opportunities for the Company.
The Company continues to closely monitor the market reaction during the U. K. s planned withdrawal from the European Union EU.
Whilst the immediate market-related volatility has not persisted to the scale widely anticipated by many industry participants, there remains uncertainty about the true impact of Brexit on the U. K. economy.
As outlined in our 2016 Annual Report, we do not anticipate that there will be significant impact on the Companys existing investments, however given the high degree of uncertainty the Board continues to monitor developments as the Brexit negotiations progress.
The Company also notes the heightened attention in the U. K. paid to the assessment of the economic and social value that private sector investment brings to public infrastructure projects, including suggestions by the Labour party to seek to renationalise key public infrastructure assets, companies and private finance contracts operating in the U. K. As a long-standing and leading originator, investor and operator of public infrastructure projects internationally, the Company firmly believes that the close partnerships between public clients and private investment brings significant benefits to the public sector and ultimately the end-users and relevant parties.
We also recognise that it is incumbent upon project owners and the broader investment industry to demonstrate the value we bring, not only to our investors but the communities in which our projects serve.
Overall, we believe that the nature of INPPs investment portfolio and the active approach we have adopted to asset management both provide a firm foundation from which to react to any emerging risks and that we remain well positioned to add high-quality investments to the portfolio in the short-to-medium term.
More information and a detailed pipeline of opportunities is set out in the Current Market Environment and Future Opportunities section.
The Companys approach to Corporate, Social and Environmental Responsibility is set out in more detail on page 41.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for their support for the Company throughout 2017 and we look forward to this continuing in the coming year.
Rupert Dorey Chairman 20 March 2018 1 Since inception.
Share price plus dividends assumed to be reinvested.
2 Future dividends cannot be guaranteed.
Projections are based on current estimates and many vary in the future.
