20 YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPENDICES Polymetal is a leading precious metals mining 20 YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT group operating in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia.
Listed on the London and Moscow stock exchanges, we currently have a Dear fellow stakeholders portfolio of eight producing gold and silver In 2018, Polymetal celebrates its 20th anniversary: perhaps still youthful by global metrics but, nevertheless, a mines and an impressive pipeline of future respectable milestone for a business built from the ground In March 2018, we celebrate 20 years since up in an emerging market.
During that time, the Company has growth projects.
During that time, delivered a production compound annual growth rate CAGR of 24%, developed 16 mines from scratch, added 6.7 Moz of we have consistently delivered a strong gold equivalent and 9.5 Moz of palladium equivalent in newly operating performance and made good on our discovered resources, paid out more than US$1 billion in dividends and attained industry leadership in processing promises to our shareholders, employees, refractory gold ore. We have expanded our operations within communities and other stakeholders.
three mining jurisdictions in the former Soviet Union Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia and have maintained a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange since 2011.
Playing to our strengths Over the last 20 years, we have built on our core OPERATING EXPERTISE competencies: using a hub-based system Dukat, Omolon STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE and Okhotsk : mastering POX technology and trading Chairmans statement 01 Chairmans letter 77 refractory gold concentrates Kyzyl, Albazino, Mayskoye : operating successfully in difficult climatic conditions at Group CEO statement 04 Board of Directors 78 locations with little or no existing infrastructure five operations At a glance 14 Senior management 80 in the Russian Far East.
Consistently focusing on high-grade Business model 18 Corporate governance 82 assets has also ensured that we have delivered superior Audit and Risk Committee 88 Market trends 20 returns on capital.
report Strategy 22 06-07 Remuneration report 94 Financial prudence pays dividends Key performance indicators 24 Directors report 112 Adherence to strong capital discipline has been the foundation Operating review 26 of our strategy in careful project selection with a preference Sustainability 48 for high grade and , in value-accretive GROWTH PROJECTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial review 58 mergers & acquisitions M&As, as well as in our dividend Directors responsibility 115 Risks and risk management 70 policy.
From free cash flow for 2012-2017 totalling US$1.3 statement billion, Polymetal paid out US$1.0 billion in dividends, providing Independent auditors report 116 tangible returns to shareholders with a sector-leading threeyear Total Shareholder Return TSR of 61%.
Consolidated financial 122 statements Leading by example Notes to the consolidated 126 financial statements At the same time, Polymetal recognises its duty of care for its Alternative performance 168 08-11 entire stakeholder base, as evidenced by its practice of good measures governance and sustainable development in the regions in which we operate.
The Board and management are fully committed to a sustainability agenda with a renewed focus APPENDICES SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT on health and safety.
In other areas, Polymetals position as an Operational statistics 170 industry leader in sustainability is acknowledged both by local Ore reserves and mineral 178 communities and by an increasing number of international reserves rating agencies, most recently the World Wildlife Fund and Glossary 191 Sustainalytics.
We are also signatories to the International Cyanide Management Code.
Shareholder information 194 Polymetal is at the start of another dynamic stage in its history.
Our investment in new projects Kyzyl, and 12-13 potentially into Nezhda, Prognoz and a second Amursk POX line is expected to enable Polymetal to deliver superior FIND OUT MORE shareholder returns and industry leadership over the long term.
I look forward to making this journey, along with the Companys stakeholders.
com  Chairman POLYMETAL INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 01 STR STRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RNAN NANC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L ST STA ATE TEM ME ENT NTS S A AP PP PE EN NDIC DICES ES 20 YEARS OF SUSTAINABLE Market Cap DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH POLYMETAL US$5bn 2011 2014 Joining the FTSE 100 Acquiring world-class TODAY With significant operational asset Kyzyl developments during Polymetal announces its largest the year, Polymetal also acquisition of Kyzyl Kazakhstan, completes a premium one of the worlds largest gold listing on the London Stock deposits, increasing gold reserves Exchange and enters the by 50% and contributing over 300 2nd largest FTSE 100 Index, raising Koz of GE production.
2003 US$763 million from gold producer in Russia the IPO.
Vitaly Nesis is appointed as CEO 1,426 A new organisational structure is formed to increase efficiency.
8 operations 2007 across 3 countries 1999 Polymetal listing on the Dividends paid Polymetal is founded London and Russian Polymetal was established by Stock Exchanges the ICT Group in St Petersburg US$1bn Polymetal goes public on the with the objective of building 1 POX facility Employees London and Russian Stock a highly professional Russian Exchanges, an affirmation of first in the FSU mining company, using advanced its adherence to international 11,919 technology throughout from standards of corporate exploration to bullion production.
governance and the quality 2016 of its asset portfolio.
Expanding operations 4 major For the first time, Polymetal 952 expands its operations into development projects Armenia with the acquisition of the Kapan operating mine and processing plant.
Our exploration programme reveals a large PGM deposit FTSE 250 at Viksha.
constituent LOOKING AHEAD 2017 1999-2002 Operating excellence Focus on sustainable Formation of the 1st Consistently delivering a robust development and generation of assets operating and financial performance helps 499 growth generate positive cash flow and significant Dukat, Lunnoye, Polymetal achieves returns for our shareholders.
Voro and Khakanja 2012 significant progress in Investment in high-quality sustainability performance First gold poured in assets marks the start of Advancing medium-term growth with high rankings from Amursk POX plant long-term strategy.
leading agencies, including Kyzyl is due to deliver its first gold in Polymetals Amursk POX Sustainalytics, DJSI-Robeco Q3 2018 and will drive medium-term 2008-2011 Russias first operating SAM, FTSE4Good and production growth through to 2020.
Formation of the 2nd pressure oxidation plant WWF.
EBRD deal finances was commissioned, generation of assets the completion and delivery delivering its first gold M&A and exploration of Kyzyl in 2018. and expansion into production in April.
Greenfield and brownfield exploration 158 Kazakhstan have proved to be efficient growth As result of successful Inaugural dividend sources for the Company, along with A new dividend policy is greenfield exploration and M&A, value-accretive acquisitions.
Polymetal added Albazino, implemented and special dividends introduced.
Mayskoye, Omolon Kubaka Adhering to high standards and Varvara to its portfolio Good corporate governance and of high quality assets.
Production sustainable development create Koz of GE shareholder value and show our commitment to the interests of all our stakeholders.
