Chairmans Statement The Company has made steady progress during 2017 against a In the first half of 2017, JLIFs share price performed well, somewhat challenging background for our asset class, generating increasing from an opening value of 129.7 pence to a high strong portfolio yields.
During the year, we undertook a shareholder of 140.7 pence in March, before coming under pressure tap issue that raised 119.5 million and made investments in four immediately prior to and during the final quarter.
The share price at new assets and two existing assets with a total cost of 149.8 million.
The decrease in share price We continue to engage closely with our Portfolio, which at 31 December towards the end of the year was largely as a result of comments 2017 included 65 assets: your Board is pleased that our Investment made at the time by the UK Labour Party at its Annual Conference Adviser is continuing to add resource to its portfolio management regarding its attitude towards the PFI procurement method.
team in response to the expanding Portfolio.
Generally, the Portfolio Despite the 6.96 pence per share of dividends paid by the is performing well although, inevitably with a Portfolio of 65 projects, Company during the year, the decrease in share price resulted there will be challenges and I comment below on some of those in a broadly at Total Shareholder Return TSR for the year.
that we have faced over the last year.
Since launch, JLIF has delivered a TSR of 76.4%, equating to an 8.3% return on an annualised compound basis.
Dividends and Share Issuance New Investments and Gearing During 2017, JLIF paid dividends to its shareholders of 6.96 pence per share, which represented a yield on the closing share price as at During 2017, JLIF made investments of approximately 31 December 2017 of 5.6%.
Today the Company is declaring a dividend 149.8 million across six projects covering the street lighting, in respect of the six-month period ended 31 December 2017 of 3.57 health and transport sectors.
This included incremental interests in pence per share, representing an increase of approximately 2.5% on the Intercity Express Programme Phase 1 and North Staffordshire the most recently paid dividend in October 2017.
Hospital projects, an interest in the Croydon and Lewisham Street Lighting project, and interests in three other rail projects.
In March 2017, JLIF undertook a shareholder tap issue that raised gross Other than the additional investment in the North Staffordshire proceeds of approximately 119.5 million and resulted in the issue of Hospital project that was acquired from co-shareholder Sodexo, 89.8 million new ordinary shares.
The issue was oversubscribed and the all of the other investments were acquired from John Laing proceeds were used to repay the Companys outstanding Sterling debt Pension Trust Limited or members of John Laing Group plc under on its revolving credit facility.
The issue price represented a discount of the First Offer Agreements.
The investments made during 2017 just 0.02% to JLIFs share price immediately prior to the announcement bring the total number of projects in JLIFs Portfolio to 65.
As a of the placing adjusted for the 3.48 pence per share dividend declared result of the investments described above, JLIFs revolving credit in mid-March and a premium of 12.0% to Net Asset Value NAV.
facility including the 150 million accordion tranche was drawn We continue to be grateful for the support shown to the Fund by both by approximately 186.6 million as at the year-end.
Investment Policy Fund Performance During the year, at the Companys AGM, our shareholders NAV per share at 31 December 2017 was 124.6 pence, compared with approved certain amendments to the investment policy.
Overall JLIFs Portfolio continued to These included a broadening of the geographic limits to allow perform well, delivering yields in line with those expected at the start of investments to be made in a wider range of countries with the year.
The Portfolio increased in value during the period as a result of mature infrastructure markets, although concentrating on new investments and value enhancement activities, offset by negative jurisdictions where contract structures and their enforceability unrealised exchange rate movements, provisions and cash distributed are reliable, where public-sector or government-backed from the Portfolio.
Underlying Growth of 9.1% exceeded expected growth obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where financial from the unwind of the discount rate.
Portfolio performance is discussed markets are relatively mature.
In the light of ongoing global in more detail below.
market developments for both PPP and non-PPP projects, the Investment Adviser and the Board will keep under review the profit before tax for the year was 99.0 million 2016: 160.4 million.
profit investment policy to ensure it allows the Company the exibility in 2016 was impacted by several exceptional gains from exchange rate to invest in attractive opportunities that meet this objective.
movements, changes in discount rates and asset disposals, further details of which are provided in Section 6 of the Investment Adviser Report.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 05.
Portfolio Performance The value of these projects was approximately 8.5% of the Portfolio Value at 31 December 2017.
The Investment Advisers Overall, the Portfolio continued to perform well, delivering yields asset management team was aware of the issues affecting in line with those expected at the start of the year.
However, Carillion and has had contingency plans in place for some time.
we continue to face operational challenges at a small number These have involved discussions with a number of potential of projects.
replacement providers and the Investment Adviser is in the Our three largest investments accounted for 29.3% of Portfolio process of implementing these plans and seeking to appoint Value, being Intercity Express Programme Phase 1 12.6%, alternative FM providers on all of the nine projects to replace Barcelona Metro Stations L9T2 10.4%, and Connecticut Carillion.
At this stage, the Investment Adviser expects that this Service Stations P3 6.3%.
can be achieved with minimal service disruption.
In October, the Company acquired a further 9% interest in JLIF has no projects currently in construction where Carillion is Intercity Express Programme Phase 1, taking our total interest the contractor.
JLIF holds an investment in one project where to 15%.
The project is in construction, with the train delivery Carillion remains liable for any latent construction defects found programme on schedule to deliver all 57 trains into operation on the project and where cost allowances for rectification had not by the end of 2018.
As at the date of this report, 26 trains have already been made, with the construction period having completed been accepted.
Our year-end valuation reects significant over 10 years ago.
A recently completed routine defects survey progress in delivery and fide-risking of the project.
has not highlighted any significant areas of concern.
The Investment Adviser believes that the compulsory liquidation of Carillion Barcelona Metro Stations L9T2 has performed in line with should have no material impact on the Company.
The Company expectations during the year, with no performance deductions and will continue to manage the situation as it develops and provide yields in line with budget.
The main issue relating to the project further updates as appropriate.
concerns the continued political uncertainty in Catalonia and, in particular, the impact this continues to have on the timing of Governance & Regulation renancing the existing long-term senior debt.
The Investment JLIF continues to apply the UK Corporate Governance Code and Adviser continues to monitor the situation and explore alternative is required to comply with the EU-Wide Alternative Investment options with the existing lenders.
The assumed timing of such Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and the Company remains a renancing has been pushed back within the valuation a self-managed AIF.
During the year a new EU Directive, the assumptions for the project and the discount rate used to value Packaged Retail and Insurance-based Investment Products the project has also been adjusted upwards.
We believe that PRIIPs Directive, was introduced with effect from 1 January as stability returns to the region the appetite amongst lenders 2018, which is intended to make comparison of different both current and potential will return.
investment products easier for retail investors.
In accordance Connecticut Service Stations P3 has also performed well during with the requirements of the PRIIPs Directive, JLIF made the year, with revenues in line with expectations.
In December, available on its website a Key Information Document which Project Service LLC, the concessionaire and manager of the 23 can be found under the Investors, Publications section.
JLIF service plazas, was delighted to appoint Michael Jones as its new intends to continue to comply with the requirements of the CEO, in line with the long-standing agreement for Paul Landinos AIFMD and PRIIPs Directives and will make available updated departure once the project had been completed with a series of Key Information Documents via the website from time to time fully operational plazas.
Michael brings a wealth of experience in as required.
the successful operation of service plazas in the US and is well placed to develop the asset further.
Risks & Uncertainties At the half year, we updated investors on progress regarding a On a day-to-day basis, it is the Investment Adviser who small number of projects with operational difficulties.
Whilst it manages the risks facing the Company.
However, the Board was disappointing that the issues at Roseberry Park Hospital retains ultimate responsibility and JLIFs Risk Committee ultimately proved incapable of being resolved to the satisfaction reviews the principal risks facing the Company and the controls of all parties leading to the project holding company going into in place to mitigate those risks on a regular basis.
Further detail administration in September 2017, the impact on the Portfolio on the process and strategies employed can be found in the valuation during the year was not significant.
On a more positive Risk Committee Report on pages 12 to 19. note, good progress was made in resolving the long-standing As noted in previous reports, the Company and its Investment issues at our Peterborough Hospital project, with a commercial Adviser have been monitoring and considering the potential and agreement in principle being reached by the parties in March 2018. actual impact on the Company of the implementation of tax In June 2017, the tragic re at Grenfell Tower in London resulted changes recommended by the OECDs Base Erosion and profit in focus by all onto the re safety of high-rise accommodation Shifting BEPS initiative.
While the Portfolio valuation reects and we continue to work with our public sector client at our the expected impact of the enacted provisions regarding interest Camden Social Housing project to ensure the safety of residents deductibility, the mechanisms for countries to amend their tax and the implementation of any required changes.
treaties for several of the BEPS recommendations, including In January 2018, Carillion plc entered liquidation and, as announced the Action 6 recommendations concerning the prevention of at that time, this impacted service provision to nine projects instances of treaty abuse, are a further risk for the Company within the Companys Portfolio where Carillion was the Facilities as countries seek to bring these terms into domestic tax law.
Management FM provider: four education projects, four justice and emergency services projects and one road project.
As a result, the Board has reviewed the potential impact of BEPS Market Outlook under the Companys existing investment holding structure, both The Board continues to believe that there is an important role for for countries where existing projects are based but also potential private sector investors in the provision of infrastructure assets future markets for investment.
In addition, the Board has noted and in the benets of PPP in terms of whole-life cost savings that since the Companys IPO in 2010, the UK Investment Trust and risk transfer and are proud of the services provided at our regime has been updated and now accommodates the types of projects.
We regularly receive positive comment from end-users investments that the Company makes.
The Board has therefore and staff around the quality of the facilities made available for concluded that it would be in the best interests of the Company their use and look forward to continuing to work with our public and its shareholders to become a UK Investment Trust to mitigate sector clients to continue to provide efficient and well-managed the impact of both treaty changes and changes to future tax facilities that enhance and serve the communities in which they provisions.
As a result, a proposal will be put to shareholders in are located.
May to amend the Articles of Incorporation such that Board and In terms of the pipeline for new projects and consequent Annual General meetings can be held in the UK, with the aim, investment opportunities for JLIF, we believe that the greatest subject to regulatory approval, of implementing the tax residency opportunity in the short to medium term lies in overseas change to the UK on 1 January 2019, so that the Company may markets such as in North America and Continental Europe.
be treated as a UK investment trust from that date.
While UK projects will remain a core component of JLIFs One of the risks potentially affecting the Fund in the future relates Portfolio, it is expected that in the immediate future our focus to political risk and in recent months in the UK, there has been will be on re-weighting the Portfolio to overseas projects and much political debate about PFI PPP.
Despite the wider political the consequent need to protect returns by carefully managing uncertainty, we continue to partner with and enjoy good exchange rate risk.
We will continue to assess opportunities on operational relationships with the majority of our public sector their merits and seek accretive investments for our shareholders, clients in order to deliver the vital services that they need.
We but in the current environment will remain cautious in our continue to believe that the UK Government will honour its approach to new investment.
contracts entered into under UK law and, in the event of any voluntary termination of any of our projects, will follow the contractual compensation provisions.
Further details can be found in our Risk Committee report.
Board David MacLellan As part of the phased succession programme to replace the Chairman Directors who have been on the Board since JLIFs launch in 2010, 23 March 2018 and as announced in May 2017, my predecessor Paul Lester retired as Chairman at the end of September 2017.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Paul for his contribution and success in leading the Board over the past seven years.
In May 2017, Theresa Grant joined the Board.
Theresa has been Chief Executive of Trafford Council, Manchester since 2011 where her responsibilities have included leading multi-million pound change programmes for Infrastructure & Transport and Employment & Skills in the Greater Manchester region.
Investment Adviser In May, David Hardy was appointed Lead Investment Adviser to JLIF.
David has over 25 years corporate finance, M&A, fundraising and deal closure experience across infrastructure and renewable energy.
Davids familiarity with JLIF and our Portfolio having been a director of John Laing Capital Management JLCM, and previously at John Laing on the primary investment and sell-side has helped him make a seamless transition.
David assumed the role following the departure from JLCM of Andrew Charlesworth in May 2017.
Andrew had been involved in advising JLIF since its launch in 2010 and the Board thanks him for his contribution over the years.
During 2017, the fees payable to JLCM were amended.
This included a reduction in the asset origination fee from 0.75% to 0.375% and a 25% reduction in the base fee payable on the additional 9% interest in the IEP project acquired in November 2017.
Case Study: Connecticut Service Stations P3 Connecticut United States In July 2016, JLIF acquired a 100% interest in the Connecticut Services On a Net Present Value basis, the MAG payments represent Stations P3 project from The Carlyle Group.
The project involves the approximately 63% of total forecast revenue over the term of the renovation, operation and maintenance of 23 highway service plazas concession.
The projects four key anchor tenants McDonalds, in the State of Connecticut under a 35-year concession period.
The Dunkin Donuts, Subway Restaurants and Alliance Energy renovation of the service plazas was completed in August 2015.
Mobil brand together account for c. 85% of forecast revenues.
The project benets from being the exclusive provider of on-highway The plazas serve both local commuter trafc as well as interstate food and fuel on the three main transport corridors between trafc.
The project agreement also includes an option to extend the New York and Boston, something that is protected under the concession period by a further 8-10 years through to 2052 2054 project agreement and giving the concession monopolistic qualities.
upon mutual agreement with the Connecticut Department of Long-term agreements are in place with major food and fuel Transport CONNDOT.
The east coast corridor where the plazas providers that include ination-linked annual guaranteed minimum are located has some of the highest GDP per capita rates in the US, MAG payments, as well as a percentage share of gross sales.
There is also a revenue sharing arrangement with CONNDOT, which provides good alignment of interest between the concessionaire and the public sector counterparty.
Boston 95 The transaction was completed on a bilateral basis.
We believe there are good opportunities for value enhancement from both organic growth and specic initiatives.
The project was JLIFs first investment in 395 the US, giving it a launch pad and presence 15 from which to access further opportunities in this growing market.
JLIF Limited New York Service Stations
