Chairmans review Focusing innovation on patients and customers I am proud of the contributions of ourmore than 23,000 employees and am grateful to our patient communities for their partnership.
And importantly, Iremain excited and optimistic about the future of ourCompany.
These challenges will continue in 2018, In 2017, Shire started its first full financial For Shire, success means delivering more making it essential that Shire maintains year as a transformed company: the innovative solutions to the patients who itsefficient and nimble business strategy.
undisputed global leader in treating depend on us.
We know that if patients, Towards that end, we continue to evaluate rarediseases.
physicians, and caregivers appreciate and the strategic and operational direction of value our products, then shareholders will As we began the year, the integration of the Company, including an assessment also benefit.
In this way 2017 was not just Baxalta was well under way.
While this ayear of integration, but also one of that had commercial operating units in 22 review continues, we are creating two preparation for the future.
countries in 2013 is now in more than 60 distinct business divisions within Shire: countries.
Aclinical pipeline with 20 In 2017, we launched 50 products in onefocused on rare disease and the other programs in 2013, ended 2017 with 40 25 countries with therapies to treat focused on neuroscience.
This will enable such active programs.
And our therapeutic diseases such as short bowel syndrome, sharper management focus, greater footprint had expanded into three new hypoparathyroidism and attention deficit strategic clarity, and distinct investment dynamic areas: immunology, hematology, hyperactivity disorder ADHD.
We opportunities for both parts of the and oncology.
significantly advanced our Research and business.
We expect the conclusion of Development R&D pipeline with 54 ourstrategic review of these two business Shire has transformed itself, but with this majormarket filings around the world segments in the second half of 2018. transformation came obvious challenges.
andcontinued to invest in areas where Additional details on the divisions can We had a global manufacturing portfolio wesee great need and opportunity such befound on page 12. that required careful pruning and asimmunology.
For our employees, 2017 was a period of Inmanycountries we had to consolidate We maintained our dedication to our challenge and change.
But it was also a twooffices into one, moving and environment and the communities in which year in which they all showed their grit, reassigning experienced staff, while we serve.
In 2017, Shire developed our new resolve, and unwavering dedication to the maintaining commercial momentum.
Responsibility strategy with commitments patients we serve.
The Board and I would Andwe set aggressive targets for our and long-term goals to be achieved by like to thank everyone at Shire, not just for teams, pushing ourselves to meet the 2025.
We also held our third annual Global their hard work, but also for their drive, highest possible financial goals, some Day of Service, during which more than focus, and commitment during a period of ofwhich were clearly aspirational.
7,300 Shire employees from around the transformation.
We would also like to thank world dedicated more than 29,000 hours our CEO, Dr. Flemming Ornskov, who has At the end of 2017, the people of oftheir time to volunteering in their led the Shire team through this integration Shirecould look back with pride.
A detailed description with great skill and has kept everyone Theimplementation of our Network ofShires commitment to Responsibility focused on the goal of building a more Manufacturing Study laid the foundation can be found on page 35. resilient Shire for the long-term.
forefficient and effective supply operations.
And at the same time, Shire exceeded its The accomplishments focused squarely Finally, Id like to express my sincere challenging integration synergy targets for on delivering benefits to patients in need appreciation to Bill Burns, Senior the year, saving money and managing its and the communities in which we live Independent Director: Anne Minto, the global procurement systems in the most came during a year of substantial external previous Chairman of our Remuneration cost-effective and efficient manner.
Committee: and Dominic Blakemore, The hemophilia market landscape shifted, previous chair of the Audit, Compliance & Despite these many achievements, and continues to change rapidly.
The global Risk Committee, all of whom will be retiring Shiresshare price performance was political, tax, and regulatory environment in from the Board after the 2018 AGM.
For a Board, management which we operate is constantly in motion.
team, and company focused on improving And the pharmaceutical industry must still shareholder value, the challenge is clear manage societal challenges in funding, and we have strengthened our resolve to pricing, and identifying ways to support improve and succeed in 2018. future innovation.
4 Shire Annual Report 2017 Thankyou also to former Shire CFO Jeff Poulton who left the Company at the end of2017.
The contributions of Bill, Anne, Dominic, and Jeff cannot be overstated.
Shire is a better company because of their work: we are grateful for their dedication and wish them all the best in the future.
In closing, I am proud of the contributions of our more than 23,000 employees and our Board, and I am grateful to our patient communities for their partnership.
And importantly, I remain excited and optimistic about the future of our Company.
It is our privilege to continue working on behalf of the patients who inspire us every day.
Susan Kilsby Chairman Shire Annual Report 2017 5 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
