CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Rijnhard van Tets In the face of the intense scrutiny that Non-executive Chairman followed, executive management focused successfully on the business: we retained our clients support, saw a good recovery in new orders, protected our liquidity, reduced our capital intensity, and continued to focus on strong execution.
Our response to the investigation Clearly, for much of 2017, the Boards attention was dominated by the SFO investigation.
In May, we took steps to ring-fence the investigation from Petrofacs day-to-day business operations, and ensure that we responded to the SFO.
Our response included: formation of a dedicated Board Committee to govern this matter: the appointment of a senior external specialist to oversee the Companys management of, and response to, the MAINTAINING A STRONG BOARD FOR THE FUTURE investigation: the restriction of Group Chief Executive Ayman Asfari to his operational duties: and the suspension of Group Chief How the Board spent its time during the year % Operating Officer Marwan Chedid, who resigned from the Board.
It is important to stress that these latter actions do not in any way seek to pre-judge the outcome of the SFOs investigation.
Further details of the investigation and our response are set out on page 78.
32% Enhancing our compliance 25% 22% Prior to the instigation of this external investigation, steps had been taken to 13% further enhance the Companys approach 5% 3% to compliance, including a root and branch review of all related policies and processes, Strategy Risk management and internal controls as detailed on pages 64 and 65.
In August Financial matters, including external Project approvals 2017, a new Compliance and Ethics financial reporting Leadership and people development Committee was formed.
The inaugural Governance, including shareholder engagement report of this Committee is set out on pages 88 and 89.
These measures ensure that we can continue to be confident in our people 2017 revealed Petrofacs For 2017, our main intention was to deliver andprocesses.
on the themes I highlighted last year: underlying resilience.
focusing on execution, delivering organic Operational progress in 2017 We continued to execute growth, and reducing capital intensity.
effectively, maintain The Board kept close oversight of progress our bidding discipline and By the middle of the year, however, events against the business strategy.
We took a had been overtaken by the instigation of particularly close interest in the headway enhance return on capital.
an investigation by the UK Serious Fraud the management team is making in Office SFO.
The Board took swift action, delivering organic growth and further formulating a strategy to run and protect differentiating the business.
We also the business whilst responding to, and received regular updates on the engaging constructively, with the SFO in deployment of new digital technologies, and the role they can play in bringing relation to the investigation.
continual incremental improvements Governance to our service offering.
See pages 72 and 73 6 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Of course, the market environment Separately, at the Annual General Meeting To ensure that the leadership team can remained competitive with clear evidence in May 2018, we will be delighted to deliver on these objectives, the Board has of overcapacity.
The Board was encouraged recommend to shareholders the appointment concluded that restrictions imposed on the that we saw a strong recovery in new of David Davies as a Non-executive Director.
Group Chief Executive in May 2017 are no orders while, for those projects we did bid longer appropriate.
Ayman will resume full for, we maintained our bidding discipline.
Reflecting on our financial performance executive duties with immediate effect and We secured more than US$5.2 billion in In the face of the challenging environment, re-join the Nominations Committee.
He will new orders and extensions in 2017 from we were pleased to deliver a business continue to fully respect and support the both existing and adjacent markets.
performance net profit of US$343 million.
process and independence of both the Post exceptional items and certain SFO investigation and the sub-committee Once again, our safety performance was re-measurements, we reported a net loss of the Board with delegated responsibility most impressive, as further articulated in of US$29 million.
With good performance for this matter.
the Group Chief Executives statement and on capital management and net debt the Corporate Responsibility section of falling to US$612 million, we demonstrated Succession planning will remain a top this report.
Even so, there is no room for our strong financial discipline and our priority.
During 2017 we were reassured complacency and we must continue to determination to reduce capital intensity.
that there is a strong pipeline of talent retain our focus in this area.
coming through at all levels.
In 2018 We also chose to re-base our dividend in we expect the business to take a more Maintaining a strong Board for the future May 2017 and this prudent approach was forensic approach to talent management.
The Board aspires to lead by example broadly welcomed by investors.
We are and live the Petrofac values: safe, ethical, therefore proposing a final dividend of After an 11-year tenure, I have decided to innovative, responsive, quality and cost 25.30 pence per share.
stand down from the Board, and would conscious, and driven to deliver.
like to thank my fellow Directors for their Against this backdrop, I do want to thank support.
I know that, with Ren Mdori It was a particularly busy year for the Board, all Petrofac shareholders for your loyalty.
succeeding me, the Board will remain in and I want to thank all Directors for their During the year, we benefited from a frank safe hands.
His wide international individual contributions and determination and constructive dialogue with our key experience and understanding of growing to see the Group through this challenging shareholders and, as this Annual Report multi-national businesses, the global period, whilst ensuring Petrofac continues should demonstrate, the Board is landscape, well-established governance to deliver for its stakeholders.
determined to repay your confidence.
and regulatory knowledge, provides an important level of continuity.
As a result of The Board aims to have first-hand Looking forward to 2018 and beyond Rens change in role, Matthias Bichsel will knowledge of the business, and our visit For 2018, we expect the market assume the role of Senior Independent to Aberdeen in October reminded us of environment to remain similar to 2017.
Director in May 2018. the pricing pressures we face whilst We will continue to be competitive and demonstrating the level of professional maintain our bidding discipline.
However, Finally, I want to thank all our employees commitment across the Group.
I also took we do benefit from good visibility of for their continued commitment during a the time to visit the Upper Zakum field projects to be awarded during the year, challenging year, and throughout my tenure development in the UAE and the Greater and will continue to ensure we maintain on the Board.
In particular, I would like to Stella Area development in the UK, whilst our cost competitiveness through our pay tribute to our Group Chief Executive the full Board visited two of our Indian focus on operational excellence.
Ayman Asfari and the wider leadership engineering offices in January 2017. team.
It is encouraging to see how hard From an operational perspective, our he and his executive team are working There were some changes to the Board approach will continue to be characterised to deliver on our collective commitments, during the year, with the resignation of by these three themes: flawless execution, and position the Group for success over both Jane Sadowsky and Thomas Thune reduced capital intensity, and organic the longer term.
Having led the Remuneration growth.
At the same time, the Board will Committee since 2010, Thomas made a ensure that we continue to engage with Rijnhard van Tets particularly strong contribution, for which theSFO.
28 February 2018 One of our intentions for 2017 had been I am confident that the Group will, going to review the way in which the Petrofac forward, continue to benefit from a strong, values are understood and applied across diverse, multi-disciplinary Board, with a the Group.
This remains on the agenda good ratio of Non-executive to Executive for 2018, to ensure the values and the Directors.
In particular, we look forward behaviours associated with them are to working with Sara Akbar, who joined clearly understood and consistently the Board in January.
Saras in-depth applied every day alongside our focus knowledge of the Middle Easts oil and gas on business performance.
sector promises to be a strong asset.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 7
