STRATEGIC REVIEW | Chairman s Statement Chairman s Statement Dear Shareholder, It is my pleasure to present to you the Annual Report of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Performance This year has again proved to be eventful.
United States and European senior secured floating rate loans continued to perform well during the year, as fears over increasing default rates failed to materialise and the defaults that were seen in the market came in identifiable sectors such as commodities, reinforcing senior secured loans credentials as a stable and resilient asset class with favourable risk-adjusted return characteristics.
Credit spreads continued to tighten during 2017, as they did in 2016, and the market saw a record $650bn of leveraged loans issued during the year.
The pace of interest rate increases, particularly outside the US, was slower than expected.
Given these headwinds, the Board remains satisfied with the 2.55% 3.6% performance of the Company and the progress made by the Investment Manager.
During the year NBLS NAV TOTAL RETURN BLU WAV TOTAL RETURN fte Coympany, s NAV tota| yreturn plus dividends was 2.55% and 3.60% for the Sterling Ordinary Shares and U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares, respectively.
During the same period the Company's share price total return was 2.27 % per Sterling Ordinary Share and 2.78 % per U. S. Dollar Ordinary Share.
As at the latest practicable date prior to publication of this report the Company s Sterling Ordinary Shares and U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares trade at a discount of 4.00 % and 3.07 %, respectively.
Discount Premium Management For a period during the first half of the year, the Company s U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares traded at a premium and the Board addressed this by issuing 1,630,000 U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares out of Treasury at a weighted average premium to NAV of 3.023%.
During the year, the Companys premium discount ranged between 2.6% and 3.8 % per Sterling Ordinary Share and 6.5% and 3.9 % per U. S. Dollar Ordinary Share.
At times during the year, the Board sought to address temporary imbalances between supply and demand in the Companys shares by proactively issuing and or repurchasing shares.
In the 12 months to 31 December 2017, the Company repurchased 48,349,467 Sterling Ordinary Shares at a total cost of 60.3m and 679,888 U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares at a total cost of $0.7m representing 7.40% and 1.49% of the issued share capital at 31 December 2017, respectively.
The weighted average discount of the buyback was 3.05% for the Sterling Ordinary Shares and 2.90% for the U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares with a respective accretion to NAV of 0.14% and 0.06%.
Your Board will remain vigilant in its approach to discount and premium management on behalf of shareholders and reaffirms its belief that it is undesirable for the Companys shares to trade at wider than a 3% discount or 3% premium in normal market conditions.
Dividend As at 31 December 2017, the annualised dividend based on the previous four quarterly dividends declared was 3.54% for the Sterling Ordinary Shares and 3.55% for the U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares.
This reduction was primarily driven by a high volume of repricing transactions by loan issuers.
Your Board believes this dividend yield continues to represent value on a risk-adjusted basis given the current low interest rate environment and taking account of the prudent investment approach taken by the Investment Manager.
9 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LI ITED STRATEGIC REVIEW | Chairman s Statement Portfolio Construction The portfolio remains fully invested, with a strong U. S. bias.
As at 31 December 2017, 88.64% of the Company was invested in U. S. Dollar denominated assets, with 10.02% invested in Euro denominated assets and 1.34% in Sterling denominated assets all excluding cash.
The Company's Sterling Ordinary Share class hedges ail U. S. Dollar and Euro exposure back to Sterling.
The Board does not currently expect volatility in the foreign exchange mar ets to impact materially on the Company's NAV.
These allocations reflect the investment opportunities available in the respective markets with the United States, as measured by the S&P LSTA Leveraged Loan Index, being $959bn as at the end of 2017 versus 140bn for the European market S&P European Leveraged Loan Index.
These geographical allocation levels have been relatively constant over the last 12 months, reflecting both the market sizes and relative value available in the different geographies.
During 2017 the Investment Manager kept the portfolio s bond allocation well below the 20% of NAV permitted, closing December 2017 at 8.4%.
The majority of the allocations were floating rate securities and only 6.06% of the portfolio was fixed rate as the Investment Manager remained focused on keeping duration low and limiting potential areas of volatility.
Additionally, allocations to higher rated assets continued with BB loans accounting for 49.84% of the NAV at the end of December 2017, down from 51.69% at the end of 2016.
The Investment Manager has constructed a diversified Portfolio of investments, consisting of 372 holdings across 273 issuers and 34 different sectors as at 31 December 2017.
The Company's Sterling Ordinary Share class hedges all U. S. Dollar and Euro exposure back to Pound Sterling.
Continuation Vote In accordance with the Company s Articles of Incorporation the Articles, on 5 April 2017 the Company held an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM to consider the Company s continuation as a closed-ended investment company.
I am pleased to report that shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of the Company's continuation at this meeting.
At the same EGM shareholders approved an amendment to the Articles to align the date of all future annual continuation resolutions with the Company's Annual General Meeting AGM from June 2018.
Board Composition and Succession Planning During the year, the Board gave substantial thought to the tenure of the directors who were appointed at the launch of the Company.
We acknowledge that some market participants believe that directors should not be considered independent after 9 years of service and we look to seek a sensible balance of tenure on the Board.
Richard Battey, Sandra Platts, and I have each served for 7 years since appointment.
We have therefore agreed to implement a process for rotation to replenish the Board over the coming years to ensure a smooth transfer of knowledge and encourage diversity in length of tenure on the Board.
Outlook Your Board believes that the outlook for 2018 is favourable for short duration asset classes such as senior secured floating rate loans.
We expect to see further rate rises in 2018 in the US and probably in the UK.
The Investment Manager believes that default rates will stay below historical levels and credit quality is expected to remain favourable with the exception of some identifiable areas, such as within the retail and commodity sectors.
Furthermore, the restraints put on lending banks by regulators through the Interagency Guidance on Leveraged Lending should continue to limit excess leverage in new issuance.
However, all of these positive tailwinds come with the caveat of significant political uncertainty, such as Brexit negotiations and trade relations, which have the potential to derail any positive momentum and could lead to increased volatility across global markets.
Your Board believes the Company continues to offer a risk-adjusted return, which compares favourably to other corporate credit and is pleased with the Investment Manager s performance to date in executing its strategy.
The Investment Manager will continue to update you on the Company's progress by way of the monthly fact sheets and updates.
While total return and yield have reduced during 2017, the Board believes that the Companys risk-adjusted yield and NAV performance remain attractive compared to alternative corporate credit investments.
The Investment Managers defensive positioning, combined with good liquidity in the shares and your Boards continuing support to maintain a tight discount or premium to NAV continue to make the Company a sound investment proposition.
I would lik to close by thapkingyou for your continued support.
Willia Frewen Chairman 9 April 2018 10 I NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED
