02 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS | CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION 17% 40% 203% # # NGR Clean EBITDA Adjusted PBT 000 000 000 Annual growth Annual growth Annual growth 2016: 743,100 2016: 158,300 2016: 58,900 The upward trajectory and evolution of GVC into one of the worlds leading online gaming companies continued apace in 2017, culminating in the recommended offer for the Ladbrokes Coral Group plc, announced in December.
Ladbrokes Coral shareholders on 9 March overwhelmingly voted in favour of the GVC offer.
Before looking at the transaction in more detail it is worth reecting on what we achieved in 2017 which positioned the Group to be able to pursue such an exciting opportunity.
Operational integration complete In February 2016, we undertook our most ambitious acquisition to date with the purchase of bwin.
In less than two years the business has been fully integrated within the GVC Group.
The migration of LatinAmerica onto the bwin.
party technology platform completed in early 2018 and represented the last material element to complete the full integration.
Im pleased to report that the migration process was a great success, both from a technology and customer perspective.
All of our customers now enjoy a signicantly enhanced user experience in terms of breadth of product andspeed of delivery.
In May 2017, we held a Capital Markets day to demonstrate to investors and analysts the progress we had made with the integration of bwin.
party and to give a better insight into GVC and the people, brands and technology that drive the business.
The event was well attended and particularly pleasing was the positive feedback on the breadth and depth ofour senior management team, something that we are very proud of and which is critical to the success of the business.
Financial performance Acquisitions and integrations can often cause short-term distractions in businesses, temporarily impacting growth.
Therefore, itis pleasing to report such a strong revenue performance in 2017.
On a reported basis, NGR for the financial year to31 December2017 was 925.6m, an increase of 17% over pro forma 2016 and 17% on a constant currency basis.
Given that 2016 included the UEFA European Championship, the underlying growth was 1 even more impressive.
Including discontinued From continuing operations.
activities, NGR was 1,008.0m, an increase # On a pro forma basis, as if bwin.
party had been acquired on 1 January 2016. of13% on proforma 2016.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 925,600 239,500 178,700 03 WE NOT ONLY ACHIEVED ALLOF OUR TARGETS, BUT IN MOST CASES WEEXCEEDED THEM.
Strong revenue growth combined with the GVC elected to give up the right to future Board continuing benefit from synergies, saw Clean earn-out payments.
The scale of the potential In June 2017, Jane Anscombe was appointed EBITDA rise 40% over pro forma 2016 to synergies together with the strategic benets to the Board and became Chair of the 239.5m.
This represented an improvement of the Ladbrokes Coral transaction, meant that Remuneration Committee.
Jane played a key in the Clean EBITDA margin to 26% 21%pro this was a dis-synergy that was rmly in the role in the introduction of the new incentive forma 2016.
Including discontinued interests of the business and its shareholders.
plans for management, which were approved businesses, total Clean EBITDA was 274.2m by shareholders at an EGM in December2017.
Turning to the proposed Ladbrokes Coral compared to 205.7m for pro forma 2016.
Norbert Teufelberger retired from the Group acquisition, the combination will create With a second interim dividend of 17.5 euro Board in February 2018, having served his one of the worlds largest online gaming cents per share declared, the total declared two-year term.
Norbert joined the Board groups, with a large portfolio of established dividend for the 2017 financial year was following the acquisition of bwin.
party and brands and a proven scalable proprietary 34euro cents.
This represented an increase wewould like tothank him for his contribution technology platform.
Over 90% of revenues of13% on the aggregate two special and wish him all the very best forthe would be derived from regulated and or dividends declared for the 2016 financial year.
Upon completion of the Ladbrokes locally taxed markets and as new markets In 2017, we returned 141m to shareholders CoralGroup transaction, Paul Miles will step open up this regulatory footprint will become via ordinary and special dividend payments.
down from his position as Chief Financial increasingly important.
Furthermore, at officer to be succeeded by Paul Bowtell The strong financial and operational progress least 100m of annualised synergies are of Ladbrokes Coral Group plc.
Paul Miles made by the Group, enabled us to secure expected to be derived from the enlarged has considerably strengthened the Groups materially improved debt facilities in 2017.
These synergies are in addition to the finance function since he arrived and played a In February 2017, the Cerberus Loan used to remaining synergies expected to be derived key role in the further development of GVC as partially finance the acquisition of bwin.
party, from the Ladbrokes combination with Coral.
We thank Paul was repaid in full via a bridging loan and Yesterday in separate votes, Ladbrokes Coral for his hard work, professionalism and being a this was subsequently replaced with a new and GVC shareholders overwhelmingly voted great member of the team.
250m six-year Senior Secured loan and in favour of the recommended offer.
70m RCF at materially lower rates of interest.
I would also like to thank the entire GVCteam In March 2018, we announced the acquisition In November 2017, the Senior Secured loan for their hard work that has enabled the Group of 51% of Mars LLC trading as Crystalbet, was extended by a further 50m, with a to continue to deliver such strong financial one of the Republic of Georgias leading reduction in margin 2.75% Euribor vs 3.25% results.
The gaming industry continues fully regulated online gaming companies.
previously and on more exible covenants.
to evolve, presenting opportunities and Crystalbet management has a proven track challenges, but through our high quality record, delivering strong growth and gaining Corporate activity people, strong brands and proprietary market share with a highly effective approach 2017 saw the Group undertake a number of technology, GVC is well placed to continue to customer acquisition.
GVC will provide transactions as we continue to reshape our todeliver shareholder value.
Crystalbet with access to a greater portfolio business to maximise long-term shareholder ofproduct and shared expertise.
We expect GVC will be posting its 2017 Annual Report returns.
In May 2017, we concluded the sale toacquire the remaining 49% in 2021. to shareholders in the week commencing of the payment processing business operating 30 April 2018 and it will be uploaded on under the Kalixa brand.
Kalixa was a nonRegulation our website www.
com from that core activity that was originally part of the Millions of customers enjoy the entertainment date.
The AGM will be held in Gibraltar on bwin.
During the second-half of gambling and have a positive experience, 6 June 2018. of last year we acquired Cozy Games, and however, for those few that demonstrate with it, Cozys proprietary bingo platform.
Discontinued activities includes Headlong and associated problem gambling behaviours, we as a result, GVC now has proprietary technology Turkish facing operations.
operators have an obligation to protect them.
across all key online gaming verticals an In many of the markets in which we operate, important differentiator from our peers.
the gaming industry has come under the Also during 2017, we took full control of our LEE FELDMAN increasing scrutiny of regulators.
The UK marketing operations in Greece after buying NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN Gambling Commission UKGC in particular out our partners.
8 March 2018 has been driving the industry to improve its In an increasingly regulated online gaming approach to problem gambling and we very environment and one where industry much support this.
Where the UKGC has consolidation is vital to diversifying risk and initiated, we as an industry now have to lead.
addressing increased costs taxation, the Ultimately, a higher quality, more professional Board took the decision in November 2017 to industry will be positive for both consumers dispose of GVCs Turkish-facing operations.
The original intention was to sell the respective businesses in return for an earn-out over a five-year period.
However, as part of the proposed Ladbrokes Coral Group acquisition,
