How we behave and how were rewarded Report by Roberto Quarta Executive Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Dear share owner 017 was a challenging year for your Company Mark and Andrew have been given a mandate to as a combination of technology-driven structural move forward decisively, to accelerate the strategy, and to changes and pressure on marketing budgets held apply their own views, abilities and expertise in doing so.
There is no standing still.
The departure of the The Board has appointed external search consultants Group Chief Executive was, of course, a difficult moment to conduct the recruitment process for the new Group for WPP.
We will consider both internal and The Boards succession planning has always considered external candidates to find the best leader to take WPP two scenarios: the planned transition over time and the forward, and while this will be concluded as quickly as unforeseen event.
We would not have chosen the latter, possible there is no set timeframe.
In the meantime Mark but that is what happened and we were prepared for it.
and Andrew are providing the leadership the Group needs.
We had no hesitation in immediately appointing Mark WPP has delivered consistent growth and value for Read and Andrew Scott as joint Chief Operating Officers its share owners for more than three decades.
It remains of WPP to lead the business, reporting to and supported the clear market leader, the fundamentals of the business by me as Executive Chairman in the interim.
are strong and we have a wealth of capabilities within As I said when their appointments were announced, the Group that few if any other companies worldwide Mark and Andrew are highly accomplished and can match.
experienced executives who have the Boards complete Nonetheless, the world we inhabit is changing and confidence.
They are working closely together to lead WPP is changing with it.
Under Mark and Andrew the the Group, with Mark responsible for clients, operating strategic evolution already underway will be refined and companies and people and Andrew focusing on financial accelerated, and we will share details as this process and operational performance and managing the develops during the course of the year.
81 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we behave and how we're rewarded Underpinning the Boards confidence in the future of Something your Board does not lack is diversity or your Company is our confidence in the talented people relevance of experience.
The Non-Executive Directors who make up WPP and its parts.
have deep expertise in areas that are critical to the future From our continuous review of senior personnel for of the Company, such as consumer packaged goods, digital the purposes of Group-level succession planning the transformation, technological disruption and fast-growth Board has had excellent visibility of the women and men markets especially China.
with the potential to occupy the most senior roles and This means that as well as providing broad advice and indeed the most senior role within WPP.
perspective, we are increasingly contributing directly to the In the pages of this Annual Report you will see an formulation of strategy and assisting with specific issues outstanding array of talent from the heads of our as they arise.
Nicole Seligmans experience at Sony, for operating companies to our Country and Regional example, was invaluable in preparing for and reacting Managers and Global Client Team Leaders.
to last summers cyber attack.
During 2017, the Board met many of these leaders from This was another difficult moment for the Company, around the Group to hear their thoughts on managing their which responded magnificently to what is now known businesses.
The benefits of this approach were two-fold: to be have been a sophisticated and potentially devastating it informed our assessment of the internal talent pool: and assault, underlining to the Board the resilience of WPP, we gained a greater depth of insight, as a board, into the the dedication and motivation of its senior team, and the challenges and opportunities of the Company as a whole.
abilities of its many thousands of people around the world.
It also left us in no doubt about the strength of They have shown those qualities again in recent weeks.
our internal list of candidates for the Group Chief On behalf of my Board colleagues and the Companys Executive role.
share owners, I would like to extend my sincere thanks The past year has shone a welcome light on the issue to all of them.
of gender equality within the advertising and marketing services industry.
That this has been, at times, an Roberto Quarta uncomfortable experience for your Company only 24 April 2018 highlights its importance, and the need for us to respond positively.
At the Board level, we have worked with the executive team to accelerate the development of senior female leaders and to monitor the pipeline of female talent.
The Companys UK Gender Pay Gap Report was reviewed by the Board.
Although it revealed a gender pay gap below the national average, it highlighted the need for further, faster change in the profile of the operating companies leadership teams, and we support the initiatives the Company has put in place to achieve that change.
On the Board itself we have excellent diversity in terms of nationality, with nine countries represented, but we still have work to do on gender balance.
Charlene Begleys departure from the Board last year meant the proportion of women on the Board fell to 25% as at 31 December 2017.
As we actively review Board composition we are seeking to improve this statistic, and diversity of all kinds, without increasing the size of the Board.
