05 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT A POSITION OF STRENGTH CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Management is confident 2017 has delivered a strong platform for strategic progress in 2018.
Alan Jackson Chairman The strength of Playtechs model was The integration of Playtech BGT Sports To reflect the Boards confidence in evident again as the Group delivered PBS is an important milestone for the growth and cash generation of the double digit top line growth despite the Company and has created a fully business Playtech adopted a progressive significant headwinds faced in the year.
integrated best-in-class sports technology dividend policy in 2016.
Integrated with the strength of pillars of the Playtech model is its ability One of the key pillars of Playtechs the Casino vertical, via Playtechs single to convert its operational performance strategy has been its ability to continually platform, we have already seen the into strong cash generation and this has improve the quality of earnings both Sports division win new landmark clients, allowed a 10% increase in the full year organically and through acquiring including leading Portuguese operator dividend per share for 2017. strategically important targets in regulated SAS, post period end.
Moreover, the and soon-to-be regulated markets.
These completion of the migration to our new Management is confident 2017 has acquisitions, such as BGT and ECM in Live Casino facility in Riga gives Playtech delivered a strong platform for strategic 2016, have augmented the growth of a competitive advantage in a fast-growing progress in 2018 through both organic regulated revenue by deepening the part of the industry.
retail channel in Playtechs Omni-channel offering and delivering new opportunities Momentum reported in TradeTech Group in the regulated and newly regulated continued with improvements across markets.
This strategy has delivered all KPIs, including revenue and EBITDA consistent growth in the Companys growth.
Given Playtechs experience in regulated revenue which grew to 54% the Gaming industry the Financials division in 2017.
As outlined at the trading update has been an early adopter of regulation in Alan Jackson in November, the M&A pipeline is very its industry and is therefore strategically Chairman strong and Management and the Board well positioned for the potential incoming are confident it will continue to diversify ESMA measures.
Moreover 2017 saw 22 February 2018 Playtechs revenue base.
TradeTech consolidate its B2B offering creating a full turnkey financial trading Operationally 2017 was another year of solution which Management believes is significant progress for Playtech as the strategically well placed to benefit from Company continues to execute on its the consolidation further regulation will industry leading Omni-channel solution.
