F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Chairmans Statement UK commercial property experienced positive demand during 2017 as investors, particularly from overseas but also UK institutions, continued to look to invest in core assets with a secure income stream.
Investment activity in 2017 moved up sharply from the previous years levels as sentiment adjusted to the changed circumstances following the referendum result and the economy continued to Chris Russell, advance more strongly than initially feared.
Against this backdrop, progress on Chairman the Brexit negotiations was slow and uneven and many uncertainties remain, politically, economically, domestically and internationally.
The market has seen polarization, with industrials and distribution out-performing strongly, while regional town centre retail has remained under pressure.
Performance for the Year The net asset value NAV total return for the year was 8.8 per In absolute terms, the most significant positive contributors to returns were: cent and the share price total return was 3.9 per cent.
The total return from the portfolio was 8.7 per cent, lagging the total return of London, St Christophers Place Estate reflecting the completion 10.3 per cent from the MSCI Investment Property Databank IPD of the Wigmore Street development, new lettings and strong Quarterly Benchmark Index.
The longer-term performance of the rental growth.
portfolio remains strong with IPD rating it upper quartile over three London, Cassini House successfully agreed to the new and five years and top quartile over ten years.
letting to the anchor tenant for 15 years, incorporating the full The share price at the year-end was 135.9p, representing a discount refurbishment of the building.
of 3.8 per cent to the NAV per share of 141.2p.
Daventry, Site E4, DIRFT following the completion of a rent The following table provides an analysis of the movement in the NAV renewal on a ten-year lease and the continued demand for prime per share for the year: logistics.
Chorley, Units 6 & 8 Revolution Parksignificant yield compression due to the continued demand for logistics.
Pence NAV per share as at 31 December 2016 135.5 Negative contributions came from: Unrealised increase in valuation of direct property portfolio 6.6 Uxbridge, Stockley Park reflecting the fact that the building has Increase in valuation of interest rate swap 0.1 a shortening lease expiry.
Other net revenue 5.0 Reading, Thames Valley One, Thames Valley Park reflecting void space following the exit of the tenant.
Dividends paid 6.0 The Company purchased 1 Cathedral Square, Bristol in December NAV per share as at 31 December 2017 141.2 2017 for 33.5 million.
Bristol as a location had been targeted given its positive balance of supply and demand and outlook for rental During 2017 the Company experienced capital growth of 4.2 per growth.
The purchase is also in accordance with the Company cent, compared to the MSCI IPD index which recorded a capital strategy to invest in prime office assets, on attractive yields, in town return of 5.4 per cent.
As with 2015 and 2016, the strongest returns centres which score highly for connectivity and quality of life and were experienced in the logistics and industrial sector.
thereby provide sustainable occupational demand and a skilled and The underperformance against the index can primarily be young working population.
attributed to the Companys underweight position in Industrials in the South East, which accounted for 0.9 per cent of the relative Borrowings underperformance.
The Companys holdings in the office sector The Groups available borrowings comprise a 260 million term loan lagged the index because of increased voids and shortening lease with Legal & General Pensions Limited, maturing on 31 December terms.
The Company has no exposure to shopping centres which 2024, and both a 50 million term loan facility and an undrawn 50 was the poorest performing segment.
million revolving credit facility with Barclays, available until June 8 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Park, Southampton 2021.
The Groups net gearing, was 19.6 per cent at the end of the year.
The weighted average interest rate on the Groups total current borrowings is 3.3 per cent.
Dividends and Dividend Cover Twelve monthly interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share were paid during the year, maintaining the annual dividend of 6.0p per share since 2006 and providing a dividend yield of 4.4 per cent based on the year-end share price.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, the Board intends that dividends in 2018 will continue to be paid monthly at the same rate.
The Companys level of dividend cover for the year excluding capital gains on properties was 83.1 per cent.
This was lower than the 87.0 per cent cover achieved last year due to: a reduced level of rental income following the sale of the office building in Great Pulteney Street in December 2016, on a very low yield, reducing exposure to the West End of London office market.
A significant portion of the proceeds of this sale has now been reinvested at a higher yield in the property in Bristol.
The level of cover was also impacted by the voids at Thames Valley One, Reading and Nevis Ness House, Edinburgh.
The cover was further reduced by an increase in the base management fee negotiated at the start of the year, following the removal of the performance fee.
The base fee rate is higher than the effective rate of the total fees earned in 2016, when the Manager did not maximise the performance fee, but lower than the effective rate of fees earned in the previous years.
The level of tax payable in the current year increased as taxable losses were fully utilised in two subsidiaries of the Group.
Board Composition As recorded in last years Annual Report, Paul Marcuse, formerly comprehensive RPI Strategy, we have developed a framework Head of Global Real Estate for UBS Global Asset Management, of specific targets and objectives for the Group.
These reflect the was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 12 importance of a range of environmental, social and governance January 2017.
Peter Niven, who had been a Non-Executive Director ESG factors to the UK property market generally, and to the of the Company since its launch in 2005, retired from the Board Groups portfolio and investment strategy specifically.
at the Annual General Meeting on 31 May 2017 and was the last Engaging with our shareholders was a crucial part of this process of the Companys founding directors to retire in favour of fresh and we are very grateful to those who took the time to meet with appointments.
our advisor to discuss their expectations, as well as those that At the end of October 2018, I will have served on the Board for responded to our survey on ESG priorities.
In total, shareholders nine years.
In accordance with good corporate governance I representing over 50 per cent of the equity in the Company plan to retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2019, once my provided valuable input to this process and I am confident that they successor as chairman has been chosen.
The Board is mindful of will see that we have responded positively and robustly to their the recommendations of the Hampton-Alexander Review Improving expectations and will continue to do so.
gender balance in FTSE Leadership.
In particular the review recommends that a Board should have at least 33 per cent female Taxation representation by 2020 and the Board will consider this during the The UK government has announced that non-resident landlords recruitment process for the next Non-Executive Director.
will be taxable under the UK corporation tax regime, rather than the UK income tax regime from April 2020.
This change could Responsible Property Investment have a material impact on the Companys tax affairs and we are in The Board has taken further steps this year to develop our consultation with our tax advisors on this, in particular, on whether Responsible Property Investment RPI approach.
Building upon the the Company should apply for UK Real Estate Investment Trust principles and procedures established by our Property Managers REIT status.
com our-capabilities Report and Accounts 2017 | 9 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.30pm on Wednesday 6 June 2018 at The Fermain Valley Hotel, Fermain Lane, St. Peter Port, Guernsey.
The Notice of the Meeting is contained on pages 69 to 70.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting are requested to complete and return their enclosed Forms of Proxy.
Outlook The property market out-performed initial expectations for 2017 but an environment of higher interest rates and inflation, subdued economic growth, political uncertainty and some keen pricing may begin to weigh more heavily on investor sentiment this year.
Performance is expected to be driven by income return in the next few years and property as an asset class to remain attractive to those seeking a secure income return and access to a large, mature and relatively liquid property investment market.
Investment opportunity is likely to be seen as a result of the impact of technology, infrastructure and demographic change on commercial property.
The Company has a well-positioned and resilient portfolio where the priority continues to be to invest in and complete asset management initiatives within the portfolio and to exploit any external opportunity to provide a dependable and long-term rental income.
Chris Russell Chairman 16 April 2018 See Alternative Performance Measures on page 72.
St Christophers Place London Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the Company.
Such statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
The forward-looking statements are based on the Directors current view and on information known to them at the date of this document.
Nothing should be construed as a profit forecast.
