PERFORMANCE SUMMARY 31 December 31 December % 2017 2016 Change CAPITAL VALUES AND GEARING Total assets less current liabilities excluding interest rate swap 000 1,457,262 1,372,926 6.1 Net asset value per share p 92.8 86.2 7.7 Ordinary share price p 88.6 84.5 4.9 Discount to net asset value % 4.5 2.0 n a Gearing % Net 12.8 11.4 n a Gearing % Gross 17.2 18.2 n a 1 year 3 year 5 year % return % return % return TOTAL RETURN NAV 12.2 27.0 72.2 Share price 9.4 14.5 73.3 MSCI IPD Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Funds Index 10.7 29.2 67.9 FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index 12.2 15.4 70.8 FTSE All-Share Index 13.1 33.3 63.0 Chairmans Statement 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 EARNINGS AND DIVIDENDS EPRA Earnings per share excluding deferred tax p 3.42 3.43 IFRS Earnings per share p 10.12 3.48 Dividends declared per ordinary share p 3.68 3.68 Dividend yield % 4.2 4.4 IPD benchmark yield % 4.8 5.1 FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index yield % 3.4 3.7 FTSE All-Share Index yield % 3.6 3.5 ONGOING CHARGES AND VOID RATE As a % of average net assets including direct property costs 1.5 1.4 As a % of average net assets excluding direct property costs 0.9 0.9 Vacancy rate % 7.6 3.7 Calculated as net borrowings gross borrowings excluding swap valuation less cash divided by total assets less cash and less current liabilities excluding any borrowings and swap valuation.
See Alternative Performance Measures on page 100101 for further details.
Calculated as gross borrowings excluding swap valuation divided by total assets less current liabilities excluding borrowings and swap.
The se Alternative Performance Measures APMs are defined in the Glossary on pages 100101.
Assumes re-investment of dividends excluding transaction costs.
Based on an annual dividend of 3.68p and the share price at 31 December.
Sources: Standard Life Investments, MSCI Investment Property Databank IPD 6 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 7 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We expect our successful asset 12.2% management initiatives additionally Strong NAV total return for the year of 12.2% to assist dividend cover and unlock the reversionary nature of the portfolio and, 4.2% as a result, the prospect for enhancing the Attractive dividend yield of 4.2% as at 31 December 2017 income return to shareholders is positive.
This process continued after the year end when, 1.4bn Financial Resources in January 2018, the Company completed the sale of its Shrewsbury shopping centres to Shropshire Portfolio now valued at 1.4bn UKCPT continues to be in a financially strong Council at a price which was also above the most 2016: 1.3bn at the year end position, with a combination of low gearing recent valuation.
As a result, UKCPTs exposure and significant financial resources available for to shopping centres is now 4.2%, below the investment.
As at 31 December 2017, the Companys benchmark weighting of 5.3%.
Furthermore, the gearing was a modest 12.8% gross gearing of 17.2%.
sale reduced the Companys total retail weighting UKCPT continues to be one of the lowest geared to 33.9%, again below the benchmark of 36.2%.
companies in both its peer group and the wider REIT sector.
This is a sensible defensive strategy, The proceeds from the 2017 sales were reinvested given that capital returns in the UK property into a number of assets which we believe are well market are forecast to slow in 2018 and 2019. placed to produce sustainable income returns The debt has a weighted average maturity of five over the medium to long term.
These included the years and a low blended cost at 2.89% per annum, funding of a now completed pre-let distribution providing an attractive margin for enhancing centre at Burton upon Trent, an office investment income, given the portfolios 4.5% net initial yield.
in Sheffield, and the forward funding of a pre-let hotel in Newcastle, the Companys first investment Following the sale of the Shrewsbury holding, into this sector.
These acquisitions are secured adjusting for future dividend and capital on long leases with all having upwards-only expenditure commitments, the Company has inflation-linked rents.
Following these acquisitions, available cash of 59 million along with access to a 15% of UKCPTs rental income has either fixed or 50 million low cost revolving credit facility.
inflation linked increases on relatively long leases, complementing the remaining portfolio which, Dividends while being well let, offers opportunities to enhance rental and capital value through successful asset management initiatives over time.
In 2017, UKCPT declared and paid to its shareholders a total of 3.68 pence in dividend per share paid in Andrew Wilson The Companys strong NAV total return of 12.2% four equal instalments of 0.92 pence per share.
The Chairman for 2017, whilst comfortably above that of the fourth interim dividend for the financial year ended IPD benchmark, was similar to that of its wider 2017 of 0.92 pence was paid on 28 February 2018.
Guernsey Property Investment Company peer group but achieved with much lower leverage than the This attractive annual dividend reflects a yield of majority of its peers.
Since inception, UKCPT has 4.2% based on the year end share price.
It compares delivered a higher NAV total return of 83.5% than favourably to the yields on the FTSE All-Share the peer group weighted average return of 75.7%.
REIT Index of 3.4% and the FTSE All-Share Index I am pleased to report that in 2017 UK Commercial This outperformance resulted from the of 3.6% as well as to the 10 year gilt yield of 1.2%.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE Over the year, the Companys share price moved Property Trust saw a continuation of the positive combination of various portfolio strategies and This dividend yield continues to be underpinned to a 4.5% discount to NAV which resulted in a momentum we generated in 2016.
Our portfolio initiatives that saw the Company reduce its by cash flows derived from a strong tenant base lower total return to shareholders in 2017 of 9.4%, delivered above benchmark returns for the second retail and Central London offices exposure, with which pays 99% of its annual 68.9 million rental compared to the 12.2% return on the FTSE All-Share UKCPT portfolio total return year running which led to healthy NAV, share price 42 million of sales, at above their most recent commitment within 21 days of the due dates.
Over the longer term, however, UKCPT and earnings returns.
This was achieved against a valuation, during the year.
These are both sectors has significantly outperformed this Index: since backdrop of continued political uncertainty and a where values are expected to come under pressure A principal focus of the Board is maintaining an the Companys formation in 2006 it has produced 12.2% property market performance which, on the whole, and the capital was recycled into assets in our attractive level of dividend in recognition of its a total return to shareholders of 72.5%, versus the surprised on the upside.
favoured industrial sector and properties offering importance to shareholders.
Almost three quarters of REIT Indexs return of minus 4.4%.
Indeed, following a the vacancy rate of 7.6% is in the favoured industrial The Companys portfolio delivered a total return of number of acquisitions in 2017 and over the past sector and represents an excellent opportunity to The Managers continued focus on delivering 12.2% which compared favourably to the Companys few years, 34.9% of the Companys 1.4 billion increase sustainable rental income.
Additionally, 10.7% successful asset management initiatives together IPD benchmark return of 10.7%.
Encouragingly, portfolio was in the industrial sector at the year with the portfolio having a significant reversionary with the Companys strong financial base also our portfolio produced positive total returns across end, a deliberately overweight position compared potential, and taking account of the Companys contributed to these robust returns and to the IPD benchmark total return all sectors, although the principal driver for this to the benchmark of 24.0%.
resources for future acquisitions, it is the Boards continuing good health of the business.
performance came from the Companys industrial expectation that dividend cover, which stood at 93% holdings which delivered a total return of 19.7%.
for 2017, will move towards, if not exceed, 100% in the medium term, allowing the Board to consider, at the appropriate time, growing the dividend.
8 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 9 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Continued REIT Conversion In the NAV announcement for the fourth quarter of 2017, the Board noted the proposals in the Budget to charge capital gains tax on offshore owners of UK commercial property for gains accruing from April 2019 and the decision to bring non-resident UK Commercial Property landlords into the corporation tax regime in April 2020.
Both of these initiatives would result in the Group paying significant additional tax unless it converts into a UK REIT.
Trust saw a continuation of The Company has now received an irrevocable undertaking from its largest shareholder, Phoenix Life Limited, to support REIT conversion.
the positive momentum we In due course, the Company will issue a circular to shareholders and convene a General Meeting to propose REIT conversion with the intention being, subject to shareholder approval, to convert to a generated in 2016.
Our portfolio REIT on 1 July 2018.
Additionally the Board is monitoring the position in regard to the recently announced, proposed sale delivered above benchmark of Standard Life Aberdeens insurance business to Phoenix and Standard Life Aberdeens proposed shareholding of 19.99% in Phoenix to form a strategic 9 Colmore Row alliance between the pair.
The Board is assessing the Birmingham implications, given Standard Life Aberdeens role as returns for the second year the Companys Investment Manager and Phoenixs By historical standards, limited development and large shareholding in the Company.
Board Changes lower than average vacancy rates should also assist in a solid foundation for future positive returns, Ms Margaret Littlejohns and Mr Robert Fowlds, running which led to healthy albeit more geared towards income rather than both UK residents, joined the Board on 1 January and capital growth in the immediate future.
They each have impressive backgrounds in their respective fields and will be In this environment, UKCPT is in a strong position The Companys industrial weighting is purposely valuable additions to the business as it develops NAV, share price and earnings with robust fundamentals: low gearing, cash above benchmark at 34.9%.
further following the proposed REIT conversion.
resources, a well let and well located portfolio Mr John Robertson retired from the Board on appropriately aligned to the principal sectors, 31 March 2018 and has been replaced by Ms Littlejohns particularly industrials, which is again expected as chair of the Risk Committee.
Mr Robertson has to be the strongest performing sector in 2018. returns.
This was achieved played an invaluable role in the development of The Companys retail weighting is purposely below 97% UKCPT for which the Board is very grateful.
benchmark at 33.9% post the sale of Shrewsbury with the vast majority of the Companys retail of the Companys office holdings are let, Company Outlook exposure being in prime retail warehousing.
a sector which comprises 19% of its portfolio.
against a backdrop of continued In addition, 97% of its office holdings are let, a sector which comprises 19% of its portfolio.
The UKs economic position continues to be dominated by the ongoing Brexit negotiations.
The Company continues to provide a secure The UK is forecast to be one of the slowest growing political uncertainty and a dividend yield and the prospects for having a fully of the developed economies in 2018 as business covered dividend in the medium term are strong.
investment continues to be muted due to the This should stand the Company in good stead in ongoing uncertainty.
The perceived success, or a world where the demand for products that offer otherwise, of the outcome of the Brexit negotiations property market performance reliable income streams remains high.
UKCPTs will be pivotal in determining the performance of strong financial base should reduce volatility as the UK economy in the short to medium term.
capital values come under pressure and allow it to deploy its surplus cash to take advantage of the Real estate as an asset class has thus far proved opportunities that would be expected to come along which, on the whole, surprised resilient to the slowdown in the economy in such an environment.
We expect our successful experienced in 2017.
Returns were considerably asset management initiatives additionally to assist higher than the IPF consensus expectations for dividend cover and unlock the reversionary nature the year of 3.2%.
While foreign investment into the of the portfolio and, as a result, the prospect for on the upside.
UK market has helped, the underlying property enhancing the income return to shareholders fundamentals, unlike in previous cycles, are sound is positive.
and should support property continuing to deliver attractive relative returns.
The yields generated I therefore believe your Company continues to by UK real estate remain significantly higher than be well positioned to grow and deliver attractive those from other mainstream asset classes.
This relative returns in the future.
should continue even if interest rates edge up more quickly.
Leverage in the real estate sector is prudent Andrew Wilson and overall the market is reasonably liquid.
Chairman 26 April 2018 10 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
