STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement PUTTING PEOPLE AT THE HEART OF OUR BUSINESS 888s focus in 2018 and beyond will, as ever, remain on delivering a truly satisfying and safe experience for customers, thereby supporting strong and sustainable growth for ourshareholders.
Brian Mattingley Chairman RESULTS AND DIVIDEND STRATEGIC PROGRESS I am pleased to update 888 has delivered further growth 888s growth strategy is to deliver the 888s stakeholders on during 2017 with revenue increasing Groups potential across a diverse range by 4% to US$541.8 million 2016: of products and markets.
Underpinning what has been another US$520.8 million.
This resilient outcome this are 888s core strengths including: year of progress for was achieved despite the Groups world class technology: a strong, 1 withdrawal from certain markets during dedicated management team: theGroup.
the year which caused a 2% decrease in business analytics expertise: customer Group revenue, and reflects the strength relationship management capabilities 888s performance in 2017 has of the Groups business model and and innovative marketing.
been underpinned by continued strategy.
888s performance during the development against the Groups The Board believes that 888s period was again driven by progress in strategic objectives including proprietary online gaming technology Casino, momentum in Sport and further further focusing our presence in and associated platforms are truly expansion in Continental European regulated territories, investing in market leading and provide the bedrock regulated markets, most notably Italy our proprietary technology and for 888s competitive advantages.
continuing to develop and diversify In such a dynamic and fast-moving the business across products and 2 Adjusted EBITDA increased by 12% to industry, the ability to develop our markets.
At the same time, we US$100.7 million 2016: US$90.2 million.
own technology and solutions means have been focused on developing 2 Adjusted profit before tax was 12% that the Group remains agile to and enhancing 888s tools and higher at US$78.3 million 2016: quickly and effectively capture new processes designed to ensure US$69.9 million.
The Group remains opportunities and meet regulatory that our customers are, above all highly cash generative with net cash changes.
CEO Itai Frieberger elaborates else, able to enjoy unparalleled generated from operating activities of on our technology and investment in online gaming entertainment US$95.5 million 2016: US$68.1 million.
in the safest and most secure Exceptional charges of US$50.8 million environment possible.
With 888s diversification and 2016: US$3.9 million were incurred in exceptional, scalable technology, respect of potential past value added the Group remains able to evaluate tax in Germany and US$5.5 million as M&A opportunities from a position of part of a resolution of the UKGC licence strength.
We anticipate that potential review all as described in the CFOs regulatory changes in the UK, notably Report below.
in relation to retail operators Fixed Reflecting the strong performance Odds Betting Terminals, will impact the of the Group but in light of regulatory competitive dynamics of the gambling developments and mindful of the sector and, quite possibly, lead to further importance of retaining adequate cash waves of consolidation.
to fund potential investment activities, REGULATED MARKETS the Board of Directors is recommending a final dividend of 5.9 per share in 888s focus is on growing and accordance with 888s dividend policy, developing the business in regulated plus an additional one-off 5.6 per share, markets where we are able to leverage bringing the total for the year to 15.5 the Groups full marketing capabilities per share 2016: 19.4 per share.
We continue to embrace and support regulatory developments globally that provide better protection for customers and clearer frameworks for online gaming operators.
1 Poland, Australia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Czech Republic.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 06 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM In the UK, there are increasing and Strategic Report leave 888 well placed 888 has further opportunities across much-publicised regulatory pressures to continue to succeed in the online its existing geographies, platforms and and constraints on the gambling industry, gaming environment that customers and product verticals, most notably Sport including online operators.
We maintain a regulators will demand going forward.
where we are driving strong revenue close dialogue with relevant stakeholders growth.
At the same time, we are BOARD AND PEOPLE and are committed to working together continuously appraising and evaluating to continually improve the standards of new avenues for growth, including M&A.
We were pleased to appoint two new operation across the industry.
We will continue to exploit our ability Independent Non-Executive Directors to grow in regulated territories where to the Board of 888 in 2017: Zvika Zivlin In 2017, revenue from regulated and taxed 888 has a strong presence with further joined in May and Anne fide Kerckhove was markets accounted for 70% of Group opportunities in both Spain and Italy appointed in November.
Their skill sets and revenue 2016: 71%, primarily driven by where we intend to increase investment broad experience are already benefiting the Groups expansion in Continental in the year ahead.
888 as we continue to grow and develop Europe with very strong progress in as a global leader in online gaming.
During the year the As previously stated in the Risk Group withdrew from certain markets Management Strategy section of our In addition, Amos Pickel stood down as either which did not fit 888s long-term Annual Report and Accounts regulatory a Non-Executive Director of 888 in May.
growth focus or because of regulatory uncertainty exists in certain territories Amos served on the Board from 2006 changes.
Whilst revenue and profitability in which we operate.
In Germany, and brought a wealth of knowledge and would have been higher had the Group a subsidiary of the Group has been the experience during his tenure.
On behalf been able to continue operating in these subject of a ruling on appeal by the of everyone at 888, I would like to thank markets, this decision demonstrate our Federal Administrative Court which Amos for his contribution and we wish commitment to being a responsible and prohibits offering online gaming services him well in his future endeavours.
compliant operator as well as our strategic in the state of Baden Wrttemberg, and focus on developing our presence in includes general findings of law upholding We also strengthened our executive markets that enjoy clear and sustainable the prohibition on offering online gaming management team structure in October regulatory frameworks.
Whilst the UK in Germany under the German Inter-State 2017 with the appointment of Itai Pazner remains a major market for the Group, we Gambling Treaty.
have the flexibility to exploit significant In recent months, other providers Itai has in-depth and widespread growth opportunities in a number of in the online and land-based sectors understanding of both 888 and the online geographies where 888 has strong have withdrawn from the German online gaming industry having spent the past market positions.
gaming market, and recently payment 16 years with the Group including more institutions facilitating approximately 9% CORPORATE SOCIAL than six years as Senior Vice President of deposits for the Group in Germany of the B2C Division.
Itai Pazner reports RESPONSIBILITY have decided to cease providing certain directly into CEO Itai Frieberger and is 888s values place the community and the services with respect to the German taking overall responsibility for day-tocustomer at the centre of all endeavours online gaming market.
Certain other day operations across marketing, product and our objective, above all else, is to payment institutions have notified and technology development.
ensure that all those who visit our sites the Group that they are considering On behalf of the Board, I would like to can do so with confidence and safety.
take this opportunity to thank each of my We strive to ensure that those for whom colleagues at 888 for their commitment The Company is highly disappointed by our games are not intended, notably the during the year.
In 2017 we were presented this far reaching ruling and, together with underage and the vulnerable, will not with a number of opportunities and some the Groups legal counsel, is considering be drawn into the gaming environment challenges and the Groups success is potential courses of action, which may and those customers who develop a a result of the skill and adaptability of our include a petition to the German Federal gambling problem are quickly identified outstanding team.
I am confident that Constitutional Court and is assessing the and helped.
As well as being the right their talent and commitment will ensure status and breadth of its offerings in the thing to do, by doing this effectively and 888 remains at the forefront of the online German market.
conducting business responsibly we are in gaming industry for years to come.
a stronger position to generate value for Above all, 888s focus in 2018 and beyond all stakeholders.
OUTLOOK will, as ever, remain on delivering a The global online gaming market is fastIn August 2017, we entered into truly satisfying and safe experience for growing and dynamic with regulation a voluntary regulatory settlement customers, thereby supporting strong and continuing to play a major role in shaping following a licence review process with the sustainable growth for our shareholders.
the future direction of our industry.
The United Kingdoms Gambling Commission Board continues to believe that as an UKGC.
888 fully cooperated with the agile, multiproduct and multimarket UKGC throughout the process and we operator that owns its own technology, accepted the historical failings highlighted 888 is very well positioned to deliver by the review which have pushed the further growth.
Group to further enhance its responsible gambling technology and policies.
In Trading during the financial year to virtue of owning our own technology, we Brian Mattingley date has been in line with the Boards have been able to make changes quickly Chairman expectations with average daily revenue and effectively and the improvements 20 March 2018 6% above the previous year and we have implemented further details 8% adjusted for withdrawn markets.
of which are included in the CEOs 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 07
