SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Chairmans Welcome.
Over the last year SuperGroup has continued its progress towards becoming a global lifestyle brand.
Consistent and positive financial results have been delivered through a broadening geographic footprint and growth in all channels Retail, E-commerce and Wholesale while further investments have been made in systems, logistics and people.
We have delivered on the four pillar strategy outlined at the Capital Markets Day in 2015.
Peter Bamford Chairman 6 July 2017 www.
co. uk 02 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Over the last year SuperGroup has continued its progress towards as Senior Independent Director.
In respect of the last point we We are building a structured becoming a global lifestyle brand.
Consistent and positive financial have taken the first step with the appointment of Penny Hughes to Financial and professional organisation in results have been delivered through a broadening geographic succeed Keith as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with Statements footprint and growth in all channels Retail, E-commerce and effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
which the culture of creativity and Wholesale while further investments have been made in systems, SuperGroup has continued to mature while sustaining strong innovation established by Julian logistics and people.
We have delivered on the four pillar strategy growth.
This has been reflected in our Sustainability Programme outlined at the Capital Markets Day in 2015.
Our aim is high and our approach to risk management.
In the case of the former The economic environment has been tough and the political we have now established three ambitious long-term goals and will quality execution on a consistent and backdrop uncertain.
The Brexit vote and fluctuating exchange rates develop implementation plans over the next year.
have had the most significant direct impact.
The Superdry brand a variety of risks and the Board reviews the risk register regularly.
We has proved resilient while the increased exposure of the business continue to be vigilant with respect to Cyber Security and have also to different countries, markets and currencies has been important spent time considering the implications of Brexit on the Group.
in providing some insulation from that impact.
72% of our total The Company remains cash generative and this, together with its sales volume is now from outside the UK, while 98% of our new strong underlying cash position, has enabled us to deliver on our Retail square footage opened in the last year was overseas.
Our progressive dividend policy while continuing to produce growth Wholesale business grew by 43% and 89% of this revenue was and make investments in infrastructure.
These characteristics outside the UK.
also underpin our Viability Statement by enabling the business to Under Euan Sutherlands leadership we have continued to build withstand the significant scenarios we have modelled.
the breadth and depth of the leadership team in order to ensure As ever, our success is enabled by the passion and commitment that we have the capability to deliver both growth and operational of the people who work for SuperGroup.
Our Company is a global leverage in the future.
We are building a structured and professional family where the unique contribution of every colleague is highly organisation in which the culture of creativity and innovation valued.
I would like to thank everyone for their hard work over the established by Julian Dunkerton will thrive.
Our aim is high quality last year.
execution on a consistent and cost-effective basis.
As a Board we have focused our time in a balanced way across our strategic priorities and governance processes.
Our Board evaluation Peter Bamford this year indicated that the Board was functioning well.
A number of Chairman areas of improvement in Board administration were noted, together 6 July 2017 with the importance of spending sufficient time on the development of our brand and culture over the next year, and in developing knowledge of the Groups markets outside the Europe and the USA.
Steve Sunnucks and Beatrice Lafon are not standing for re-election at the AGM and I would like to thank them for their contributions to SuperGroup and wish them well for the future.
Whilst the Board remains of sufficient size and balance for our business in the near term, we will be looking carefully at the composition in the coming year and putting in place a plan for further appointments which will take into account the current public policy debates around potential reform of corporate governance, the evolving needs of SuperGroup and planning for successors to me as Chairman and Keith Edelman www.
