Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder Business review and financial information review Critical to this growth has been our Further extending the quality of our absolute focus on providing value to our drinks offers into these non-traditional This review expands customers, through fresher, higher lines will add to the attraction of our pubs on the operational quality ingredients at lower price points.
Consequently the average price of a main strategy outlined in the meal in a Mitchells & Butlers pub is now This focus on choice, value and quality Chief Executives Review, approximately 5.60, highlighting the has resulted in continued market share value proposition, particularly considering gains in all the main drinks categories.
describing the main the relative healthiness, quality of service resources the Group and amenity that our pubs offer.
Evolve and develop our brands and formats to drive sales growth through has deployed to achieve Generate significant high levels of amenity and service its results and presenting drinks market share gains Mitchells & Butlers operates a spectrum We focus our drinks retailing at delivering of brands and formats tailored to specific some examples of the a wide range of products from across the user groups in particular demographic strategy in action in world without being tied to any specific areas.
The division into Residential and producer.
For example, across the High Street areas is further split by FY 2007.
Company we now stock over 40 draught occasionality into drinks-led and food-led lagers compared to only five 10 years ago.
pubs giving the main segments of the market: local pubs, pub restaurants, Our drinks volume out-performance has high street pubs & bars and city centre been driven by our focus on improved restaurants.
These have developed into serve quality and on point of sale some of the strongest consumer brands communication with further range and formats in the industry.
We are using our unit level overleaf sets out the range of brands and and purchasing scale economies to formats operated by Mitchells & Butlers improve quality and choice for our in each of these market segments.
5 customers and thereby gain market share.
We evolve our brands and formats through In beer, we have increased the number of spending regular amounts of maintenance outlets using glycol technology to improve expenditure to match changing consumer the quality of their draught beer and have needs.
This evolution can also be driven Lead the value for money sought to improve the range of beers on through a change in our offers.
For casual dining market offer.
For example in Nicholsons we are example our ONeills brand has been Historically, Mitchells & Butlers sites were responding to market trends by increasing refreshed in the year, improving both the heavily concentrated in the main UK the number of ales handles on each bar range of drinks offered and the choice industrial areas of the North and Midlands.
to six, whilst increasing and premiumising and quality of its menu.
However, following a number of disposals, the lager choice by installing Erdinger the acquisition of 550 pubs from Allied and Peroni.
We have also continued to trial new Domecq in 1999 and the purchase of the formats to tap into fast growing areas of Acquired Sites in July 2006, as well as the We have been following a similar strategy the market.
One example of this is Pub addition of over 400 individual sites since in other drinks categories, extending our & Carvery which was trialled over the last the early 1990s, the business is now spread ranges, bringing in new premium two years and has grown to 58 sites.
It has across the UK, more broadly mirroring the products, offering good value own label average weekly sales of almost 30k and demographics of the UK population with lines, and upgrading the serve quality.
is providing very high incremental return a higher weighting in the affluent South on investment.
This format targets value East and London.
In wine, we are seeing both trading up to orientated consumers offering a freshly better quality premium wines, while at the cooked carvery meal at around 3.99 in Our pubs are situated predominantly same time our own label wines, such as a pleasant relaxed environment, which in residential areas 75% with the vast Silverland, have grown to around 25% of represents better value for money than majority either freehold or long leasehold sales.
We also now have draught wine the home cooked alternative.
almost 90% and having high average dispense in some 630 pubs, with draught weekly sales of 18.5k over three times wine sales now accounting for almost 10% Our key capital investment priority this greater than that of the average UK pub.
year has been on the rapid and successful conversion of the Acquired Sites to our The estate over the last 10 years has In soft drinks, our priorities have been on strong brands and formats.
The therefore been fundamentally repositioned range extension in the fast growing fresh outstanding quality of these sites has more to capture the strongest growth areas of juice as well as other categories.
In June than met our pre-acquisition expectations the market.
Hence, in a pub eating-out we refreshed the range of juices and and the intensive preparations beforehand market that has grown by 27% since cordials in our Pubs & Bars division, have put us in a position to move rapidly 2002 and is forecast to grow by a similar driving sales growth of 16% in the period ahead with the conversion process.
The amount in the next five years, our to the end of the year despite the poor scale and speed of this programme has food volumes have increased by 67%.
already converted the vast majority of Additionally our food sales mix has these sites, a mere 16 months following grown from 22% of total retail turnover While in coffee, we have installed branded the acquisition.
4 coffee offers such as Costa, Illy, and Segafredo in almost 1,200 pubs.
Mitchells & Butlers 13 Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Total and food average weekly take Fig.
5 FY 2007 Individual Residential Local pubs Pub restaurants pub 38% 37% Strong Premium of pubs of pubs branding Country Dining Ember Inns Notes Harvester 30% Pub & 45% 183 1.
Excludes Hollywood 156 of sales Carvery of sales Bowl 25 outlets 58 and Alex 42 outlets 44 2.
The Group operates Bistro 4,235 rooms adjacent Pubs Other Locals Other pub to its pubs and pub 31 251 restaurants restaurants under the Scream InnKeepers Lodge 75 50 and Express by Toby Metro Holiday Inn brands Sizzling 117 Professionals 3.
Percentages represent 191 87 split of UK managed Vintage Inns pubs and sales 208 excluding bowling at end FY 2007 4.
When converted the Acquired Sites are included within the Acquired relevant brand or Sites format 59 Drinks-led Food-led Goose 32 All Bar One ONeills 39 68 Other Flares High Street Reflex 259 45 Browns 14 28 Classics 52 Nicholsons 22% 3% of pubs of pubs 21% 4% of sales of sales High Street pubs and bars Restaurants CityCentre 14 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007 k Overview Operating Reports Accounts Shareholder and financial information review The initial sales uplifts are approximately management of kitchens, bars and serve We currently employ around 43,000 20%, and we are on track to achieve times, to deliver high service standards people and offer real opportunities to our three year, 30% target.
We expect at peak trading times.
Our Pub & Carvery build a career within the Company.
This a further steady build up over the next format, which offers freshly cooked food year we invested an average of six days couple of years.
at a highly attractive 3.99 price point, training per employee, with structured has had significant success in the densely training programmes including both on Deliver a profitable, integrated populated housing estates.
In the last and off the job training.
food and drinks offer three years therefore average spend per Critical to the success of our strategy head has fallen from 4.71 to 4.01, while Mitchells & Butlers is committed to to date has been our focus on leveraging average meal volumes have risen from ensuring all retail management and staff the growth in food to attract customers 1,800 per week to over 2,900 per week.
have the skills to perform their roles to the pub, thereby increasing higher Profitability has been further enhanced effectively.
A significant amount is spent margin ancillary drinks sales to maximise by the incremental drinks sales generated, on training managers and team leaders profitability.
We also aim to reinforce the which along with productivity gains have through the Competence in Retail link between food and drink through our led to average profits per pub up 29%.
Management Certificate and Management marketing activity and sales promotions.
It is our purchasing power allied to our Foundation Course programmes.
Each strong operating skills that have enabled year, around 2,500 of our retail employees In Toby, for example, we have dropped us to achieve this performance.
are trained through these programmes, the price point for a carvery meal from giving them the essential skills to operate 5.25 to 5.00 in mid week, this has not Unit scale allows the Company to schedule our businesses legally and safely.
This only driven food volume but drinks sales and deploy staff very closely to the trading training also gives managers the knowledge as well, and most importantly, net profit.
patterns of the pub thereby capturing required to provide on-site training to additional sales at busy times and reducing retail staff.
Extract volume driven efficiencies labour costs during quiet periods.
Through Scale at both the pub and corporate sophisticated scheduling and forecasting The National Certificate of Personal level is critical in ensuring the success of sales, we have been able to maintain Licence Holders NCPLH is an essential of our value and volume strategy.
6 pub employment costs at under 24% of qualification to progress to manager level sales despite the substantial real increases and employees can work towards this with At the corporate level, the growth in in the National Minimum Wage.
an experienced manager: this year, over our food sales over the last five years has 3,000 employees achieved their NCPLH enabled us to increase our purchasing We have also had considerable success with the Company.
The internal succession power with suppliers, for example we buy in applying our productivity systems and rate to the post of assistant manager products such as turkey tops in greater purchasing power to the Acquired Sites is around 70% for most of our brands quantities than the major supermarkets.
where we have made 7m of purchasing and formats.
This has helped to offset the faster growth gains during the year.
in relatively lower margin products such as Our training programmes are not only food and wine and enabled us to counter Extend the skill base of operational fundamental to motivating our employees, the over 70m increase in regulatory and excellence throughout the estate giving them the skills to achieve their energy costs during that period.
Through Key to the successful, profitable operation ambitions but also, crucially, they underpin reducing purchasing costs we can increase of our businesses is our ability to recruit, our commitment to operate our businesses quality, pass additional value on to our train and retain the best people.
Notably, we have rigorous training customers and in turn further increase range of brands and formats mean we are about the responsible retailing of alcohol our volumes.
For example, Mitchells & able to offer a huge variety of opportunities to give our retail employees the expertise Butlers purchased 1.1 million kilograms to our employees, from bar staff to kitchen and the confidence to serve our customers of jacket potatoes in the year.
Our retail teams currently refuse market conditions and alternative sources training so experience is not always service to approximately 50,000 people for potatoes have ensured improved essential: however, personality and a month who are unable to provide proof commercial terms for the Company, with a passion for excellent customer service of their age.
a saving of 24% on our annual spend.
The Company is committed This focus has enabled us to hold our cost to providing equality of opportunity The Company has two graduate of goods flat this year with the gain on to all employees without discrimination recruitment schemes: the Corporate new contracts offsetting inflation, duty and we are supportive of the employment Graduate programme and the Vocational increases and the contractual increases and advancement of disabled and Graduate Programme, placing employees in on-going agreements.
on a fast-track to a retail management position.
Within any given year, we have At the pub level, through operating large Mitchells & Butlers deploys a approximately 60 graduates participating scale pubs, we are able to provide the combination of assessment centres, in our management training schemes and quality of amenity and service and the internal development centres, recruitment for the second year running we achieved range of products at good value prices advertising, interviewing and on-job a Springboard UK award for Best Student that todays customers demand.
The evaluation to recruit potential managers Placement for a Large Organisation.
Company constantly invests in developing and assistant managers and to help people operating skills in the efficient develop their careers.
At the same time we recognise that many people want the flexibility of a part-time job in order to suit their lifestyle.
We aim to make them welcome in the workplace and to provide for their needs.
Mitchells & Butlers 15 Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued These new menus are part of a carefully Value and volume cycle Fig.
6 trialled and targeted margin investment programme that we have started to implement within pub restaurants to drive profitable volume growth in response to a slowing in performance towards the end of last year, particularly in the Vintage Inns format.
The initial Reinvest margin Increase in quality value customer response to these new menus value is very encouraging.
Staff training, In the High Street, which accounts for scheduling, 25% of sales, the successful evolution incentives of our formats has generated like-for-like Reduce sales ahead by 2.5%, with strong growth costs in food sales.
Trading in central London has remained buoyant.
Trends following the smoking ban Increase volume in England are currently broadly in line with those seen in the first year of the ban in Scotland where there was a slowing Supply chain of overall sales in the winter months.
efficiency In the 20 weeks since the introduction of the smoking ban in England, same Increase Capacity outlet like-for-like sales for our English buying power management pubs, excluding those previously converted of productivity to non-smoking, increased by 1.5%, with food sales up 5% and drinks sales marginally up.
In the last seven weeks these pubs grew by 0.7% on a same outlet basis.
We continue to be encouraged by The Company has had an established, Current trading the improvement in same outlet  employee communications Current trading has been resilient with like sales this year within our Scottish programme in place for over 10 years.
same outlet like-for-like sales growing by pubs, up 6.7%, partly helped by the recent A variety of channels such as team 1.4% in the seven weeks to 17 November.
Euro 2008 football, and we believe that meetings, conferences, in-house Trading in the three weeks to 17 November the overall impact of the ban will be publications and the intranet keep has shown a material improvement on beneficial over time to larger, well invested staff informed on matters relating October with same outlet like-for-like sales pubs with an attractive food offer.
to the Company and its performance.
up 2.4% following the launch of our new Two-way communications between senior winter menus.
This sales growth has been management and employees are driven generated against the background of the primarily through regular discussion start of the first winter period of the groups at the corporate level and smoking ban in England and Wales, a operational communications forums.
continuing volume decline in the on-trade A formal Business Forum, at which beer market in October of approximately Executive Directors meet with elected 8% and a more uncertain consumer employee representatives to discuss environment.
business concerns, takes place annually.
Same outlet Uninvested 7 weeks ended like-for-like like-for-like The yearly corporate employee 17 November 2007 sales growth sales growth satisfaction survey gauges staff opinion Residential 1.3% 1.0% on a wide variety of Company issues High Street 2.5% 1.9% and working practices in a confidential Total 1.4% 0.5% manner and provides a continuous Note: These results include the Acquired Sites objective measure for employee satisfaction and engagement.
This year Within the Residential estate, Local Pubs the response rate to the survey improved have traded well, with same outlet like-forfor the fourth consecutive year and the like sales growth of 3.3%, reflecting large continuing positive trend relating to drinks market share gains, continued questions about employee engagement is strong food sales growth and the benefit encouraging, with over 90% of employees of the Rugby World Cup.
The Rugby feeling satisfied and motivated by their tournament however, had a negative work.
More than 94% of Mitchells & impact on our pub restaurants where likeButlers employees would recommend for-like sales have been marginally positive the Company as a good place to work.
overall, although they were up 2.6% in the last three weeks following the launch of the new menus with their enhanced quality and value.
16 Mitchells & Butlers Annual report and accounts 2007
