04 Business Nature, Objectives and Report and Accounts 2007 Review Strategy of Business Mouchel Parkman plc Mouchel has enjoyed another outstanding year Business of growth and development in 2006 07, again Review outstripping past performance in revenue, profitability and order book value.
Our success has been based Nature, Objectives and on a combination of strong organic growth and an Strategy of Business acquisition strategy that has extended our offer in existing and new areas of work.
A different perspective The business has entered the new financial year well positioned for continued growth.
The acquisition in August 2007 of the business process outsourcing specialist HBS provides us with a new service offer in the UK public sector.
New commissions such as our bundled services partnership with Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council and our highway maintenance management contracts with the Highways Agency in Devon and Cornwall and with Transport for London will be contributing their first full year of trading.
In 2007 the Group has a new brand.
The business model and strategy are unchanged and high-calibre resources remain the backbone of the organisation, but new skills in new markets bring a different perspective to Mouchels presence in its core sectors.
Description of the business Mouchel provides consulting and business services.
Our design, managerial and engineering expertise directly supports the work of government agencies, local authorities and the regulated industries in the provision of safe and reliable road and rail networks, effective and well-managed local education and civic infrastructure, clean water, and cost-effective energy.
We develop solutions to dispose of societys waste and to regenerate our most deprived urban communities.
Our skills range from design and planning, through project and programme management, to facility and asset management, management consultancy and business process outsourcing.
Mouchel is a UK business that works predominantly within the British Isles.
The recent acquisition of HBS, a company whose principal customer base is the UK public sector, further consolidates our market presence in Britain.
Our work in the Gulf region is however an important but small element in the portfolio, providing us with opportunities to apply our engineering and project management expertise with government-backed developers in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Kuwait.
Structure of the business Mouchel operates as three businesses which are centred on the principal market segments in which we work.
These are the highways market: the government services market, comprising central and local government, education and regeneration: and those industries that are regulated by government, including water, power, rail and waste management.
The Highways business provides an integrated portfolio of services to highway operators throughout the British Isles.
National roads and motorways in England are operated by the Highways Agency, Mouchels largest client, and trunk networks elsewhere in the British Isles are managed by equivalent government agencies with which, in each case, we have ongoing contracts.
Local and regional roads are operated by local authorities and we currently have long-term contracts with 28 of these councils.
Top Bottom The Government Services business provides property-related Richard Cuthbert Kevin Young consultancy and outsourcing services, support services in the housing Chief Executive Group Finance Director sector, and management consultancy.
We have also formed large-scale, long-term regeneration-led partnerships with four local authorities in the North of England.
Our management consultancy business provides strategic consulting, project management and programme management services across the range of market sectors in which we trade and forms part of the Government Services business.
The Government Services business was strengthened in August 2007, when Mouchel acquired business process outsourcing specialists, HBS.
HBS provides a range of back ofce and public-facing services to the UK public sector.
05 Business Nature, Objectives and Report and Accounts 2007 Review Strategy of Business Mouchel Parkman plc 1888 1896 1897 Milestone Milestone Milestone In 1888, the company that In 1896, Parkman became In 1897, Louis Gustave later became Ward, Ashcroft engineer for a scheme to Mouchel arrived in the UK and Parkman was formed in construct a unique funicular from France with the first Liverpool and quickly gained railway from the promenade licence to use the new a reputation as leading public in Llandudno, North Wales, technique of reinforcing health and maritime engineers.
to the summit of a coastal concrete using iron bars that promontory some three miles was developed by Franois distant.
This was system, the Great Orme perhaps the most inuential Mountain Railway, continues and far-reaching invention to transport holidaymakers to shape twentieth-century to and from the Great Orme.
The Regulated Industries business provides services to clients in the This presents us with the opportunity to contribute in a positive, beneficial water and wastewater sector, to waste disposal authorities, and in way to the quality of our infrastructure and to the standard of our services: the rail and light rail industries.
We work with all the UKs major water and is what drives and motivates people in our organisation.
companies and Network Rail is one of our largest clients.
Our environmental science and land information specialists are setting The UK population which will increase to around 64 million within the new standards in spatial data management and carbon management next ten years has become more diverse and more mobile: its ageing solutions, working with numerous clients across a range of sectors.
signicantly and our older generation is now more active and more afuent.
But the number of people living alone will rise by 50% over the Growth strategy next 20 years.
All this has substantial implications for our housing, Mouchels business model continues to be based upon product, education, community services, transportation systems and health service and market extension in the infrastructure and public services services.
Mouchel provides services in each of these marker sectors, sectors.
All our markets enjoy good current rates of growth, have a creating the infrastructure and facilities that will support these trends.
relatively low risk prole, and t well with our current mix of professional expertise.
A number of these markets are cyclical or are subject to Technological change and innovation including the way in which structural changes in the economy however, and the increased breadth advice, knowledge and information are disseminated: the use that is of our service and product portfolio reduces our exposure to such trends.
made of new, advanced materials in building and construction: and the opportunities that now exist for remote monitoring in a vast range In 2006 07, through a combination of acquisition, organic growth, and of situations is continuing to impact on our markets.
Mouchels the integration of the expertise gained through staff transfers from local pre-eminence in the use of polymer composites as construction authority outsourcing contracts, we now do more for our traditional products, for example, has created clear leadership in highway customers and enjoy a wider portfolio of relationships than ever before.
An extensive customer base reduces our exposure to market risks: Mouchel works with over 1,150 clients on approximately 220 contracts The progressive effects of climate change now inuence our thinking and our largest single contract accounted for just 4% of our turnover on the ways in which we travel, the precautions we take against in the year.
ooding and drought, and the approach we take to the production and consumption of energy.
Our water and energy teams tackle these The bolt-on acquisitions of the Hornagold & Hills, Ewan and TSL problems on a daily basis and have this year introduced several new businesses in November 2006 served to strengthen our management product technologies to improve energy efficiency in water distribution, consultancy, water engineering and trafc management offers in our whilst our building design team is developing more sustainable and existing core markets.
energy-efficient solutions for schools and colleges.
The acquisition of HBS in August 2007 established a new service Globalisation is also changing our perspective.
The fundamental shape stream centred on the provision of business process outsourcing of the UK economy will evolve in the next decade to reect the shift in support, largely to UK local authorities, which has considerable the factors of production and the role of local government, while our synergy with other parts of the Mouchel organisation.
appetite for education and the infrastructure of employment will change.
Global uncertainty challenges our security, our community cohesion, and The market environment our physical resources.
Large-scale regeneration partnerships such as The changing needs and expectations of society, together with the those with Liverpool, Rochdale and Oldham councils pave the way for continuing pressure on government agencies to improve the quality and more economically and technologically sustainable employment in these reduce the cost of public services, shape Mouchels principal markets.
areas well into the twenty-first century.
06 Business Nature, Objectives and Report and Accounts 2007 Review Strategy of Business Mouchel Parkman plc Business The 2007 Comprehensive Spending Review provides a long-term and fundamental review of government expenditure in the light of Review changing socio-economic and demographic conditions.
Sir Michael Nature, Objectives and Lyons enquiry into local government recommended changes in the way Strategy of Business the sector should be funded.
The impacts of the 2004 Gershon Report continued on public sector back ofce, procurement, transactional service and policy-making functions, together with the productivity of front-line professionals in highways, schools and community services, are now manifesting themselves through the wider relationships formed by local authorities with the private sector and the recognition that public-private partnerships may provide at least part of the solution.
The 2004 Future of Transport White Paper, which launched the Transport Innovation Fund to support smarter, more innovative local transport solutions combining demand management with increased transport choices, is now generating schemes and studies that will change the nature of travel in the UK.
There is more demand in rail, with predicted 10-year growth of between 30% and 40% in both passenger numbers and freight quantities.
The regulatory and legislative environment impacts on our core markets and creates further opportunities for us to provide an extended range of services.
The water regulator, OFWAT, is systematically driving improvements in water quality and reductions in leakage levels across the water industry to meet more demanding legislation.
The disposal of domestic waste is being driven by progressive legislation including Landll Directive targets for 2010, 2013 and 2020 that demands increasingly sophisticated solutions by the waste disposal authorities.
Carbon management targets will increasingly impact upon businesses in all sectors and our ability to provide appropriate managed solutions in this eld is seen as a new area of opportunity.
Regulatory authorities such as OFWAT and the Drinking Water Inspectorate impose objectives and targets on private sector utility providers, thereby shaping the future market demand in these industries.
Mouchels agility in monitoring, anticipating and responding to changing market needs has been fundamental to our successful performance to 1909 date and we continue to invest in the research and development of new 1905 products and services to address societys future challenges.
Milestone Milestone Competition In 1905, the structurally In 1909, the Royal Liver Mouchel is one of the largest professional services organisations innovative Widnes to Runcorn Building in Liverpool one of in its core sectors.
Fees rendered by consultancy rms amounted to Transporter Bridge, designed Mouchels earliest landmark approximately 7.4 billion in 2006, up 20% on the previous year, though by one of Parkmans founding projects was constructed.
the largest 10 companies of which Mouchel was ranked fifth fathers, John Wood, achieved Hailed at the time as Britains accounted for over 60% of this income.
the first major crossing of the first skyscraper, the 320-foot River Mersey.
The five-minute high structure remained the The New Civil Engineer magazines 2007 Consultants File ranked journey became a way of life countrys tallest building until Mouchel as the second largest provider of consultancy-based services for thousands of commuters the 1960s.
Today it provides to the UK public sector and the second largest employer of UK technical until it was replaced with a backdrop to Liverpools staff.
Mouchel is one of two dominant players in the highways sector.
a high-level road crossing new Cruise Liner Terminal in 1961. and along with the Cunard Industry fee incomes in highways and rail each increased by over 30% Building, Parkmans former in 2006 and the combined effects of major infrastructure programmes HQ is part of the Liverpool such as the Olympics, airport expansion programmes and the M25 Pier Head UNESCO World motorway PFI project are expected to fuel demand for services in Heritage site.
our sector, particularly in the South East, during the next five years.
The UKs largest highways client, the Highways Agency, this year conducted a major review of its first-tier supply chain using a bespoke capability assessment toolkit CAT.
All the UKs consultancies gained scores within a range of under 7%: Mouchel was mid-range within this band.
CAT scores are used as one factor in the pre-qualication assessment process on Highways Agency commissions and our score assures us a competitive position in future procurements.
Relatively high levels of competition in environmental and management consultancy services reect low market entry costs but we are able to differentiate through the range of complementary services and specialisms that we bring.
The significant investment needed to reach financial close on regeneration-led outsourced service commissions, and the necessity of a robust service track record, limits competition in this market to a relatively small number of competitors, including BT and Capita.
07 Business Nature, Objectives and Report and Accounts 2007 Review Strategy of Business Mouchel Parkman plc Mouchel has helped deliver the 19 million Cruise Liner Terminal in Liverpool.
Its recent opening was celebrated with the arrival of the famous cruise ship QE2.
The new Cruise Liner Terminal means that once again some of the worlds greatest vessels can berth on one of the worlds most famous waterfronts.
Products and services Technological solutions, which allow better use to be made of the Highways highway network, are driving the pace of change in the UK highways Mouchels highway services range from the planning and design sector and Mouchel has led the market in this area for some years, of major capital projects to the maintenance and management of developing and acquiring the expert skills needed to remain in the congested road networks.
The issues of urban trafc congestion vanguard of companies capable of designing, commissioning and and carbon emissions now shape thinking in this market and we have trialling the newest of these technologies.
Our role in the successful established ourselves as experts in the strategies and technologies introduction of the UKs first active trafc management ATM system now used to combat these problems.
on the M42 near Birmingham a pilot whose wider applicability we are now assessing across other parts of the Birmingham Box motorway The Highways business is characterised by a mix of long-term network, the suite of parking enforcement and congestion charging operations and management contracts which account for product technologies provided by TSL, our software solutions approximately 32% of company revenue and provide an order book development division, and our involvement in Transport Innovation extending to 2013 and shorter duration capital investment and Fund work this year have all contributed to our standing.
technology projects which constitute approximately 13% of turnover.
Mouchel has been engaged in road network management and Mouchels Highways business has retained and developed its services maintenance since the early 1980s and remains one of the UKs and capabilities within these two principal highways service streams.
leading specialists in this area.
Its services include those management and operations skills needed to keep large, complex and congested In Britain, road building has declined in importance as a panacea road networks functioning effectively from day to day.
Only a relatively for the problems of congestion and effective trafc management, small number of companies can demonstrate this level of experience since our arterial road network is largely complete.
However, the on both national and local road networks, and it continues to Highways Agencys 3.6 billion capital programme of road network differentiate our service offer.
improvements continues to provide a sustained demand for highway planning and design services and the need to robustly demonstrate We differentiate ourselves, too, by integrating the highway services we the economic, environmental and social sustainability of road schemes provide.
National and local highway operators have sought to combine is more important than ever.
Schemes such as the A30 Bodmin to design, construction, maintenance and management services in single Indian Queens on which Mouchel was the employers agent have contracts and our well-established joint ventures with Accord and produced some significant environmental benets and the Bodmin Amey and in Scotland with Balfour Beatty allow us to vertically scheme has recently gained acclaim by environmental groups as an integrate our capabilities in response to this trend.
This year we have exemplar of good practice in road building.
formed a joint venture with highway systems technology providers, Peek Trafc Systems Limited, which allows us to respond to the emerging market for integrated planning, design and installation in highways information management and communications technology.
08 Business Nature, Objectives and Report and Accounts 2007 Review Strategy of Business Mouchel Parkman plc Business Government Services Mouchels offer to central and local government extends through the Review management of civic and education property and housing services, Nature, Objectives and through management consultancy and project management, and into Strategy of Business the delivery of multi-dimensional partnerships to address the wider continued regeneration agenda of local authority clients.
The Government Services business is characterised by long-term, high-value service contracts of 10 to 15 years duration and a stable platform of business that is inuenced, in the longer term, by the governments strategy for the provision and management of public infrastructure and services.
Our services are focused in three areas.
Firstly, in public sector property, which includes housing and education, a portfolio of professional design and management services are provided to an authority for a period of time or to deliver a specic programme of work.
Our service mix includes structural engineering, building services and architectural design, planning and estates services, facilities and asset management.
The UK property market is worth an estimated 5.5 billion and continues to show growth at levels greater than ination.
The education market involves some 3.5 billion of improvements to schools across the UK, driven in the main by the governments BSF initiative.
In this market we have positioned ourselves as integrators rather than constructors, partnering with Babcock and building a supply chain of designers, builders, ICT providers and cost managers to provide a single, joined-up programme delivery service.
We work with signature architects, commercial and cost advisors, and a contractor supply chain capable of constructing the school improvement projects through Local Education Partnerships with the local authority.
The public sector and affordable housing market involves us in providing a different mix of skills, including planned and routine maintenance services together with operational management and design.
This is a 300 million market driven largely by central government housing policies.
1924 1943 Secondly, we provide a portfolio of management consultancy services to customers in both the public and private sectors: including those in Milestone Milestone education, local authorities, highway authorities, urban regeneration Mouchel pioneered the Mouchel worked with the War companies, health, rail, aviation, commercial development and corporate development of ferro-concrete Ofce to develop, in secrecy, end-user sectors.
We employ a combination of management consultants, power station cooling towers, the pre-cast concrete engineers, quantity surveyors, economists, cost managers, procurement first introducing the ubiquitous Mulberry harbour, which was specialists and other technical experts in this area to provide strategic hyperbolic-curve tower to play such an important role consultancy with a construction and development bias, financial and in Liverpool in 1924 and in the Allied invasion of the commercial consultancy, procurement and technical consultancy, project continuing to lead the market continent in June 1944. management, programme and portfolio management, business in the development of such improvement and transformation services and ICT consultancy services.
Finally, we offer expertise in the management of large-scale outsourced packages of services across many functions and disciplines.
These are relatively few in number but large in scale and there is a steady, growing pipeline of further opportunities in this area making the market attractive to us for long-term investment.
For Mouchel, the 2020 Liverpool success in 2003 was a milestone in this market and subsequent successes in Knowsley, Rochdale and Oldham have consolidated our presence.
Services we provide under these partnerships and joint ventures include: property planning and estates, design, project management, maintenance and renewal: transport planning, trafc engineering, highway design, construction supervision, and maintenance: and a variety of business process outsourcing functions ranging from ICT and payroll to revenues and benets services, contact centre support and human resource management, in some cases using sub-contractors or joint venture partners to support us.
These are, by nature, long-term contracts which demand investment in early years to generate later efficiency improvements and longer term savings.
The acquisition of HBS in August 2007 has enabled Mouchel to internalise a wider range of business process outsourcing services ranging from ICT support and contact centre management through to human resources and payroll management and the provision of revenues and benets services and pensions administration.
09 Business Nature, Objectives and Report and Accounts 2007 Review Strategy of Business Mouchel Parkman plc Regulated Industries The Regulated Industries business provides a broad portfolio of integrated services in water, energy, waste, environmental sciences and land information management together with services in the rail sector.
The water sector continues to provide the largest market for our services in this area and, following the acquisition of Ewan, we have become one of the UKs three largest water consultancy businesses, now working for all of the major water companies in the UK and number one provider to Scottish Water.
The water market is cyclical, driven by the Asset Management Plan AMP periods of the water regulator which determine five-year programmes of capital works activity.
The current AMP4 cycle ends in 2010 and will be preceded by a period of competition for work in the next programme, beginning in 2008.
Services provided in the water sector include infrastructure maintenance management, strategic and operational planning, leakage and pressure management and the design and implementation of capital projects in water supply and wastewater treatment.
We also design and manage strategic coastal, port and waterfront development projects and are involved in ood risk management projects, river and waterway work.
These services are delivered both directly and also in collaboration with partners, including the  KMI and HolleranMP joint ventures.
We pride ourselves on our approach to innovation and this, coupled Mouchels team in the Gulf is involved in the design, project and programme with a close involvement in new technologies and our willingness to management of major infrastructure embrace new ideas, is seen by our clients as a positive differentiator.
and building developments in Dubai, Our Technology Approval Group TAG promotes innovation and the Abu Dhabi and Kuwait.
development of technology across the whole of the utilities sector.
Within the water sector our TAG activities have raised some 15 million of investment for new technologies since inception in 2005, more than the entire water industrys investment in research and development over the same period.
Mouchels energy business continues to grow and diversify its service Mouchels Regulated Industries business is characterised by offering.
In the last year alone growth of some 50% has been achieved.
a relatively high proportion of project-based, professional consultancy The business has been transformed from one dealing solely with the work, coupled with longer term contracts to deliver programmes of work UK National Grid gas network and its associated contractors, to one in water and rail.
Programmes and projects in the water sector provide with far more diverse interests.
Building upon our core strength as a an order book that extends to 2014. true multi-disciplined engineering business, we now have a track record in construction project management as well as design consultancy.
New International operational areas include liqueed natural gas LNG, compressed natural More than 95% of Mouchels activities are based in the UK and Ireland.
gas, gas storage, liqueed petroleum gas LPG, oil transportation, Of the remainder, almost all revenue is derived from projects in the power generation and bio-fuels in the UK and overseas.
Demand for services in the waste sector is driven by European and The services provided here comprise project and programme government directives on waste prevention, re-use, recycling, energy management on some of the Gulfs largest developments, design recovery and disposal.
The publication this year of the Waste Strategy management, and infrastructure design.
These services are provided for England 2007 document has reinforced the need for action and the almost exclusively by a local team of approximately 300 staff, based case for new, more sophisticated technology in this sector.
Mouchel in Dubai and Abu Dhabi.
We also have a small team in Kuwait.
works with waste disposal authorities to provide strategic planning consultancy and in the design and project management of new waste Customer care disposal infrastructure.
Mouchels service delivery model entails continuous, intense relationships with its clients and in many cases with their customers too over a The nation is undoubtedly developing a more acute environmental sustained period: usually for the full duration of the contract.
Mouchels environmental sciences team provides the effective customer care is particularly important to us.
advice, due diligence, environmental impact assessments and project management needed to shape and deliver the responses of businesses This year we have established an independent framework for obtaining and authorities to the sustainability and carbon management agenda.
detailed customer feedback through face-to-face interviews.
We have also appointed account managers for over 80 of our larger clients, again Mouchels land information management business is the market leader establishing a higher level of independence and objectivity in these in spatial data management, applying geographic information systems relationships.
Levels of customer satisfaction are high, with some 83% GIS technology to land classication, acquisition, management, and of customers being very satisfied or satisfied with the quality of disposal work: in general associated with linear development projects service received.
such as roads, railways and tramways.
Mouchel is currently short-listed as one of three in its sector in the The rail sector has continued to evolve in the last few years, with Sunday Times Customer Experience Awards, which has involved previously outsourced services such as operational maintenance a thorough assessment of our customer relationships across the returning to the direct control of the UKs rail infrastructure company, Group and in competition not only with others in our own industry Network Rail.
This has had little effect on Mouchels rail business, but with a broad range of industrial, manufacturing and professional which comprises railway engineering design and asset inspection services companies.
services, station improvement services and the installation and commissioning of signalling and passenger information systems.
10 Business Nature, Objectives and Report and Accounts 2007 Review Strategy of Business Mouchel Parkman plc Business Branding Managing the Companys good reputation in each of its core markets Review is a priority and the integration and assimilation of our newer businesses Nature, Objectives and behind a common brand is also an important objective.
The business has Strategy of Business grown substantially since Mouchel and Parkman merged in 2003 and our continued range of expertise has inevitably become more diverse which has the potential to dilute the clarity of our market position.
We are therefore acting to consolidate our brand and to more actively manage our image in the market.
So, from October 2007, we will trade as Mouchel.
The change of brand creates a platform from which we can re-state our market and industry position.
Neither our guiding principles nor our business objectives have fundamentally changed but our focus on those things that make us different has become clearer.
Mouchel describes itself as a consulting and business services group.
What we think differentiates us, however, is our reputation for building great relationships in the sectors where we operate.
Strong relationships are the reason why our clients continue to want to work with us, why our people stay with us, and why society trusts us.
Weve considered the factors which contribute to this position: rstly, the physical service and product offer: secondly, the experience that a client gets when working with us: and thirdly, the experience people get when working in the business.
The fourth and fifth dimensions the inuence we have on our industry and on society more generally show how we impact upon our world.
So, in terms of the experience we have as employees in Mouchel, our common sense of pride in our Company and in our colleagues is the dening quality that many talk about.
Were known as a company that provides challenging careers and creates opportunities for staff to develop and grow.
Diversity is fundamental to our approach and important in those markets where we work.
Our clients see us as a trusted partner who will go the extra mile to achieve results for the client and our can-do approach in dealing with ood-related issues earlier this year provides a good example of how well put the contract 1948 1962 to one side to achieve our clients needs.
Weve worked in our core markets for many years and a good number of our people have themselves come from client organisations.
So were in tune with our Milestone Milestone clients businesses, their priorities and their constraints.
Were a company In 1948, Brigadier Parkman In 1962, Mouchel was with integrity and with a reputation for keeping its promises.
joined the consulting practice appointed to design the Ward Ashcroft to create a new Rugeley B power station in Within the industries where we operate, we work hard to show entity, Ward Ashcroft and Staffordshire, which contained leadership, to positively inuence debate as these sectors evolve, and, Parkman, which traded until the UKs largest generators of through example, to set the standard that others in the industry will the 1980s.
This heralded an that era at 500 megawatts.
For example, our TAG promotes and commercialises era of rapid growth for the rm, new technologies to meet changing industry needs.
We understand that, with the greatest expansion as a major participant in our industries, we have obligations to train and being in the water sector and develop the next generation of professionals and to ensure that our public health engineering.
supply chain continues to improve: so we readily share the sort of knowledge that will raise standards in the market going forward.
We have an obligation to be open and honest in our dealings with all stakeholders, including the public and our shareholders.
We are a company that makes a difference to the sections of society in which we work.
We believe we do the right thing, environmentally and on other Corporate Responsibility issues, and were working all the time to improve our performance in this area.
And we make safety our top priority.
Placing safety on the agenda in everything we do means we enjoy an excellent accident record and a healthy working environment for our people.
The HBS name has already been absorbed under the new brand and we will limit sub-brands to a very small number of specialist service categories in which customer goodwill and market recognition dictates retention, for the time being, of those brands.
The programme of re-branding will be fully delivered within the financial year 2007 08.
11 Business Current and Future Report and Accounts 2007 Review Development Mouchel Parkman plc and Performance Business 1970 Review Milestone Current and Future In 1970, Mouchel received its Development first appointment associated with motorways.
The and Performance Department of the Environment commissioned the rm to work on the Stockport North-South Bypass, later to become the Mouchel again achieved significant growth in both A6 M. This was shortly followed by a similar appointment for revenue and profits for the year ended 31 July 2007. the Stockport East-West Revenue increased by 20% compared with last year.
Bypass, which would become Excluding the acquisition of Trafc Support Limited, the M63.
The M63 was Ewan Group plc, and Hornagold & Hills which were constructed first, with detailed design starting in 1974.
By acquired in November 2006 underlying revenue 1980 Highways had become increased by 13%.
a major part of the rms business.
Overview Key performance indicators Approximately 70% of revenue is derived from long-term outsourcing 2007 2006 % change activities in each of our main sectors, almost all of which comes from Revenue m 448.4 374.0 20 projects in the UK public sector and regulated industries.
Underlying operating profit m 33.0 26.8 23 profit before tax and exceptional items rose by 18%, from 27.4 million Operating margins % 7.4 7.2 to 32.4 million, whilst at the same time Group operating margins on an Operating cash ow m 31.1 34.9 11 equivalent basis rose from 7.2% to 7.4%.
Our medium-term target for Cash conversion % 94 130 operating margins continues to be 8%.
Order book m 1,500 1,200 25 The results for the year included an exceptional net gain of 18.2 million Bidding pipeline m 1,400 1,000 40 arising from a reduction in the Groups pension liability following the move 1 Contract win-rate % 46 39 from a final salary to a career average revalued earnings arrangement for 2 Staff numbers 8,168 5,967 37 the Groups two main dened benefit pension schemes.
profit before Staff turnover voluntary % 14 13 tax but after exceptional items was 48.1million 2006: 26.4 million.
Notes Mouchel uses a variety of measures to monitor and manage the 1 Win-rate is calculated by contract value.
business at both Group and sector level.
These are a mix of financial, 2 Staff numbers are as at 31 July.
development and resource-based key performance indicators KPIs that collectively provide an ongoing health check on our performance.
Our KPIs comprise: revenue, underlying operating profit, operating margins and operating cash ow: order book, pipeline and contract win-rate: staff growth and staff turnover levels.
Financial indicators measure the volume of work undertaken, its profitability, and our success in converting earnings into cash.
The order book provides visibility of secured future earnings and, together with the bidding pipeline and win-rate, provides a measure of the marketing effort needed to achieve our growth targets year on year.
Staff growth and retention levels show the success of our resource strategy and are a proxy for our ability to generate earnings from our resource pool.
12 Business Highways Review Report and Accounts 2007 Mouchel Parkman plc Revenue included an initial contribution of 4.3 million from Trafc Business Support Limited TSL which was acquired in November 2006.
Both the results for the year and the year end order book reect the recent Review successes in securing new maintenance management contracts through Highways our joint venture, AccordMP, with Accord Group now part of Enterprise plc.
These include commissions with Transport for London TfL and the London Boroughs of Harrow and Hillingdon as well as for the Highways Agency in Devon and Cornwall Area 1.
The increase in the bidding pipeline largely reected the inclusion of two further Highways Agency maintenance management contracts which the Group is currently tendering in the South Area 3 and the During the year revenue increased from 172.4 million East Midlands Area 8. to 201.9 million.
At the same time operating margins Technology improved from 6.9% to 7.3%.
The year-end order The trend towards more technologically sophisticated solutions to the book and bidding pipeline gures of 501.0 million problems of congestion and road space management has continued, 2006: 374.4 million and 717.0 million creating a competitive advantage for Mouchel where our expertise in transport systems leads the market.
We believe this trend will continue 2006: 586.7million respectively, both represented and have, this year, extended our range of products and services to significant increases when compared with last year.
The Highways Agency is making considerable investments in technology improvements and trafc management on its network and, in 2007 08, will invest 194 million in such schemes.
It has this year procured a series of regional, technology-based service commissions called TechMAC contracts.
To date, four contracts have been awarded and Mouchel, in an equal joint venture with Peek Trafc Systems, has been successful on two of those.
These are in the East Midlands and East of England, both of which will run for between five and seven years.
These project wins are strategically significant in this new market segment, since they will enable us to approach future opportunities of this type from a position of strength and with the benefit of the knowledge and experience gained from these initial wins.
Key performance indicators Highways The acquisition of TSL, which we bought in November 2006 for a 2007 2006 % change consideration of 26.3 million including 4.8 million for surplus cash Revenue m 201.9 172.4 17 acquired with the business, has established Mouchel as a market-leader in parking enforcement software and gives us a credible market presence Underlying operating profit m 14.8 11.9 24 in civil enforcement and trafc management software, together with Operating margins % 7.3 6.9 other e-government transportation solutions.
The decriminalised parking Order book m 501.0 374.4 34 enforcement sector has created new opportunities for outsourced service Bidding pipeline m 717.0 586.7 22 delivery and our client base includes London boroughs and other metropolitan authorities throughout the UK.
The Trafc Management Act Contract win-rate % 53 41 2004 also creates the need for local authorities to manage other highway Staff numbers 3,488 2,751 27 violations and TSL software provides effective product solutions to Staff turnover voluntary % 16 14 address these needs.
Keeping trafc on the move is a priority for Mouchels team at the South Mimms Regional Control Centre of the Highways Agency, which is just off the M25.
Knowledge through experience In the highways sector today, urban trafc congestion is an increasingly important issue.
Innovative technological and trafc management solutions are required to ease the problems on our overcrowded road networks.
Mouchels ability to draw upon the knowledge gained through many years of experience in dealing with such problems is now shaping the market in urban trafc management.
Mouchel has become a leading provider of trafc systems and technology, signalling its ongoing commitment to strengthen its own proposition in response to changing societal needs and to provide the innovative software and systems solutions required to contribute to developing a rapidly emerging market.
Mouchel is market leader in parking enforcement software and has a credible market presence in civil enforcement and trafc management software, together with other e-government transportation solutions.
Keith Jackson, Managing Director of Mouchels Highways business, says: The management of congestion in our towns and cities, as well as on our national road networks, will inevitably rely more and more on technological solutions.
Mouchel is one of a small number of companies able to offer a wholly integrated product and service solution in the UK.
As such we are uniquely positioned in a specialist area which we believe is now primed for rapid growth.
Respecting the environment Few greeneld road schemes attract the unequivocal support of the environmental lobby but the 93 million A30 Bodmin to Indian Queens has proved the exception.
Mouchel acted as Employers Agent for this 11.5km dual carriageway, which opened ahead of programme in early summer 2007.
The new road gains its environmental credentials by virtue of careful route planning, which draws trafc away from the European Special Area of Conservation known as Goss Moor, south of Bodmin, and in so doing returns one of Englands largest wetland and heathland areas to its natural state.
The existing A30 will in part be removed, to be replaced with a bridleway and footpath to support more sustainable pursuits.
In constructing the road, our team was involved in relocating 361 reptiles and 164 amphibians, in constructing mammal tunnels to allow animals such as otters to cross the road in safety, and in the planting of some 86,000 trees and shrubs.
Highway earthworks also provided an opportunity to accommodate around 700,000 tonnes of waste material from the china clay industry in nearby St Austell.
Mouchel is proud to take part in schemes of this nature, which enhance rather than detract from the natural environment as well as providing important improvements in the transport infrastructure: and the expertise of its highway and environmental specialists continues to be sought for sensitive projects such as this.
15 Business Highways Report and Accounts 2007 Review Mouchel Parkman plc Business arrangement has now become more generally established for both national and regional road authorities.
We believe this model will Review continue to be adopted by the Highways Agency, our largest client, Highways whose budget for maintaining the network in 2007 08 is 37% of continued its total 2.23 billion programme.
The AccordMP joint venture, in which Mouchel has a 50% interest, positions Mouchel for commissions of this type and our first success Highways Agency Area 1, the trunk road network in Devon and Cornwall commenced operations in September 2006 and will run to July 2010 extendable to 2013.
The AccordMP joint venture has also completed its first year of trading in the London Borough of Harrow, where we have The TSL acquisition has also positioned Mouchel as a future supplier a five-year contract extendable to seven that commenced in July 2006. in the congestion charging management services market and we are members of a consortium set up to bid for the next generation of In December 2006, TfL awarded us a six-year maintenance contract Londons congestion charging franchise.
Congestion charging schemes extendable to 10 for roads in South London, which commenced in are being encouraged by government and some local authorities outside April 2007, and in June 2007 we began work on a five-year extendable London are voicing interest in such schemes.
We believe that the TSL to 10 highways works and project services commission for the London acquisition will strengthen our ability to compete in this market.
has also been appointed to advise the Department for Transport DfT on its national strategy for congestion charging.
Currently the AccordMP joint venture is tendering for two further MAC contracts in Highways Agency Areas 3 South and 8 East Midlands.
Elsewhere, we have also become responsible for a Highways Agency Transport Innovation Fund TIF submission relating to the so-called Capital projects Birmingham Box motorways the M5, M6, and M42.
Here we are This year has also seen the completion and opening of a number of major looking at the feasibility of extending the M42 ATM project a scheme highway schemes on which Mouchel has been providing consultancy project-managed by Mouchel and involving the use of motorway hardservices: including the 93 million A30 Bodmin to Indian Queens a shoulders to provide additional, peak-hour capacity to other parts much-needed improvement of the main holiday route to the Cornish of the West Midlands network and in a ministerial announcement on coast in a county whose trafc volumes have risen by 22% this year 25 October approval for the wider application of ATM was confirmed.
and the 86 million A1 N1 Newry to Dundalk cross-border highway, which has key political as well as communications signicance.
We have also completed our first full year of trading on the Highways Agencys TechMASTERS commission, which involves Mouchel in Mouchel is a member of the M25 FLOW consortium, whose bid for monitoring, maintaining and developing the Agencys trafc technology the 30-year M25 private finance initiative commission was submitted and maintenance services.
in October, as the next stage in a process leading to a contract start in summer 2009.
The consortium, which comprises Vinci including its Maintenance management UK maintenance subsidiary, Ringway, Laing, Carillion, Costain, Jacobs The highway network management market has looked towards Babtie and the French motorway contractor, ASF, includes all of the more  supplier relationships during the last few parties currently involved in the maintenance management of the M25 years.
This model referred to as a Managing Agent Contractor MAC network and Dartford river crossings.
Although technological solutions to the problems of congestion and overcrowding are of increasing importance today, road building remains an important part of the market we support.
16 Business Government Report and Accounts 2007 Review Services Mouchel Parkman plc Revenue for the year increased from 81.5million Business to 101.4million and operating margins increased Review from 8.0% to 9.2%.
Both the order book and bidding pipeline, at 670.0million 2006: 517.8million and Government 493.0million 2006: 332.0million respectively, Services grew substantially over the year.
Revenues included 11.1 million from Hornagold & Hills, following Key performance indicators its acquisition in November 2006.
The results for the year also reected Government Services the full-year impact of the bundled services contract in Rochdale as well 2007 2006 % change as an initial contribution from the similar commission in Oldham, which Revenue m 101.4 81.5 24 commenced in April 2007.
Underlying operating profit m 9.3 6.5 43 Operating margins % 9.2 8.0 Overall, margins in Government Services tend to be higher due to the greater proportion of high-value consulting activity.
However, we expect Order book m 670.0 517.8 29 some reduction in margins in the short term following the integration Bidding pipeline m 493.0 332.0 48 of HBS.
Contract win-rate % 29 49 Staff numbers 1,966 1,351 46 The year-end order book benefited from the full term of the commissions in Rochdale and Oldham and the bidding pipeline included our first tender Staff turnover voluntary % 10 12 for the BSF programme for a contract in the London Borough of Hackney, where we have subsequently been named as preferred bidder.
Following the end of the year, the order book and pipeline in the combined Government and Business Services segment have been boosted substantially by the acquisition of HBS.
Property The market for outsourcing local government property and real estate services continues to grow and mature.
Councils are responsible for substantial property portfolios in particular, their education estate and are under continuing pressure to manage this asset more efficiently and cost-effectively.
1972 The BSF initiative is the biggest single investment in education property for over half a century and involves rebuilding or improving every Milestone secondary school in England over a 10 to 15-year period.
Mouchel In the early 1970s, Mouchel is preferred bidder for the 10-year BSF contract in Hackney, where designed the largest oil-red we are working in joint venture with Babcock Infrastructure Services.
power station in Europe, Grain The BSF market has been slow to gain momentum and, as a result, Power Station in Kent.
This the progress in Hackney is particularly significant for us.
Elsewhere, was the last of the huge we continue to provide BSF advisory services to other councils, oil coal stations in the UK including Oldham Metropolitan Borough Council.
built by the Central Electricity Generating Board.
In order to deliver best practice in the design of education and other property assets, using a larger proportion of in-house resources, Mouchel has this year established a national property design group.
This team now provides clients with a fully integrated capability in architectural and engineering design, estates, and building maintenance consultancy and is available to support capital works projects on our portfolio of term contracts.
In January 2007, we commenced a seven-year extendable to 10 property maintenance services commission with Cambridgeshire County Council and in April secured a similar five-year extendable to seven contract with the London Borough of Islington.
An extension of four years, from March 2008, was agreed on our existing property commission with Hertfordshire County Council and, since the year end, a two-year extension from April 2008 has been agreed with Surrey County Council.
Management consultancy Following the acquisition of Hornagold & Hills in November 2006 for 11.4 million, Mouchel now ranks amongst the UKs top five construction and project management businesses, according to the 2007 NCE Consultants File.
Hornagold & Hills employed some 170 staff at acquisition and has introduced Mouchel to a range of new public and private sector clients and contracts: ranging from British Airways, BAA and TfL to the BBC Shaping communities Long-term, successful partnerships demand great relationships.
Nowhere is this more apparent than in the local authority sector, where the bundling of business and technical services to form large-scale outsourcing partnerships with the private sector has become increasingly common.
The Impact Partnership is a 15-year joint venture between Rochdale Metropolitan Borough Council RMBC and Mouchel.
We provide highways and engineering, property, and customer and business services on behalf of RMBC.
Focus is on physical regeneration and job creation in an area affected primarily by changes in demographic prole and the loss of its traditional manufacturing base.
Recently completed work on the restoration of Broadeld Park demonstrates the benets that The Impact Partnership is bringing to the community, with practical and aesthetic improvements encouraging local families to use the facility.
Physical, social and economic regeneration is a priority for the Council, explains Roger Ellis, Chief Executive of RMBC.
Together with our partners we aim to effect change that will regenerate, revitalise and rejuvenate the borough for the benefit of all of our citizens for years to come.
I am confident that by continuing to work together with The Impact Partnership we will deliver sustainable change that makes a long-lasting positive impact and, most importantly, delivers a higher quality of life for the people who live here.
Creating opportunity World-class educational standards are vital to the health of the British economy.
Its agreed that a culture of personal fullment and high achievement is needed in our schools, adapting traditional education models to meet new learning needs.
Mouchel works in partnership with central government, local councils and schools through the City Academies and Building Schools for the Future programmes, which are revolutionising the way education is delivered in Britain.
Combining design, project management and educational consultancy expertise enables us to inuence school-building projects in many ways.
Highlighting the benets of this approach, Daniel Moynihan, Principal of Harris City Academy, which opened in September 2007, said: We couldnt have opened our Academy in such a short space of time without Mouchel, and the superb, proactive and exible performance of the project team.
Mouchel has been involved in over 30 City Academy projects, offering strategic advice and pragmatic solutions, providing facilities that enhance current teaching methods and offer the exibility to accommodate those of the future.
Mouchel is an integral part of a team that makes a real difference to the learning environment and to the achievement of children and young people.
Students at Harris Academy in London, for example, enjoy a pleasant and spacious environment which is conducive to study and, importantly, engenders a sense of pride and enthusiasm.
19 Business Government Report and Accounts 2007 Review Services Mouchel Parkman plc Business Regeneration There is a continuing and growing trend towards the bundling of Review local authority non-core services into packages that form the basis Government of partnerships with the private sector.
In general, such deals, which Services are generally of a longer term and a higher value than the more continued established single-service outsourcing contracts, are driven by the strategic aims of the authority: often their economic, social and environmental regeneration agenda.
Mouchel leads the way on arrangements of this type.
Its first partnership deal with Liverpool City Council in 2003 established a model which, with some modication, has formed the basis for wider partnerships and Pzer.
It has a strong synergy with Mouchels own management in the North West.
Our 2020 Liverpool joint venture was extended to consultancy practice and through this acquisition we have created an include 2020 Knowsley in 2005, which provides similar services in the opportunity for broader-based consultancy work in the private, public neighbouring borough.
In preparation for 2008, Liverpools European and regulated sectors alike.
Capital of Culture year, we have seen an increased demand for services through this partnership: major gateway schemes such as the Edge Hornagold & Hills trades in a competitive and demanding environment Lane project are transforming the environs of the city and acting but its combination of specialist services across many markets from as a catalyst for inward investment.
education, rail and retail to commercial, heritage and conservation projects and its links with the wider Mouchel offer provide good The Impact Partnership a 15-year joint venture between Rochdale differentiation and margins.
Hornagold & Hills has a strong brand Metropolitan Borough Council and Mouchel completed its first full identity in its core markets and, indeed, won the 2007 Project year of trading in 2006 07.
The partnership includes services that Manager of the Year award in January.
range from highways, property management and ICT to payroll and the management of a new customer contact centre.
In its first year The management consultancy business, in common with our property the partnership has generated 150 new jobs, the majority of which business, works extensively in the education sector.
We have become were awarded to local people.
Rochdale aims to attract 1 billion of market leader in the City Academies marketplace and to date have investment over the contract period and, as well as being involved in been involved in the project management of more than 30 City urban regeneration projects such as the Rochdale East Employment Academies across the UK, 15 of which opened their doors to students Park, we conduct out of scope service reviews to identify savings this summer.
Most recently, Mouchel was appointed as project manager in other council services.
for the St Helens Academy, a three-year scheme in Merseyside.
We have also recently been appointed to a project management framework The Unity Partnership, our joint venture with Oldham Metropolitan Borough for the Church of England Academies programme.
Council which started on 1 April 2007, is a 12-year extendable to 15 partnership to provide highways, property, customer, exchequer and ICT The breadth of our management consultancy skills means that we services.
This commission was originally secured in a 50:50 joint venture can provide strategic support for our other businesses.
Current projects with HBS prior to the acquisition of the HBS business by Mouchel.
range from the migration of British Airways staff into Heathrow Terminal 5, the project management of a new London Underground control Since the year end, Somerset County Council and Taunton and Deane centre, and restoration of the Cutty Sark in Greenwich.
We believe Borough Council have announced the award of a 10-year bundled that our management consultancy offer is also complementary to services commission to a partnership led by IBM and including Mouchel.
that introduced through the acquisition of HBS, mutually strengthening Due to the clients requirement for secondment rather than TUPE our position in ICT consultancy and in the provision of business transfer of staff, the nature and extent of our involvement will be different transformation support to local authorities.
from that originally envisaged when we were appointed preferred bidder.
Nevertheless, the win is a major step forward in the development of the Housing governments shared services agenda.
We are delighted to have played The social housing market is less mature than other sectors in which such a major part in securing the deal, and look forward to playing a Mouchel operates, but there remains pressure on authorities to provide significant part in the transformation of services to local authorities in affordable housing to their communities and Mouchel is working with the South West.
Discussions with IBM around the scope of our its local government clients to realise these aims.
We are also providing ongoing role are currently being nalised.
consultancy services under housing market renewal schemes in Rochdale and Liverpool: and in East London we are providing The demand for such partnerships continues.
Mouchel is currently estates management services to Hackney Homes.
tendering for contracts in Merseyside, Yorkshire and the North East.
The Paper House a stress-laminated timber-arch footbridge in Rochdale just one of the ways in which Mouchel is helping to join communities through innovative design solutions.
20 Business Regulated Report and Accounts 2007 Review Industries Mouchel Parkman plc Revenue for the year increased from 120.1million Business to 145.1million while operating margins reduced Review from 7.0% to 6.1%.
The year-end order book of 329.0million 2006: 307.8million was largely Regulated unchanged from last year but the pipeline increased Industries signicantly to 190.0million 2006: 81.3million.
The increase in revenue and bidding pipeline largely reected the Key performance indicators acquisition of Ewan which we acquired in November 2006 for Regulated Industries 11.0 million and which contributed 11.5 million of revenue during the 2007 2006 % change year.
The reduction in operating margins was partly attributable to the Revenue m 145.1 120.1 21 continuing slow progress in rail, where volumes remain low, although Underlying operating profit m 8.9 8.4 6 we did secure further re-signalling work with Network Rail during the year.
It also reects our approach to income recognition on our re-signalling Operating margins % 6.1 7.0 work on the London Underground, given the scale and complexity Order book m 329.0 307.8 7 of the work and project duration.
Bidding pipeline m 190.0 81.3 134 Contract win-rate % 44 26 Water and energy We are currently mid-way through the latest water industry Asset Staff numbers 2,391 1,601 49 Management Plan AMP period AMP4 from 2005 to 2010 and, as Staff turnover voluntary % 15 15 such, our focus has been more on the delivery of existing work than on new business development, which tends to take place towards the end of the AMP period and is likely to commence at the end of the next financial year.
The acquisition of the Ewan business broadens Mouchels client base, complements the Groups existing offering in water and signicantly enhances our prospects for the next regulatory review period.
As a result, we now work with all the major UK water companies and are a key player with Scottish Water.
The breadth of our client base and the activities we undertake as we 1980 move towards the next AMP period and, for the first time, the production 1981 of 25-year strategic statements of objectives by the water companies will help to reduce the cyclical nature of workload experienced in this sector Milestone Milestone in the past.
In 1980, the Local Government In December 1981, a team Act was enacted, requiring of 33 staff and managers from We have seen demand for services rise, in particular those delivered compulsory competitive the Cheshire sub-unit of the through frameworks with major providers such as Severn Trent Water tendering CCT for certain Ministry of Transports North and Thames Water.
This year, Mouchel was appointed by Three Valleys public services.
Mouchel was West Road Construction Unit Water under a leakage management commission, by United Utilities retained to advise Bournemouth began careers in the private under a professional services package, and on various commissions City Council on preparation sector with Liverpool-based by other water companies across the UK.
for CCT for the citys public Ward, Ashcroft and Parkman.
This was the This was, in effect, one of Mouchels ports and coastal activities include the planning, engineering beginning of the management the first civil engineering and management of major ports, coastal and waterfront development consultancy business within outsourcing contracts projects.
In Liverpool, we have delivered a new Cruise Liner Terminal Mouchel, which went involving the transfer of staff which was inaugurated by a visit of the Queen Elizabeth 2 in on to advise more than from the public to private September 2007.
Remarkably, 25 years preparations for CCT.
later, a third of that team Our rivers and ood defence teams work for local and regional remains in the Company.
government bodies and private developers throughout England and Scotland.
We undertake a variety of analytical techniques to evaluate ood risk, including hydrological and hydraulic modelling and economic appraisal together with the evaluation and design of ood alleviation schemes.
Following the recent significant ooding events across the country we anticipate further opportunity in this market.
Setting the standard At Mouchel we encourage our people to embrace change, to capture innovation and to set new standards: enabling us to respond effectively to the everincreasing demand for technological advancement in all our markets as well as meeting societys expectation for safety and operational efficiency.
Our structural engineering group for example, has pioneered the use of brereinforced polymer FRP composites as construction products in the UK.
This group is at the forefront of FRP highway and railway bridge superstructure design in the UK, offering solutions to extend the operational life of existing bridges and create more sustainable, more durable new structures that can be constructed faster, more cheaply and with less disruption than their traditional equivalents.
This is perhaps one of the most exciting and significant innovations in bridge technology for many years, introducing a whole new product technology to a relatively conservative discipline.
Mouchels work for the Highways Agency, for example, includes designing four of these bridges, for 40t loading, over the M6 motorway between Junctions 32 and 33.
The solution is both cost-effective for the Highways Agency and of huge benefit to the travelling public since because the bridges are quicker to build and require less future maintenance, the impact of construction work on roadusers is kept to a minimum.
Doing the right thing Good quality water and sewerage systems are a prerequisite for modern society.
The Water regulator OFWAT is systematically driving through improvements in water quality and leakage reduction across the water sector.
This has resulted in significant investment through the AMP4 period: yet investment at the rate allowed from 2000 to 2005 means that it would still take hundreds of years to renew the whole water 1 network.
As a result many of our cities still rely on mains and sewers that are over 100 years old and maintaining, managing and improving these systems are the challenges facing our specialists every day.
By offering industry-leading expertise in leakage detection, network modelling and design services, Mouchel helps its clients in the water sector to increase efficiency and reduce cost and disruption to the customer, whilst enhancing water quality and customer satisfaction.
We work with every single water and sewage utility in the UK, as well as the Department of the Environment & Heritage Services in the Republic of Ireland.
We deliver more than 20 term framework commissions for these clients, including two framework agreements with Thames Water to provide leakage detection services across North East London and leakage consultancy services across the entire Thames region.
1 Source: Water UK, June 2007: Brieng Note 2 Why water services need so much investment.
23 Business Regulated Report and Accounts 2007 Review Industries Mouchel Parkman plc Business is advising the waste disposal authority on its waste strategy and in Merseyside we are working with the waste disposal authority Review to implement a programme of waste disposal projects.
Regulated Industries International continued Mouchels international business is centred on the Gulf States where we are engaged in a number of the large-scale developments for which this region has become well known.
Our business in the Gulf has doubled over the last year.
The largest of our schemes is the 14,000ha Dubai Waterfront project where Mouchel is responsible for site infrastructure planning and Mouchels energy business played a major part in bringing the first the programme management of one of the worlds tallest structures.
dockside LNG re-gasication vessel to Teesside as principal consultant This is the largest waterfront development in the world and will to Excelerate Energy and Murphy Pipelines.
Our involvement in this become home to more than a million residents.
project has won the company two prestigious awards from the Society of British Gas Industries: a joint award for innovation and an individual Rail award to one of our staff for Engineer of the Year.
We have now formed Mouchels rail business offers a combination of consultancy and an extended relationship with Excelerate Energy in which we are looking technology services in a specialist marketplace with significant barriers to adopt the approach first used in Teesside elsewhere.
Our activities are mainly centred on the provision of services to Network Rail and London Underground Limited LUL.
Land and environment Mouchels land and environment business provides some important During the year we continued to work on the Structures Examination complementary services across the Group.
Its value lies not only in the Contract in the North West Zone and Structures Assessment Contracts specialist expertise it provides to external clients but also in the support in the London North West and South East Zones.
We have also been it gives to other parts of the company.
appointed to more than 30 station improvement projects, in which modications to meet the requirements of the Disability Discrimination Mouchel, in consortium with AEA Technology, has been appointed Act are being carried out.
by the Mayor of London to deliver its Green 500 scheme in the capital.
This scheme provides incentives, advice and support to London Network Rails re-signalling programme has provided some additional businesses on carbon management issues and our role involves activity during the year, although the tendering opportunities have not providing technical support and advice to participating companies.
been as plentiful as we had hoped and this has impacted both our workload and profit margins.
To date we have been appointed on two Land Aspects, Mouchels specialist land information and knowledge Type A ancillary civil engineering services contracts in Leamington management business, has continued to nd significant opportunities and Colchester.
in linear developments such as roads, rail and tramway projects.
We have been involved in work ranging from the Edinburgh Tram and On the London Underground, we continued to provide signalling CrossRail schemes to Natural Englands Discovering Lost Ways services to Thales, where we are currently part way through an project, a denitive review of ancient rights of way that are missing eight-year programme, assisting them with the upgrade of the from local authority records and are in danger of being forgotten forever.
signalling on the Jubilee and Northern Lines.
Waste Elsewhere, we are programme-managing the implementation The waste treatment and disposal market has become more of the CBS previously Viacom digital advertising systems at central sophisticated in the last few years, driven by increasingly stringent London stations.
This innovative advertising form will be extended regulations and an awakening environmental awareness in society.
to include cross-track projection at certain stations and is due to be Mouchel, as design-and-build partner to Shanks Waste Solutions, completed within the next 12 months.
Other systems work on the completed construction of the East London Waste Authoritys 45 million London Underground network includes installation of train descriptor Frog Island treatment plant in April 2007.
In Greater Manchester, Mouchel panels on Metronet and TubeLines platforms.
Mouchels energy business is working with Excelerate Energy to supply imported liquid natural gas to the national grid via new port facilities in Teesside.
24 Business People Report and Accounts 2007 Review Mouchel Parkman plc Mouchel is described by its people as being a great Business place to work.
Around 85% of our people said, in our Review most recent survey, that they were satisfied with the business as an employer.
Creating a stimulating People environment in which innovation and bright ideas ourish is an achievement of which we are proud.
In fact, pride appears in strong measure at Mouchel: being the most commonly cited descriptor of the business in staff surveys.
Size and composition of workforce Staff retention and continuity in the workforce is important, although People are our primary asset: a common clich but which, in the our strategy recognises that a growing proportion of the workforce in case of this professional services organisation at least, is unequivocally Britain and particularly younger professionals now seek portfolio true.
Some 8,168 people worked for Mouchel at financial year-end careers rather than long-term, stable employment.
The marginally higher 37% more than in 2006 but, through growth and acquisition since level of voluntary staff turnover this year some 14% compared with July, the business now employs almost 11,000 people.
This gives 13% last year reects this trend and compares favourably with that Mouchel a level of resource resilience and breadth of skills that exceeds of our competitors.
We would like to reduce this rate to nearer 10%, that of most others in the industry, an issue that is particularly important though a moderate level of staff turnover is seen as offering an to many of our clients in managing their operational risks.
opportunity to attract a broader and more diverse spectrum of experience, knowledge and talent.
Diversity One of Mouchels strengths as a company is the diverse nature Development and engagement of skills, abilities, attitudes and cultures that it embraces: mirroring Our aim is to offer a high-calibre, well-motivated professional team to the diverse range of communities and people with whom we deal our clients in all sectors: this means providing exceptional training and on an everyday basis.
personal development, the best available working environment, and the systems and facilities needed to enhance the productive value Our aim is to ensure that diversity works for us as a positive business of those we employ.
driver and we employ people of all kinds of background, age, religion, disability, sexual orientation and work style to help us achieve this.
This year we have signicantly improved the physical working conditions In 2006 our diversity steering group launched a Company-wide for around a tenth of our people and our staff survey in January 2007 programme of education and produced a DVD to illustrate and explain showed that whilst 70% say they have good working conditions, around the issues of diversity in our own organisation.
Women account for well 85% of our people were satisfied or very satisfied with the Company over a quarter of our workforce including two who are members of the as an employer.
Employee awards for excellence were presented to 65 Group Management Board: and approximately 11% of people are from high achievers in the business last year, with a programme of environmental ethnic backgrounds.
Amongst those initiatives supported by Mouchel and health and safety awards further acknowledging commitment in is the Construction Youth Trust, a charity whose focus is on creating these areas.
Communications have improved this year, with over 10% construction sector opportunities for disadvantaged young people.
more people feeling well informed about the business than was the case a year ago.
Recruitment and retention Traditionally science and engineering graduates have predominated Our standing in the employment market, and the continued commitment in our recruitment campaigns but the composition of our workforce of our people, depends upon the quality of our training and development is changing to reect the broadening nature of our work.
programmes: last year we invested approximately 5.5 million in equipping our workforce with better and more effective skills and competencies.
Although we continue to recruit significant numbers at graduate level Our learning and development programme begins with induction we are seeking 150 graduate recruits in 2007, we are now recruiting a far networking events and our Hit the Ground Running course.
It continues larger proportion of people with higher education and other qualications.
using a blended learning approach, which results in a mix of formal 25 Business People Report and Accounts 2007 Review Mouchel Parkman plc 1999 2001 02 2003 Milestone Milestone Milestone In the late 1990s, Parkman Following a successful In 2003, the merger of worked alongside the management buy-out in Mouchel and Parkman was Highways Agency to the previous year, Parkman announced.
The combination pioneer the Early Contractor oated on the London Stock of both companies creates a Involvement ECI form of Exchange in June 2001, later Group with the critical mass, contract that now predominates winning the Financial Times expertise and experience for capital projects.
required to maximise market opportunities and win and In June 2002, Mouchel, manage larger and longer-term now well-established as a bundled services contracts.
support-services business with a strong, long-term order book, oated on the London Stock Exchange.
training, CD-ROM based, and online self-learning.
Management training Emphasis is on providing attractive remuneration packages, which is especially important in Mouchel.
Some 288 days were invested in our can include a exible benets package, pensions, health insurance and Front Line Manager programme this year: 210 days in our Managing bonus payments.
We reward good and exceptional performance and the MP Way programme.
Seven hundred project managers received give our managers considerable autonomy in the pay review process.
our PM@MP training and our Management Development Programme produced 24 graduates through the year.
Leadership and succession planning In a growing business one of the critical success factors is ensuring that Our performance management programme is designed to ensure that we have a production line of new managers and leaders: people who we achieve the best from our workforce and that individuals achieve can grow in their jobs, step up to new challenges, or have the ambition the most from their careers.
Two performance and development reviews to play an even greater role in the future.
are held with every employee each year, identifying areas for additional training in appropriate key-skills areas.
Three hundred and sixty degree We have a formalised succession planning process, now in its third year, feedback is used to gain a balanced perspective on the employee.
which examines individuals performance and potential and allows us to better match career development with new opportunities.
Knowledge management is an important factor in improving productivity and this year we have created Company-wide access to project and This year 15 senior managers graduated from our Warwick Business business collaboration systems and have re-platformed our corporate Leaders programme, a course of academic study facilitated by the intranet to make information more accessible to employees than University of Warwick Business School, designed to equip the future ever before.
leaders of the organisation with high-level management skills.
Remuneration and fair employment practices Investment in this level of management training is vital for an Mouchel pays its people at fair market rates and benchmarks salaries intellectually-based business and, to enrol a wider cross-section of our across the many sectors in which we work.
people in the culture of leadership that we espouse, our Taking the Lead programme has been delivered to some 350 people this year.
1 Staff numbers 10,873 5,967 5,195 4,120 3,584 HBS Mouchel 06 03 04 05 07 Note 1 Average staff numbers are reported for 2003 and 2004, thereafter, gures show actual staff numbers as at 31 July.
The 2007 gure also includes HBS 2,705 staff which was acquired on 6 August 2007.
Inuencing the debate The energy requirement of a growing world population, which has rising quality-of-life expectations, continues to deplete our natural resources.
At Mouchel we understand the role that science, engineering and technology can play in the pursuit of environmental sustainability and were working to introduce ideas and products that can inuence the debate on sustainability and carbonmanagement issues.
In Britain, renewable energy is an integral part of the governments commitment to a 60% reduction in CO 2 emissions by 2050, though in 2005 only 4% of the UKs electricity supply was produced by eligible sources of renewable 1 energy.
Mouchel is helping to address this shortfall.
On mainland Shetland a multi-disciplinary team of Mouchel scientists and engineers is undertaking a complex environmental assessment to explore the potential impact of the proposed Viking wind farm, which would be the largest of its kind in the world.
In the water sector Rentricity Ltd is a joint venture company between Mouchel and Rentricity Inc US.
Rentricitys principal product which we are launching in the UK watersupply industry is the provision of pressure-reducing turbines that can be used in lieu of conventional pressure reduction values in water supply networks.
Rentricity turbines will capture a previously untapped source of power to supply energy back into the national grid and will be capable of supplying up to 100 kilowatts of power: thats sufficient to boil over 7,000 cups of tea per hour!
1 DTI Publication: UK Energy in Brief, July 2006.
27 Business Corporate Report and Accounts 2007 Review Responsibility Mouchel Parkman plc Corporate Responsibility shapes the way in which Business we act.
We take our responsibilities in society Review seriously and make sure that the overall impacts of our activities are overwhelmingly positive.
A separate Corporate report describing our approach to Corporate Responsibility Responsibility issues accompanies this Annual Report.
Safety As a business we are acutely aware of the need to promote and We dont compromise on the health and safety of our people or of our apply best practice and the Environmental Management System EMS clients and others with whom we work.
Mouchel is a company that puts we use across the Company meets the requirements of ISO 14001, safety first.
Our accident rate has fallen steadily to approximately 2,700 the international environmental management standard.
We measure our per 100,000 employees AIR, which is well below industry average.
own performance in terms of our energy consumption, business travel The percentage of reportable accidents under the Health and Safety patterns, and water consumption.
Executives Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR was approximately 4.5% of the total at year We apply environmental good practice in the way we design and end, also well below the industry average.
We carry out environmental risk assessments and environmental appraisals, as appropriate, to identify, manage and This year weve fundamentally re-shaped our safety, health, environment mitigate environmental risks associated with our projects.
We also and quality SHEQ team to create greater accountability amongst those incorporate the Civil Engineering Environmental and Quality Assessment actually delivering our services on the ground.
Under the leadership of CEEQUAL award scheme and the Building Research Establishments a health and safety director who reports directly to the Chief Executive, Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM in our toolkit of measures our central team determines policy, direction and strategy for the Group.
to manage the environmental impact of the schemes we manage In each business stream weve established an assurance team which and we train staff extensively in sustainability and environmental best provides the crucially important link between Group and operations.
Consistency and best practice in the way we assure health and safety Social and community issues right across the business demands good communications and good Mouchels business is built upon its reputation with the public and systems.
This year we have re-launched our integrated management communities it serves.
Though we work through councils, water system to provide more comprehensive guidance to staff and weve companies and highway authorities the services we provide can introduced a new health and safety management system to build in touch the lives of almost every citizen of Britain.
So understanding and more robust and effective closure of health, safety and environmental responding to community issues is an everyday part of what we do.
Weve extended our learning programme and are embarking on a Company-wide behavioural change programme that Mouchel runs a community involvement programme that encourages we expect to create a marked shift in perceptions on health, safety individuals to provide their expertise and their time to projects involving and environmental matters.
Mouchel matches the time and resources provided by the individual and our aspiration is to invest up to 1% of pre-tax profits Environment to such causes.
Weve worked with local traders in Islington to implement There is an environmental perspective to almost every facet of our a van-sharing system.
Weve introduced a biomass boiler system in a business from the recycling of construction materials to the energyDorset school.
Weve worked with our partners, Costain and Yorkshire efficient design of buildings, the preparation of environmental assessments Water, to create an extensive wildlife area at a Yorkshire school.
and strategies, and the management of our own buildings and infrastructure to reduce waste.
Some community projects are undertaken by the Company as part of its contractual responsibilities but many more are carried out by staff, acting with the goodwill and support of the business to bring about positive change.
Chinatown Arch, Liverpool: where Mouchels team is helping to restore the rich heritage of the city in preparation for Liverpools European Capital of Culture year in 2008.
28 Business Principal Risks Mouchel Review and Uncertainties Report and Accounts 2007 Competition Business Some sectors are more competitive than others in which there are only a very small number of established competitors.
Barriers to entry in our Review marketplace are variable: environmental services can be provided by Principal Risks sole traders whereas large, bundled-services commissions can only be delivered by a small number of large organisations.
Our ambition which and Uncertainties has been largely successful is to build great relationships on all our commissions and partnerships in their early years: a differentiator that is as strong as the reputation we have also built for capturing innovation and bright ideas, and for setting the standards of performance in many of the sectors where we work.
Mouchel regularly reviews its corporate risks and Winning work Our record in winning work is good.
Our relative size and market maintains a corporate risk register which considers presence has improved our ability to gain a place on short-lists for the strategic and structural risks affecting the work in all our core sectors.
There is strong evidence to show that the industry: the financial, commercial and legislative involvement of our central bid management team in major proposals risks: the safety, health, environmental and security strengthens our chances of success and as such we have expanded our Group business development team this year to provide wider risks: the managerial and organisational risks: and support across the business.
Every project, too, has a risk register which is a working document that Political and economic changes is updated regularly both for the benefit of the client We work largely in the UK public sector and in sectors which continue to be regulated by the government.
Therefore we are sensitive to and our Company through the life of the project.
possible changes in the political and economic environments of our markets.
However, we remain in many sectors all of which have differing economic cycles and Mouchel is an agile organisation, responsive to market and political changes, as evidenced in both highways and local government service bundling in the last few years.
Information technology Mouchel is a business that makes extensive use of IT for communications, knowledge-sharing and project management.
The Company has an effective IT infrastructure and a newly platformed intranet system but IT failures in particular, data loss remain a potential risk to the business.
Our principal risks comprise: A major project is in place to continuously review the robustness and adequacy of our IT systems and to develop new IT solutions to meet Health, safety and environment our ongoing business and technical needs.
Data security is managed Mouchel works in potentially hazardous environments: from motorways diligently to ensure information is stored in a reliable manner.
and railways to isolated areas in which lone working is potentially unsafe.
We face the risks of human loss, litigation and reputation damage arising Joint ventures from incidents.
Safety is our first priority and in 2006 07 we have signicantly We work in a considerable number of joint ventures and depend upon strengthened our organisation, introduced new systems, and improved the strength of such relationships to maintain our order book and market communications in this area to mitigate those risks we face.
position in several key areas like highway maintenance and ICT service delivery.
These partnerships are generally very strong and successful Company growth though we continue to review the performance of these relationships The Group is growing quickly and there is a risk that the rate of change against our own business objectives.
In highway maintenance, for will outpace the business and management systems needed to manage example, the AccordMP joint venture, in which we have an equal the expanding organisation.
Regular business reviews, a strengthened share, has started to become very successful, replacing the leadership development programme, and the development of model AmeyMouchel joint venture which will not bid for future projects.
This is transition plans for new commissions help mitigate this risk.
To help part of our ongoing business strategy and is not a concern.
Equally, we ensure that turnover growth keeps pace with business growth we have do not currently expect that the recent purchase of Accord by Enterprise improved our bidding processes, strengthened our reporting cycle and plc will affect our ongoing relationship with the former.
In other areas we established a more robust key account management framework.
have sought to vertically integrate our own business operations so as to be able to provide many of the services previously accessed through Integration of acquisitions joint ventures.
Our recent acquisition of HBS is a good example.
The ultimate success of acquisitions depends upon a companys ability to integrate the new business: to identify synergies, complementary Reputation risk skills and differentiators: and to apply clear operational and development As the business becomes larger and more diverse this becomes strategy for the combined Group within a period of months.
To achieve an increasing issue for us.
The new Mouchel brand is the physical this for our largest and most recent acquisition that of HBS we representation of a robust underlying branding strategy in which the established from the outset a transition Board and transition management defence of our brand and its associations is an important driver.
We team with explicit responsibilities for delivering integration over a fourhave also strengthened our corporate communications team during the month period.
year to create stronger media relationships.
At project level, reputation is protected through the robust project and quality management systems Resource availability we employ, coupled with an internal audit system that guards against design and management mistakes.
In an increasingly overheated construction sector availability of the calibre of staff we require remains challenging but we have maintained levels Pension risk of staff turnover that are as good as, or better than, industry medians As with most companies still retaining some element of final salary pension in all our sectors.
Our reputation as a business that invests in its people provision, the future funding requirement of such schemes remains a risk.
and offers them challenging careers is a strong differentiator in our This year we have decreased this risk by migrating the majority of our approach to attracting, and retaining, good staff.
non-public sector final salary pensioned staff to a career average basis see page 29.
29 Business Other Financial Matters Report and Accounts 2007 Review and Business Outlook Mouchel Parkman plc From a funding point of view, the last actuarial valuations of both main Business schemes were undertaken as at 31 March 2004, at which point there was an aggregate deficit in the two schemes of 25.9 million.
New Review actuarial valuations being prepared as at 31 March 2007 will take into Other Financial account the effects of CARE, offset by some increase in the deficit, due to an improvement in life expectancy levels.
Matters and Further IAS 19 disclosure is contained in note 33 of the Notes to the Business Outlook Financial Statements.
Earnings per share and dividends Earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share increased 18% from 17.8p to 21.0p.
Forward order book Adjusted earnings per share is calculated after adding back shares held At 31 July 2007, the Groups forward order book stood at a record by the employee share trusts to the weighted average number of shares.
1.5 billion, 25% more than the 1.2 billion at the corresponding point Earnings are adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible assets arising last year.
This reected our success over the last year in winning new from business combinations and other exceptional items net of taxation.
contracts and extending or renewing existing commissions and means that we continue to have outstanding visibility of our future earnings.
Basic earnings per share was 31.5p 2006: 17.4p.
The bidding pipeline of potential contract extensions and other near-term opportunities currently being tendered was increased to 1.4 billion Dividends which was also a significant increase compared with the 1.0 billion It is proposed that a final dividend of 3.45p 2006: 2.70p per ordinary last year.
Our win-rate for the year has also been maintained at the top share will be paid on 14 December 2007 to shareholders on the register end of our target range of 33% to 40% of contracts tendered by value.
Taken together with the interim dividend The acquisition of HBS following the year end added 0.7 billion and of 1.55p, this gives a total dividend of 5.00p for the year, an increase 1.1 billion to the order book and pipeline, giving totals of 2.2 billion of 23% on last year.
It is anticipated that the interim and final dividends will continue to Cash ow and working capital represent approximately one-third and two-thirds respectively of the Cash generated from operations was 31.1 million for the year ended total dividend for the year.
31 July 2007, compared with 34.9 million last year.
Cash, cash equivalents and overdrafts at the year end were 2.8 million positive, Outlook compared with borrowings of 15.1 million at 31 January 2007 and We have reported another very good set of results.
Our profits have a 33.4 million positive cash balance at 31 July 2006. continued to grow strongly and our cash performance has again been excellent.
The order book and pipeline were both at an all-time high Cash conversion for the year was again excellent, with 94% of the at the year end and have been boosted subsequently following the Groups underlying operating profits being converted into operating acquisition of HBS.
cash ow i. e. cash generated from operations per note 30, versus 130% last year.
Working capital management was satisfactory, with We have further strengthened the foundations for our continuing the overall investment in unbilled revenue and trade receivables growth through the acquisitions we have made and the contracts we maintained at approximately two and a half months revenues.
have secured or extended over the course of the year.
The acquisition of HBS, in particular, is strategically very significant for us.
It opens up On 1 August 2007, an unsecured revolving credit facility of 125 million a completely new revenue stream for the Group, positions us well to was put in place.
This is a joint arrangement with The Royal Bank pursue even larger and more complex commissions in our existing of Scotland and Lloyds TSB, to finance the acquisition of HBS, fund markets, and potentially offers us the capability to provide similar existing working capital requirements and provide capacity for the services in new markets.
future growth and development of the business.
We also have the resources to support our continued growth.
Taxation We have a good management team, which we have been able to The effective rate of tax on profits before tax and exceptional items strengthen further as a result of our recent acquisitions, and we have was 29.0% compared with 29.9% for the year ended 31 July 2006. recently put in place new bank facilities which could be increased The difference between the effective rate of tax and the statutory rate should the need arise.
of 30% again reected the benefit of additional reliefs, partly offset by the normal level of disallowable expenditure.
We remain enthusiastic about our prospects.
We are not short of opportunities to develop and grow the business which, together with Pensions the progress we have made over the last year, means we can look The Group operates two main dened benefit pension schemes the forward with continuing confidence.
Mouchel Parkman Superannuation Fund and the Mouchel Parkman Staff Pension Scheme and accounts for them under IAS 19 Employee Benets.
The IAS 19 charge for the year was 7.2 million compared with 8.3 million last year, largely reecting the increase in bond yields over the year.
At 31 July 2007, the deficit under IAS 19 totalled 18.0 million before tax compared with 52.4 million at 31 January 2007 and 48.3 million Richard Cuthbert Kevin Young at 31 July 2006.
The year-on-year movement reected the actuarial Chief Executive Group Finance Director gain associated with stronger investment returns, as well as the 31 October 2007 agreement of most members in the non-public sector sections of the schemes to move from a final salary arrangement to a career average revalued earnings CARE basis for the calculation of their pension benets.
Under this basis the link to final salary has effectively been removed for both past and future service.
As a result, the balance sheet liability under IAS 19 has been reduced by 18.5m.
This amount, net of the costs of implementing the changes of 0.3m, has been treated as an exceptional gain in the Income Statement for the year.
