Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 04 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review Tunstall reservoir in County Durham.
Northumbrian Water Group plc Northumbrian Water Limited Water and waste water contracts A nalytical & Environmental Services SA Agrer NV Northumbrian Water Limited M ajor sewage treatment works M ajor water treatment works New blobs are on a separate layer titled Added by Paul 16 6 2006.
New blobs are on a separate layer titled Added by Paul 16 6 2006.
CLICK TO RETURN TO CONTENTS New blobs are on a separate layer titled Added by Paul 16 6 2006.
New blobs are on a separate layer titled Added by Paul 16 6 2006. BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 05 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 The NWG directors are pleased to present their report on the affairs of the Company, along with the audited financial statements and the auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Directors The directors are Sir Derek Wanless, Sir Patrick Brown, John Cuthbert, Chris Green, Claude Lamoureux, Martin Ngre, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams.
All were directors of the Company as at 31 March 2007 and served throughout the year, apart from Alex Scott-Barrett, who was appointed on 26 September 2006, and Claude Lamoureux, who was appointed on 1 December 2006.
Hendon sewage treatment works in Sunderland.
Sir Fred Holliday, who was Chairman of the Board on 1 April 2006, retired on 27 July 2006 and was succeeded as Chairman by Sir Derek Wanless.
Ron Lepin was a Activities director at the start of the year, but resigned from the The principal activities of the Group during the year were Board on 1 December 2006. the provision of water, waste water management and related services.
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code and the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, two directors will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment at this years AGM.
Those directors are Sir Derek Wanless and Jenny Williams.
In addition, Alex Scott-Barrett and Claude Lamoureux, having been appointed to the Board since the 2006 AGM, will offer themselves for appointment at this AGM.
The directors biographies are set out on pages 34 and 35.
NWLs Peter Winter using a thermal imaging camera which helps to detect faults.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 06 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued NWLs distribution technician Trevor Jobling using his PDA.
Case study Work management This programme is our flagship initiative to support employees have the most accurate and up to date the delivery of an even better service to our customers, information available to plan jobs and respond to while operating more efficiently and effectively.
emergencies: and data only needs to be entered once, freeing field For instance, through knowing the closest employee employees from repetitive administration.
to an incident, and providing our office and field based employees with the right information at the right time, This is one of the best bits of kit Ive had apart customers will be served better, the job completed from a flask!
I have been working on creating the sooner and the risk of a duplicate visit removed.
In one front sheets to make sure the essential information area of the pilot, employees mileage reduced by 34%, is keyed into the PDA.
We used to have sheaves of making a significant contribution to our efforts to paperwork to fill in, but now it is all done on the respond to the challenges posed by climate change.
PDA, from tracking travel and arrival times, to risk During the Work management programme pilot, we assessment, carrying out the work and time sheets.
fitted over 80 vehicles with Personal Digital Assistants I found the pilot a huge benefit we could do more PDAs combining satellite navigation and wireless links work in a day and it virtually did away with all with the office.
This simple device gives our customers paperwork.
Now Im looking forward to the next a better service because: office employees see immediately where vehicles stage of the programme.
Ive seen the new PDA are and send the nearest one to a job: and its even better!
data is entered onto the corporate systems immediately so that both field and office based Trevor Jobling is a distribution technician and has worked for NWL for 30 years.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 07 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 1. Business strategy To develop a culture of continuous improvement by: maintaining a rigorous risk management process: promoting a flexible and proactive attitude: embracing a sustainable and responsible approach: ensuring a focus on safety: and encouraging employees to fulfil their potential.
Business planning is central to delivery of our long term objectives.
It identifies how we will achieve our objectives and establishes the targets and principal actions against which business units are measured.
Measurement focuses Wear Valley water treatment works in County Durham.
on key performance indicators KPIs set during the business planning process, which are linked to regulatory Our mission is clear to be a national leader in the and business targets.
provision of sustainable water and waste water services: our strategy reflects this and provides a clear direction for NWL is, by far, the largest of NWGs businesses and, like all all of our activities.
UK water and sewerage companies, it is heavily regulated.
Its success as a business depends on efficient delivery of its NWG has a well developed strategy.
It continues to focus services and of quality improvements required by the on the Groups core competencies of water and waste Water Services Regulation Authority Ofwat in order to water management, and aims to deliver value to all outperform the regulatory financial settlement.
stakeholders by being a leading performer in the industry.
All operations are geared to delivering efficient and effective outputs.
NWG is firmly rooted within the communities it serves.
Our commitment to those communities is demonstrated by our leadership in initiatives such as Water for health and in our approach to corporate responsibility.
To achieve the aspirations in our mission we focus on three strategic priorities: To maintain our strong reputation and relationships by: creating shareholder value: delivering excellent service to customers: delivering regulatory outputs: and Barkers Haugh sewage treatment works in Durham.
involving our main stakeholder groups.
To ensure a stable financial profile by: maximising revenue: delivering operational efficiency: and securing low cost long term funds.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 08 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 2.
Operating environment assumption, due to the increase in energy costs.
Energy costs have since fallen by around 35% from their peak and, if this level is maintained, we expect to achieve Ofwats efficiency targets in the remaining years to 2010.
Prices in 2006 07 increased by 3.7% before inflation and for the next three years price limits will be: Price limits per year 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 % increase above inflation 2.8 nil nil Dawn at Kielder Water in Northumberland.
This represents a reduction in the price limits set by Ofwat.
Geography Customers are to benefit from price changes in the period NWL operates in the north east and south east of England.
from April 2007 to March 2010 following confirmation from NWL that it will not increase prices by the amount allowed Its northern operating area is in a region of modest by Ofwat at the last price review.
The cumulative benefit to economic growth, which is considerably stronger now customers from 2007 to 2010 will be around 22 million.
It has a declining industrial customer base and industrial demand for water, but a growing Market conditions have been favourable over the last 18 demand from domestic customers.
It has well developed months and NWL has taken advantage of this and secured resources, such as Kielder Water, and these, coupled with funding on attractive terms for the capital programme above average rainfall in the region, enable it to meet through to 2010.
The benefit of this, together with the expected demand.
In addition to its sewerage services, strong performance to date, informed the decision of the NWL continues to provide expert industrial effluent NWL board to limit increases in bills in 2008 09 and treatment services through its major treatment works 2009 10 to RPI.
at Bran Sands on Teesside.
The price limit for 2007 08 of 3.2% has already been In contrast, NWLs southern operating area is in a region reduced to 2.8% and this is reflected in current bills.
The of rapid economic and population growth, although it price limits for 2008 09 and 2009 10, of 1.0% and 0.6% too has seen a reduction in demand from heavy industry.
respectively, include financeability adjustments introduced This emphasises the importance of the companys well to ensure companies could finance their functions with developed plans for resource development to meet adequate financial ratios throughout the 2005 to 2010 additional water demand in a region where water period.
These adjustments were to assist financing and resources are already constrained.
were not available for distribution.
Regulation This has no impact on dividend policy and shareholders The UK water industry is highly regulated.
will continue to benefit from any outperformance.
Ofwat, the economic regulator, has set NWLs price limits NWLs Regulatory Capital Value RCV, as advised by for the five years to 2010, using the following assumptions: Ofwat, at 31 March 2007 was 2,817 million and for annual average operating efficiency improvements of the next three years will be: 1.2% for water and 2.0% for sewerage: overall capital maintenance efficiency improvements of RCV at 31 March 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 3.6% for water and 3.9% for sewerage for the full five Outturn prices, year period : assuming inflation overall capital enhancement improvements of 14.8% of 2.5% per for water and 14.6% for sewerage for the full five year year million 2,940 3,047 3,127 period : and an industry cost of capital of 5.1% real, post tax.
Over the five years to 2010, NWL will invest around 1 billion.
For the second year of this five year period, NWLs operating costs were 7.2 million above Ofwats CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 09 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 NWLs Jeff Robinson inspecting the hydro generator at Wear Valley water treatment works in County Durham Richard Dove in the background.
Case study Climate change Energy is vital to clean water, to deliver it to wherever We are working with independent experts to identify it is needed and to treat it again after it has been used, and understand the impact climate change will have on and the water industry is the third largest user of energy our business: in the UK.
We have been working hard to reduce our Weather Intelligence has undertaken a Climate carbon footprint as part of our normal business, with Change Readiness Assessment and found that NWL a particular focus on: has a good understanding of the issues it faces as a work management system reducing mileage result of climate change and has carried out a and creating efficient working see case study detailed impact assessment: on page 6 : working with Royal Haskoning and Newcastle reducing tertiary ultra violet disinfection out University to understand the potential impact of season: on our assets: and developing and implementing a sludge strategy: to taking part in the DEFRA Making Space for Water introduce a sludge digestion process which would initiative and working with developers to find help power the plant at three smaller sites, initially, sustainable drainage solutions.
and then two larger sites, increasing our renewable energy by 20%: and Our multi-faceted Water is precious campaign generating renewable energy: hydroelectricity at encourages customers to use water wisely and Kielder Water, Derwent, Lartington and Wear Valley to recognise that if they waste water, they also and biogas combined heat and power CHP at waste energy.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 10 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 2.
Operating environment continued Through Water UK, we have worked closely with the EA in developing Together Towards Sustainable Water a sector plan for water which sets out a long term environmental vision for the water sector.
This is due to be published later this year.
We are participating in the Northumbria River Basin Liaison Panel which is developing the plan to meet the WFD in the north east.
This panel is currently considering the Significant Water Management Issues SWMIs for the region.
Action plans to address the SWMIs will be a key element of the programme of measures to be agreed by 2008.
We have applied to the EA to have the consents for six coastal sewage treatment works STWs amended.
These works discharge highly treated effluent through long sea outfalls.
The final stage of treatment, ultraviolet UV Hanningfield reservoir in Essex.
disinfection, is energy intensive, contributing to significant CO2 emissions.
Our modelling concludes that bathing Ofwat also monitors levels of customer service, whilst waters in the vicinity would meet not only EU Mandatory the Environment Agency EA deals with environmental but also the stricter Guideline Standard, without UV protection and the Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI treatment.
We have applied to restrict UV application to monitors drinking water quality.
NWL has good working summer months.
This application raises important issues relationships with them and with other regional about achieving the right environmental balance and we organisations, such as local authorities, which have await a decision.
an interest in the services it provides and have regulatory powers that affect the company.
NWL welcomes Ofwats new duty to contribute to sustainable development.
Many of the key challenges We are working with the EA to consider the drivers for for the water industry have sustainable development investment beyond 2010, including the Water Framework at their core: implementing the WFD, developing long Directive WFD.
The quality of rivers and bathing waters term maintenance strategies, balancing supply and in the north east is among the best in the country and demand, ensuring that bills remain affordable, and our initial view is that the investment required to comply managing the effects of climate change.
NWL will with the WFD will be less than in many other regions.
evaluate these issues in the context of wider social Nutrient removal, particularly phosphates, is likely to and economic considerations and as part of its be an important factor, with ammonia also requiring corporate responsibility programme.
In order to achieve a cost effective programme and meet the polluter pays principle, other Regulators can play an important role in the water sources of these pollutants must also be addressed.
industry by incentivising sustainable approaches, but Removing the source of the problem, for example by water companies must take the lead in promoting changing farming or land management practice, may be sustainable development both in their planning and cheaper but could take longer to deliver.
We need to ensure operations.
NWL will continue to make these that end of pipe solutions are not viewed as an easy responsibilities a high priority.
The Consumer Council for Water CCWater, the independent body which represents customer interests, An important step leading up to the next price review in is also fully engaged in work with the EA and other 2009 is NWLs Strategic Direction Statement.
This is now stakeholders to develop a sustainable, coordinated being prepared and will outline a 25 year vision for the approach to achieving environmental objectives.
company, as well as key objectives for the next five years.
The Statement will be published in the autumn and It will be increasingly important to ensure an appropriate will be used as the basis for a stakeholder consultation balance between marginal improvements in river quality exercise in each of our operating areas, which will in and the energy, concrete and chemicals required to turn help inform the periodic review of prices in 2009. achieve this.
In some cases the increased carbon footprint may outweigh the environmental benefit.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 11 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 The Water Supply Licensing regime has been slow Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 PPERA to develop.
NWL has agreed Wholesale Master 2000 covers activities which form part of the necessary relationship between the Company and political Agreements with two new entrants but to date organisations.
These activities include attending Party no customers have transferred.
Conferences, as these provide the best opportunity to meet a range of stakeholders, both national and local, In April 2007, Ofwat published the findings of its internal to explain our activities, as well as local meetings with review of the current state of competition in the water MPs, MEPs and their agents.
The costs associated with industry.
It is currently consulting on proposals that may these activities during 2006 07 were as follows: help the current system to work more effectively.
We will be responding to these proposals and will continue to make a full contribution to the debate on the role of Organisation competition in water and waste water services.
Labour 7,585 Liberal Democrats 2,293 We welcome Ofwats decision to launch a wider Conservative 2,303 review of the opportunities for extending the scope Total 12,181 for competition including the possibility of new legislation and more radical structural measures.
We think it is right The expenditure reflects the representation of political to engage in a full public debate on these issues.
parties in NWLs areas of supply.
Shareholder authority to permit the Company to continue with these activities until In our view, any decisions on the role of competition need the 2008 AGM will be sought at this years AGM.
to be based on the best interest of customers.
We regard competition as a means to an end rather than an end in During the year, the Groups work with senior politicians itself.
The essential characteristics of water supply make of all parties, officials and opinion formers included the process something of a natural monopoly so the making representations on issues that NWG feels are scope for competition is likely to be less than in other important to our customers and communities such as utilities.
However, there may be opportunities to expand abstraction charges, Water for health, climate change, competition beyond its current very limited level.
the WFD and legislative issues which could detrimentally affect our customers.
Relationships The Group as a whole has a code of conduct covering its Investors Communication with shareholders during the year is relationships with its customers, employees, suppliers, local mainly through the annual and half yearly reports, and communities, shareholders, other investors and regulators.
through information on the Companys website.
The NWG communicates regularly with its stakeholders in executive directors maintain regular contact with the face-to-face meetings, by printed and electronic forms Companys large institutional investors, as well as giving of communication and through the media.
regular presentations to analysts and stockbrokers.
During the year, the executive directors met 59 times National with institutional investors, including a visit in March NWL is an active member of Water UK, the industry by institutional investors and analysts to some of our association that represents all UK water and waste southern operational sites.
Further information on NWGs water service suppliers at national and European level.
shareholder relations is contained in the corporate It provides a positive framework for the industry to governance report on page 40. engage with Government, regulators, stakeholder organisations and the public and helps to develop As at 5 June 2007, the Company had been notified of the policy and improve understanding of the industry.
following interests in 3% or more in the voting rights of its issued share capital: We also meet regularly with national, regional and local authorities and other appropriate organisations to explain Percentage of NWLs activities and related issues.
Number of shares share capital Ontario Teachers Pension Political Plan Board 129,655,961 25.00 We do not support any political party and we do not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are Amvescap PLC 72,165,166 13.92 commonly regarded as donations to any political party.
Pictet Asset Management SA 37,040,370 7.14 However, the wide definition of donations in the Political CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 12 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 2.
Operating environment continued employee policies reflecting the framework set out in NWGs Our Code of Conduct, which is available on the Companys website.
These policies are tailored to specific business objectives and operating environments.
Each company aims to recruit and retain the best people, with a diverse range of skills, experience and backgrounds, who are committed to making the company successful.
In return, companies aim to provide opportunities and training for employees to develop their skills and capabilities to equip them to meet the challenges of their roles, while rewarding the contributions of both NWLs Paul Fairrie working in the northern customer centre.
Equal opportunities Domestic customers The Group operates an equal opportunity policy Our relationship with our customers is central to the and promotes equality of opportunity in recruitment, success of our services.
Our reputation for providing employment continuity and training and career value for money and working to maintain high levels development.
The policy is designed to ensure that no of customer satisfaction has helped us achieve a positive applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment response to our appeals to use water carefully.
As a result, on the grounds of age, gender, disability, race, religion or we did not have to impose restrictions on using water, sexual orientation.
even in the driest parts of our operating areas.
NWL tries to keep customers informed about its activities We give full consideration to applications for employment via direct communications sent with bills and an annual from disabled people where the requirements of the job magazine called Source.
Customers directly affected by are appropriate or can be suitably adapted.
Where existing our works receive a note detailing the work, when it will employees become disabled, it is our policy, wherever be complete and the benefits of the work.
Customers practicable, to provide continuing employment under also have access to a range of information relating to the normal terms and conditions and to provide training and companys services, which is available on our websites at career development and promotion to disabled employees.
These were re-launched in January and provide a more flexible source Consultation of information for customers, including details of activities Each company engages with its employees through in their area.
These ensure that all employees understand and have the opportunity to NWL also communicates with local communities through discuss issues which affect the company.
public meetings and written material when we need to explain the impact of work we are due to carry out.
Training and development All Group companies train and develop their employees Business customers to benefit both the company and the individual.
We have regular meetings with the business community and its representative groups such as the CBI and One of our aims is to develop leadership skills in current Chambers of Commerce.
and potential managers, and NWL has introduced a Management Development Framework with the The north east has a strong industrial base and NWL has Newcastle Business School, part of Northumbria well-established relationships with its key industrial and University.
The five programmes will give potential commercial customers.
The availability of both high leaders a path from a diploma to an Honours degree quality potable and raw water together with access to in leadership and management and ultimately, where reliable effluent treatment services is valued by existing appropriate, to a Masters degree.
customers and is also attractive to prospective investors in the region.
Annual appraisals are given high priority, as is the identification of training needs, in recognition of the Employees and employee policies importance of training and development in achieving Each company within the Group has developed its own the Groups goals and policies.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS S S E N E V I T I T E P M O C E L FINANCES BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 P O E P COMMERCIAL SERVICES CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TECHNOLOGY WATCH BUSINESS CONTINUITY PROCUREMENT PARTNERSHIPS T ASSET MANAGEMENT N CULTURAL HERITAGE E M N EMPLOYER OF CHOICE COMMUNITY SUPPORT O R I V N E HEALTH & WELL-BEING 13 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 NWL is recruiting for its new apprentice programme for electrical and mechanical apprentices.
The four year partially funded programme will guarantee permanent jobs for apprentices who have successfully completed the scheme.
Communication Unplugged, the new Group magazine, was launched during the year and includes articles on activities and news from across the business, giving an increased focus on the people who work in the business and their achievements.
The Group also uses a range of The new Group magazine Unplugged.
communication methods, including team briefing, magazines, newsletters, intranet, noticeboards and regular team meetings.
Whistleblowing The Group encourages open feedback and is committed to protecting employees who wish to voice concerns about behaviour or decisions that they believe to be unethical.
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of our Disclosure Policy and receives reports on any incidents.
Health and safety CRC A safe working environment is given a high priority across the Group.
The health and safety policy is maintained and implemented through each subsidiarys individual health and safety team.
The Groups medical advisor, Grosvenor Health, provides occupational health services.
Employee Share Incentive Plan SIP The directors believe that employee investment strengthens the ties between the Company and the Groups employees.
More than a third participate in the SIP, with an interest in 0.34% of issued share capital.
The scheme provides one free matching share for every three shares purchased by an employee.
Shares for the SIP are During the year, we developed a model to help the purchased at market price by the Trustee, and dividends business to focus on corporate responsibility as part are paid in cash directly to participants.
There are no of normal business practice.
performance conditions attached to the SIP, but free shares not held in trust for at least 12 months are forfeited.
NWG also replaced the Sustainable Development Committee with a new Corporate Responsibility Committee Corporate responsibility CRC with a wider remit.
The new committee comprises NWG takes its corporate responsibilities seriously, aiming directors, management team members and senior to balance social and environmental priorities.
This managers and will review policies, agree targets and approach underpins all our activities and is integral to the framework for activity in the model.
Specialist the way we do business.
working groups are responsible for investigating and advising on specific environmental, workplace, marketplace The Group has significant resources in its assets, land and community projects, such as climate change, energy and employees and we believe we have a responsibility use, transport and waste.
The Managing Director is to use these resources for the benefit of customers and accountable to the NWL and NWG boards for the shareholders and the wider communities we serve.
environment and sustainable development policies.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS SKILLS SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES PERFORMANCE, MOTIVATION & REWARD N O I BIODIVERSITY & CONSERVATION T A AFFORDA I TY B LI T U CLIMATE CHANGE P E R WASTE & RECYCLING CUSTOMER SERVICE WASTE WATER MANAGEMENT CCESS B L Y A I I IT TRANSPORT Y D D N E U Y T S N WATER MANAGEMENT O T C Y R I I I A S L P T E O L O E C K K P P P S ENERGY A E A R C S R E M O T S U C Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 14 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 2.
Operating environment continued We are expected to provide a secure supply of water a been supplied to date in nearly 300 schools.
The trials, basic necessity for health and to protect or enhance the and associated research, with water coolers in a day environment when we return waste to it.
However, our centre and care home for older people, as well as two stakeholders also expect us to: prisons, have continued.
behave fairly and responsibly: use resources wisely: NWL assisted Water UK and Unison in the national launch improve quality of life: and of Water@Work which encourages employers to ensure contribute to economic development.
that employees have adequate access to drinking water.
NWG helps its communities in a number of different ways and these are covered in different parts of the model shown on page 13.
As well as financial support, employees are encouraged to volunteer and we provide facilities to help the communities in which we operate.
These activities are mainly targeted to support projects that make the areas we serve better places in which to live, work or invest.
The programme focuses on key themes throughout our communities but, increasingly, we are developing initiatives which promote lasting change in specific areas.
Much of the programme is covered under the following titles in the model: community support: partnerships: and sustainable communities.
Dean Lawson from NWLs health and safety team presenting a cheque to the RNLI Sunderland as part of the Care for safety scheme.
Examples include: Community support Employees and volunteering Currently 35% of employees participate in the Just an hour volunteering scheme and last year gave over 3,300 hours to the community.
The Care for safety scheme, which encourages employees to reduce accidents and associated lost time, has triggered payments totalling 72,270 for our nominated charities: Great North Air Ambulance, Mencaps Dilston College, RNLI, St. Theresas Hospice and the East Anglian Childrens Hospice.
Education Educational support materials have been developed during the year with the introduction of an interactive CD ROM Water made clearer for schools which won a prestigious silver award from IVCA International Visual Communications Awards.
We have also supported schools awards, which recognise excellence in schools in both operating areas.
Sheryl Jones and Bruce Gardiner from NWLs southern area on a Just an hour Partnerships challenge to build a pergola at Sunnymede Junior School, Meadoway, Billericay.
Water for health NWL is playing a leading role in the Water for Health Alliance which is encouraging people to drink more tap water for their health.
Over 200,000 has been provided to date for water coolers in schools and over 410 have CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 15 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 FTSE4Good Environmental NWL has developed key partnerships to help the conservation of biodiversity on our sites.
These involve agreed action plans and objectives for biodiversity and catchment management for individual sites.
NWLs contribution to the partnerships includes funding of project officers.
Current partnerships include: Northumberland Wildlife Trust Kielder and Bakethin : Durham Wildlife Trust: Essex Wildlife Trust Hanningfield : Broads Authority Lound and Trinity Broads : and Davy Down Trust.
Sustainable communities NWG supports a number of programmes which are long term initiatives to bring about lasting change in the community and make them more sustainable.
Community Foundations Endowment funds contributed by NWL over the last 15 years, totalling nearly 1 million, are held with the Community Foundations covering our areas of supply.
These are long term investments with the income from the funds used to support community initiatives.
NWG has been a member of the Per Cent Club of Business in the Community BITC for a number of years.
We NWLs Claire Burn and Dave Lye after completing a Just an hour challenge maintain this membership by donating at least 1% of to repair the fountain at The Bowes Museum in County Durham.
pre-tax profits to community investment projects through cash, employee time, and work in kind or use of facilities.
NWG continues to be a member of the FTSE4Good Index and NWL was again ranked as one of the top 100 Companies for corporate responsibility based on an assessment of the widely recognised BITC indices.
It achieved the highest possible award, platinum, for its community activities.
These indices enable NWL to measure, manage and report its responsible business practice underpinned by a rigorous external review process.
NWL has a Big Tick Award for Excellence from BITC for integrating responsible business practice into mainstream operations for our Just an hour scheme Healthy Communities.
The Group made charitable donations totalling 128,555 during the year.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 16 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued Case study Corporate responsibility NWG has a continuing commitment to support Our contribution to the work of the Healthy Living Centre projects and organisations within the geographic is a unique approach to tackling the poor long term areas in which we work and to contribute to the long health of the residents in Easington.
term sustainability not only of our business, but also of the environment, society and communities we serve.
Corporate responsibility is integral to how we do business and as part of this commitment we are looking at different ways to work within our communities to promote lasting change on key issues.
We are working with partners to create models of sustainable change and also methods of evaluating their success, which can be replicated in other communities.
The focus has been on health, education, economy and Artists impression for illustrative purposes only of the new academy at Castle View, Sunderland.
affordable housing as well as creating new ways to support areas helped by our chosen charity WaterAid.
Education Sunderland City Council is pioneering its own model for Health academies as part of its wider Building Schools for the Census records show that Easington has one of the Future programme.
worst health records in the country.
The Sunderland model has been designed to meet the needs In 2006, NWL reached an agreement with County of Sunderland pupils and has evolved through successful Durham Primary Care Trust PCT giving them a 99 partnership working in the city.
In the Sunderland model, year lease on a redundant building at our Easington Northumbrian Water and two other leading north east waterworks.
We are working in partnership with based businesses will be lead sponsors, in partnership with the PCT, the District of Easington Council, the Sunderland City Council and other co-sponsors.
Each Neighbourhood Management Pathfinder and other business will take the lead for one academy, which will stakeholders to refurbish the building which will specialise in a particular area of the curriculum.
re-open as a Healthy Living Centre in October 2007.
The funding from sponsors and donors will go into a trust However, our commitment goes beyond providing fund for educational disadvantage and will not be used the building.
for capital costs as is the normal practice for academies.
An Education Leadership Board, chaired by Baroness There is a natural synergy between our own Water for Estelle Morris, has also been set up to oversee the health campaign and the Healthy Living agenda, so we development of education in Sunderland and sponsors are devising new ways for NWL to work at a strategic will be involved with this.
level with the partners of the Healthy Living Centre.
We are the lead sponsors for Castle View school in north We have already contributed research, marketing and Sunderland, which will have a business and enterprise communications support to create awareness of the specialism.
We will be able to bring our expertise and Centre and understand local needs and have been network of contacts across the region to complement the involved in three events to promote healthy living, curriculum and we will be able to guide, mentor and targeted at primary and secondary schools and day support staff and pupils to increase their understanding centres.
This activity is supported by sponsorship of an of business and enterprise.
We can provide role models innovative swimming programme run by the Amateur and an introduction to a wide range of employment Swimming Association to promote physical exercise and opportunities because of the size and nature of our an arts programme run by Creative Partnerships to use business: we can use our own employees and networks to arts-based activities to change childrens attitudes to provide help and support to meet the needs identified by eating and drinking, supported by research by the Centre staff or pupils.
Our aim is to use our expertise to support for Arts and Humanities in Health and Medicine at academic and vocational attainment and help bring lasting Durham University.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 17 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 The Department for Education and Skills has approved the Business Partnership and they serve as a catalyst to help Outline Business Case for the academy.
The consultation educate and inspire people to consider setting up their and design process to meet the vision of the new academy own business or social enterprise.
is underway and is planned to be ready in autumn 2009.
NEL Growth Fund Affordable housing NWG has supported this investment fund to help The nature of our business means that we own large smaller north east companies since its launch last year.
areas of land, often in rural areas.
As part of our The fund offers targeted loans and equity to companies stewardship of that land we are exploring ways it can struggling to raise finance from traditional sources, be used for the benefit of rural communities.
helping them grow and plan ahead with greater certainty for the future.
It is a fast-track funding stream If we own land that can be developed, without of between 50,000 and 350,000 into companies affecting our core activity of maintaining and delivering with high growth potential, with a maximum of a clean, safe, water supply, then we will give priority to 500,000 being invested in any one business.
This will contribute to the sustainability and vitality of rural communities and reduce the need for people to move to towns and cities for both housing and employment.
If jobs can be retained in rural communities, then there is the complementary environmental benefit of reducing the use of transport and the associated carbon emissions.
NWL has supported HRH The Prince of Wales Affordable Rural Housing Initiative since it was launched in 2003.
The initiative is a partnership between BITC and key strategic organisations including The Housing NWLs John Mowbray meets HRH Prince Charles at WaterAids 25th Anniversary Celebration.
Corporation, The Countryside Alliance and the Department for Communities and Local Government.
We are leading the industry in this initiative and, together WaterAid with BITC, have produced a guide to affordable rural NWL set itself the target of raising awareness of the housing which was launched by HRH The Prince of Wales.
overwhelming benefits the work of WaterAid brings to people in Africa.
We wanted to raise awareness not just As part of this commitment, we are now embarking in this region but also at government level.
on a housing scheme at Hanningfield in Essex and are identifying other opportunities for affordable rural In 2006, we took a team of leading journalists and housing in our supply areas.
photographers from BBC NE and the north east daily paper, The Journal, accompanied by Kevan Jones MP, We believe that any development should be based on to Malawi to see the impact of WaterAids work.
sustainable principles, not least because of the effects housing can have on the water table, and are currently Malawi is the worlds tenth poorest country.
The working with specialist environmental developers to average life expectancy is 39, daily income is 1 and create a best practice model for future developments.
The group were shown areas where WaterAid has been working and areas where there has Economy been no intervention.
North East Enterprise Bond Our investment to the Bond is a five year loan, which will The subsequent media coverage kickstarted a help fund the purchase and running of a number of Launch fundraising campaign that has already raised over Pads dynamic, state of the art mobile vehicles that will 60,000 and our aim is to develop our involvement tour the region to help trigger and encourage enterprise beyond raising awareness and funds to increase our start-ups to make real, long term change.
The Bond works volunteering base from the regions we serve in the in partnership with creative enterprise promoters such as UK, to take some expertise overseas and bring lasting Big Ideas, People into Enterprise and Newcastle Education health benefits to other parts of the world.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 18 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued One of NWLs customer advisers Sonia Hewitson working in the northern customer centre.
Case study NVQs The NWL People Plan 2006 10 was launched in 2006 for example, the introduction of the new Competent and sets out clear objectives and actions over that period.
Operator standard in water production.
Three of the seven objectives of the plan are to: I did enjoy doing the NVQ.
When I first saw what equip our people with the right skills for their current was involved it looked a bit scary.
But once it was job and the next job: achieve and maintain high levels of performance and broken down into the different units I realised it motivation: and was just about what I do every day.
It made you recognise and reward our people for their stop and reflect on what you are doing.
away from the phones gave you time to think about the way you do things and why.
It shows During the year, we introduced a pilot NVQ scheme in the Customer section of the business.
In addition you just how much service you are giving the to the training they receive to meet our own standards, customer and thats what its all about.
employees were able to work towards an NVQ level 2 or 3.
The qualification was not essential for employees Its good to achieve something and have a to carry out their role, but it provides them with a qualification to show that I can do my job.
national qualification in recognition of the very high Its there if I want to do more.
standards of work they carry out.
By March 2007, 70 employees had achieved their NVQ.
Sonia Hewitson has been a customer adviser since 2002 This scheme is now being extended throughout and completed her NVQ in November 2006.
Customer and in other areas of the business including, CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 19 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 3.
Financial performance Key performance indicators KPIs NWG uses many performance indicators to monitor its progress.
For NWG, the KPIs are all financial and the non-financial KPIs relating to NWL are shown on page 22.
The definition, purpose and source of each KPI are shown on pages 32 and 33.
A summary of the Groups performance against the KPIs is set out below: Bran Sands effluent treatment works in Teesside.
Performance against financial KPIs The financial performance of NWG and NWL is monitored against the same KPIs.
Target Performance Current year Previous year KPI NWG NWL NWG NWL NWG NWL Gearing to RCV 80% 70% 74% 65% 77% 66% Cash interest cover 2.5x 3.0x 2.9x 3.6x 2.7x 3.3x Cash flow to net debt 13% 13% 15% 16% 15% 17% Less than 65% for the regulated business of NWL.
Financial results and dividends The increase in cash interest cover for the year reflects the The Groups results and dividends are as follows: positive cash effects of the index linked bond issuance since September 2005.
More details are given in the capital structure section on page 21.
2007 m For the regulated business within NWL, gearing decreased from 58% to 57%.
Profit for the year from continuing operations 111.2 Interim dividend paid ordinary The focus at NWL continues to be improving efficiency 3.75 pence per share 19.4 levels and driving down operating costs.
Continuous Final dividend proposed ordinary improvement will be necessary to ensure the company is 7.52 pence per share 39.0 successful in meeting the targets set by Ofwat in its final determination of price limits for 2005 to 2010.
Revenue was 633.5 million for the year to 31 March 2007 and represents a 7.1% increase on the year to Other measures and evidence 31 March 2006.
This increase is mainly due to the uplift The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans in water and sewerage charges to support continuing and annual budgets, which are reviewed and submitted high capital investment as part of the regulatory price to the Board for approval.
Targets are set to measure review in 2004. performance and regular financial forecasts are made.
Business plans and budgets include an assessment of the Profit on ordinary activities before interest for the year key risks and success factors facing each business unit.
Operating a monthly basis, management compares the actual costs increased by 20.0 million 5.6% to 375.3 million.
operational and financial performance of each business At NWL, operating costs have increased from 320.9 with plan and budget and this is reported to the Board.
million to 343.9 million, principally reflecting a significant increase in energy market prices and the full year impact of increased pension costs following an actuarial review of the pension scheme, in addition to the impact of inflation.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 20 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 3.
Financial performance continued Earnings per share and dividend cover Basic and diluted earnings per share were 21.42 pence 2006: 20.45 pence and 21.38 pence 2006: 20.42 pence respectively.
Earnings per share from continuing operations, adjusted for IAS 39, deferred tax and the amortisation of debt fair value, were 24.95 pence 2006: 19.52 pence.
The dividend cover for the year is 1.9x, and 2.3x 2006: 1.5x and 1.7x, including the special dividend excluding deferred tax and the amortisation of debt fair value.
A final dividend of 7.52 pence per share for the year ended 31 March 2007 will be recommended by the Board to shareholders at the AGM on 2 August 2007 and, if approved, will be paid on 14 September 2007 to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members at NWLs Alan Dixon and Mark McClean carrying out a mains repair.
the close of business on 17 August 2007.
Together with the ordinary interim dividend of 3.75 pence per share, the Operating costs for the appointed business in 2006 07 are ordinary dividends paid and proposed for the year will be 7.2 million higher than those estimated in the 2004 final 11.27 pence per share 2006: 10.56 pence per share.
This determination for the year due to energy costs.
Within represents an increase of 6.7% on the ordinary dividend water and waste water contracts, the results include a for the previous year and is consistent with the Boards credit of 3 million in respect of gas indexation on tariffs decision to maintain a progressive dividend policy with which is not expected to be repeated in 2007 08. real increases of around 3% per annum.
The board of our main subsidiary, NWL, has proposed a dividend policy The net interest charge was 111.2 million 2006: consistent with the underlying assumptions adopted 106.0 million.
This charge includes a credit of 7.7 by Ofwat at its price review in 2004. million 2006: 13.0 million in respect of the amortisation of the debt fair value and a gain of 2.9 million 2006: nil Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited, in respect of the cancellation of a financial instrument.
which at the date of this report held 716,917 shares to be used in the future to satisfy the vesting and exercise Profit on ordinary activities before tax for the year was of awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive 147.8 million, 13.4% higher than the previous year Plan LTIP, has waived the right to all dividends on the 2006: 130.3 million.
The tax charge of 36.6 million shares it holds.
Further details of the LTIP can be found 2006: 39.3 million reflects increased profitability, in the directors remuneration report on pages 43 and 44. adjustments in respect of prior periods arising from changes in claims for capital allowances, a revision to Accounting policies retirement benefits and a reduction in the amortisation The consolidated financial statements have been of financing items.
The effective tax rate for the year to prepared in accordance with International Financial 31 March 2007 was 25% 2006: 30%.
This is consistent with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as it applies to the The Groups gearing has decreased from 77% to 74% financial statements of the Group for the year ended of NWLs RCV, net debt increasing by 69.2 million to 31 March 2007.
The decrease in the Groups gearing is principally due to the growth in RCV Purchase of the Companys own shares over the year from 2,624 million to 2,817 million at During the year, and up to 5 June 2007, no market 31 March 2007.
For the regulated business within NWL, purchases have been made.
The directors authority to gearing decreased from 58% to 57%.
make market purchases of the Companys own shares expired at the 2006 AGM.
The directors are not seeking Cash interest cover for the Group has improved from 2.7x to renew this authority.
to 2.9x in the year reflecting the positive cash effects of the index linked bond issuance since September 2005 see page 19 for further analysis.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 21 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Capital structure The Group is currently reviewing pension provision In June 2006, Northumbrian Water Finance plc NWF, the with the aim of introducing revised arrangements from finance subsidiary of NWL, issued two further 100 million 1 January 2008.
Members as at 30 November 2007 index linked Eurobonds with real coupons of 1.7118% and would be eligible to participate in a revised defined 1.7484% and with maturities of 2049 and 2053, respectively.
benefit section and entrants would be eligible for a new Index linked debt now comprises 18% of the gross debt occupational trust-based defined contribution scheme, portfolio, whilst fixed rate debt amounts to 65%.
with a choice of contribution rates.
On 28 June 2006, the Group redeemed the remaining The most recent triennial actuarial valuation, as at 172 million 8.625% Eurobonds.
The redemption was 31 December 2004, reported that the scheme was financed by the drawdown of 125 million of five year 97.6% funded and new employer contributions were committed bank facilities with the balance coming from recommended by the scheme actuary.
The Group agreed cash resources.
The loans were taken on a variable basis an alternative proposal to make advanced payments with interest rates linked to LIBOR.
of 36.1 million by April 2006 and 23.3 million by April 2007, covering both employee and employer In March 2007, the latest 100 million EIB facility was contributions to 31 December 2010.
In addition, the drawn by NWL.
The loan was advanced on a variable Group launched a salary sacrifice arrangement, on 1 April interest rate basis, with a 15 year maturity and an 2006, under which savings in employer national insurance amortising principal repayment profile.
contributions are also paid into the scheme.
Credit rating The Group also operates an existing defined contribution The credit rating for NWL has remained consistent scheme and, as at 31 March 2007, there were 248 2006: throughout the year at BBB stable Fitch and S&P 258 contributing members.
Further details of both schemes are disclosed in note 26 Treasury policies and objectives to the financial statements.
The main purposes of the Groups treasury function are to assess the Groups ongoing capital requirement, to Creditors maintain short term liquidity and to raise funding, taking The Companys policy is to agree payment terms with advantage of any favourable market opportunities.
It suppliers and to pay on time according to those agreed ensures access to medium term committed back up terms.
In the absence of alternative agreement, the policy facilities on a five year basis.
is to make payment not more than 30 days after receipt of a valid invoice.
The ratio, expressed in days, between It also invests any surplus funds the Group may have, the amount invoiced to the Company by its suppliers based on its forecast requirements and in accordance during the year and the amount owed to its trade with the Groups treasury policy.
On occasions, derivatives creditors at 31 March 2007, was five days.
are used as part of this process, but the Groups policies prohibit their use for speculation.
Full details are provided in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Group is operating in compliance with its policies.
Cash flows liquidity As noted previously, the Group has available substantial cash resources and undrawn committed bank facilities in order to maintain general liquidity.
Pensions The Group operates a defined benefit pension scheme providing benefits based on pensionable remuneration.
The surplus under IAS 19, at 31 March 2007, was 42.7 million 2006: deficit 3.7 million.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 22 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 4.
Operational performance KPIs NWL use performance indicators to monitor progress.
As well as the financial indicators shown on page 19, NWL use non-financial indicators throughout the business, which are reviewed by the management team each month.
The definition, purpose and source of the main KPIs are shown on pages 32 and 33.
NWL performance against non-financial KPIs unaudited North N Target Target Performance South S 2007 08 2006 07 Current year Previous year Water Water quality % N S Maintain 99.9 Maintain 99.9 99.9 99.9 Leakage Ml d N 154.5 156.0 145.92 157.1 Leakage Ml d S 67.5 68.3 67.99 66.64 Environment Sewage treatment works % N 100 100 99.8 100 Bathing waters Mandatory Standard % N 100 100 100 97 Pollution incidents N 116 181 142 201 Customer levels of service Properties at risk of low pressure N 274 274 298 312 S 126 126 130 136 1 Properties subject to unplanned N 0.14 0.14 4.57 0.39 interruption of 6 hours or more % S 0.14 0.14 0.57 0.17 Properties subject to hosepipe bans at any time during the year N S 0 0 0 0 Population subject to sewer flooding incidents overloaded sewers and other causes N 260 260 313 1,077 Properties at risk of sewer flooding incidents once in ten years N 78 95 116 142 Properties at risk of sewer flooding incidents twice in ten years N 51 60 229 162 Billing contacts responded to N 99.0 99.0 99.3 99.2 within five working days % S 99.0 99.0 99.2 99.1 Written complaints responded to N 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.9 within ten working days % S 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.9 Bills based on meter readings % N 99.95 99.95 99.84 99.95 S 99.95 99.95 99.94 99.97 All telephone lines busy % N 2.0 5.0 0.2 0.8 S 2.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 Abandoned telephone calls % N 2.5 1.5 3.2 2.3 S 2.5 1.5 2.3 1.2 Customer satisfaction Overall service % N S Maintain Maintain 91.75 93.00 Value for money % N S Maintain Maintain 87.00 88.50 Employees Lost time reportable accidents per 1,000 employees N S 6 8 8 7 Sickness absence % N S 2.95 3.00 3.01 3.12 2 Employee turnover rolling % Industry average N S 10.3 8.2 6.7 Notes: 1.
Performance affected by two major bursts, one in Middlesbrough on Teesside and one in Bedlington in Northumberland.
No target set, data for information.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 23 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Water NWL achieved its best ever drinking water quality results in 2006 and the quality of drinking water supplied in both operating areas remains among the best in the country.
One of the DWIs key measures is Mean Zonal Compliance and NWL achieved 99.97% in the south and 99.96% in the north.
Additionally, its Operational Performance Index was 99.99% in the south and 99.84% in the north.
During 2006 07, we completed significant improvements to water treatment works WTWs at Whittle define and Horsley, on Tyneside, and Chigwell in Essex.
These works now have an additional treatment process to remove pesticides from raw water.
Similar work at Warkworth in Northumberland will be completed in summer 2007.
We also completed a major refurbishment of our Ormesby WTW in Suffolk.
One of NWLs key priorities is to reduce the amount of water lost from the networks.
We agreed leakage targets with Ofwat of 156 Ml d in the northern operating area Construction work at Warkworth water treatment works in Northumberland.
and 68.3 Ml d in the south, and both have been met.
This means that leakage targets have been met consistently since 1998 99.
The leakage in our southern operating area has been among the lowest in the country for many years.
NWL aims to set best practice standards to reduce leakage and is playing a leading role in a review of leakage methodologies with the EA and Ofwat.
NWL has achieved national recognition for its work on water efficiency.
This year Essex & Suffolk Water again won the Economic Research and Innovation prize at the EA National Water Efficiency Awards and also received a commendation for a project on domestic audits.
John Cuthbert presenting at one of the Building our future employee roadshows.
NWLs success in this area over the past ten years was recognised by the judges who presented the company with a special award.
They commended the company for showing that water efficiency is not just a one-off project, but a constantly evolving organisational challenge.
They praised the teams enthusiasm and tenacity in making water efficiency a core part of their company philosophy saying This is a unique record and really sets a standard for all other companies.
Comprehensive repairs to the two water mains supplying Hexham in Northumberland, which had been washed away during the severe weather in 2005, are now complete.
The solution involved building a tunnel several metres below the riverbed.
Clare Ridgewell and Tom Andrewartha from NWLs southern demand planning team with their water efficiency awards.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 24 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 4.
Operational performance continued In Essex, we laid 10.5km of pipeline to triplicate the strategic In 2006 07, the number of properties flooded from mains taking water from our Layer-fide-la-Haye WTW and sewers was 314, about the long term average.
As a to improve the overall infrastructure.
In addition, 477km result of investment in improving the sewerage system, of mains was renewed or relined.
The current rehabilitation 129 properties were removed from the register of programme in the south is now complete and the work in properties at risk of flooding during 2006 07.
This takes the north is due to be finished in 2008.
This work will help the total to 228 properties, effectively delivering three reduce incidents of discoloured water and also help further years outputs in two years.
During the year, 98 sewage overflows have been Over the years, NWL has carefully designed its systems to improved.
This will improve local water courses, enhance secure water supplies for its customers.
This is particularly their visual appearance and reduce pollution incidents.
challenging in Essex, where there is limited water in the summer months.
The Langford Recycling Scheme has Domestic customers improved the security of supply and can provide up to NWL is committed to providing a high standard of 30 Ml d of water during the summer months.
customer service that meets the expectations of both customers and regulators.
In the medium term, we plan to further improve the security of supply and augment resources in the Essex Based on information provided to Ofwat for 2006 07, area by increasing the capacity of the Abberton reservoir, NWL should remain in the top category for each Ofwat as outlined on page 30. level of service indicator, with the exception of DG3, which covers unplanned interruptions to supply.
Environment All 33 bathing waters passed the EU Mandatory Standard and, of these, 29 88% passed the more demanding Guideline Standard.
Those passing the Guideline Standard are predicted to achieve good or excellent ratings under the new Bathing Water Directive, which is expected to take effect from the 2015 bathing water season.
To maintain this high performance we are working with the EA to identify the impact of other stakeholders including local authorities, highway authorities, farmers and land holders on the quality of Abberton reservoir in Essex.
The performance of the 425 STWs operated by NWL continued to be high with 99.8% of the population being served by works which met their consent standards.
We had one category 1 pollution incident in 2006 and the EA has commended NWL for achieving above average compliance with standards.
The number of minor incidents, such as blockages, continued to fall significantly by nearly 30% compared to last year as a result of more proactive maintenance and our investment in remote monitors.
We currently have around 450 monitors installed to warn of high or unusual flows, so that we can take action to prevent spillages and flooding.
NWL is working with other stakeholders in the region to reduce flooding and improve the way flooding incidents are managed.
Regular meetings with CCWater, local authorities and local residents groups have helped to improve communication with affected communities.
Langford water treatment works in Essex.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 25 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Performance here was affected by two major bursts, Leisure customers one in Middlesbrough on Teesside and one in Bedlington There has been an increase in the number of visitor days in Northumberland.
as NWL has continued to develop its leisure facilities at strategic sites.
Although there has been a rise in written and telephone contacts, partly due to these bursts, the Customer Centre Events included: still responded to 99.9% of written complaints within over 13,000 customers visited Kielder Winter ten working days.
During 2006 07, the total number of Wonderland during November and December: and written complaints received was 11,496.
The increase, BBC Springwatch in May with over 6,000 visitors when compared to 2005 06, can be attributed to to Kielder.
heightened national media interest in water shortages and leakage levels along with the large operational NWL is the lead member of the Kielder Partnership, which incidents in our northern operating area.
Greater levels consists of organisations committed to the economic of debt recovery activity have also generated more development of the Kielder area through tourism, chaired responses from our customers regarding billing arrears.
This year saw the launch of The Big Picture, a concept for the development of the area as a CCWater formally reviews the quality of complaints major visitor attraction which will further contribute to handling.
During this process they audit procedures, the economy of the Tyne Valley.
track samples of complaints correspondence through our systems and assess the quality of our responses.
In Customer satisfaction 2006 07, all northern complaints and 80% of southern NWL carries out regular quarterly tracking surveys and complaints were rated as good.
during the year customer satisfaction levels remained very high, with 91.75% of our customers satisfied or very Despite regional socio-economic characteristics, satisfied with the service NWL provides and 87% feeling and increases in levels of water and sewerage charges it provides value for money.
during the year, NWL has maintained its collection rates, supported by its successful initiative to encourage as many Research with commercial and industrial customers customers as possible to use direct debit.
This still proves showed that 91% are satisfied with the services provided to be the most efficient way to collect payment for bills.
and 85% believe that they are receiving value for money.
In the case of managed account customers, these results Business customers increased to 97% and 90% respectively.
NWL has continued to develop its commercial business with major companies in the region.
Solvent Resource In our regular surveys, 93% of our leisure customers rated Management Ltd at its site in Sunderland, is recovering our services as good or excellent.
Effluent from this process is now being delivered for treatment at Hendon STW.
Customers have always been central to NWLs strategy and will continue to be so as we prepare for the next Biofuels Corporation, the developer of Europes largest price review in 2009.
NWL began customer consultation biodiesel plant at Seal Sands on Teesside, is now at the start of 2007, building on the results of its regular transferring effluent to Bran Sands effluent treatment tracking surveys.
Biofuels Corporation produces 250,000 tonnes of biodiesel a year at Seal Sands from renewable vegetable Quality crops.
NWL also supplies the company with water services.
NWL has maintained its certification to the international quality standard ISO 9001:2000 and to the international Corus has benefited from these effluent treatment environmental standard ISO 14001:2004 across all services since 1998.
NWL has successfully completed areas of the business, including operational sites and modifications to Bran Sands so that it can undertake office-based teams.
In addition, during 2007, we will additional effluent treatment for Corus.
This has extended seek certification to the international health and safety the long term relationship between the two companies.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 26 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 4.
Operational performance continued Employees Throughout the Group we have 3,040 employees, as set out below: Average number Group business unit of employees % Northumbrian Water Limited 2,554 84 Water and waste water contracts 153 5 Related services 333 11 Total employees 3,040 100 Kriss Akabusi at the NWL Skills Awards which celebrates employees academic achievements.
One of the strengths of NWL is employee loyalty, evidenced by the fact that employee turnover is relatively low at 8.2%, well below the UK water industry average of 10.3%.
Employees have access to the mybenefits scheme which provides a range of money saving benefits including tax efficient child care vouchers and discounted store vouchers.
This year also saw the launch of a Christmas Savings Scheme.
Currently 20% of employees participate in the mybenefits scheme, up from 17% last year.
NWL continues to seek the views of employees.
This NWLs Alistair Baker right receives the Chartered Institute of Public years survey was completed by 56%, an increase of Relations CIPR award for the best charity campaign in the UK 2006 07 7%, who gave their views on their working life, training, for WaterAid in Malawi.
communications, managers and the company.
The results were reported back to all employees and discussed with Training and development representative bodies.
Overall, employee satisfaction During the year, NWL introduced a pilot award scheme levels remain very high with over 72% of respondents in the Customer Centre to enable employees trained to stating they are proud to work for the company.
NWL standards to achieve an NVQ level 2 or 3.
By March 2007, 70 employees had attained their NVQ.
See case The Group currently has a final salary pension scheme study on page 18. with 2,310 active members at 31 March 2007.
In 2006 the Board announced a review of the scheme and a Health and safety Pensions Working Group was formed, comprising The emphasis on health and safety within NWL has employee representatives, management representatives, resulted in major improvements to our safety record and full-time union officers to discuss options.
This year lost time reportable accidents equalled our best performance of eight per 1,000 The views from the Pensions Working Group were employees.
This has been accompanied by a further presented to the Board in January 2007 and at the end reduction in days lost through accidents.
of March 2007, the Company proposed pension scheme changes for current members and a defined contribution scheme for new entrants from 1 January 2008.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 27 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 In Ireland, the Group is part of a contractual consortium that designed and built a waste water treatment plant for Cork City Council.
Under the consortium agreement, the Group has responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the plant.
AquaGib Limited, two thirds owned by the Group in joint venture with the Government of Gibraltar, operates Gibraltars dual drinking water and sea water distribution systems under its long term contract with the Government of Gibraltar.
Louise McCormack from AES performing settled solids analysis.
Related services companies We continue to develop programmes to promote healthy UKAS gave AES its best ever audit results in 2006.
It eating and discourage smoking in our workforce and achieved multi-site UKAS Accreditation for all laboratory offer excellent health screening and medical insurance related activities and UKAS Accreditation for the schemes.
Around 1,700 employees have been through Acoustics Section.
our health screening and fitness standards programmes, both of which now include lifestyle advice elements.
The During the year, AES won new contracts with blue success of these programmes has helped reduce NWLs chip clients including Marks & Spencer, the Ministry of total sickness absence rate to 3.01%, which is well below Defence, Northern Ireland Water Service, Anglian Water the sector norm.
Hartlepool and Newcastle University, and won new clients in the growing incineration industry.
AES is one of Research and development four laboratories authorised to work for Secondsite We run a programme of research and development Properties British Gas.
linked to UK business operations.
This includes the provision of technical solutions for water and waste AES has refurbished its laboratories at Horsley and water management and developing partnerships with Howdon and the occupational hygiene and acoustic academic and research organisations.
During the year, consultancy sections opened an office in Huddersfield the Group invested 2.1 million 2006: 2.3 million in to service customers in the West Yorkshire and North research and development.
Water and waste water companies On 31 March 2007, the AES business combined with the The Group is a member of two consortiums delivering NWL water and waste water compliance teams to form a private finance initiative contracts with Scottish Water new Scientific Services division within NWL.
At Levenmouth, where the Group has a 75% shareholding in both project and During the year, Agrer signed contracts for 29 new projects operating companies, the effluent treatment plant is across a diverse range of sectors around the world.
delivering against discharge consent conditions.
Practical completion of the odour treatment and sludge drying facilities has been achieved and commissioning and performance testing has been completed.
At Ayrshire, the Group has a 75% shareholding in the project company and a 100% shareholding in the operating company.
The three effluent treatment plants that make up this contract continue to perform satisfactorily.
Inverclyde waste water treatment works, part of the Ayrshire consortium.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 28 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 5.
Risks and resources All subsidiaries within the Group identify and assess the Apart from NWL, none of the subsidiaries has risks impact of risks to their business.
The Group uses a model considered to be significant to the Groups short and that identifies risks under five headings environment, long term value.
The NWG Board considers social, external, operations, finance and reputation.
For each environmental and ethical risks as outlined in the risk the unmanaged and managed likelihood and corporate governance report on pages 39 and 40. consequence are identified, management controls Details of the Groups treasury risks are contained in and frequency of monitoring are reported and the note 21 to the financial statements.
scale of the risk is assessed.
Changes to the regulatory environment NWL has set measures to enable it to determine and to legislation whether the risks are significant to the business.
The NWL Significant changes are occurring in economic, management team reviews the model in detail every year environmental and quality regulation.
to ensure that the inclusion and assessment of each risk is still appropriate.
The NWG and NWL audit committees The EA, as part of its Modern Regulation agenda, is consider the outcome of this review.
In addition, the NWL moving to a more risk-based regulatory approach.
While board considers the management of significant risks at we support the principle, we expressed some concerns each of its meetings.
about the proposed timing and some of the detailed changes proposed in the EA consultation papers.
We are pleased to note that the EA has responded positively to consultation responses.
The DWI, too, has adopted a risk-based approach.
Our response to its consultation on the revisions to the Drinking Water Regulations noted that much depends on the guidance supporting the Regulations, which are yet to be issued.
We believe Ofwat should also adopt a risk-based approach.
We recognise that Ofwat had to respond to misreporting issues in the sector and fully accept NWLs John Fielding at Howdon sewage treatment works in Tyne and Wear.
that all companies must give top priority to ensuring the regulatory data is of the highest quality and credibility.
We believe the industry and Ofwat should now explore how regulatory data can be streamlined and simplified to improve regulatory processes.
New legislation that will have a significant impact on the business includes: Traffic Management Act to be implemented April 2008 : and transfer of private sewers which will increase the sewers owned and maintained by the company by about 50% out to consultation.
Changes to weather patterns and their impact The Groups main business, the provision of water and sewerage services, is closely linked to the water cycle and is, therefore, influenced by the vagaries of the British weather.
NWL is skilled and experienced in managing the impact of having too little and too much rainfall.
These changing weather patterns are likely to continue to present an operational challenge.
NWLs senior ranger Dave Rounce on patrol at Hanningfield reservoir in Essex.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 29 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Essex water wise gardener Terence Gandy with his collection of water butts.
Case study Water resources Searching for new ways to improve how we retain, water efficiency we created a range of specific recycle and distribute precious water resources in our initiatives for our domestic customers.
As a result of regions is a key part of the business.
our work in this area we are now acknowledged industry leaders for promoting water efficiency: and Water resources in the south are not scarce, but Essex metering about 40% of domestic customers in is the driest county in the UK.
We need to avoid waste, Essex now use a water meter.
reduce leakage and seek the highest standards throughout both our regions.
Customers in Essex will benefit from plans to further develop water resources.
We are adopting a responsible The demand for water in Essex is forecast to increase and pragmatic approach to the need for long term in the medium long term and this, coupled with the planning to secure water resources in Essex: uncertainties of climate change, creates a unique the innovative Langford Recycling Scheme has been challenge for NWL.
We need to plan demand helping to maintain water levels in our reservoirs management and water resource development only since 2003.
It provided 12% extra water in the 50% of the water for Essex is sourced from within the Hanningfield reservoir during summer 2006: and area in a dry year.
we are making progress with our plans to increase the Abberton reservoir near Colchester by 60%.
We focus on three main areas to influence demand for water: reducing leakage we have achieved a significant reduction over the past 11 years: CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 30 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors report and business review continued 5.
Risks and resources continued Scheme, helped maintain our reservoir levels.
The Langford Recycling Scheme provided 12% extra water in Hanningfield reservoir last summer.
Our ongoing and long running water efficiency promotions and good relationship with our customers produced a positive response to our requests for additional efforts on water saving and a consequent significant reduction in demand.
Metering has an important role to play in managing Graham Robinson, one of NWLs electrical apprentices.
In addition to our optional metering scheme, we have introduced a successful scheme to install water meters when properties are sold in the Essex area and we As part of NWLs corporate responsibility model, research now have about 40% of domestic customers in Essex on has been carried out into the impact of climate change a metered supply.
on assets and water resources and a Climate Change Policy has been developed.
NWL is monitoring its carbon Alongside these important measures to manage demand, footprint and opportunities to reduce this are being we believe that we need to augment water resources in pursued see case study on page 9.
The water industry the south to secure water supplies for customers in what is one of the largest users of energy in its processes and is one of Britains driest regions.
During 2007, we will be we are working to inform customers about the energy applying for planning permission for a project that will wasted when water is wasted.
increase the capacity of the Abberton reservoir near Colchester by 60%.
Social, environmental and ethical risks The principal social, environmental or ethical risk considered to be significant to the value of the Group is the possibility of the removal of the opportunity to use sewage sludge as a soil conditioner on agricultural land.
If this disposal route was lost the sector would need to find or develop alternative ways to re-use or dispose of its sewage sludge.
This could mean higher capital and revenue costs to provide additional sludge processing facilities.
However, NWLs existing contract with Lafarge to use sewage sludge pellets as a fuel replacement in cement manufacture, gives NWL a viable alternative way of disposing of sludge in the medium term.
Water resources Following a wet winter, our reservoirs are in a strong position at the time of writing this report.
NWL has sufficient water reserves in its northern area, largely due to Kielder Water and the ability it provides to augment the major rivers in the area during periods of drought.
Its southern area is in one of the driest parts of the UK and A new roof being put onto Lodgewood water tower, near Walpole in Suffolk.
rainfall, until recently, has been low since November 2004.
In Essex, NWL did not need to introduce a hosepipe ban during the drought which affected supplies across much of south east England during 2006.
Our investment to reduce leakage, our ability to pump water from Norfolk via the Ely Ouse to Essex Transfer Scheme and the water available from the innovative Langford Recycling CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS BUSINESS OPERATING FINANCIAL OPERATIONAL RISkS AND STRATEGy ENVIRONMENT PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE RESOURCES 1 2 3 4 5 31 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Directors remuneration and interests order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant Information about directors remuneration and their audit information and to establish that the Companys interests in the shares of the Company is contained in auditors are aware of that information.
the directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 49.
By order of the Board Indemnification of directors The Company has in place directors and officers Martin Parker insurance and, on 28 November 2005, entered into Company Secretary a deed of indemnity to grant the directors further 5 June 2007 protection against liability to third parties, subject to Registered office: Northumbria House, Abbey Road, Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FJ the conditions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
Registered in England and Wales No.
4760441 Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of approving the directors report and business review.
The deed, together with directors service contracts, will be available for inspection by shareholders at the AGM, or from the Company Secretary.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the AGM, to be held on 2 August 2007, was sent to shareholders with this report, together with an explanation of the business to be conducted at the meeting, and a form of proxy.
Auditors Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, David Miliband MP and NWLs John Mowbray at the launch of Exploring Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to Your Environment EYE, which aims to encourage everyone to get continue in office and a resolution proposing their actively involved in learning about and safeguarding the environment.
re-appointment as auditors will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Financial statements preparation and going concern The directors consider that it is appropriate to prepare the financial statements for the financial year on a going concern basis.
The directors have arrived at their decision based on consideration of the Companys detailed budget for 2007 08 and the business plan for the period to 31 March 2010.
Their analysis included a review of the capital expenditure and investment plans, the anticipated funding requirements and facilities available, and the reasonableness of the underlying assumptions of both the budget and business plan.
Directors declaration As required under Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, so far as each current director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in NWLs Neil Haswell and Michael Grimes carrying out planned 12,000 hour lamp changes on the UV plant at Hendon sewage treatment works in Sunderland.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS
