Job: 07734 NQ AR FRONT AW Proof: 01 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 27 06 07 Server: studio 1 Set-up: Gemma First Read Revisions 32 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 Appendix to the directors report and business review Group financial KPIs NWL financial KPIs Gearing to RCV Regulatory gearing Definition and calculation: The ratio of Group net Definition and calculation: The ratio of NWL net debt to NWLs Regulatory Capital Value RCV.
The RCV represents the total RCV represents the total capital value of the appointed capital value of the appointed water and sewerage water and sewerage business on which Ofwat allows business on which Ofwat allows a rate of return at a rate of return at price reviews based on its view of price reviews based on its view of the cost of capital.
Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue Purpose: The RCV generates most of the revenue stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an stream of the Group and regulatory gearing is an important factor in credit ratings.
important factor in credit ratings.
Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is Source of underlying data: NWLs RCV is calculated by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat calculated by Ofwat and published each year.
Ofwat also publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, also publishes anticipated values up to five years ahead, based on its last price determination.
NWLs net debt based on its last price determination.
Group net debt is can be found in the audited regulatory accounts and disclosed in the audited financial statements.
Ofwat annual reports on financial performance.
NWL non-financial KPIs Cash interest cover Water Definition and calculation: Cash generated from operations less tax divided by net interest paid.
Drinking water quality Definition and calculation: Compliance with Purpose: Measures the ability of the Group to drinking water regulations as monitored by the service its debt.
Purpose: To monitor drinking water quality.
Source of underlying data: Audited financial Source of underlying data: Samples recorded by statements.
Cash flow to net debt Leakage Definition and calculation: Cash generated from Definition and calculation: Total leakage from the operations less tax paid divided by net debt.
water network including customer pipes.
Purpose: To monitor compliance with Ofwat Purpose: Indicates the Groups ability to reduce debt leakage targets.
in the absence of need for additional investment, Source of underlying data: Information recorded without resorting to asset disposal.
by NWL and audited by Ofwat.
Source of underlying data: Audited financial statements.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS 33 NORTHUMBRIAN WATER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 06 07 NWL non-financial KPIs continued Environment Sewage treatment works Customer satisfaction Definition and calculation: Percentage of Definition and calculation: Domestic customers population equivalent served by non-compliant satisfaction with overall service and overall value for works failing Look Up Tables consents.
money, expressed as satisfaction averaged over the Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs surveys carried out during the year.
sewage treatment works and their impact on the Purpose: To enable tracking of perception of environment.
reputation, service and value for money over time.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded Source of underlying data: Independent surveys by NWL and the Environmental Agency EA and of 500 customers 300 north, 200 south chosen at reported on by the latter.
random, but representative of the customer base, carried out each quarter a total of 2,000 customers.
Bathing waters Mandatory Standard Employee Definition and calculation: Percentage of bathing waters complying with Mandatory Standards.
Lost time reportable accidents Purpose: To monitor the impact of NWLs coastal Definition and calculation: Injury accidents that treatment works on the environment.
are reported to the Health & Safety Executive as Source of underlying data: Information recorded required by the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and and reported by the EA.
Calculated as number of accidents reported in financial year per 1,000 employees.
Purpose: To monitor the safety performance of NWL Pollution incidents over time.
Definition and calculation: Number of category Source of underlying data: Completed NWL 1, 2 and 3 pollution incidents in the calendar year as Accident Incident report forms.
Employee numbers defined by the EA.
provided by the Human Resources department.
Purpose: To monitor the performance of NWLs sewerage system and its impact on the environment.
Source of underlying data: Information recorded and reported to Ofwat by the EA.
Sickness absence Definition and calculation: Sickness absence days as a percentage of total working days multiplied by Customer the end of month headcount.
Purpose: To track and trend sickness absence levels Customer levels of service across the organisation.
Definition and calculation: Customer service Source of underlying data: Sicknotes, return to standards are established by Ofwat, the economic work interviews and weekly returns by managers.
regulator, and calculated using source data in the company.
Purpose: To monitor performance of NWL.
Source of underlying data: Information Employee turnover collected by the company and submitted to Ofwat.
Definition and calculation: Number of leavers It is independently certified.
within the year as a percentage of average headcount.
Purpose: To track the employee turnover within the business to ensure that it is within benchmark data.
Source of underlying data: Current employees are held within the Human Resources Management System reports show leavers against headcount.
CliCk TO rETUrN TO CONTENTS
