Business Review About Pearson We do this by investing consistently in four areas, which are common to all our businesses: Pearson is an international media and education company with world-leading businesses in education, business information and Content We invest steadily in unique, valuable publishing consumer publishing.
content and keep replenishing it.
Over the past five years, for example, we have invested $1.7bn in new content in our education We create and manage intellectual property, which we promote and business alone.
sell to our customers under well-known brand names, to inform, educate and entertain.
We deliver our content in a variety of forms Technology and services We invested early and consistently in and through a variety of channels, including books, newspapers and technology, believing that, in the digital world, content alone would online services.
We increasingly offer services as well as content, from not be enough.
We now generate more than $1bn in sales from test administration and processing to teacher development and technology products and services, and our testing and assessment school software.
businesses, serving school students and professionals, make more than $1.2bn of sales, up from around $200m eight years ago.
Though we operate in 60 countries around the world, today our largest markets are the US 59% of sales and Europe 26% of sales on a International markets Though we currently generate around 60% continuing basis.
of our sales in the US, our brands, content and  models work around the world.
All parts of Pearson are Our businesses investing in selected emerging markets, where the demand for Pearson consists of three major worldwide businesses: information and education is growing particularly fast.
Pearson Education is the worlds leading education company.
We are Efficiency Weve invested to become a leaner, more efficient a leading publisher of textbooks, supplementary learning materials company, through savings in our individual businesses and through and electronic education programmes for teachers and students of a strong centralised operations structure.
Over the past three years, all ages, and we play a major role in the testing and certification of we have increased our operating profit margins from 10.8% to school students and professionals.
Pearson Education operates 15.0% and reduced average working capital as a percentage of sales through three worldwide segments, serving School, Higher Education in Pearson Education and Penguin from 29.4% to 25.6%, freeing and Professional markets.
up cash for further investment.
The Financial Times Group is a leading provider of international We believe this strategy can create a virtuous circle efficiency, business and financial news, data, comment and analysis, in print investment, market share gains and scale which in turn can produce and online.
It has two major parts: sustainable growth on our financial goals and the value of the company.
This strategy helped us to achieve another set of record FT Publishing includes the Financial Times and FT. com, one of results in 2007. the worlds premier sources of business information, alongside a portfolio of financial magazines.
It also includes an online financial 2007 financial overview information business Mergermarket, which provides early stage Pearsons three key financial measures are adjusted earnings per share, intelligence to financial institutions and corporates, as well as cash flow and return on invested capital.
In 2007, adjusted EPS and several joint ventures and associates including 50% of both The cash flow reached record levels and we generated a further significant Economist Group and the FTSE index business.
underlying improvement in return on invested capital.
Interactive Data provides specialist financial data to financial In 2007, Pearsons sales increased by 6% to 4.2bn and adjusted operating institutions and retail investors.
Pearson owns a 62% interest in profit by 14% to a record 634m.
Every part of Pearson contributed to Interactive Data, which is publicly listed on the New York Stock this profit increase, with adjusted operating profit at Pearson Education Exchange NYSE:IDC.
up 9%, Penguin up 20% and the FT Group up 30%.
Headline earnings The Penguin Group is one of the worlds foremost English language per share were 46.7p, up 8% and up 15% at constant currency.
We publish the works of many authors in an extensive Growth rates are stated on an underlying basis, excluding the impact portfolio of fiction, non-fiction and reference titles, under imprints of currency movements and portfolio changes.
In 2007 currency including Penguin, Hamish Hamilton, Putnam, Berkley, Viking and movements reduced adjusted sales by 228m, adjusted operating Dorling Kindersley.
profit by 37m and adjusted earnings per share by 2.7p, whilst portfolio changes increased adjusted sales by 146m and adjusted Our strategy operating profit by 22m.
Over the past decade we have transformed Pearson by focusing on companies which provide education in the broadest sense of the We also produced record cash flows.
Operating cash flow increased word: companies that educate, inform and entertain.
Through a by 19% or 109m to 684m and operating free cash flow by 99m combination of organic investment and acquisitions, we have built to 533m.
Cash conversion was once again very strong at 108% of each one of our businesses into a leader in its market, and have operating profit.
Over the past three years, the proportion of our integrated our operations so that our businesses can share assets, profits converted to cash has averaged more than 100%.
The ratio brands, processes, facilities, technology and central services.
of average working capital to sales at Pearson Education and Penguin improved by a further 0.7% points to 25.6%.
Our return on invested Our goal is to produce sustainable growth on our three key financial capital shows a headline increase of 0.2% points to 8.2% and a 1.0% measures adjusted earnings per share, cash flow and return on point underlying improvement.
invested capital which we believe are, together, good indicators that we are building the long-term value of Pearson.
Statutory results show an increase of 52m in operating profit to 574m 522m in 2006.
Basic earnings per share for continuing businesses was 39.0p in 2007 against 52.7p in 2006, largely reflecting the absence of a 2006 tax credit.
8 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The board is proposing a dividend increase of 7.8% to 31.6p.
Subject Pearson Education: overview to shareholder approval, 2007 will be Pearsons 16th straight year of Pearson Education is the worlds largest publisher of textbooks and increasing our dividend above the rate of inflation.
It serves the growing demands of teachers, students, parents and professionals throughout the world for During the year, we announced the acquisition of Harcourt stimulating and effective education programmes, in print and online.
Assessment and Harcourt Education International from Reed Elsevier for $950m.
The transaction closed in several stages, with the final stage In 2007 Pearson Education had sales of 2,684m or 64% of Pearsons completed in January 2008 following clearance by the US Department total.
Of these, 1.9bn 70% were generated in North America and of Justice.
Aside from the Harcourt deal, we also announced the 0.8bn 30% in the rest of the world.
Pearson Education generated acquisition of eCollege in 2007, a key provider of e-learning and 64% of Pearsons operating profit.
enrolment services to post-secondary education.
Pearson Education competes with other publishers and creators of These two transactions extend Pearsons position as the worlds educational materials and services.
These competitors include large leading education company by adding new capabilities, international companies, such as McGraw-Hill and Houghton complementary products and further international reach.
Mifflin Harcourt, alongside smaller niche players that specialise in a particular academic discipline or focus on a learning technology.
In February 2008 Pearson completed the sale of its Data Management Competition is based on the ability to deliver quality products and business to M & F Worldwide Corp. for $225m.
services that address the specified curriculum needs and appeal to In December 2007, we completed the sale of Les Echos to LVMH the school boards, educators and government officials making for240m in cash.
In January 2008, we announced that we had purchasing decisions.
agreed to sell our 50% stake in FT Deutschland to Gruner Jahr.
The transaction increases Gruner Jahrs stake to 100% and is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2008.
These two transactions will allow us to focus the FT Group on the worldwide expansion of the Financial Times and our digital financial information business.
Underlying growth We report Pearson Educations performance by the three worldwide market segments it serves: School, Higher Education and Professional.
School: overview Our School business contains a unique mix of publishing, testing and technology products, which are increasingly integrated.
It generates around two-thirds of its sales in the US.
In the US, we publish high quality curriculum programmes for school students covering subjects such as reading, literature, maths, science and social studies.
We publish under a range of well-known imprints that include Scott Foresman in the elementary school market and Prentice Hall in secondary.
Our school testing business is the leading provider of test development, processing and scoring services to US states and the federal government, processing some 40 million tests each year.
Its capabilities will be further enhanced through the integration of the recently acquired Harcourt Assessment.
We are also the leading provider of electronic learning programmes for schools, and of Student Information Systems technology which enables schools and districts to record and manage information about Restated to reflect the impact of the 2007 change in tax treatment of amortisation of goodwill, 2.9p.
Note: Throughout this review, we refer to a series of Key Performance Indicators alongside our key financial In the US, more than 90% of school funds come from state or local measures.
Management uses these indicators to track performance on non-financial measures such as market share or growth relative to our industries.
government, with the remainder coming from federal sources.
The major customers of our School business are state education boards and local school districts.
9 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued Outside the US, we publish school materials in local languages in a Strong performance from school publishing businesses in South number of countries.
We are the worlds leading provider of English Africa and Australia: in Italy, integration of Pearson Paravia Bruno Language Teaching materials for children and adults, published under Mondadori complete, producing integration savings, margin the well-known Longman imprint.
We bolstered our position further improvement and market share gains: strong organic growth in in international markets through the recent acquisition of Harcourt Spanish language school publishing.
Innovation in school technology We are also a leading provider of testing, assessment and qualification 13 product nominations in ten categories, more than any other services.
Our key markets outside the US include Canada, the UK, education company, for the Software and Information Industry Australia, New Zealand, Italy, Spain, South Africa, Hong Kong and the Association Codie awards.
The products include: PASeries, the Middle East.
first formative assessment product designed to measure progress and forecast student growth toward state goals or grade level School: 2007 performance expectations: Pearson Inform 4.1, a K-12 data analysis and decision Headline Underlying support tool: PowerSchool Premier, a student information system millions 2007 2006 growth growth that provides access to student information, enabling data-driven Sales 1,537 1,455 6% 6% decisions that enhance student learning: and eCollege, an onAdjusted operating profit 203 184 10% 11% demand distance learning platform.
Continued share gains in school publishing Continued investment in digital programmes both for basal Pearson US School publishing up 3.5%, against industry growth of adoption and for special populations, including NovaNet and 2.7% source: Association of American Publishers, as we benefit SuccessMaker.
Pre-publication expenditure for digital programmes from our sustained investment in new basal programmes and growing as a proportion of total pre-publication expenditure.
enVisionMATH, our new integrated print-and-digital elementary Faster underlying growth in international school publishing, with maths programme and the next generation of our successful continued margin improvement.
California Social Studies programme, successfully launched for the 2008 adoption campaign.
In 2008, maths accounts for Pearson takes a leading share of the new US adoption market: 30% approximately one-third of the total new adoption opportunity.
of the total market and 31% where we competed.
#1 or #2 market share in reading, maths, science and social studies.
Total 2007 new Strong growth and share gains in school testing adoption opportunity of approximately $830m, up from $670m US School testing sales up in double digits after high single digit in 2006. growth in 2006, benefiting from further contract wins, market share gains and strength in online assessment.
US School new adoption market expected to remain strong over the next three years estimated at $900m in 2008: $860m in 2009: 2.5 million secure online tests delivered across 13 states during and more than $1bn in 2010.
In 2008 we are competing for around the year, up from 1.4 million in 2006.
90% of the total new adoption opportunity.
Acquisition of Harcourt Assessment complements our existing Acquisition of Harcourt International brings leading content for assessment business, broadens our scale and reach in adjacent school and vocational customers in many markets including the markets and creates new publishing and digital opportunities UK, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.
Transaction adds both in the US and around the world.
further scale to Pearsons international education businesses and In the UK, we marked a total of 9.6 million GCSE, AS and A-level accelerates the combination of educational content and innovative exam scripts, 4.6 million of which were marked on-screen.
Integration of the Harcourt ResultsPlus rolled out across the UK and internationally providing business is progressing well.
more than 2,250 schools with secure online access to question-level Major cross company global English, maths and science projects examination performance data on exam results day for the first launched, with the aim of sharing assets, expertise, investment and time.
More than 100,000 students access their results online on technology across all major international markets.
results day for the first time.
Successful global ELT publishing franchises in every major market segment primary, secondary, adult, business and exam preparation drives strong growth worldwide.
Sales of student editions of English Adventure, developed with Disney, top six million units in less than three years: Economist and FT branded courses also performing strongly with major launch of Penguin Readers planned for this year.
10 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 In 2007, our Higher Education business generated approximately 77% of its sales in the US.
Outside the US, we adapt our textbooks and technology services for individual markets, and we have a growing local publishing programme.
Our key markets outside the US include Canada, the UK, Benelux, Mexico, Germany, Hong Kong, Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia.
Higher Education: 2007 performance Headline Underlying millions 2007 2006 growth growth Sales 793 795 % 5% Adjusted operating profit 161 161 % 5% Rapid growth in online learning and custom publishing Investment in established and new author franchises, such as Campbells Biology, Kotlers Marketing Management, Hubbards Economics and Cicarrellis Psychology, continues to underpin the strong performance of our higher education business.
MyLab digital homework and assessment programmes launched in 22 new subject disciplines in 2007, increasing the total number of disciplines covered to 38.
These programmes support over 2,000 textbooks and were used globally by 2.9 million students in 2007 up more than 30% on 2006.
Evaluation studies show that the use of the MyLab programmes can significantly improve student test scores and instructional productivity.
In corporate finance, one of the largest global markets in business education, Pearson publishes the successful first edition bestseller, Berk DeMarzos Corporate Finance, together with MyFinanceLab.
Pearsons market share increases from 4% to 11% in the US and from 39% to 48% in the UK.
It is the most successful launch of a first edition in this discipline in more than a decade and one of Pearsons most successful global launches ever, winning university adoptions in 22 countries.
In World History, the first edition of Fernandez-Armestos The World: A History with MyHistoryLab increases Pearsons market share from 25% to 35%.
Acquisition of eCollege builds Pearsons position as an education services provider.
eCollege works with partner educational institutions to design, build and support online degree, certificate, diploma and professional development programmes.
Student enrolments increase 44% in 2007 to 1.9 million.
eCollege broadens Pearsons services to academic institutions: Pearsons scale and reach enable eCollege to access new customers in the school, post-secondary and professional vocational markets both in the US and worldwide.
Pearson is the largest publisher on CourseSmart.
com, a joint Higher Education: overview venture of the largest US education textbook publishers with over Pearson is the largest publisher of textbooks and related course 2,500 titles.
com provides cost effective ebooks to materials for colleges and universities in the US.
We publish across students and time-efficient review of textbooks for professors.
all of the main fields of study with imprints such as Prentice Hall, Continued strong double digit growth in our custom solutions Addison Wesley, Allyn & Bacon and Benjamin Cummings.
business which builds customised textbooks and online services Typically, professors or other instructors select or adopt the textbooks and has become a leader in the creation of courseware and and online resources they recommend for their students, which curriculum for e-learning institutions.
students then purchase either in a bookstore or online.
Today the Good progress in international markets majority of our textbooks are accompanied by online services which In Europe, good revenue growth and strong margin improvement include homework and assessment tools, study guides and course as organic and acquisition investment in international education management systems that enable professors to create online courses.
Particular areas of strength included local We have also introduced new formats such as downloadable audio language editions of our major authors and custom publishing study guides and electronic textbooks which are sold on subscription.
including the successful launch of local language science In addition, we have a fast-growing custom publishing business which publishing in Germany.
works with professors to produce textbooks and online resources specifically adapted for their particular course.
11 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued Major programme of adapting versioning MyLab and Professional Testing: rapid organic sales and profit growth Mastering technology platforms for international markets.
Professional Testing sales up 14% in 2007.
Approximately MyLab programmes now being used internationally in almost 5.8 million secure online tests delivered in more than 5,000 test 50 countries, with almost 160,000 student registrations for online centres worldwide in 2007. courses in Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Strong margin improvement as test volumes rise, driven by higher demand from existing customers such as GMAC for business school applicants, NCLEX for nurses and the DSA DVTA driving theory test.
Good new contract performance, including the American Board of Internal Medicine and the National Association Boards of Pharmacy: and strong renewals, including the Institute of Financial Services and the American Registry of Radiological Technologists.
Professional publishing: good sales growth and further margin improvement Technology Publishing achieves good sales growth and significantly improves profitability, benefiting from a focused and refreshed front list, a favourable software release schedule and Safari Books Online, our electronic publishing platform a joint venture with OReilly Media.
Scott Kelby, a Peachpit author, is the top-selling US computer book author for the fourth consecutive year with titles including The iPod Book: The Digital Photography Book: and The Adobe Photoshop Lightroom Book for Digital Photographers.
Strong performance in Europe, helped by success of publishing for the new Windows Vista launch: a new partnership with Microsoft Press in the Netherlands: and a successful move into digital publishing and training in Germany.
Strong performance from business imprints Wharton School Publishing and FTPress, aided by Pearsons global distribution and strong retail relationships.
Wharton School Publishing recognised on the Amazon.
com Best Business Books of 2007 with We Are Smarter Than Me: How to Unleash the Power of Crowds in Your Business, by Barry Libert and Jon Spector, and Firms of Endearment: How World-Class Companies Profit from Passion and Purpose, by Rajendra S. Sisodia, David B. Wolfe and Jaqdish N. Sheth.
Data Management: sale completed 22 February 2008 Professional: overview Sale of Data Management to M & F Worldwide Corp. for $225m.
Our Professional education business publishes educational materials Data Management contributed $112m of sales and $25m of and provides testing and qualifications services for adults.
Our operating profit to Pearson in 2007. publishing imprints include Addison Wesley Professional, Prentice Financial Times Group: overview Hall PTR, Cisco Press for IT professionals, Peachpit Press and New The FT Group provides a broad range of data, analysis and services to Riders Press for graphics and design professionals, Que Sams an audience of  business people and financial consumer and professional imprint and Prentice Hall Financial institutions.
In 2007, the FT Group had sales of 688m, or 16% of Times and Wharton School Publishing for the business education Pearsons total sales 15% in 2006, and contributed 24% of Pearsons market.
We have a fast-growing Professional Testing business, Pearson VUE, It has two major parts: FT Publishing, a combination of the Financial which manages major long-term contracts to provide qualification Times, FT. com and a portfolio of financial magazines and online and assessment services through its network of test centres around financial information companies: and Interactive Data, our 62%- the world.
Key customers include major technology companies, the owned financial information company.
Graduate Management Admissions Council and the UKs Driving Standards Agency.
FT Publishing competes with newspapers and other information sources, such as The Wall Street Journal, by offering timely and expert Professional: 2007 performance journalism.
It competes for advertisers with other forms of media Headline Underlying based on the ability to offer an effective means for advertisers to reach millions 2007 2006 growth growth their target audience.
Sales 354 341 4% 9% Adjusted operating profit 40 38 5% 11% Interactive Data competes with Bloomberg, Reuters and Thomson Financial on a global basis for the provision of financial data to Excludes Government Solutions and includes Data Management the back office financial institutions.
In Europe, Telekurs is also a With the sale of Government Solutions in 2007 and Data direct competitor for these services.
Smaller, more specialised vendors Management in 2008, our Professional business is focused on also compete with Interactive Data in certain market segments and publishing for professionals in business and technology, and in certain geographic areas.
on testing and certifying adults to be professionals.
12 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Interactive Datas four businesses provide a range of enterprise-wide services, including: Pricing and Reference Data: supplying global securities pricing, evaluations and reference data for more than 3.5 million securities traded around the world, including hard-to-value instruments Real-Time Services: providing real-time global market data and managed solutions to financial institutions, redistributors and online financial portals worldwide.
Services range from a consolidated, lowlatency data feed, to tools for building, managing and hosting customised applications Fixed Income Analytics: providing fixed income portfolio analytics in North America and Europe Desktop Solutions eSignal: through its eSignal division, Interactive Datas eSignal provides global, real-time market data and decision support tools to active investors and professionals worldwide Underlying growth FT Group: 2007 performance FT Publishing Headline Underlying The Financial Times is the worlds leading international daily business millions 2007 2006 growth growth newspaper.
Its six month average circulation of approximately 440,000 Sales: copies at December 2007, is split between the UK 31% of circulation, FT Publishing 344 280 23% 12% Europe, Middle East and Africa 29%, the US 30%, Asia 10%.
Its Interactive Data 344 332 4% 8% main sources of revenue are from sales of the newspaper, advertising Total 688 612 12% 10% and conferences.
Adjusted operating profit: The FT also sells content and advertising online through FT. com FT Publishing 56 27 107% 85% which charges subscribers for detailed industry news, comment and analysis, while providing general news and market data to a wider Interactive Data 97 89 9% 13% audience.
The new FT. com access model was successfully introduced Total 153 116 32% 30% in 2007 and is based on frequency of use and is intended to drive usage Note: excludes Les Echos, sold in December 2007. and accelerate advertising growth, while providing greater value and services to its premium paying customers.
Great publishing, continued growth and significant margin improvement FT Publishing revenues up 12% advertising revenues up 10% FT Publishing also includes: FT Business, which publishes specialist with operating profit more than doubling to 56m in information on the retail, personal and institutional finance industries headline terms.
through titles including Investors Chronicle, Money Management, Financial Adviser, The Banker: and Mergermarket, our online financial Outstanding year at the Financial Times: data and intelligence provider.
FT newspaper circulation up 2% to almost 440,000 for the Mergermarket provides early stage proprietary intelligence to financial July-December 2007 ABC period, with a 19% increase institutions and corporates.
Its key products include Mergermarket, in subscriptions: Debtwire, dealReporter, Wealthmonitor and Pharmawire which was Digital subscribers to the FT up 13% to 101,000: monthly launched in 2007. unique users up 30% to 5.7 million: monthly page views up 33% FT Publishing joint ventures and associates to 48.2 million: Our joint ventures and associates include: FT. com attracts 150,000 new registered users since launch of its 50% interest in The Economist Group, publisher of the worlds innovative new access model in October 2007: strong growth leading weekly business and current affairs magazine: continues in the early part of 2008.
50% interest in FTSE International, a joint venture with the FT named Newspaper of the Year at the 2007 What the Papers London Stock Exchange, which publishes a wide range of global Say Awards.
indices, including the FTSE index: Strong trading performance at FT Business as integration with 50% interest in Business Day and Financial Mail, publishers the FT Newspaper helps to generate additional revenue and of South Africas leading business newspaper and magazine: reduce costs.
33% interest in Vedomosti, a leading Russian business newspaper: The Economist, in which Pearson owns a 50% stake, increases its circulation by 9% to 1.3 million for the July-December 2007 14% interest in Business Standard, one of Indias leading business ABC period.
Continued shift towards global digital businesses and subscription Interactive Data revenues Interactive Data is a leading global provider of financial market data, Strong contribution from Mergermarket: rapid revenue growth analytics and related services to financial institutions, active traders with 90% subscription renewal rates and a series of new product and individual investors.
The companys customers use its offerings launches around the world including Pharmawire, Debtwire in to support their portfolio management and valuation, research and Asia Pacific and dealReporter in Emerging Europe, Middle East analysis, trading, sales and marketing, and client service activities.
13 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued FTSE, in which Pearson owns a 50% stake, achieves double digit Interactive Data is listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE: sales growth, benefiting from a strong new business performance, IDC and Pearson owns a 62% stake.
Interactive Datas 2007 results a joint venture with Xinhua Finance in China and strong growth under US GAAP are available at www.
com in Exchange Traded Fund ETF licenses.
FT Group Key Performance Indicators Several small acquisitions of complementary subscription-based FT Publishing advertising FT average copy sales growth and digital businesses: revenue growth Infinata, a provider of research and business information to life science and financial services companies.
The companys products, which include BioPharm Insight and HNW Insight, provide clients with comprehensive, timely information used to make strategic and tactical business decisions.
10% 2% Exec-Appointments, a well-established global job site that focuses on the high-earning executive sector with approximately 200,000 registered executive users.
10% 1% Money-Media, acquired in January 2008, a provider of must- 07 07 The FT Newspapers year on year have news and analysis via email and websites to US mutual 06 average growth in copy sales.
06 FT Publishings year on year ABC advertising sales growth.
fund managers, institutional investors, high net-worth individuals, company directors and advisers.
Approximately FT. com unique user growth Interactive Data customer retention two-thirds of Money-Medias revenues were generated through subscriptions with close to 90% renewal rates.
Sale of Les Echos to LVMH for 240m 174m completed in December 2007.
Sale of 50% stake in FT Deutschland to Gruner Jahr announced in January 2008.
30% 95% Interactive Data Strong sales momentum Underlying sales growth of 8% driven primarily by strong sales 13% 95% to both existing and new institutional customers and a renewal rate 07 07 The number of customers of approximately 95% within the Institutional Services segment.
The FTs year on year growth 06 renewing contracts as a percentage 06 in unique users of FT. com.
Strong new sales momentum in Q4 2007 further supported activities to realign the companys two largest institutional Internal statistics.
businesses under a single management structure.
This KPI now reflects advertising growth of FT Publishing FT Newspaper, FT. com, FT Business and FT Chinese.
Continued focus on high value services The Penguin Group: overview Pricing and Reference Data continues to generate good growth Penguin is one of the worlds premier English language book in North America and Europe.
The business continues to broaden publishers.
We publish an extensive backlist and frontlist of titles, its coverage of complex securities by expanding its universe including fiction and non-fiction, literary prize winners, commercial of European asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities.
bestsellers, classics and childrens titles.
We rank in the top three The business also launched a new web-based offering, the Basket consumer publishers, based upon sales, in all major English speaking Calculation Service, designed to provide clients with the indicative and related markets the US, the UK, Australia, New Zealand, optimised portfolio value for equity and fixed income exchange Canada, India and South Africa.
Penguin publishes under many imprints including, in the adult Real-Time Services continues to achieve strong growth with new market, Allen Lane, Avery, Berkley, Dorling Kindersley DK, Dutton, institutional sales in its two core product areas of real-time data Hamish Hamilton, Michael Joseph, Plume, Putnam, Riverhead and feeds and managed solutions.
Highlights include: growing adoption Viking.
Our leading childrens imprints include Puffin, Ladybird, of its PlusFeed data service for algorithmic trading applications: the Warne and Grosset & Dunlap.
introduction of DirectPlus, a new ultra low latency direct exchange data service: and excellent sales momentum for managed solutions In 2007, Penguin had sales of 846m, representing 20% of Pearsons in North America with new customers including media companies, total sales 21% in 2006 and contributed 12% of Pearsons operating online brokerages, stock exchanges and financial institutions.
Its largest market is the US, which generated around 55% of Penguins sales in 2007.
The Penguin Group earns around 99% Fixed Income Analytics completed 30 new BondEdge installations of its revenues from the sale of hard cover and paperback books.
during the year and made good progress in the development of its The balance comes primarily from audio books and e-books.
In the Active Trader Services segment, eSignal experienced modest expansion of its direct subscriber base, delivered numerous innovations across its suite of active trader services, and added new content and capabilities on its financial websites.
14 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Penguin sells directly to bookshops and through wholesalers.
Retail in fiction for Sacred Games, Vikram Seth in non-fiction for Two bookshops normally maintain relationships with both publishers Lives and Kiran Desai in readers choice for The Inheritance of Loss.
and wholesalers and use the channel that best serves the specific China: Jiang Rong and Howard Goldblatt win inaugural Man Asian requirements of an order.
It also sells through online retailers such Literary prize for Wolf Totem, to be published in English around the as Amazon.
com, as well as Penguins own website.
Penguin competes with other publishers of fiction and non-fiction South Africa: another strong year led by John van fide Ruits Spud: books.
Principal competitors include Random House, HarperCollins, The Madness Continues.
Publishers compete by developing a portfolio of books by established authors and by seeking out and promoting Innovation in print and online talented new writers.
Rapid growth in sales through online retail and digital channels driven by innovative digital marketing initiatives and investment in ebooks with 5,000 Penguin titles currently available and digital content.
Strong growth in online revenues and unique visitors to Penguin and DK websites.
Continued innovation in formats including the pioneering US premium paperback and personalised on-demand travel guides, genres Portfolio business imprint in India, sales channels bestselling eBooks via online retailers and Penguins own websites: audio books via iTunes and Audible: Rough Guides via Motorola, Nokia and Samsung phones and communications channels www.
com, an online community for teenagers.
Subscribers to Penguin and DK opt-in newsletters building rapidly, up 34% year-on-year to over 150,000, allowing Penguin consumers to personalise areas of interest and strengthening relationship with Penguin brand.
Continued focus on quality and efficiency Underlying growth Pearson-wide renegotiation of major global paper, print and binding contracts continue to bring cost savings in 2007.
The Penguin Group: 2007 performance Headline Underlying Further improvement expected in 2008 from ongoing management millions 2007 2006 growth growth of production, warehousing and distribution costs.
Sales 846 848 % 3% Strong 2008 publishing schedule: strong start to the year Adjusted operating profit 74 66 12% 20% Strong list of new titles for 2008 from bestselling and new authors including Patricia Cornwell, Steve Coll, Michael Pollan, Jamie Strong competitive performance in major markets Oliver, Marian Keyes, Jeremy Clarkson, Thomas Friedman, Niall Successful global publishing performance led by Alan Greenspans Ferguson and the new James Bond book from Sebastian Faulks.
The Age of Turbulence, with almost 1 million hard cover copies shipped to date worldwide, and Kim Edwards first novel, Outstanding sales performance from Eckhart Tolles A New Earth, The Memory Keepers Daughter, a global #1 bestseller for Penguin with 4 million copies shipped since its selection for Oprah in the US, UK, Australia and Canada.
Winfreys book club on 30 January.
First of ten online classes Outstanding year for bestsellers in the US with titles including featuring Eckhart Tolle and Oprah Winfrey aired on 3 March.
Elizabeth Gilberts Eat, Pray, Love 4.4 million copies shipped to date : Khaled Hosseinis A Thousand Splendid Suns 2.2 million : and Ken Folletts World Without End almost 1 million.
UK bestsellers included Marian Keyes Anybody Out There?, Jamie Olivers Jamie at Home, Jeremy Clarksons Dont Stop Me Now and Charlie Higsons Double or Die.
Strong year for Brands & Licensing division driven by The Dr Who Annual the second best-selling childrens book of 2007 and bestselling In the Night Garden titles.
Australia: strong publishing from authors including Bryce Courtenay with The Persimmon Tree and Dr Manny Noakes with CSIRO Total Wellbeing Diet Book 2.
DK delivered a strong global performance in traditional, custom 07 and digital publishing, benefiting from innovative formats 06 including The Human Body Book, personalised travel guides via traveldk.
com and the first DK textbooks for higher education markets.
Rapid growth in emerging markets India: Penguin India celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2007 with continued rapid growth.
Penguin authors win all the major English language prizes in Indias national book awards: Vikram Chandra 15 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued Pearson outlook 2008 Group financial review In recent years we have significantly changed the shape of Pearson, Operating result building and diversifying our education company, shifting our On a headline basis, adjusted sales increased by 167m or 4% from financial information businesses towards recurring revenue streams 4,051m to 4,218m and total adjusted operating profit increased by and becoming more efficient through a centralised operations 42m or 7% to 634m in 2007 from 592m in 2006. organisation.
These moves have made Pearson a more profitable, Adjusted sales include discontinued operations held throughout the more cash generative and more resilient company, and we expect current and previous year.
In 2007 the sales by our Data Management to make further progress on our financial goals in 2008. business have been included in adjusted sales.
Adjusted operating At this early stage, our outlook for 2008 is: profit excludes amortisation and adjustment of acquired intangibles but also includes the adjusted profits from discontinued operations.
In Education 64% of 2007 sales and operating profit, we expect another year of good profit growth, benefiting once again from Statutory operating profit from continuing operations increased the unique breadth of our education business from pre-school by 52m or 10%, to 574m in 2007 from 522m in 2006. to adult learning: across publishing, testing and technology: and in The statutory operating profit includes the effect of increased the US and around the world.
intangible amortisation but does not reflect the decreased contribution from discontinued operations.
In our School business, integration of our recently-acquired Harcourt businesses is progressing well.
In 2008, we expect School Net finance costs margins to be similar to 2007, after expensing integration costs millions 2007 2006 relating to the acquisition.
In 2009, we expect School margins to Net interest payable 95 94 rise to around 15% as the majority of the integration costs fall Finance income in respect of employee benefits 10 4 away and as we realise the financial benefits of the acquisition.
Net finance costs reflected in adjusted earnings 85 90 Including the Harcourt contribution, we expect our School Net foreign exchange losses gains 17 19 business to grow sales well into double digits in 2008 at constant Other losses 4 3 currency.
Excluding Harcourt, we expect underlying sales growth in the low single digits, as US market growth of 3-4% is partly Net finance costs 106 74 offset by our lower participation rate in new US adoptions and Net finance costs reported in our adjusted earnings comprise net the conclusion of our UK key stage testing contract.
interest payable and net finance income relating to post-retirement In Higher Education, we expect our underlying sales to grow in the plans.
Net interest payable in 2007 was 95m, up from 94m in 2006. mid single digits, a little ahead of the industry.
We expect margins Although we were partly protected by our fixed rate policy, a rise in to be stable, as we continue to invest in expanding our adaptive average US dollar floating interest rates had an adverse effect.
Year learning technologies and in taking our recently-acquired eCollege on year, average three month LIBOR weighted for the Groups platform into new segments and geographic markets.
borrowings in US dollars, euros and sterling at each year end rose by 0.5% to 5.4%, reflecting a rise in interest rates and a change in the In Professional, we expect sales to increase in the low single digits in currency mix of year end debt.
These two factors, together with a underlying terms with underlying margins improving once again.
decrease in the Groups average net debt of 90m, increased the Penguin 20% of sales: 12% of operating profit expects to improve Groups average net interest rate payable by 0.3% to 7.3%.
The net margins further and into double digits.
Penguins good publishing finance income relating to post-retirement plans rose by 6m in and trading performance has continued into the early part of 2008.
2007 resulting in an overall net finance cost reflected in adjusted earnings of 85m.
The Financial Times Group 16% of sales: 24% of operating profit expects to continue its profit growth.
We have substantially We expect our interest charge in 2008 to be similar to that in 2007 with increased our digital and subscription revenues and reduced our the higher level of net debt following the completion of the Harcourt exposure to print advertising in recent years in 2007, digital transaction offset by strong cash generation and the recent proceeds services accounted for 63% of FT Group revenues, compared with from the disposals of Les Echos and Data Management.
We expect our 28% in 2000: advertising accounted for 30% of FT Group revenues, pension credit will remain at a similar level to 2007, despite an upward down from 52% in 2000.
At FT Publishing, advertising revenues revision of life expectancy assumptions.
have continued to grow in the early part of the year, but future Also included in the statutory definition of net finance costs are foreign advertising trends remain difficult to predict.
However, as a result exchange and other gains and losses.
These are excluded from adjusted of our revenue diversification and cost actions we expect further earnings as they represent short-term fluctuations in market value and profit improvement at FT Publishing this year, even without any are subject to significant volatility.
Other gains and losses may not be growth in advertising revenues.
Interactive Data expects to achieve realised in due course as it is normally the intention to hold the related revenue growth in the 7-9% range and operating profit growth in instruments to maturity.
Net foreign exchange losses of 17m in 2007 the 9-11% range headline growth under US GAAP.
mainly relate to exchange losses on legacy euro denominated debt held to hedge the receipt of euro proceeds from the sale of Les Echos.
A corresponding gain is included in the higher proceeds realised on this sale.
In 2006 euro borrowings and cross currency swaps that were not designated as net investment hedges contributed to the overall foreign exchange gains.
16 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Taxation Pensions In 2007 we revised our calculation of the effective tax rate on Pearson operates a variety of pension plans.
Our UK Group plan adjusted earnings to reflect the benefit of tax deductions attributable is by far the largest and includes a significant defined benefit section.
to amortisation of acquired goodwill and intangibles as this We also have some smaller defined benefit plans in the US and more accurately aligns the adjusted tax charge with the expected Canada.
Outside the UK, most of our companies operate defined medium-term rate of cash tax payment.
We have restated the 2006 contribution plans.
The income statement expense for defined benefit plans is determined On this basis the effective tax rate on adjusted earnings was 26.4% using annually derived assumptions as to salary inflation, investment in 2007 compared with 25.9% in 2006.
Our overseas profits, which returns and discount rates, based on prevailing conditions at the start arise mainly in the US, remain mostly subject to tax rates which are of the year.
The assumptions for 2007 are disclosed in note 24 to our higher than the UK corporation tax rate which was 30% in 2007 accounts, along with the year end surpluses and deficits in our defined but will fall to 28% from 1 April 2008.
This factor was offset by the benefit plans.
We recognise actuarial gains and losses arising when amortisation-related tax deductions and, as in 2006, by releases from assumptions diverge from reality through the statement of recognised provisions reflecting continued progress in agreeing our tax affairs income and expense SORIE.
Our charge to profit in respect of worldwide pensions and post For 2008 we expect our effective tax rate on adjusted earnings to retirement benefits amounted to 61m in 2007 2006: 60m of which be in the 27% to 29% range.
a charge of 71m 2006: 64m was reported in operating profit and the net finance benefit of 10m 2006: 4m was reported against net The reported tax charge on a statutory basis was 131m, finance costs.
As we explained last year, the 2006 rate was abnormally low because of one-off adjustments related to Pension funding levels are kept under regular review by the company the recognition of deferred tax assets for both capital losses and and the plan Trustee.
Following the completion of the latest actuarial operating losses.
The tax effects of the disposals during 2007, mainly valuation of the UK Group pension plan as at January 2006, we Government Solutions tax 93m and Les Echos tax nil, are made additional payments to the plan in 2007 amounting to 100m.
These additional payments have contributed to the overall surplus recognised in the UK plan.
Tax paid in 2007 was 87m, compared with 59m in 2006.
The 2007 amount included 26m paid in respect of disposals.
Corporate responsibility Discontinued operations Alongside our commitment to our financial goals, Pearson has a clear Discontinued operations relate to the disposal of Government social purpose: to provide education, information and entertainment Solutions in February 2007, Les Echos in December 2007 and the and help our customers get on in their lives.
Our Corporate Data Management business in February 2008.
In total, we received Responsibility programme addresses four main areas: cash proceeds of 469m for disposals in 2007.
Society making communities better places to live and work: As previously announced, we realised a loss before tax of 19m and a Our People the issues that affect the people who work for us: tax charge of 93m on the sale of Government Solutions.
We realised a profit before tax of 165m with no tax payable on the sale of Les Echos.
Environment our environmental impacts and what we do to In anticipation of a loss on sale of the Data Management business, manage them: a goodwill impairment of 97m has been charged to the income Governance our business procedures, code of conduct and supply statement in 2007.
We received cash proceeds of $225m on chain management.
the sale of Data Management on 22 February 2008.
Pearson is a founder signatory of the UN Global Compact on labour Minority interests standards, human rights, the environment and anti-corruption.
Our minority interests comprise mainly the minority share in We are also long-standing members of the Dow Jones Sustainability Interactive Data.
Our stake in Interactive Data remained at 62% and FTSE4Good ethical indices.
In 2007 Pearson was named media throughout 2007, leaving the minority interest unchanged at 38%.
sector leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
Our ranking in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index again Dividends rose and we were awarded the highest, platinum status.
The dividend accounted for in our 2007 financial statements totalling 238m, represents the final dividend 18.8p in respect of 2006 and the We publish a detailed annual report on corporate responsibility 2007 interim dividend of 11.1p.
providing details of our progress and plans in all these areas, which is available at www.
com community csr report2007 We are proposing a final dividend for 2007 of 20.5p, bringing the total paid and payable in respect of 2007 to 31.6p, a 7.8% increase on 2006.
Society This final 2007 proposed dividend was approved by the board in Each one of our businesses pays great attention to the quality and February 2008, is subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming accuracy of its content and services: in education, for example, we are AGM and will be charged against 2008 profits.
For 2007, the dividend investing in a series of long-term studies to measure the robustness of is covered 1.5 times by adjusted earnings.
our programmes in enhancing student achievement.
We seek to maintain a balance between the requirements of our Beyond those basic products and services, Pearson has a proud history shareholders for a rising stream of dividend income and the of corporate giving and supporting projects in our communities.
reinvestment opportunities which we identify around the Group.
Through the Pearson Foundation and also through the efforts of The board expects to raise the dividend more in line with earnings our businesses and employees we focus our charitable giving on growth, while building our dividend cover towards two times earnings.
education and literacy projects around the world.
17 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued People and brightest managers from all over the world for a three-day session with the Pearson Management Committee and other senior managers.
The following table shows for 2007 and 2006 the average number of Similar forums are held within our operating companies and we also people employed in each of our operating divisions.
bring together our talent in functions like marketing, human resources Average number employed 2007 2006 and finance.
School 12,906 11,064 Diversity Our goal is to be a company that reflects the societies in Higher Education 5,098 4,368 which we operate and we seek to attract the very best candidates at all Professional 3,458 3,204 levels regardless of race, gender, age, physical ability, religion or sexual Penguin 4,163 3,943 orientation.
We dont set specific targets, but we do work very hard to FT Publishing 2,083 1,766 make sure that the pool of applicants for jobs is diverse.
We have made Interactive Data 2,300 2,200 progress on several fronts in the past year, but there is still a great deal to do.
We have increased the number of people we hire from Other 1,614 1,669 minorities in the US and the UK, expanded our minority intern Continuing operations 31,622 28,214 programmes on both sides of the Atlantic and added new titles to our Discontinued operations 1,070 6,127 African-American and Hispanic publishing lists.
But we do not have Total 32,692 34,341 enough executives at middle and senior management levels from minority backgrounds and we continue to work hard to correct this.
Our people are our biggest and most important asset.
We want to Health and safety A Group level health and safety policy is in place be the best company to work for.
We want the people who work with and there are many examples of good practice relating to management us to enjoy what they do, to know they are good enough to work initiatives and employee engagement, particularly in our distribution anywhere, but to stay with us because they think we are the best.
We have a way still to go, but each year we have got closer to making Share ownership We want everyone in Pearson to own shares in this a reality.
We think our benefits, incentive plans and training and the company and believe that the best way for people to profit from management development programmes are as good as anywhere else the success of the company is for them to become shareholders.
and they all help to reinforce a strong culture which is anchored in the simple idea that as a company we want to be brave, imaginative and Employee feedback and communication We continue to ask employees decent in the way we treat our customers, our suppliers and ourselves.
what they think about working in Pearson and each operating company also seeks and reviews its own feedback in detail.
We have Training and development Last year 220 senior managers went on an internal communications programme which enables us to reach Pearson-run management development and training programmes.
people through e-mails, employee road shows and visits from our 650 of our senior managers have now been on one or more of these senior managers.
We try to listen as much as we talk so that we can programmes which cover finance, strategic planning and advanced act upon ideas, suggestions and views.
management techniques which are taught by business school professors from both sides of the Atlantic.
Each of our operating Additional detail concerning our people is found on page 31. companies also run extensive training programmes of their own.
Suppliers Talent management Our goal is to make absolutely sure that we have a strong pipeline of talented people for the future and we have To be a successful and sustainable business we have to ensure that introduced personal development plans for many of our senior we balance our objective of securing supplies without compromising our standards of quality, causing harm to the environment or management.
But we take care to identify and develop talent at all damaging our suppliers and their workers wherever they are in levels within the company and review this talent regularly with each the world.
We are committed to ensuring that everyone in the company has an annual appraisal.
Each operating company also We were one of the founder signatories to the United Nations Global reviews its talent annually and the results of this process are reviewed Compact.
This sets out a series of principles on labour standards, by the CEO of Pearson, the Director for people and the CEO of each human rights, the environment and anti-corruption.
We focus on performance and potential.
Each autumn the a series of commitments that reflect these principles against which we Pearson board has a special session devoted solely to reviewing senior monitor and report our performance.
talent and some of our most promising people in the company.
The majority of our key suppliers are located in North America and This ensures that we have a comprehensive succession plan for each part of our business.
However, some of our suppliers, particularly those providing print and production services are based in less developed International development As we become more and more international countries.
Since signing the Global Compact, we have: we are now at work in 60 countries we have significantly expanded New Directions our programme of short term overseas assignments.
Written to many thousands of our suppliers to advise them of our commitment to the Global Compact, and our code of conduct.
In the first year of this centrally-managed programme, we moved 67 people between companies and countries and in 2008 our target is to Included specific contractual commitments relating to the move at least 100.
In 2008, we will also launch a Senior International environment, labour standards and human rights in our key Leadership Programme which will help prepare senior executives to contracts, particularly those that relate to paper supply, printing work overseas on twoto three-year assignments as part and distribution.
Managed an ongoing programme of supplier visits to assess People for the future Pearson has a lot of talented people at all levels compliance with the Global Compact and our contractual and we continue to run very successful programmes to identify and commitments.
develop great talent deep within the company.
The cornerstone of this is our annual Forum which brings together about 100 of our newest 18 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Worked with the UK book publishing industry to introduce Governance and ethical standards common standards on labour standards and human rights and We are committed to complying with the standards of corporate on an industry database on the environmental characteristics of governance in all countries in which we operate, including UK paper purchased.
governance rules contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Our Director for people has board responsibility for Paper is our most significant area of supply and is predominantly matters relating to Corporate Responsibility.
sourced from North America and Scandinavia.
Pearson was the first global publishing company to publicly disclose our environmental We also recognise the additional standards that are expected of us in standards with regard to paper purchasing and we set targets relevant terms of how we conduct our business to ensure we behave and report to our policy.
in an open and transparent manner.
Pearson has established its own code of conduct and whistleblowing policies.
These are supported In addition to auditing suppliers against our commitments, we ensure by detailed policies on specific issues such as editorial standards and that our commercial purchasing teams have received training on our we adhere to external codes such as those of the Press Complaints supply chain labour standards.
Editors and journalists have freedom to make their own Consistent with prior years, our 2007 supplier audits have not content choices within these frameworks.
These codes are enforced identified any material breaches of our supply chain policies.
as an integral part of editorial management and are subject to regular communication, training, and compliance audits.
Details of our supplier payment policy are shown on page 31 in the Directors Report.
Risk management We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk factors which may Environment affect our business and financial performance.
Our internal audit Increasing consensus over the causes of climate change is emerging.
function reviews these risks with each business, agreeing measures and Pearson does not directly operate in industries where there is a controls to mitigate these risks wherever possible.
It is not possible to potential for serious industrial pollution.
Our main products are based identify every risk that could affect our businesses, and the actions on intellectual property.
However, our offices and distribution centres taken to mitigate the risks described below cannot provide absolute do have an impact and we are committed to playing our part in assurance that a risk will not materialise and or adversely affect our tackling climate change.
Our principal risks and A formal environmental policy has been in place at Pearson since 1992. uncertainties are outlined on the following pages.
Our Director for people is responsible for the policy, but day-to-day Government regulation implementation is with our operating companies.
The manufacture of certain of our products in various markets is Pearson has an established Environmental Management System subject to governmental regulation relating to the discharge of EMS in place for its global operations broadly based on the materials into the environment.
Our operations are also subject to requirements of the International Environmental Management the risks and uncertainties attendant to doing business in numerous System standard, ISO 14001. countries.
Some of the countries in which we conduct these operations maintain controls on the repatriation of earnings and capital and Our approach has been successful.
We were two years ahead of target restrict the means available to us for hedging potential currency in achieving our aim of reducing energy use by 10% compared to our fluctuation risks.
The operations that are affected by these controls, 2003 baseline.
However we felt we could go further, so last year, we however, are not material to us.
Accordingly, these regulations have made a commitment to become climate neutral for those operations not significantly affected our international operations.
Regulatory we directly control with a view to completing the process by the end authorities may have enforcement powers that could have an impact of 2009.
The challenge is also to every Pearson employee to become on us.
We believe, however, that we have taken and continue to take climate aware and to identify opportunities for improvement.
measures to comply with all applicable laws and governmental We have set up an Environment Executive Committee which will regulations in the jurisdictions where we operate so that the risk have responsibility for overseeing progress against our climate of these sanctions does not represent a material threat to us.
Principal risks and uncertainties Our main environmental performance indicator is our greenhouse Our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not be adequately gas emissions expressed in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide CO, the 2 protected under current laws in some jurisdictions and that may adversely main greenhouse gas.
Our target is to reduce these emissions from the affect our results and our ability to grow.
2006 level to zero by the end of 2009.
In 2008 we will also be reviewing Our products largely comprise intellectual property delivered through the environmental impact of companies acquired during 2007. a variety of media, including newspapers, books and the internet.
We We have widened the scope of what we include within the companys rely on trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to greenhouse gas inventory and carried out a review of our data establish and protect our proprietary rights in these products.
As a result, we expect the total tonnes of CO 2 We cannot be sure that our proprietary rights will not be challenged, we report for 2007 to increase.
Based on this, our initial focus is on invalidated or circumvented.
Our intellectual property rights in strategies to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
We will be outlining countries such as the US and UK, jurisdictions covering the largest our plans further in our Environmental Review for 2007 which will be proportion of our operations, are well established.
However, we available in April.
also conduct business in other countries where the extent of effective In addition to our broad objectives, management in our operating legal protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain, and this companies and individual facilities are encouraged to set targets to uncertainty could affect our future growth.
Moreover, despite reduce energy use, emissions and other environmental impacts.
trademark and copyright protection, third-parties may copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our proprietary rights without For further information you can read about our environmental policy, our authorisation.
practices and our progress towards our climate neutral commitment at www.
com environment 19 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued These unauthorised activities may be more easily facilitated by the People: the investments we make in our employees, combined internet.
The lack of internet-specific legislation relating to trademark with our employment policies and practices, we believe are critical and copyright protection creates an additional challenge for us in factors enabling us to recruit and retain the very best people in our protecting our proprietary rights relating to our online business business sectors.
processes and other digital technology rights.
The loss or diminution Our US educational textbook and assessment businesses may be adversely in value of these proprietary rights or our intellectual property could affected by changes in state educational funding resulting from either have a material adverse effect on our business and financial general economic conditions, changes in government educational funding, performance.
In that regard, Penguin Group USA Inc. and Pearson programmes and legislation both at the federal and state level, and or Education have joined three other major US publishers in a suit changes in the state procurement process.
brought under the auspices of the Association of American Publishers to challenge Googles plans to copy the full text of all books ever The results and growth of our US educational textbook and published without permission from the publishers or authors.
This assessment business is dependent on the level of federal and state lawsuit seeks to demarcate the extent to which search engines, other educational funding, which in turn is dependent on the robustness internet operators and libraries may rely on the fair-use doctrine to of state finances and the level of funding allocated to educational copy content without authorisation from the copyright proprietors, programmes.
State finances could be adversely affected by a US and may give publishers more control over online users of their recession and or fallout from the sub-prime mortgage crisis reducing intellectual property.
If the lawsuit is unsuccessful, publishers and property values and hence state property tax receipts.
authors may be unable to control copying of their content for Federal and or state legislative changes can also affect the funding purposes of online searching, which could have an adverse impact available for educational expenditure, e. g. the No Child Left on our business and financial performance.
We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general vigilance, coSimilarly changes in the state procurement process for textbooks, operation with other publishers and trade associations, as well as learning material and student tests, particularly in the adoptions recourse to law as necessary.
market can also affect our markets.
For example, changes in curricula, We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid delays in the timing of adoptions and changes in the student testing change and we must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive.
process can all affect these programmes and therefore the size of our market in any given year.
Our education, business information and book publishing businesses all operate in highly competitive markets, which are constantly There are multiple competing demands for educational funds and changing in response to competition, technological innovations and there is no guarantee that states will fund new textbooks or testing other factors.
A common trend facing all our businesses is the programmes, or that we will win this business.
digitisation of content and proliferation of distribution channels, Education remains a priority across the US political spectrum.
either over the internet, or via other electronic means, replacing Our customer relationship teams have detailed knowledge of each traditional print formats.
If we do not adapt rapidly to these changes state market.
We are investing in new and innovative ways to expand we may lose business to faster more agile competitors, who and combine our product and services to provide a superior customer increasingly are non-traditional competitors, making their offering when compared to our competitors, thereby reducing our identification all the more difficult.
reliance on any particular funding stream in the US market.
To remain competitive we continue to invest in our authors, products, Failure to generate anticipated revenue growth, synergies and or services and people to take advantage of these opportunities.
There is cost savings from recent acquisitions leading to goodwill and intangible no guarantee that these investments will generate the anticipated asset impairments.
returns or protect us from being placed at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale, resources and our ability to develop and We continually acquire and dispose of businesses to achieve our exploit opportunities.
We recently completed two relatively large acquisitions, i. e. the Harcourt Assessment and Harcourt Education Other competitive threats we face at present include: International business for $950m and the acquisition of eCollege for Students seeking cheaper sources of content, e. g. online, used books $491m.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated revenue growth, or re-imported textbooks.
To counter this trend we introduced our synergies and or cost savings associated with these acquisitions there is own digital textbook programmes and are providing students with a risk the goodwill and intangible assets acquired estimated at 430m a greater choice and customisation of our products.
could be impaired in future years.
Competition from major publishers and other educational material We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in foreign currencies, and service providers, including not for profit organisations, in our particularly the US dollar, and foreign exchange rate fluctuations could US educational textbook and assessment businesses.
adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
Penguin: authors advances in consumer publishing.
We compete As with any international business our earnings can be materially with other publishing businesses to purchase the rights to author affected by exchange rate movements.
We are particularly exposed to manuscripts.
Our competitors may bid to a level at which we could movements in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate as approximately not generate a sufficient return on our investment, and so, typically, 60% of our revenue is generated in US dollars.
We estimate that if we would not purchase these rights.
2006 average rates had prevailed in 2007, sales for 2007 would have been 228m or 6% higher.
FT: we face competitive threats both from large media players as well as from smaller businesses, online portals and news This is predominantly a currency translation risk i. e. non-cash flow redistributors operating in the digital arena and providing item, and not a trading risk i. e. cash flow item as our currency alternative sources of news and information.
trading flows are relatively limited.
20 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Pearson generates about 60% of its sales in the US and each 5 change These businesses are characterised by multi-million pound contracts in the average :$ exchange rate for the full year which in 2007 was spread over several years.
As in any contracting business, there 1:$2.00 would have an impact of 1p on adjusted earnings per share.
are inherent risks associated with the bidding process, start-up, operational performance and contract compliance including penalty We estimate that a 5 change in the closing exchange rate between clauses which could adversely affect our financial performance and or the US dollar and sterling in any year could affect our reported reputation.
Failure to retain contracts at the end of the contract term adjusted earnings per share by 1p and shareholders funds by could adversely impact our future revenue growth.
At Edexcel, our UK examination board and testing business, any The Groups policy on managing foreign currency risk is described change in UK Government policy to examination marking for on page 24. example, introduction of new qualifications - could have a significant Other risks impact on our present business model.
Our newspaper businesses may be adversely affected by reductions in In addition to the internal business procedures and controls advertising revenues and or circulation either because of competing news implemented to ensure we successfully deliver on our contractual information distribution channels, particularly online and digital formats, commitments, we also seek to develop and maintain good or due to weak general economic conditions.
relationships with our customers, whether they are commercial or governmental.
We also look to diversify our portfolio to minimise Changes in consumer purchasing habits, as readers look to alternative reliance on any single contract.
sources and or providers of information, such as the internet and other digital formats, may change the way we distribute our content.
At Penguin, changes in product distribution channels, increased book We might see a decline in print circulation in our more mature returns and or customer bankruptcy may restrict our ability to grow and markets as readership habits change and readers migrate online, affect our profitability.
although we see further opportunities for growth in our less mature New distribution channels, e. g. digital format, the internet, used books, markets outside Europe.
If the migration of readers to new digital combined with the concentration of retailer power pose multiple formats occurs more quickly than we expect, this is likely to affect threats and opportunities to our traditional consumer publishing print advertising spend by our customers, adversely affecting models, potentially impacting both sales volumes and pricing.
Penguins financial performance can also be negatively affected if book Our newspaper businesses are highly geared and remain dependent on return rates increase above historical average levels.
Similarly, the print advertising revenue: relatively small changes in revenue, positive bankruptcy of a major retail customer would disrupt short-term or negative, have a disproportionate affect on profitability: therefore product supply to the market as well as result in a large debt write off.
any downturn in corporate and financial advertising spend would negatively impact our results.
We develop new distribution channels wherever possible by adapting our product offering and investing in new formats.
We take steps to The diversification of the FT Group into other business models challenge illegal distribution sources.
To minimise returns we are and revenue streams, e. g. subscription based businesses, higher careful about how we supply orders, taking account of expected sell proportion of digital revenues, increased business to business through.
The application of strict credit control policies is used to products, conferences and its global reach, goes some way to monitor customer debt.
offsetting reliance on newspaper print advertising.
We operate in markets which are dependent on information technology A control breakdown in our school assessment businesses could result IT systems and technological change.
in financial loss and reputational damage.
All our businesses, to a greater or lesser extent, are dependent on There are inherent risks associated with our school assessment technology.
We either provide software and or internet services to our businesses, both in the US and UK.
A breakdown in our testing and customers or we use complex IT systems and products to support our assessment products and processes could lead to a mis-grading of business activities, particularly in business information publishing, student tests and or late delivery of test results to students and their back-office processing and infrastructure.
In either event we may be subject to legal claims, penalty charges under our contracts, non-renewal of contracts and or the We face several technological risks associated with software product suspension or withdrawal of our accreditation to conduct tests.
development and service delivery in our educational businesses, It is also probable that such events would result in adverse publicity, information technology security including virus and hacker attacks, which may affect our ability to retain existing contracts and or obtain e-commerce, enterprise resource planning system implementations new customers.
The failure to recruit and retain staff with relevant skills may constrain our ability to grow as we combine traditional Our robust testing procedures and controls, combined with publishing products with online and service offerings.
our investment in technology, project management and skills development of our people minimise the risk of a breakdown We mitigate these IT risks by employing project management in our student marking.
techniques to manage new software developments and or system implementations and have implemented an array of security measures Our professional services and school assessment businesses involve complex to protect our IT assets from attack.
contractual relationships with both government agencies and commercial customers for the provision of various testing services.
Our financial Reputational damage to our brands and financial loss arising from a results, growth prospects and or reputation may be adversely affected if major data privacy breach.
these contracts and relationships are not properly managed.
Across our businesses we hold increasingly large volumes of personal data including that of employees, customers and, in our assessment businesses, citizens.
Failure to adequately protect personal data could lead to penalties, significant remediation costs and or reputational damage.
21 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued The protection of personal data and compliance with data privacy The latest valuation of our UK defined benefit pension plan has legislation has always been a considered a business risk.
We have been completed and future funding arrangements have been agreed recently re-evaluated our data security procedures and controls across between the company and the pension fund Trustee.
Additional all our businesses with the aim of ensuring personal data is secured payments amounting to 100m were made by the company in 2007. and we comply with relevant legislation.
We review these arrangements every three years and are confident that the pension funding plans are sufficient to meet future liabilities Operational disruption to our business caused by a major disaster and or without unduly affecting the development of the company.
external threats restricting our ability to supply products and services to our customers.
Changes in our tax position can significantly affect our reported earnings and cash flows.
Across all our businesses we manage complex operational and logistical arrangements including distribution centres, data centres and Changes in corporate tax rates and or other relevant tax laws in the UK large office facilities as well as relationships with third party print-sites.
and or the US could have a material impact on our future reported tax Failure to recover from a major disaster, e. g. fire, flood etc, at a key rate and or our future tax payments.
facility or the disruption of supply from a key third-party vendor could We have internal tax professionals in the UK and US who review all restrict our ability to service our customers.
Similarly external threats, significant arrangements around the world and respond to changes in such as avian flu, terrorist attacks, strikes etc, could all affect our tax legislation.
They work closely with local management and external business and employees, disrupting our daily business activities.
We have developed business continuity arrangements, including IT Social, environmental and ethical risk disaster recovery plans and back-up delivery systems, to minimise any We consider social, environmental and ethical SEE risks no business disruption in the event of a major disaster.
However, despite differently to the way we manage any other business risk.
Our 2007 regular updates and testing of these plans there is no guarantee that risk assessments did not identify any significant under-managed SEE our financial performance will not be adversely affected in the event risks, nor have any of our most important SEE risks, many concerned of a major disaster and or external threat to our business.
Insurance with reputational risk, changed year on year.
These are: coverage may minimise any losses in certain circumstances.
Journalistic author integrity Investment returns outside our traditional core US and UK markets may be lower than anticipated.
Ethical business behaviour To minimise dependence on our core markets, particularly the US, Compliance with UN Global Compact principles on labour we are seeking growth opportunities outside these markets, building standards, human rights, environment and anti-corruption on our existing substantial international presence.
Certain markets we Environmental impact may target for growth are inherently more risky than our traditional markets.
Political, economic, currency and corporate governance People risks including fraud as well as unmanaged expansion are all Our risk reporting systems together with our approach to managing factors which could limit our returns on investments made in these the key SEE risks above are described in Our Business and Society, the non-traditional markets.
The web link is available at We draw on our experience of developing businesses outside our www.
com community csr report2007 core markets and our existing international infrastructure to manage Financial risk management specific country risks, as well as expanding our financial control This section explains the Groups approach to the management resources in those areas.
The diversification of our international of financial risk.
portfolio, and relative size of emerging markets in relation to the group, further minimises the effect any one territory could have on Treasury policy the overall group results.
The Group holds financial instruments for two principal purposes: to finance its operations and to manage the interest rate and currency Our reported earnings and cash flows may be adversely affected by risks arising from its operations and its sources of finance.
The Group changes in our pension costs and funding requirements.
finances its operations by a mixture of cash flows from operations, We operate a number of pension plans throughout the world, the short-term borrowings from banks and commercial paper markets, principal ones being in the UK and US.
The major plans are selfand longer term loans from banks and capital markets.
The Group administered with the plans assets held independently of the Group.
borrows principally in US dollars and sterling, at both floating Regular valuations, conducted by independent qualified actuaries, and fixed rates of interest, using derivative financial instruments are used to determine pension costs and funding requirements.
derivatives, where appropriate, to generate the desired effective currency profile and interest rate basis.
The derivatives used for this It is our policy to ensure that each pension plan is adequately funded, purpose are principally rate swaps, rate caps and collars, currency rate over time, to meet its ongoing and future liabilities.
Our earnings and swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
cash flows may be adversely affected by the need to provide additional funding to eliminate pension fund deficits in our defined benefit plans.
The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are Our greatest exposure relates to our UK defined benefit pension plan.
interest rate risk, liquidity and refinancing risk, counterparty risk and Pension fund deficits may arise because of inadequate investment foreign currency risk.
These risks are managed by the Chief financial returns, increased member life expectancy, changes in actuarial officer under policies approved by the board, which are summarised assumptions and changes in pension regulations, including accounting below.
All the treasury policies remained unchanged throughout 2007. rules and minimum funding requirements.
The audit committee and a group of external treasury advisers, receives reports on the Groups treasury activities, policies and procedures.
The treasury department is not a profit centre and its activities are subject to regular internal audit.
22 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Interest rate risk management Liquidity and refinancing risk management The Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings The Groups objective is to secure continuity of funding at a is managed by borrowing on a fixed rate basis and by entering into reasonable cost.
To do this it seeks to arrange committed funding for rate swaps, rate caps and forward rate agreements.
The Groups policy a variety of maturities from a diversity of sources.
The Groups policy objective has continued to be to set a target proportion of its forecast objective has been that the weighted average maturity of its core gross borrowings taken at the year end, with cash netted against floating borrowings treating short-term advances as having the final maturity rate debt and before any adjustments for IFRS to be hedged i. e. of the facilities available to refinance them should be between three fixed or capped at the year end over the next four years, subject to and ten years.
At the end of 2007 the average maturity of gross a maximum of 65% and a minimum that starts at 40% and falls by borrowings was 4.6 years of which bonds represented 72% of these 10% at each year end.
At the end of 2007 the hedging ratio, on the borrowings up from 4.5 years and down from 90% respectively at above basis, was approximately 58%.
A simultaneous 1% change on the beginning of the year.
1 January in the Groups variable interest rates in each of US dollar, The Group believes that ready access to different funding markets also euro and sterling, taking into account forecast seasonal debt, would helps to reduce its liquidity risk, and that published credit ratings and have a 6m effect on profit before tax.
published financial policies improve such access.
All of the Groups Use of interest rate derivatives credit ratings remained unchanged during the year.
The long-term The policy in the section above creates a group of derivatives, under ratings are Baa1 from Moodys and BBB from Standard & Poors, which the Group is a payer of fixed rates and a receiver of floating and the short-term ratings are P2 and A2 respectively.
The Group also aims to avoid undue exposure to a single interest The Groups policy is to strive to maintain a rating of Baa1 BBB over rate setting.
Reflecting this objective, the Group has swapped its fixed the long term.
The Group will also continue to use internally a range rate bond issues to floating rate at their launch.
This creates a second of ratios to monitor and manage its finances.
These include interest group of derivatives, under which the Group is a receiver of fixed rates cover, net debt to operating profit and cash flow to debt measures.
and a payer of floating rates.
The Group also maintains undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The Groups accounting objective in its use of interest rate derivatives During the year the Group extended the maturity date of its main is to minimise the impact on the income statement of changes in the revolving credit facility by one year and entered into a short-term mark-to-market value of its derivative portfolio as a whole.
It uses bridge financing facility.
At the end of 2007 the committed facilities duration calculations to estimate the sensitivity of the derivatives to amounted to 1,369m and their weighted average maturity was movements in market rates.
The Group also identifies which 3.2 years.
derivatives are eligible for fair value hedge accounting which reduces Analysis of group debt, including the impact of derivatives sharply the income statement impact of changes in the market value of The following tables analyse the Groups sources of funding and a derivative.
The Group then balances the total portfolio between the impact of derivatives on the Groups debt instruments.
hedge-accounted and pooled segments, so that the expected movement on the pooled segment is minimal.
Net borrowings fixed and floating rate stated after the impact of rate derivatives: Interest rate derivative sensitivity analysis millions 2007 2006 The following sensitivity analysis of derivative financial instruments to Fixed rate 567 514 interest rate movements is based on the assumption of a 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities, with all other variables Floating rate 406 545 held constant.
Total 973 1,059 2007 Gross borrowings: Net carrying millions amount 1% change 1% change millions 2007 2006 Interest rate derivatives in a fair value Bank debt 458 177 hedge relationship 10 24 26 Bonds 1,150 1,566 Interest rate derivatives not in hedge Total 1,608 1,743 relationship 1 1 1 Cross currency rate derivatives in a net Gross borrowings by currency: investment hedge relationship 17 2007 2006 Cross currency rate derivatives not in Currency hedge relationship 9 millions As reported derivatives Combined Total 35 23 25 US dollar 1,251 150 1,401 1,253 Sterling 357 150 207 206 2006 Euro 284 Net carrying Total 1,608 1,608 1,743 millions amount 1% change 1% change Interest rate derivatives in a fair value Financial counterparty risk management hedge relationship 3 28 31 The Groups risk of loss on deposits or derivative contracts with Interest rate derivatives not in hedge individual banks is managed in part through the use of counterparty relationship 7 1 1 limits.
These limits, which take published credit limits among other Cross currency rate derivatives in a net things into account, are approved by the Chief financial officer within investment hedge relationship 40 guidelines approved by the board.
In addition, prior to their maturity in February 2007, for a currency rate swap that transformed a major Cross currency rate derivatives not in hedge relationship 17 1 1 part of the 6.125% Euro Bonds due 2007 into a US dollar liability, the Group entered into a mark-to-market agreement which significantly Total 67 28 31 reduced the counterparty risk of that rate swap transaction.
23 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued Foreign currency risk management 2006 Although the Group is based in the UK, it has its most significant Impact of Impact of Impact of 1% Impact of 1% 10% 10% investment in overseas operations.
The most significant currency Carrying increase in decrease in strengthening weakening in for the Group is the US dollar.
The Groups policy on routine All amounts in millions value interest rates interest rates in sterling sterling transactional conversions between currencies for example, the Investments in collection of receivables, and the settlement of payables or interest unlisted securities 17 1 1 remains that these should be transacted at the relevant spot exchange Cash and cash rate.
The majority of our operations are domestic within their country equivalents 592 38 46 of operation.
No unremitted profits are hedged with foreign exchange Marketable contracts, as the company judges it inappropriate to hedge non-cash securities 25 2 2 flow translational exposure with cash flow instruments.
However, the Derivative financial Group does seek to create a natural hedge of this exposure through its instruments 67 28 31 8 10 policy of aligning approximately the currency composition of its core Bonds 1,566 28 31 108 132 net borrowings with its forecast operating profit before depreciation Other borrowings 177 16 19 and amortisation.
This policy aims to dampen the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on consolidated interest cover and earnings.
Other net financial assets 425 31 38 The policy above applies only to currencies that account for more than Total financial 15% of Group operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, 617 60 74 instruments which currently is only the US dollar.
However, the Group still borrows small amounts in other currencies, typically for seasonal The table shows the sensitivities of the fair values of each class of working capital needs.
In addition, the Group currently expects to financial instruments to an isolated change in either interest rates or hold legacy borrowings in sterling to their maturity dates: our policy foreign exchange rates.
The class Other net financial assets comprises does not require existing currency debt to be terminated to match trade assets less trade liabilities.
declines in that currencys share of Group operating profit before The sensitivities of derivative instruments are calculated using depreciation and amortisation.
Included within year end net debt, the established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and net borrowings cash in the two principal currencies above taking option valuation models.
into account the effect of cross currency swaps were: US dollar 1,119m and sterling 45m.
A large proportion of the movements shown above would impact equity rather than the income statement, depending on the location Use of currency debt and currency derivatives and functional currency of the entity in which they arise and the The Group uses both currency denominated debt and derivative availability of net investment hedge treatment.
instruments to implement the above policy.
Its intention is that gains losses on the derivatives and debt offset the losses gains on the The changes in valuations are estimates of the impact of changes in foreign currency assets and income.
Each quarter the value of hedging market variables and are not a prediction of future events or instruments is monitored against the assets in the relevant currency anticipated gains or losses.
and, where practical, a decision is made whether to treat the debt or derivative as a net investment hedge permitting foreign exchange movements on it to be taken to reserves for the purposes of IAS 39.
Financial instruments sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the Groups financial instruments to fluctuations Robin Freestone, Chief financial officer in interest rates and exchange rates is as follows: 2007 Impact of Impact of Impact of 1% Impact of 1% 10% 10% Carrying increase in decrease in strengthening weakening in All amounts in millions value interest rates interest rates in sterling sterling Investments in unlisted securities 52 4 5 Cash and cash equivalents 560 36 44 Marketable securities 40 3 4 Derivative financial instruments 35 23 25 11 13 Bonds 1,150 24 26 71 87 Other borrowings 458 42 51 Other net financial assets 408 29 35 Total financial instruments 513 1 1 52 63 24 Pearson Annual Report and Accounts 2007
