14 Business Review Mark Whiteling Chief Financial officer Note: Throughout the Business Review, INTRODUCTION in order to reflect underlying business The Division stocks in excess of 400,000 The Premier Farnell Group consists of performance, sales growth is based on two divisions: the Marketing and different products sourced from a large sales per day for continuing businesses number of suppliers around 3,000 and Distribution Division MDD and the at constant exchange rates and for Industrial Products Division IPD.
provides customers with access to a like periods.
The MDD is comprised of five businesses This Business Review is prepared in see page 2 involved in the distribution The Industrial Products Division IPD accordance with the requirements of a wide range of electronic components comprises businesses supplying of the Companies Act.
It does not and equipment and maintenance, repair high-performance products to specialist constitute an Operating and Financial and operations MRO products into industrial markets, predominantly in Review in accordance with Reporting commercial, industrial and public sector North America see page 3.
The Division Standard 1 RS1 issued by the Accounting markets throughout Europe, North accounted for 9% of sales and 15% of Standards Board.
Its purpose is to America and Asia Pacific.
Together they operating profit in the year, based on provide information which is significant represented 91% of sales and 85% of continuing operations and before to understanding the development, operating profit in the year, based on head office costs.
performance and position of the Group, continuing operations and before the principal risks and uncertainties The following sections cover only the head office costs.
facing the Group and to include the key MDD businesses on the basis that this performance indicators KPIs used by Within these markets, the MDD division represented 91% of sales.
The the Group to articulate this development, IPD businesses are covered in the businesses serve the varying needs of performance and position.
Additionally, Electronic Design Engineers EDE, small relevant section of the Review of the Business Review is intended to Operations.
scale production units, procurement highlight trends, where identifiable, specialists and maintenance and repair in factors which are impacting the engineers.
In aggregate, the MDD development, performance and businesses have over two million position of the Group.
customer contacts that are attracted by a common need for a broad product range, rapid and reliable delivery and specialist value-adding services.
They place many small orders with average order values of approximately 220 in North America and 100 in Europe and Asia Pacific.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW AND ACCOUNTS 2007 15 15 This Business Review provides information which is significant to understanding the development, performance and position of the Group.
15 The Annual Report and Accounts, analysis of the development and after that date.
To the extent that this including the Business Review, is performance of the business of the Report contains any statement dealing prepared for and addressed only to the Group during the year under review and with any time after the date of its Companys shareholders as a whole and the position of the Group at the end of preparation such statement is merely to no other person.
The Company, its the year, consistent with the size and predictive and speculative as it relates Directors, employees, agents or advisers complexity of the Groups business.
to events and circumstances which are do not accept or assume responsibility yet to occur.
The Company does not Statements contained in this Annual to any other person to whom this Report intend to update any forward-looking Report and Accounts, including the is shown or into whose hands it may statements after the date of this Report, Business Review, are based on the come and any such responsibility or but such statements will be reconsidered knowledge and information available to liability is expressly disclaimed.
in the preparation of the Companys next the Companys Directors at the date it Annual Report and Accounts.
The Business Reviews purpose is to was prepared and therefore the facts provide a balanced and comprehensive stated and views expressed may change 16 Business Review continued Customer demand Broad customer base Manufacturer direct Volume Volume Volume of EDE distribution distribution MRO product growing globally at c. 6-8% Premier Farnell Manufacturer Premier Farnell Student Prototype Small OEM Large OEM Service Maintenance Repair R&D Pilot OEM: Original Equipment Manufacturer EDEs in these markets.
In addition, MARKETS Economic cycles there is a large installed base of Through Newark and Farnell, MDD The overall electronics distribution market electronic equipment that needs supplies a variety of industries.
The in which the Group operates comprises the maintaining in Premier Farnells product range offered comprises a high volume distributors, who handle the traditional geographic markets.
breadth of product for components supply of large quantities of components As volume manufacturing has used in electronic equipment.
Since for the scheduled manufacturing process migrated to countries such as China the 1950s, the penetration of of electronic equipment manufacturers and Mexico, these countries have electronics into everyday life has around the world, and the low volume grown their industrial infrastructure increased steadily.
Demand for high service distributors who handle the and their installed base of electronic electronics has typically grown in requirements of Electronic Design systems.
As a result, there is an steps driven by the arrival of new Engineers EDE engaged in the design increasing need for MRO products applications, such as DVDs, PCs, of new products for consumers and of the kind that Premier Farnell supplies.
mobile phones and, more recently, businesses.
We also support maintenance, Premier Farnell is meeting the requests the convergence of communication repair and operations MRO engineers of a number of larger customers and technologies.
This has an impact on who are maintaining and repairing the suppliers to support their expansion in the growth rate that we expect from installed product base of electronics these regions.
the EDE customer base discussed on equipment.
The chart above shows the page 18, where we see on-going nature of customer demand for products demand for new electronic products.
The overall global market is Outsourcing The level of maintenance and repair estimated at 180 billion, of which the There are mounting pressures on activity varies by geography and high service marketplace is estimated at industry in the US and Western Europe reflects the indigenous manufacturing approximately 13 billion, less than to become more efficient.
Many environment and the general level of one-tenth of the market.
manufacturing companies are economic activity.
While the market for high volume streamlining or outsourcing the The remainder of the Divisions customer procurement of their MRO product distribution is relatively consolidated, base is very diverse.
BuckHickman requirements in order to reduce the with just a few global players, there is supplies industrial tools, maintenance total cost of purchasing.
These no similar level of consolidation in most and personal protective products customers are reducing inventory and markets in which the MDD businesses primarily into industrial markets.
CPC ordering closer to their point of need operate.
Our MDD businesses compete and MCM supply electrical and electronic so requiring reliable supply, late in a highly fragmented marketplace ranges, such as audio-visual and security ordering capability and next day service.
with current customer demand met by products, to very broad customer bases, Premier Farnells MDD businesses are a multitude of local distributors and a from specialist retailers and small well positioned to create operating limited number of larger distributors businesses to large organisations.
The efficiencies for such customers by operating in national or regional level of general economic activity reducing the number of suppliers that markets.
Farnell is a market leader in therefore also influences MDDs sales.
they deal with and by offering a range the UK and Australian markets and of other services such as electronic Newark is a market leader in North procurement.
Outside these markets, Migration of manufacturing customers to reduce administrative although these businesses are recognised The market available to Premier Farnell expenses associated with placing internationally, there remains significant in its main geographic markets has hundreds, or even thousands, of small opportunity for growth.
There are few remained relatively stable compared orders each year.
other distributors that offer a global with the migration of higher volume reach to either customers or suppliers manufacturing to lower cost economies similar to that offered by the Environmental legislation in recent years.
While lower wage combination of these two businesses.
rates have attracted high volume The EU Directive on the Restriction of The other remaining businesses manufacturing to Eastern Europe and the use of certain Hazardous within MDD, namely CPC, MCM and Asia, the migration of design, research Substances RoHS took effect in BuckHickman InOne BuckHickman, and development R&D and small scale Europe from 1 July 2006.
It prohibits operate primarily on a national basis in manufacturing has not occurred in the use of certain substances, including their respective home markets and are the same way.
We have verified our lead, cadmium and mercury, in focused on a particular subset of the understanding of this trend using electronic and electrical products overall electronics distribution market.
external research conducted with placed on the market in the European PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW AND ACCOUNTS 2007 17 Union.
Premier Farnell has supported Accordingly, an excellent web means of accessing a large, dispersed the introduction of compliant products experience is also important for this and international customer base.
We to meet the RoHS legislation and is customer group.
They also benefit also offer the ability to market actively cleansing its supply chain of from: to their target customer base through non-compliant products for suppliers, the customer relationship tools that Ease of identification, selection distributors and customers alike.
we use and to understand better and ordering from a choice of Similar legislation became effective on the requirements of EDE and MRO channels including call centres, 1 March 2007 in China.
The seeding of new products eCommerce, field sales teams and having established a leadership position with the design engineer community is printed catalogues in Europe, is now translating this particularly valuable to suppliers as experience into support for customers Web forums where engineers can any of their components specified in a and suppliers in that market in meeting exchange technical information design will be required in large volumes the legislation.
There is a variety of when that design goes into production.
A new web front-end that has other legislation which affects our improved the customer experience in Suppliers benefit from: customers and we expect that future terms of speed, simplicity of use and legislation may have an impact on their Fast and reliable global distribution, search capability product needs.
We believe we have the supported by technical help for ability to support our customers Reduced stockholding costs customers JENSEN SOSTRE, ELECTRICAL COMMODITY MANAGER, ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD With over 35 years in the cruise business, a fleet of 29 ships and a focus on delighting customers, Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd has a reputation anchored in excellence which they seek in their own suppliers, combined with a desire to strive for continuous improvement in all aspects of their business.
Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd is a major MRO customer of Newark in The Americas.
We never quite know what our next from other companies in the Group and request will be for with a fleet of 29 the depth and breadth of the product ships and potential to carry over 47,000 range on offer is really critical for us.
passengers, we can literally expect Ultimately we want to be able to go requests for anything and everything to one supplier to source all of our from our on-board engineers.
Our high requirements: batteries, mechanical customer service standards mean we components, cable, test and repair frequently need to give a 24-48 hour equipment, semi-conductors etc and we turnaround, and with the ships travelling need to know that we can still source it is often logistically complex to get our products that are more than a few years products to where they need to be.
old to support our business.
We need Newark does an excellent job of getting our suppliers to carry a breadth and the right products to the right place at depth of stock to be able to respond the right time.
quickly to our demands and meet our We find the Newark catalogue and web needs as a customer.
We need to know pages invaluable in helping us identify that our business really matters to our and then source the items we need.
We suppliers and to receive competitive, love the fact that we can order outside of fast support at all times.
We set the very standard working hours as we are caring highest service standards for our own for customers 24 7 and still receive our customers and it is what we expect from goods the next day.
We regularly source our suppliers in return.
providing information on products Other value-adding services such as Effective marketing to specific and legislation which may affect technical support customer groups within the Divisions product design.
2,000,000 customer contacts and Reduced transaction costs through other web site visitors efficient processes such as Market intelligence and feedback Customer proposition eProcurement and through supplier reduction We are committed to ensuring that The proposition for the EDE customer our product offering is focused on our is based on the breadth of product The proposition to support our MRO customer base and we announced as offering from the appropriate customer base is also service led, part of the strategy review see page 18 component suppliers, availability of with the availability of product and our intention to add a further 70,000 product for shipment and quality and multi-channel capability valued by the products into our stocked inventory to quantity of technical information to customer.
They also value the level of enhance our product offering to our EDE support their work.
EDE customers technical support available, particularly customer base.
We believe that this will typically seek a broad range of through the call centres.
also benefit our MRO customer base as products from a single source.
They See customer relationships, page 29. well as making us more attractive as a want products to be in stock and for partner to other suppliers.
small, mixed orders to be delivered quickly and reliably.
This customer Suppliers See supplier relationships, page 29. base is generally very web-savvy and MDD constitutes a powerful marketing conducts an increasing proportion and support capability for our franchised of work on the web, including search, supply partners.
We are an effective selection and procurement.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 18 Business Review continued increase in products available to our other than the development of local STRATEGY customers via other supply channels.
language web sites, we do not believe During the course of the current year, the that this will require significant Group completed a strategic review of its incremental investment.
We anticipate Enhance our successful activities.
This followed the appointment that revenue from mainland European operational web and of Harriet Green as Chief Executive markets will grow as a proportion of eCommerce platform Officer on 3 April 2006.
The outcome total Group revenue, reflecting the of the review is outlined in an interview The improvements to our web platform higher growth rates in Eastern Europe with Harriet Green on pages 4 to 7.
The that we have already implemented, and the relatively low market share that strategy is one that is focused on together with the further enhancements we currently have in all mainland profitable growth through our EDE planned, will provide design engineers European markets.
customer base, utilisation of our web with a fast and efficient channel to capability and the internationalisation access our comprehensive range of Initiatives to drive operational of our business model as we expand into products and associated technical and cash efficiencies new territories.
This is detailed in the information.
The web is a preferred following paragraphs and highlighted channel for many EDE customers As part of the strategic business review, on pages 8 to 13. and offers a lower cost to serve than we completed a thorough analysis of traditional sales channels.
This is a key our business processes.
The existing part of our multi-channel end to end processes were confirmed as robust.
Focus on EDE customer experience that includes both However, the review has identified The global EDE market consists of our EDE and MRO customer base.
areas where we can improve our customers involved in the design current operating performance and of electronic products and components processes.
The benefits of these actions Internationalising our model with and is part of the catalogue addressable will be reflected in our net operating immediate focus on China and market estimated at 13 billion expenses to sales ratio.
This reduces Eastern Europe worldwide.
EDE customers have similar in the year and we expect it to reduce service requirements wherever they The Chinese market for small further over the three-year period after are located and these include a broad volume electronics is estimated at over an increase in the first year, reflecting product offering, technical support and 1 billion annually and growing rapidly.
investment in the initiatives during 2008. reliable and prompt delivery.
Our data Large numbers of electronic design We have also identified actions to indicates that, over the next three years, engineers graduate every year from manage the working capital in the demand for products purchased by Chinese universities and engage in business more effectively.
We will design engineers will grow approximately design activity in their local industries.
improve inventory turns over the period, twice as fast in the range of 6% to 8% This market is highly fragmented, while maintaining current levels of as the demand for our overall product offering a significant growth service, and are targeting a reduction range.
Focus on this sector will therefore opportunity and potential for us to in our working capital to sales ratio over enhance sales growth rates.
Our plans the three year period including the for China are aimed at achieving this As part of our plans to improve our unwinding of the RoHS investment.
proposition to EDEs, we expect to add We will achieve this through working approximately 70,000 products to our The expansion of the European Union with customers and suppliers to current stocked range of approximately and the highly fragmented nature of enhance our processes and to eliminate 300,000 over the three-year period with these new markets also offer growth waste and errors.
The working capital a further 500,000 lines to be available opportunities.
We believe that we will be improvements will be used to fund on demand.
The increase in the stocked able to service these markets from our the investment in the other strategic range will be part of a much larger existing distribution infrastructure and, business review initiatives.
PETE LOMAS, MANAGING DIRECTOR, NORCOTT TECHNOLOGIES, UK Norcott offers a comprehensive range of services for the design, development and manufacture of electronic products for a varied European customer base.
Service flexibility is key to their success and they are committed to delivering technically sound, commercially viable design solutions against aggressive delivery requirements.
Pete Lomas commented Increasing To achieve our goals we need supply comprehensive RoHS product portfolio product complexity, narrower windows partners who can provide a service and a wealth of legislative support of opportunity coupled with fiercely tailored to our needs.
Fast access to new information on-tap is a major bonus.
competitive markets requires the careful products and technologies from stock is balancing of development and product critical for prototyping but this has to be Premier Farnell are constantly costs.
Electronic components are the backed up with well-trained people who listening to our needs and improving crucial ingredient for a successful possess in depth product knowledge.
their product and service offering.
New technologies have to be The sense of partnership we feel with continually assessed as these frequently We want to buy over the web and need them is substantial and it allows us to move the boundaries between hardware, comprehensive web based data with a confidently implement new technologies firmware and application software in fast, effective search capability coupled knowing that we have a key product and order to achieve an optimum cost with straightforward order placing.
As always this has to be RoHS compliance has placed another tempered with availability and our significant burden on the electronic customers market requirements.
design process, so a supplier with a PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 19 SILKE NEUSTIFTER, DISTRIBUTION SALES DIRECTOR, EUROPE ANALOG DEVICES INC. ADI ADI is an important supplier to Farnell and Newark and one of the leading technology companies in the world, specialising in signal processing analog, mixed-signal, and digital.
Its integrated circuits play a fundamental role in converting and processing real-world phenomena such as light, sound, temperature, motion and pressure into electrical signals to be used in electronic equipment.
Silke commented The companies of conquer new technological frontiers.
available from stock is powerful.
This the Premier Farnell Group are valuable We are delighted to work with Newark when combined with the new, improved partners for us, offering us unique access and Farnell on this exciting journey.
web sites and quality catalogues assures to design engineers across Europe and us that the Group is the right partner We are benefiting from the Groups the USA.
These designers want to use for us as a world leader in the success, particularly in the area of our very latest technology products in technology space.
customer acquisition, which affords their new designs and seeding our us even greater potential for business products into this critical group is very growth together.
important for the future of ADI.
At ADI we pride ourselves on our reputation for Farnell and Newark understand what innovation, performance and excellence design engineers need and their speed and we will continue to forge ahead and of getting new products listed and Portfolio review Key Performance Indicators Carbon footprint We identified in the business review We believe that over the next three We are aware that all businesses have that, with the exception of BuckHickman, years these plans, combined with an impact on the environment in which we have a strong group of businesses increased operational focus, will deliver they operate.
As part of the process that are delivering shareholder value.
This will of implementing the strategy, we are These businesses continue to show come from a number of factors and the seeking to ensure that we limit our good growth and profit performance in key performance indicators that we will impact on the environment.
The actions line with the Groups expectations and use to monitor the development of the that we are undertaking to address our provide a valuable contribution to the strategy are set out below.
carbon footprint are discussed further Group in excess of its weighted average in our Corporate Social Responsibility There are a number of additional cost of capital.
Report commencing on page 29. internal measures that are being used BuckHickman has undergone a to track progress against specific substantial restructuring during the initiatives within the strategy and course of this year.
However, although these are reviewed monthly by we have made significant progress with management.
improving the operating performance of the business, we decided, after reviewing the potential overlap of Key Performance Indicator Strategic deliverable BuckHickmans and Premier Farnells core markets and the impact of our Sales per day growth Accelerated sales growth through focus on the faster enhanced focus, that its long-term growing EDE sector and faster growing economies.
future was not within the Group.
On 21 March 2007, the Company Gross margin % Gross margin stability through a balanced customer announced that it had entered into and geographic profile to manage risk.
an agreement to sell this business for Return on sales % Operational efficiencies and the success of our a total consideration of 27 million.
eCommerce strategy will result in an improving Further details are given in the return on sales.
Return on net operating assets % The effective and efficient investment of our shareholders funds is a critical overall measure of the success of our strategy.
Working capital as a % of sales The strategy review identified operational and working capital efficiencies that would be used to fund the investment programmes.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 20 Business Review continued 2007 2006 Group results continuing operations Exchange Growth m Reported Reported adjustment At CER at CER Sales 823.1 773.5 11.9 761.6 8.1% Underlying gross margin % 38.4% 38.2% 38.2% Underlying operating profit 82.3 70.1 1.5 68.6 20.0% Underlying operating margin % 10.0% 9.1% 9.0% Underlying profit before taxation 61.5 47.9 1.0 46.9 31.1% US$ : 1.86 1.80 1.86 Euro : 1.47 1.46 1.47 CER: constant exchange rates Excluding the RoHS inventory provision 6.6 million in 2006 Excluding the RoHS inventory provision 6.6 million and reorganisation costs 5.3 million in 2006 Operating profit from continuing Profit after taxation from discontinued REVIEW OF RESULTS operations was 82.3 million compared operations of 10.7 million Note: Prior year income statement to an underlying operating profit in the 2006: 1.1 million comprises the post figures have been restated to exclude prior year of 70.1 million.
At constant tax trading results of the Kent business the results of the Kent business exchange rates this represents a year up to the date of disposal of 0.6 million following its disposal on 31 July 2006. on year increase of 20.0%, reflecting 2006: 1.1 million and the post tax gain The results of this discontinued the sales performance, gross margin on the sale of the business of 10.1 million.
operation are shown as a single number stabilisation and continued tight control Profit attributable to ordinary on the face of the income statement of costs, with net operating expenses shareholders was 52.4 million below profit after tax from continuing reducing from an underlying 29.1% of 2006: 31.1 million.
Further details relating to sales in the prior year to 28.4% in 2007. the disposal of this business are given in This resulted in an operating margin for Basic earnings per share during the year note 23 to the Consolidated Financial the year of 10.0%, up from an underlying were as follows: Statements.
operating margin of 9.1% in the prior 2007 2006 year, with the fourth quarter operating Group sales from continuing operations Reported Underlying margin of 10.3% up from an underlying for the financial year were 823.1 million margin of 9.5% in the prior year 2006: 773.5 million, reflecting year Total 14.4p 8.6p 10.8p see Figure 3. on year sales growth, based on sales Continuing per day for continuing businesses at Operational gearing, representing the operations 11.5p 8.3p 10.5p constant exchange rates, of 8.1%.
Sales year on year increase in underlying growth rates improved during the first Excluding the RoHS inventory provision 6.6 million operating profit compared to the and reorganisation costs 5.3 million in 2006 half of the year, reaching 10.8% in the increase in sales, both at constant second quarter reflecting a strong exchange rates, was 22.3% during Earnings per share from continuing performance from all segments.
Second the year, further demonstrating the operations of 11.5p represented year on half sales per day were in line with the Groups drive for business efficiencies year underlying growth of 9.5% or 11.7% first half and while year on year growth and cost control.
Earnings rates remained positive across all per share in 2006 benefited from a low Return on net operating assets segments, they were lower than those effective tax rate following the net assets excluding cash, financial achieved in the first half due to stronger significant benefits realised from the liabilities, taxation and goodwill for the comparatives see Figure 1.
Groups efficient financing structure, year increased to 26.1% from 22.1% in and favourable prior year adjustments.
The Groups gross margin in the year the prior year.
from continuing operations was Profit before taxation from continuing 38.4% compared to an underlying operations was 61.5 million compared gross margin in the prior year of 38.2%.
to an underlying profit before taxation This reflected the fifth consecutive in the prior year of 47.9 million, an quarter of incremental improvement in increase of 28.4% or 31.1% at constant underlying gross margin, from 37.9% exchange rates.
As seen in the table in the third quarter of last year to 38.5% above, there was an adverse impact in the fourth quarter of this year.
This on profit before taxation from the reflects the actions put in place across translation of overseas results the Group to manage and control gross compared with prior year of 1.0 million, margin performance see Figure 2. principally as a result of the weakness of the US dollar.
A one cent movement in the exchange rate between the US dollar and sterling impacts the Groups operating profit by approximately 250,000 per annum.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 21 Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 Sales growth % Gross margin % Operating margin % 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Before one-off charges in 2006 Before one-off charges in 2006 support has been in relation to RoHS.
The Divisions expansion into China REVIEW OF OPERATIONS During the year the Division maintained reflects an offering that will be its market leadership position in RoHS compliant with the first phase of the Marketing and Distribution and, as a result, saw market share gains China RoHS legislation, which became Division MDD in Farnell UK and Europe.
In the first half, effective on 1 March 2007.
The in-depth the Division strengthened its RoHS knowledge and experience gained from MDD comprises: Newark, Farnell, proposition to maintain competitor implementation across Europe will BuckHickman, MCM and CPC.
advantage and actively marketed the ensure the Division is able to support its Growth differentiated RoHS related services Chinese customers and suppliers m 2007 2006 at CER that Farnell and Newark had to offer, through this complex change.
Sales 749.7 706.4 7.6% including bill of material conversion During the year, good progress was services, early availability of compliant Operating profit 78.8 56.9 40.0% made in managing out non-compliant stock, certificates of compliance, and inventory arising as a result of the Underlying obsolescence notification services.
Both migration to compliant stock, and this operating profit 78.8 68.6 16.7% the European and North American remains in line with plan.
Operating regions successfully leveraged a global margin % 10.5% 8.1% approach to compliance data and the associated audit trail.
The decision by Product and supplier portfolio Underlying both businesses to allocate new part operating A number of major franchise numbers to RoHS compliant products, margin % 10.5% 9.7% agreements were signed during the year regardless of whether the manufacturer including Agilent Technologies for the Constant exchange rates had changed the part number, and to Excluding the RoHS inventory provision promotion of its extensive suite of segregate RoHS compliant and 6.6 million and reorganisation costs 5.1 million electronic, bio-analytical measurement in 2006 non-compliant versions of products and test equipment tools in the MDDs held, received strong endorsement from Overall, sales rose by 7.6% in the year.
European catalogues: Omron IAV, major suppliers.
During the second Strong growth was seen in all regions extending the territory for promotion quarter, Farnell became the first although total growth in the UK was of its automation and sensor products distributor in the industry to gain the affected by the anticipated sales decline from the UK to Europe: AEMC BSI RoHS Trusted Kitemark across all at BuckHickman.
Operating profit of Instruments for the promotion of its of its European offices, extending the 78.8 million represented an increase electrical test and measurement UK accreditation achieved earlier in of 16.7% on the prior years underlying instruments in the US: and global the year.
Operating margin franchise agreements with Cypress of 10.5% 2006: 9.7% underlying The Divisions preparation for RoHS and Semiconductor and ZMD.
In addition, the reflected the stabilisation of the gross the support provided ensured that there Group extended its franchise agreement margin throughout the year and tight was a smooth transition for many with Texas Instruments in the US and cost control.
customers in meeting the European Europe to the Asia Pacific regions, and 1 July 2006 deadline for implementation also extended its franchise agreement Sales through eCommerce channels of the EU legislation.
with Analog Devices, the worlds leading continued to grow well, up 26% year on manufacturer of analog, digital and year, assisted by web development and The market transition to RoHS mixed signal semi-conductors, into infrastructure improvements in both compliant products remains less North America.
regions in the second half of the year.
uniform and regulated in the US than it By the fourth quarter, eCommerce sales was through Europe.
However, Newark During the year, the Division also accounted for 25% of sales across has maintained its leadership position extended its programme of actively the Division.
and is well positioned to support the marketing electronic components in transition needs of its customers with partnership with many of its suppliers.
its September 2006 catalogue having Multi-channel promotions and product RoHS Legislation been reformatted to show products by campaigns were established with Restriction of the use of certain product category and to highlight their Lumileds: AVX Corporation, a Hazardous Substances RoHS status.
In addition, Newark hosted recognised world leader in passive The Division supports its customers in a RoHS supplier summit in the third components: Coto Technology: Deltron a number of ways to ensure they meet quarter with leading component and STMicroelectronics.
Over the last manufacturers to confront the impact of year the most significant area of the legislation.
-0.4% 1.0% 5.4% 8.2% 10.1% 10.8% 7.5% 3.9% 38.6% 38.3% 37.9% 38.0% 38.2% 38.3% 38.4% 38.5% 9.3% 8.4% 9.0% 9.5% 10.1% 9.8% 9.9% 10.3% PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 22 GRAHAM BROCK, PRESIDENT OF WORLDWIDE SALES & MARKETING, MOLEX Molex is a leading one-source supplier of interconnect solutions, with a product portfolio of over 100,000 reliable products, including everything from electronic, electrical and fibre optic interconnect solutions to switches and application tooling, focused on meeting the needs for both the EDE and MRO customer base.
Our important partnership with the To satisfy customers across all today.
Molex looks to deliver through its Premier Farnell Group is truly global segments we need distribution partners distributors the expertise, products and as we work with them on a worldwide who understand the distinct needs of service to help customers build better basis.
The multi-channel approach they each.
Premier Farnell offers us this products and better businesses.
In have to the market ensures that our expertise, combined with service Premier Farnell we have a partner whose products are targeted at all significant excellence and high stocking levels.
focus and drive matches our own.
market sectors, enabling customers to buy in whatever way best suits their Our R&D plans are aggressive as we We look forward to driving further needs.
Our products are used in a wide continue to launch new products and growth and success together as two variety of industries, including the our team has been focused on the major players in the global electronics telecom datacom, computer peripheral, design, development and distribution industry.
automotive, premise wiring, industrial, of innovative solutions and new industry consumer, medical and military markets.
standards that meet tomorrows needs, These new franchises, together with Newark marketing communications, all of existing suppliers, resulted in the which were created in-house.
Newark is a leading distributor of Division adding over 35,000 new electronic components, eProcurement In December, Newark released a new products to its stocked portfolio during solutions and stockroom management state of the art web platform.
As part of its strategy the services in the Americas.
Its customers customer feedback has been very Division plans to add a further 70,000 include Electronic Design Engineers positive with improvements already stocked products over the next three EDE and maintenance technicians in seen in related performance indicators.
years targeted at the design needs of the US, Canada, Mexico and Brazil.
During the year a number of the EDE customer group, with a further By sales, it comprises 93% of MDD eProcurement partnerships were 500,000 lines to be available on Americas.
secured with customers including demand.
The MDDs portfolio now AstraZeneca, Arizona State University, Despite the competitive market, gross includes the majority of the worlds Merck and Southwest Airlines.
In margin was maintained throughout the leading semi-conductor, passive and addition, Newark strengthened its year through continued marketing and electromechanical brands, providing eProcurement offering by the promotion of higher margin products design engineers across the globe introduction of XML invoicing, which and the focus on core EDE and increased access to an impressive reduces manual intervention and Maintenance, Repair and Operations product range of depth and breadth.
processing time and saves MRO markets and accounts.
business saw an increase of sales to MDD Americas new and smaller customers of over 30% Sales from operations in Mexico grew Newark and MCM and the business attracted 7% more strongly and benefited from the transfer new customers than in the prior year.
of all sales support activities to the Growth expanded facility in Guadalajara.
m 2007 2006 at CER Effective marketing programmes contributed to the sales growth during Sales 329.3 310.0 9.1% MCM the year and included the launch of a MCM distributes electronics and related Operating profit 30.5 22.2 39.3% comprehensive catalogue of RoHS equipment to service and repair Underlying compliant products.
professionals and technical hobbyists operating profit 30.5 27.1 16.0% throughout the US and comprises 7% Newark has continued to invest to Operating of MDD Americas sales.
During the year improve customer service including margin % 9.3% 7.2% sales grew by 8.4%.
This performance enhanced telephony systems in major was driven largely by a strong Underlying branches, giving better customer eCommerce proposition and a operating response times and improvements in multi-channel sales strategy that margin % 9.3% 8.7% product data, enabling a significantly focused on key market segments, increased offering of accessories and Constant exchange rates including home integration, consumer Excluding the RoHS inventory provision associated products through both the electronics and gaming.
In total, MCM 4.2 million and reorganisation costs 0.7 million web and call centres.
Improvements in 2006 delivered over 39% of its sales through have also been made throughout the eCommerce channels, accomplished via year in all aspects of service from order In the Americas, sales grew by 9.1% on a new web platform, aggressive search the prior year, with double digit growth acceptance through to despatch, with engine marketing strategies and various record performance measures being in the first half, reducing in the third and eProcurement solutions delivered to fourth quarters as a result of stronger achieved in the fourth quarter.
By the fourth benefit of these investments are comparators in the second half of last quarter, total eCommerce sales year.
Gross margin was maintained highlighted in customer surveys which accounted for 42% of total sales.
show continued improvements in throughout the year.
operating profit increased 16.0% at constant exchange rates and underlying In November, Newark received nine operating margin improved to 9.3% marketing awards from the US National reflecting continued control over Electronic Distributors Association operating expenses.
NEDA for its corporate advertising Web sales in MDD Americas increased campaign which promoted RoHS by 13% year on year and by the fourth compliant solutions through quarter total eCommerce sales newsletters, a capabilities brochure represented 17% of total sales.
and the web site, and also for other PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 23 infrastructure to deliver enhanced Over the year, sales from Farnell UK MDD Europe and Asia Pacific speed and reliability to all three trading increased 7.0% with the business Farnell, BuckHickman and CPC brands.
Performance improvements achieving strong market share Growth exceeded expectations with all key web performance.
Strong demand was seen m 2007 2006 at CER metrics showing improvements.
for the RoHS compliant product range as the business leveraged its leadership Sales 420.4 396.4 6.4% Driven by this improved platform, web position through powerful marketing Operating profit 48.3 34.7 40.4% sales in the fourth quarter for the region and sales initiatives resulting in an were up 42% on the prior year with total Underlying increase in the average order value.
eCommerce sales representing 31% of Despite the deadline for RoHS operating profit 48.3 41.5 17.2% total sales and some countries now compliance being 1 July 2006, year on Operating achieving over 50% of sales via the web.
year sales growth in the third quarter margin % 11.5% 8.8% In November, Farnell was named remained in line with the first half Company of the Year at the Elektra Underlying although year on year sales growth in 2006 European Electronics Industry operating the fourth quarter was lower due to the Awards and was also awarded the margin % 11.5% 10.5% stronger comparative.
During the year, Online Business of the Year award efficiencies in publishing were achieved Constant exchange rates which recognises excellence in strategic by moving to a system based publishing Excluding the RoHS inventory provision business activity in the online world.
2.4 million and reorganisation costs 4.4 million process allowing more direct mailings in 2006 to be produced in-house and lower Sales by region production costs.
Improvements in Sales were up 6.4% in the year.
Sales search engine marketing have also been Throughout the year, market conditions m 2007 2006 growth made through working with external continued to show year on year UK including partners.
This has resulted in activity improvement, albeit at a slowing rate in exports 272.1 262.6 3.4% increasing five fold for the Europe and the UK, evidencing strong market share Mainland Europe 118.1 104.7 14.2% Asia Pacific Division as a whole and now performance of the Farnell UK business Asia Pacific 30.2 29.1 6.0% generates 250,000 visits a month to as it maintained its sales performance.
Sales in Continental Europe also UK remained strong throughout the year.
BuckHickman: BuckHickman markets The Divisions UK sales, comprising sales Excluding BuckHickman, where there and distributes tools, consumables and from Farnell UK, BuckHickman and CPC was an anticipated sales decline, sales health and safety equipment to brands, increased 3.4% in the year for the Division were up 10.2% in the industrial customers in the UK.
reflecting strong sales at Farnell and year.
The operating margin increased CPC, offset by the anticipated sales one percentage point on the underlying Sales through this brand declined 3.9% decline at BuckHickman.
operating margin in the prior year, from in the year which was largely due to 10.5% to 11.5%, reflecting an improved Farnell: Farnell markets and distributes anticipated lower order volumes from gross margin and tight control of costs.
electronic components, test and a major automotive customer.
The Sales through eCommerce channels measurement equipment and MRO implementation of the restructuring increased 35% year on year with web products to design engineers and programme, announced at the end of sales increasing by 55%.
In August, purchasing professionals, with last year, which puts in place a new the Europe and Asia Pacific region businesses in the UK, mainland Europe service and logistic model for the successfully upgraded its web and Asia Pacific.
business, was executed as planned and BARBARA HULIT, PRESIDENT OF FLUKE CORPORATION, USA Fluke is a world leader in test and measurement equipment and a global supplier to Premier Farnell working together in close partnership across the USA, Europe and Asia.
Its product range crosses all market segments important to both the MRO and EDE environments, giving engineers globally the tools they need to do their jobs successfully.
As a leader in our field, Fluke looks to understanding of our products and build strong distribution partnerships technology, with product people and with customer focused, global field sales teams trained to a level of organisations and in Farnell, Newark and technical competence which enables the other Group electronics businesses them to demonstrate our equipment we have found such a partner.
to customers and add value to the sales experience.
The opportunities Newark and their sister companies offer us, to reach a The breadth of our range carried, wide range of customer segments the in depth technical knowledge, the through many different channels, is customer reach, high service levels invaluable.
The call centres and branch and multi-channel approach to market network ensure that despite the Groups ensure that Premier Farnells customers, strong global position, its customers wherever they are in the world, get have a feeling of local knowledge and excellent support on their Fluke needs.
Employees have an excellent PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 24 Business Review continued was substantially complete by the year for electronic design engineers are acquisition of Weldon, supported by end.
This included a comprehensive ongoing and include the deployment increased orders from the traditional restructuring of the sales and logistics of a Mandarin language Enterprise fire apparatus manufacturers and municipal fire departments and strong operations.
BuckHickmans branches Resource Planning ERP system, the now focus solely on delivering sales and production of a Mandarin Chinese performances from the international and industrial markets following customer service, with inventory and catalogue and the introduction of logistics having been streamlined compliant inventory to support the first expansion into new geographies, including Asia.
Large orders were also through the creation of a number of phase of the China RoHS legislation, regional distribution centres.
which became effective on 1 March 2007. received by Weldon for school bus lights.
The business also benefited from an CPC: CPC distributes electrical and Australia acceleration of orders from fire electronic equipment and accessories.
Sales in Australia by Farnell were flat departments due to changes in year on year, in a market which is Sales for the year increased 8.0%, as regulatory requirements.
continuing to be impacted by the a result of deeper, more cost effective Despite significant increases in the cost exposure to global competition.
A new multi-channel marketing initiatives single volume catalogue was introduced of its raw materials, particularly brass that were focused on driving customer ingot, Akron Brass has maintained its which received positive feedback, and acquisition and retention.
These margins through cost control and market research suggests that the activities included the launch of a new production efficiencies.
performance of the business was better catalogue in August, additional than the overall market performance.
TPC Wire & Cable customer contact through direct mailing TPC Wire & Cable is a marketer activity, customer acquisition drives into and supplier of high performance new segments and an enhanced focus Industrial Products Division electrical and electronic wire, cable and on the web, supported by improved continuing businesses connectors designed for heavy duty service levels and the new web The Industrial Products Division or harsh industrial environments, infrastructure.
Increased site traffic comprises principally two businesses, operating in the United States, Canada from eMarketing activity resulted in web Akron Brass and TPC Wire & Cable, and Mexico.
sales increasing by 35% in the year with supplying high performance products to web sales comprising 23% of total sales TPC achieved sales growth of 10.9% specialist industrial markets.
In a challenging during the year with the business market where margins have come under 2006 Growth continuing to benefit from its successful pressure, CPC maintained its margins by m 2007 restated at CER diversification from the US automotive diversifying product ranges and sector, which continues to face difficult Sales 73.4 67.1 12.9% focusing on further sourcing of trading conditions, into other markets Operating profit 13.7 12.0 18.1% products from Asian markets.
including Mexico, mining, utilities, Operating government and construction of Mainland Europe margin % 18.7% 17.9% offshore oil rigs.
In Mexico, sales grew In mainland Europe, Farnell delivered a Constant exchange rates 8.2% supported by sales to the mining strong performance with sales up 14.2%.
Utility business Sales in significant mainland European The above figures have been restated to grew over 40%, attributable to new markets displayed double digit sales exclude the result of the Kent business, products and TPCs marketing initiatives growth supported by sales in RoHS previously part of the Industrial and the mining industry remains strong compliant products and new product Products Division, following its disposal with the business growing 60%.
Sales to sales from enhanced catalogue ranges, on 31 July 2006. automotive manufacturers in the US and the benefit of improvements in the now only account for approximately a Sales grew by 12.9% in the year, or web.
Targeted investments in sales and quarter of TPCs sales.
marketing continued to produce strong 5.6% excluding the effect of the acquisition of Weldon by Akron Brass in returns in high potential geographies.
A Despite the continuing raw material cost strong performance in active customer June 2005.
At constant exchange rates, pressures, the business has continued to operating profit increased 18.1% on the growth was recorded following a successfully maintain margins through continued focus on campaign prior year, helped by the contribution pricing strategies, effective management from Weldon, and operating margin management, noticeably eMarketing.
of the supply chain, and tight control of The expansion of a full reel and re-reel improved despite the significant operating costs.
increase in raw material costs.
offering, allowing customers to define the exact number of components they Akron Brass require on reels, has proved popular FINANCIAL REVIEW Akron Brass is a market leader in the with design engineers and small manufacture and sale of high A review of the Groups results and production customers.
performance fire-fighting equipment for operations is given on pages 20 to 24.
Asia fire truck manufacturers, public fire Other financial matters are noted below.
Farnells sales in Asia increased 17.2% services and industrial facilities.
Its in the year driven by strong growth in products are designed to improve the Net finance costs active customer numbers in Singapore, safety and efficiency of personnel and Malaysia and Hong Kong.
The Malaysian equipment engaged in the suppression The net interest charge of 13.0 million 2006: 14.0 million was covered business was restructured during the of fire and also includes lighting and year, with the closure of its warehouse electrical control solutions.
It sells 6.3 times 2006: 5.0 times by operating profit.
Interest payments related and relocation of the business to more through its own field sales force and through distributors to customers all predominantly to US dollar borrowings.
An The effective interest rate on the electronic tools catalogue was launched over the world.
It has a high share of the Groups fixed rate borrowings was 5.7% across the region to address the MRO North American market for the products 2006: 6.3%, with the decrease market and further improvements to the it sells and seeks to grow by broadening reflecting the repayment during the service proposition in Malaysia were well its product range and reaching new year of $155 million of 7.2% of Senior received by the market.
geographic and industrial markets Notes by drawing on existing committed assisted by appropriate acquisitions.
The Divisions expansion into China bank facilities.
Development of Sales at Akron Brass were up 19.6%, or capabilities to support the proposition 8.8% excluding the effect of the PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 25 Included in finance costs for the Ordinary dividend Cash flow and net debt year is a charge of 8.1 million The Board is recommending a final Free cash flow attributable to ordinary 2006: 8.2 million in respect of dividend of 5.0 pence, which, together shareholders is summarised below.
the Companys convertible preference with the interim dividend, amounts to shares, comprising the preference 2007 2006 a total dividend per share of 9.0 pence, dividend for the year of 6.7 million, m m unchanged from the previous year, and together with a 1.4 million charge with a total impact on shareholders Operating profit from for the amortisation of the implied continuing operations 82.3 58.2 funds of 32.6 million.
redemption premium on One-off charges preference shares.
Post-retirement benefits income statement 11.9 During the fourth quarter the Company cash impact 2.7 2.0 purchased and cancelled 565,000 of The Group accounts for pensions and its preference shares for a total price, other post-retirement benefits in Net impact of including costs, of 8.4 million.
Based accordance with IAS 19 revised 2004. one-off charges 2.7 9.9 on the book value and fair value of the The net charge for post-retirement Depreciation and instruments at the date of purchase, benefits from continuing operations was amortisation 20.0 20.8 the financial liability element of the 0.8 million 2006: 0.4 million and Changes in working preference shares was reduced by can be analysed as follows: capital before one-off 8.4 million and the equity element 2007 2006 charges 4.7 11.1 by 1.5 million.
A gain of 0.3 million m m was recognised in the income statement Additional pension being the difference between the book Defined benefit pension scheme funding plans net credit 2.1 2.4 value and fair value of the financial UK defined benefit plan 2.4 0.2 liability element at the date of purchase.
Defined contribution Other non-cash The gain arising from the difference pension plans 2.2 2.2 movements before between the book value and fair value of one-off charges 1.8 0.8 Other post-retirement the equity element of 1.2 million was benefits 0.7 0.6 Cash generated from recognised as a movement in retained continuing operations 90.7 76.8 Continuing operations 0.8 0.4 earnings.
Further details relating to the Companys preference shares are Cash generated from Discontinued operations 0.2 0.3 discontinued operations 0.1 2.5 given in note 15 to the Consolidated 1.0 0.7 Financial Statements.
Total cash generated The Groups two principal defined from operations 90.6 79.3 benefit pension plans are in the UK, Taxation Capital expenditure 14.4 11.5 which was closed to new entrants in Proceeds from sale of The Groups effective tax charge for 1998, and North America.
property, plant and continuing operations represented The liability relating to the UK plan equipment 5.1 1.1 29.0% 2006: 14.1% of the profit before at the year end was 21.6 million tax and preference dividends.
The low Interest and preference 2006: 29.6 million with the decrease effective tax rate in 2006 reflected dividends 20.2 20.6 on the prior year arising principally from significant benefits realised from the Taxation 18.7 14.3 an increase in the market-related bond Groups efficient financing structure, rate used to discount the schemes SEC fide-registration costs 0.3 together with favourable prior year liabilities at the year end, and adjustments.
Free cash flow 42.4 33.7 contributions made to the plan of 2.9 million in the year following the Cash generated from continuing Business disposal April 2005 triennial valuation of operations increased 18.1% on the prior the plan.
year and reflects the continued tight On 31 July 2006, the Group disposed control of working capital across the of the Kent business, a specialist The US plan remains over funded and a Group.
At constant exchange rates, automotive consumables business and contribution holiday will continue for the working capital increased by 4.7 million part of the Industrial Products Division, foreseeable future.
The pension asset in the year, well within the rate of growth for a cash consideration net of costs of relating to this plan at the year end was of sales.
Inventory increased in the year 20.9 million.
The pre-tax profit on 56.8 million 2006: 52.0 million, with by 11.6 million, reflecting new lines disposal was 12.2 million post tax: the increase on the prior year arising added to enhance our offering to EDE 10.1 million.
Kent made sales of from the net income in the year and the customers, additional inventory to 21.3 million 2006: 40.5 million and improvement in the bond rate used to support service levels in our fast an operating profit of 0.9 million discount the schemes liabilities.
Partly growing European businesses, and the 2006: 2.1 million in the period up to offsetting this was the translation inflationary impact of base metal prices disposal.
The results of this business impact from a weaker US dollar.
primarily in the IPD Division.
have been reclassified as a discontinued operation and are included in the Capital expenditure of 14.4 million income statement as a single line below included 7.0 million of software profit after taxation from continuing development costs, principally to operations, with comparatives enhance existing systems.
of surplus property in the US and UK generated proceeds of 5.1 million.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 26 Business Review continued The change in net debt excluding Group policy prohibits speculative RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES arrangements in that transactions in preference shares and derivative There are a number of risks and financial instruments are matched to an financial instruments is summarised uncertainties that could have an effect underlying business requirement, such below: on the Groups performance.
As at the as forecast debt and interest date of this report, the Board considers m repayments and expected foreign the risks described below to be the currency revenues.
The Group uses Opening net debt 219.7 principal risks facing the Group.
The derivatives only to manage its foreign Free cash flow 42.4 Group has a risk management structure currency and interest rate risks arising in place that is designed to identify, Ordinary dividends 32.6 from underlying business activities.
The manage and mitigate business risks.
Group Treasury function is subject to Business disposals 20.4 This forms part of the Groups system periodic independent reviews by the Issue of ordinary shares 1.3 of internal control that is described in Internal Audit Department.
The key risks Purchase of preference shares 8.4 over interest rate and foreign exchange identified through this risk management exposures and transaction authenticity 196.6 process and how they are managed are are in place and dealings are restricted Exchange movement 18.5 detailed below.
to those banks with the relevant combination of geographic presence Closing net debt 178.1 and suitable credit rating.
RoHS legislation At 28 January 2007, the Groups net The Group monitors the credit ratings of The legislation implementing the debt excluding preference shares and its counterparties and credit exposure EU Directive on the Restriction of the derivative financial instruments for each counterparty.
use of certain Hazardous Substances comprised the following: in electronic and electrical equipment The Group typically hedges transactions the RoHS Directive has been an area m primarily related to the purchase and of focus for the Group during the year sale of inventories denominated in Cash at bank and in hand 32.2 under review, with the legislation foreign currencies through foreign Bank loans and overdrafts 92.9 taking effect on 1 July 2006.
These to compliance has involved the US $225 million Senior Notes contracts reduce currency risk from replacement of a significant proportion due 2010 and 2013 114.8 exchange rate movements with respect of stocked products with compliant to these transactions and cash flows.
This brings with it the The Group does not hedge profit potential risk of stock write-offs greater 178.1 translation exposure, unless there is than those for which provision has been a corresponding cash flow, since such The Group has multi-currency bilateral made if the transition is not well hedges provide only a temporary managed.
The Group has had a senior bank facilities of 198.3 million, which deferral of the effect of movements management team in place for over two carry a LIBOR based floating rate of in exchange rates.
Similarly, while a years to address this risk and has been interest.
These facilities expire mid 2010 significant proportion of the Groups working closely with its suppliers and and at 28 January 2007, 116.3 million borrowings are denominated in US customers.
The approach taken to of these facilities were unutilised.
dollars, the Group does not specifically achieve compliance with the legislation hedge all of its long-term investments is very clear and well defined and has Treasury operations in overseas assets.
been communicated to suppliers and customers.
The position regarding levels The Group is exposed to a number of of stock and potential write-offs is Post balance sheet events different market risks, including managed closely and has been brought movement in interest rates and foreign On 21 March 2007, the Company to the attention of shareholders through currency exchange rates.
The Group has announced that it had reached the Groups financial statements since established policies and procedures agreement to sell the trade and assets the second half of the last financial year.
within the treasury function to monitor of BuckHickman, part of the MDD In Europe the programme to reduce the and manage the exposures arising from Europe and Asia Pacific Division, for a level of any write-off of stock has been total consideration of approximately volatility in these markets, with very successful, with internal targets 27 million on a cash and debt free derivative instruments being entered being met or exceeded.
Further details are given in the into when considered appropriate by in North America is more complicated Directors Report on page 40 and in management.
due to the lack of a hard, legislatively note 29 to the Consolidated Financial mandated date for compliance, but good The Group Treasury function is Statements.
progress has also been made here and responsible for sourcing and structuring the Group considers that it is well placed borrowing requirements, managing to minimise its exposure.
International Financial Reporting interest rate and foreign exchange Standards IFRS As described in other sections of this exposure and managing any surplus report, dealing successfully with the This is the second Annual Report funds, which are invested mainly in implementation of the RoHS legislation and Accounts in which the Groups short-term deposits with financial has also provided a considerable consolidated results have been reported institutions that meet the credit criteria opportunity for the Group to outperform in accordance with IFRS.
The Group has approved by the Board.
not been required to adopt any new monthly reports are produced by the accounting standards during the year The Chinese equivalent of the EU RoHS Group Treasury function, which are used and, consequently, there have been no legislation came into force on 1 March to monitor treasury activities.
Important significant changes in accounting 2007 and the Group has approached treasury management decisions are policies from those published in last this legislation in the same pro-active approved by the Board and an annual years Annual Report and Accounts.
manner as its EU equivalent.
The report detailing the Groups debt, cash The financial statements of the combination of the Groups experience and hedging activity is reviewed by Company for the year ended 28 January in dealing with the effects of the the Board.
2007 on pages 79 to 86 continue to be legislation in Europe and North America prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
and the smaller scale of its business in PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 27 China means that the Chinese proportion of common products.
In the movement in the exchange rate.
The US a review of warehouse management Group has denominated most of its legislation presents much less of a risk to the Group.
The Chinese legislation does, systems is being carried out with a view external borrowings in US dollars in order to mitigate this risk and provide however, also present a considerable to upgrading the infrastructure.
business opportunity and work has a hedge against dollar denominated The robustness of the Groups IT operating cash flows and the Groups US been underway for some time to infrastructure is regularly reviewed by capitalise on this.
The Groups policy is not to management and plans are developed to hedge profit translation risk unless there address areas of potential weakness.
is a real cash exposure since such Market migration Where practicable, these plans are fully hedges provide only a temporary tested.
During the year, as part of the Premier Farnells available market has deferral of the effect of movements review of strategy, the approach to remained relatively stable compared in exchange rates.
IT planning was reviewed and improved, with the migration of manufacturing to with much greater alignment achieved lower cost economies in recent years.
Human resources between the strategic requirements of While lower wage rates have attracted the Groups business and the planning of As a service business, Premier Farnell high volume manufacturing to Eastern IT projects.
relies heavily on its employees.
It would Europe and Asia, the migration of be damaging to the Group if it were research and development and small Competitive pressures unable to attract and retain personnel scale manufacturing, two of Premier at key management levels.
The ways Farnells primary customer groups, is The Groups Marketing and Distribution in which this risk is addressed are less pronounced.
Work carried out as Division, which accounts for 91% of described in detail in the Resources and part of the Groups review of strategy the Group turnover, operates in a Relationships section of this report.
during the year, announced in October fragmented market with a number 2006, confirmed that much of the of international and many regional electronic design engineering work BuckHickman competitors.
This environment creates that forms a large part of the Groups pressure on the prices that the Division In January 2006 Premier Farnell customer base has remained in regions is able to charge for its products and announced a comprehensive in which the Group has a strong on the levels of service it provides.
restructuring of BuckHickman to presence.
In addition, there is a large It is therefore fundamental that the improve the performance of the installed base of electronic equipment in Divisions proposition to its customers business, and this was substantially Premier Farnells traditional geographic remains attractive and at the forefront completed by January 2007. markets that needs maintaining, of its chosen markets.
The Group The risks associated with the providing an ongoing market for the maintains awareness of developments restructuring were addressed by piloting Groups maintenance and repair in the market, including actions by many of the proposed changes and products.
Nevertheless, there is likely competitors, and anticipates and assessing their impact before deciding to be an ongoing decline in the Groups responds to such developments.
The to proceed on a wider basis.
In addition, manufacturing customer base in these results of the review of strategy the maintenance of external supplier geographic markets.
This risk is being announced in October 2006 clearly and customer relationships and an addressed in two ways: first, by defined the Groups emphasis on areas extensive communication programme emphasising growth in the electronic of profitable growth via differentiation with employees throughout the design engineering segment of the from its main competitors.
An important restructuring process was integral to Groups customer base and, second, by factor in recent years has been the restructuring plans.
increasing the Groups presence in China customer demand for the ability to and Eastern Europe.
The Group will transact with the Group electronically.
The restructuring delivered the continue to increase its presence in Electronic channels are increasingly operational benefits anticipated, but developing markets to mitigate preferred by customers and also bring the financial performance remained dependence on territories where the efficiencies to the Group.
It was therefore decided market for its products and services is therefore, a significant focus on the that the long-term future of the more mature.
Groups progress in continually business was not within the Group and upgrading its eCommerce capabilities, the Company announced its agreement Systems and infrastructure such as the ease of use of its to sell the assets and business transactional web sites.
During the year, comprising BuckHickman on 21 March The operations of the Groups main a new web platform was launched in 2007.
Further details of the agreement businesses are heavily dependent on its Europe and North America that are set out in the Directors Report on principal distribution facilities in South significantly improved the experience of page 40.
Carolina, US and Leeds, England, from customers transacting with the Group which a significant proportion of via this channel.
Early feedback from Legal risks customer orders are despatched, and on customers and performance against the Groups IT hardware and software.
The Group operates internationally and metrics established for the new platform The Group takes steps to protect these is subject to laws and regulations in a is very encouraging.
Improving distribution facilities with measures large number of countries.
Combined electronic channels is part of delivering such as sprinkler protection and the with this, the large numbers of a multi-channel approach that provides separate storage of highly flammable customers and suppliers to the Group flexibility for customers and reduces the products and works closely with its result in a complex set of contractual cost to serve.
insurers in assessing the risks of obligations and a risk of non-compliance.
In addition, Foreign currency The Group addresses this risk in a business continuity plans exist and are number of ways: under review with the aim of minimising As a relatively high proportion of the the adverse impact on the business Groups sales and operating profits arise Through reviews and training should significant damage occur.
For the in North America, the Groups reported provided by the in-house legal UK and European business, this planning results are adversely affected by a major department is assisted by the Groups ability to weakening of the US dollar against Advice provided by suitable external switch order fulfilment between sterling.
This profit translation risk is counsel distribution facilities in Leeds and Lige, approximately 0.25 million per annum Belgium, as these facilities hold a of operating profit for each one cent PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 28 Business Review continued SANDRA CAMPOPIANO, GLOBAL HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR, PREMIER FARNELL Investment in our people is a significant pillar in our strategy for profitable growth.
We know that our people are critical to a positive customer experience and our future success.
Putting people at the heart of our each make personally to the strength help with succession planning business what does this mean?
and growth of our business.
Engaging and talent management and these communication and participation are include investments in mentoring and Of course we have to stock the right cornerstones in the plan for example 360 degree feedback on the skills we products, and get them to our we kicked off the year with a cascade deem are critical for our leaders.
This customers at the right price and on initiative worldwide where every year we will be developing learning time, but we know its people that employee of the Group was involved tracks for key job families from entry really make the difference.
At every and worked in teams to agree personal through to the more senior roles to stage of the process we know that commitments in support of the strategy.
encourage career progression and to our people have the opportunity to We received powerful feedback from build and retain the knowledge, skills influence positively the experience every corner of our business many and expertise that our customers of our customers.
Thats why the new and different ideas to improve tell us they value.
investment in people is a significant things for customers, suppliers or pillar in our strategy of growth and Well invest in technology too this employees and these commitments profitability.
We call it putting people year from HR databases, through from all our businesses are now openly at the heart of our business because to the OnLine Learning Centre and published on our intranet for all to see.
this guides the thinking and decision information technology in our making around our People Plan.
Attracting, retaining and developing distribution centres we want to use talent is another priority.
Well continue technology to make business easier.
What are the priorities of the to simplify structures and processes to People Plan?
Most of all our vision is to develop attract people into fulfilling roles and a best in class HR practice that The investment will take many forms.
long-term careers, encouraging First, we want to be sure that everyone movement across the business to underpins best in class business understands the direction but, more broaden individual experience.
Weve practice as we journey to become a importantly, the contribution they can also now developed new methods to truly high performance organisation.
Monitoring and reporting of issues by career development aspirations with call centres where turnover has the business needs of the Group.
During the the Internal Audit function year most areas of the business Internal control processes requiring The Group places strong emphasis on exhibited improvements.
In the local management to report on areas of potential non-compliance year, in addition to normal incentive The Group actively encourages open plans for sales personnel, almost half of communications.
Management teams Controls on the levels of management non-sales staff had an element of their are expected to host formal business required to approve proposed remuneration related to performance.
updates for employees at least contractual arrangements quarterly, following the Companys During the year, the Group continued quarterly results announcements.
The to invest in training, in particular by Group has a well established European RESOURCES AND expanding the content available Employee Forum which has been in RELATIONSHIPS through the Premier Farnell OnLine operation since 1999 and an established Learning Centre both in terms of UK Employee Forum since 2005.
The internally developed materials and Employees development in the year of a Group-wide content sourced externally in intranet gives all employees timely Premier Farnell is essentially a service partnership with a leading business access to news, information and business.
Over the last twelve months communication from the CEO and service delivery relies on high levels there has been a particular focus on leadership team.
of contribution and performance from leadership development, supervisory all employees.
skills and the use of competency-based During the year a cross section of employees were given the opportunity interviewing techniques to improve the Employees throughout the Group effectiveness of external recruitment.
to participate in the development of the receive feedback on their performance Business Agenda which has determined through the annual Group Performance All parts of the Group are focused on the long-term strategy of the Group, the Review Process.
This clarifies reducing the cost and disruption results of which were made public in responsibilities and objectives, associated with high levels of staff October 2006. addresses employees development turnover and excessive absenteeism, needs and helps match individuals particularly in distribution centres and PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 29 customer segments, EDE and MRO Market position and reputation CORPORATE SOCIAL engineers, by securing distribution RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Marketing and Distribution Division agreements with relevant suppliers.
trades through several major brands In December 2005, the Companys including Farnell and Newark.
As their Elsewhere within the Division, Board approved the CSR Policy set out product portfolios and customer bases supplier relationships are managed below and this report reflects the are diverse, the precise market positions at a business level, enabling specific priorities referred to in the Policy.
of these brands are hard to quantify.
The customer needs to be met by sourcing, roots of these major brands are all over for example, locally branded products, Corporate Social Responsibility 70 years old and have high recognition or value-for-money products from Asia.
Policy and prominence within their particular markets.
They are true multi-channel Approach Distribution network and operations with online and paper-based inventory Premier Farnell takes seriously its role product information and marketing as a responsible corporate citizen and programmes.
The success of these The Marketing and Distribution Division seeks to take account of the economic, programmes within their key market has sales offices in 21 countries.
These social and environmental impacts of its segments, as well as their brand are supported by a network of operations.
It is our belief that acting in reputations, is reviewed through regular distribution centres that enable the this way is a source of business market surveys.
Division to ship products anywhere in opportunity, improved competitiveness the world within one to three days.
Almost all orders are dispatched on Customer relationships Accountability the day they are placed.
The MDD businesses have a customer The Board has overall responsibility for The network is comprised of eight base comprised of some 2,000,000 establishing the Groups CSR policies primary distribution centres: customer contacts.
Contacts are and the Chief Executive Officer is typically design, production and accountable for ensuring that the Group US Gaffney South Carolina and maintenance engineers or procurement operates in accordance with these Springboro Ohio specialists.
Reporting of our performance spectrum of private and public UK Leeds, Coventry and Preston is led by the Company Secretary.
organisations, covering all industries Reporting Mainland Europe Lige Belgium and areas of commerce.
No single The Board will receive a report on the customer represents more than 2% Asia Singapore Groups CSR performance at least every of Group sales.
six months, periodic updates will be Australia Sydney The Group has customer relationship provided on the www.
com management CRM systems within its These are supplemented by satellite web site and a formal report will appear key MDD businesses.
These are adding warehouses in other locations including each year in the Groups Annual Report to a growing understanding of Mexico, Brazil, and China.
customers needs and enabling the Collectively, this network typically Principles business to offer specific customers the services that they most value.
handles over 20,000 orders per day Our guiding principle is to develop an and stocks some 400,000 products.
approach that is appropriate to the The MDD businesses manage Technology systems are therefore nature and size of our business and that relationships with customers through central to delivering high service.
The builds and maintains a positive view of multiple channels including catalogues, network is managed by a global supply the Group with all of our stakeholders.
web sites and conversations with chain team that shares best practice We will focus on the following areas: customers, both by phone and between locations and drives a face-to-face.
Compliance with laws programme of continuous improvement Our Group-wide Code of Ethics requires in accuracy, efficiency and service.
compliance with laws and regulations in Supplier relationships At the year end the Group held the countries in which we operate.
162.7 million of inventory in its The MDD businesses work with over The Senior Manager of our business businesses, of which 147.6 million 3,000 suppliers, stock approximately units in each country is required to was in the MDD businesses.
400,000 products, and offer access to identify quarterly any non-compliance more than 4,000,000 other products.
Inventory is managed on a line-by-line with the laws and regulations of the The Divisions attraction to suppliers is basis, utilising best in class forecasting country in which that business unit directly related to its ability to create and stock monitoring IT systems.
operates and any breaches of the demand from within its global The re-ordering of most products is Groups Code of Ethics of which the customer base.
automated, enabling purchasing teams manager is aware.
to manage order quantity, delivery or The supplier base is balanced to offer The Internal Audit function reports any demand exceptions.
Order fill rates are customers a breadth of products from instances of non-compliance that it among the highest in the industry, in many different suppliers, while also identifies to the Audit Committee.
line with the Groups commitment to offering deeper product ranges from service excellence.
The Division aims some key suppliers with whom the The Group operates a whistle-blowing to increase stock turns through the Division has strategic alliances and helpline to enable employees to report use of ever more intelligent systems, improved commercial terms.
any concerns they may have on a seamless supply chain integration with confidential basis.
Across Farnell and Newark, the suppliers, and elimination of any portfolio of suppliers is managed Environment non-moving stocks.
The largest We continually seek to reduce the suppliers within this portfolio include The Division uses a variety of third-party environmental impact of our operations global premium brands for whom carriers to ship orders.
It has a strategic and the associated costs.
integrated sales and marketing relationship with UPS, its principal strategies are developed by the team.
carrier, responsible for approximately Our principal environmental impacts are During the year, the Division continued two thirds of its worldwide deliveries carbon emissions, the use of paper and to build its proposition to two specific each day.
packaging and the disposal of waste.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 30 Business Review continued Each year we will set targets for the Companys financial year.
The data is and facilities in 2003.
Rating sheets reduction of these impacts and report enable individual sites be they offices, presented in this report in two ways: our performance, including the total quantity of usage generation and distribution centres or sales branches to self-assess their performance.
The associated impact on costs.
unit rates based on sales turnover i. e. quantity per 1,000 of sales.
rating sheets address the main We will also continue to gain ISO 14001 environmental impacts of our business.
accreditation for more of our sites or, Environment Points are earned for environmental where more appropriate, ensure sites We collect data on the amount of energy practices that conserve energy, reach our own Green Facility standard.
used and greenhouse gas emitted, waste minimise waste disposal and encourage disposed and waste recycled by Group recycling.
Minimising water use is also Health and safety operations in order to assess our We strive to provide a safe and healthy encouraged.
Sites achieving a target environmental impact.
score are recognised and awarded a environment for our employees and visitors to our premises and to keep the certificate confirming their green status.
In order to ensure that we have We now have eight green offices and number of working hours lost through representative and reliable health and safety incidents to a facilities and target a further three environmental data, we review new data in 2007. minimum.
each quarter and compare it to data from prior years.
This continual review We monitor both the number of Environmental legislation and comparison allows us to detect and Two significant pieces of European workplace injuries and illnesses and the correct any errors and may result in the number of lost-time workplace injuries environmental legislation affect restatement of certain prior year the Groups electronic component and set targets for the reduction of figures.
Each year we will report our distribution businesses.
These are the European Directives dealing with performance and the associated costs.
Carbon reduction programme the Restriction of the use of certain The Group continually seeks to reduce We will also monitor the rates of Hazardous Substances RoHS in the environmental impact of its absenteeism and the causes and take electronic and electrical equipment, operations.
This year we have action to achieve reductions in and the disposal of Waste Electrical and undertaken the work to define our absenteeism.
For this purpose we and WEEE legislation addresses the Marketplace have included in scope those of our We will engage with suppliers and, harmful effects of such waste in two primary activities over which we have ways: first by restricting the use of where possible, use our relationships to direct control.
influence their approach to corporate certain hazardous substances in We have therefore included in our electronic and electrical equipment and, social responsibility.
We will deal with carbon footprint all our activities from all stakeholders in an ethical manner.
second by imposing responsibilities to the receipt of products into our increase the recycling, re-use and We deal with over 3,000 suppliers warehouses to their despatch to recovery of such equipment.
Similar around the world and do not have the customers, including the production legislation became effective on 1 March resources to monitor the approach of of catalogues and marketing material, 2007 in China.
We will therefore select an our use and the disposal of packaging, Paper based marketing materials appropriate number of suppliers each business travel and the energy required The Group takes a proactive approach year with whom we will engage.
We will to operate our facilities.
to reducing the environmental impact also develop a supplier policy based on In those areas outside our direct control of its paper based marketing materials.
for example the delivery of products to The paper used in the Farnell 2007 Workplace and community our customers by third party carriers, catalogues carries the Nordic Our aim is to be recognised by existing we will seek to work with good corporate Environmental Labelling Licence the and potential future employees as a citizens and our process of engagement Swan Label which denotes that the responsible employer that values its with suppliers on their approach to CSR printed matter complies with the most people and provides an environment in is underway.
which they can develop their skills and The printer of the catalogues is also Our objective is to reduce our carbon make a contribution to the success of licenced to use the Swan Label, thereby emissions to the lowest practicable and the business.
We also wish to make a ensuring the whole catalogue economic level over the next three years contribution to the communities in production process meets the criteria.
and our initial focus is an ongoing which we operate, building goodwill programme of energy saving initiatives.
As all the materials used in the Farnell and a reputation as a good neighbour catalogue production process are and employer.
We have undertaken energy audits at recyclable, we are encouraging most of our main facilities and achieved We communicate widely with employees customers to recycle their old editions reductions in carbon emissions for the to build a common set of business values upon receipt of the new publication.
In 2007, we will undertake that we believe will result in behaviours energy audits at the remaining facilities The Newark catalogue is printed on that will deliver a better customer paper with a minimum of 35.0% to identify opportunities to reduce experience and grow sales.
consumption and we will set appropriate post-consumer recycled content and In the UK, the Company is a member this year more of the direct mail pieces reduction targets.
of Business in the Community and has produced have been printed on This year we have also invested in state initiated a number of employee post-consumer recycled content paper.
of the art video conferencing equipment volunteering programmes with Leeds in order to reduce air travel to that The environmental credentials of Cares.
In the US, all of our businesses potential print suppliers were a key which is essential for the effective participate in the United Way, an factor in selecting the printer of our first umbrella organisation for a number management of the business and Chinese catalogue.
The contract was continued our ongoing programme of of charities.
awarded to RR Donnelley, Shanghai reducing the environmental impacts of on the basis of their exemplary our catalogues and direct mail activity.
Targets and performance environmental practices following an References to years throughout the As part of the process for improving audit of their facilities.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report our environmental performance, we are to calendar years, rather than the introduced the concept of green offices PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 31 Performance against 2006 The Farnell UK site in Leeds, which have been taken to reduce the environmental targets includes a large distribution centre and consumption of paper including greater Target: Continue to rollout our green office facilities servicing the Groups use of double-sided printing.
facility programme across the Group business in Europe and Asia Pacific, fell Target: We will work with our paper and target the achievement of green short of the targets set.
A number of suppliers to increase the percentage of status at two additional facilities energy saving initiatives have been certified pulps and continue our efforts this year.
implemented and while new equipment to source more environmentally friendly has been introduced to support the Result: Achieved at our Maybrook paper stocks.
growth of the business, such as new distribution centre in Leeds and the conveyor and IT systems, an overall Result: Work has continued with MCM distribution centre in Springboro, reduction in consumption has been our paper suppliers to improve the Ohio.
environmental impact of our catalogue Target: We plan to achieve ISO 14001 and direct mail production.
The Farnell Target: We plan to increase the status at one additional facility not yet catalogues for 2007 have been printed percentage of waste recycled at two of certified.
on Farnell Coat 32gsm printing papers our major distribution facilities in the US which have been awarded The Nordic Result: The BuckHickman site in and the UK.
Environmental Labelling Licence The Coventry was targeted to achieve Result: Newarks distribution centre in Swan Label.
This certifies that the ISO 14001 certification and this was Gaffney, North Carolina achieved its goal products fulfil the Nordic environmental achieved in June 2006.
Energy used and greenhouse gas emissions, waste disposed and recycled.
Assumed 10.5 kilometres litre of petrol consumed.
3 3 Conversion factors used 0.612 kg CO KWh electricity equals USA 1998-99 average per US Dept.
2 2 2 2 Target: Energy audits were conducted at of increasing cardboard recycling, labelling criteria for copy and printing Akron Brass, MCM and TPC Wire & Cable recycling 155 metric tonnes of cardboard paper.
facilities in the US and Farnell, in 2006 versus 114 metric tons in 2005.
Newark has continued the progress BuckHickman and CPC in the UK.
We Overall, 31.0% of the waste produced in made on last years catalogue by plan to implement the energy saving Gaffney in 2006 was recycled, compared printing more of their direct mail pieces initiatives identified at each of these with 19.0% in 2005. on papers with a post consumer businesses in 2006 where the payback Significant improvements have also recycled content.
period is appropriate to the business.
been made at the BuckHickman national Additional actions planned in 2007 to Result: Energy saving projects were distribution centre, where all inbound manage environmental concerns completed at each of the sites.
In the UK card and plastic waste, office waste 1.
Achieve green facility status at a a tracking mechanism has been paper, photocopier toner cartridges and further three locations in the Group.
established for multiple energy saving scrap pallets are now recycled.
Overall initiatives and consumption reduction 94.0% of total waste is recycled, 2.
Carry out energy audits at Newark targets were set for each major location.
compared with 77.0% in 2005. and the Farnell mainland Europe and Asia Pacific facilities and set targets Both BuckHickman and CPC have beaten In the UK Farnell, CPC and BuckHickman for reduction in energy consumption.
their targets, achieving a 14.0% and in total have increased recycling activity 11.0% reduction in energy consumption by 5.0% this year.
Establish programmes at all major US respectively.
Reductions have been Target: We will audit paper usage at two facilities for recycling used batteries, achieved from the tightening up of the computers, fluorescent bulbs and of our major office facilities and set an management and use of energy through appropriate target for reduction.
switch off of non-essential systems, reductions in heating levels and Result: Paper use at the two Group 4.
Target a 5.0% increase in general disciplined switch off of lighting during offices in Leeds, UK and Independence, recycling activity at the Lige non-working hours.
Ohio has been monitored and measures distribution centre.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 32 Business Review continued 5.
Carry out an audit of printing and workplace and lost-time injury and Result: The targets established were illness rates that are less than 50% of managed through continuing training copying equipment to maximise the use of energy and paper efficient the averages for our industry.
programmes at all levels of the business covering areas such as manual handling, equipment and set targets for the Result: In 2006 the rate at which reduction of paper consumption at stock and storage disciplines and use of industrial injuries and illnesses occurred handling equipment.
The targets were two facilities.
at Premier Farnell facilities worldwide built into the performance objectives of 6.
Reduce the grammage of the paper was 0.74 injuries per 100,000 hours First Line Managers to encourage better worked.
Our goal was to have a rate of used for printing the main catalogues management of safety activity.
in Europe and Asia Pacific by 10.0% 50.0% or less than the average for our industry.
Our industry average was Additional actions planned in 2007 to lighter weight paper requires fewer raw materials to produce and 1.49 injuries per 100,000 hours worked, prevent injuries and minimise putting us below 50.0% of the industry absenteeism transport, creating fewer average.
We will continue to monitor the CO2 emissions.
number of lost time and recordable The number of lost-time injuries and 7.
Increase the post-consumer recycled workplace injuries and illnesses that content of the direct mail pieces illnesses that occurred at Premier occur at our facilities in 2007 and Farnell facilities worldwide was 0.62 across the Premier Farnell brands and achieve rates of less than 50.0% of lost-time injuries and illnesses per reduce the overall weight of paper the averages for our industry.
Our industry consumed in producing the Newark average was 0.75 lost-time injuries and 2.
We will continue to monitor the rates catalogue by 10.0%.
The and causes of employee absenteeism Health and safety Group as a whole did not achieve the and take actions to achieve In 2006 the rate at which workplace target as a result of a worse than target reductions.
injuries and illnesses occurred at performance in the Europe and Asia 3.
We will achieve Safety STAR status Premier Farnell facilities in the Americas Pacific region which outweighed the our own behaviour-based safety was 0.66 injuries per 100,000 hours better than target performance in programme at an additional facility worked, compared with 0.71 in 2005. the US.
in the US in 2007 and encourage The rate at which injuries and illnesses Target: We will monitor the rates and each safety manager in each of our occurred that resulted in missed work causes of employee absenteeism and North American businesses to time in the Americas i. e. lost-time take actions to achieve reductions in complete 10 hour OSHA approved injuries and illnesses was 0.40 per these rates.
100,000 hours worked, the same rate as that achieved in 2005.
The industry Result: The average rate of absenteeism 4.
We will complement our ongoing averages for these rates are 1.7 and for the year across all the US businesses health and safety training of First 0.9 respectively.
was 1.7% compared with a US national Line Managers with an expansion of rate of 2.3%.
the number of online safety training The Groups occupational injury and courses offered on the Premier illness rate is compared to occupational All absenteeism rates were within Farnell OnLine Learning Centre injury and illness rates for other acceptable levels in the Europe and Asia OLC, including modules relevant industry segments as compiled and Pacific region, with the exception of the to UK legislation.
published by the US Department of distribution centre in Lige where Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics for significant progress has been made 5.
We plan to review benchmarking tools 2005 being the latest statistics during the latter half of the year with to identify areas where improvements available.
the introduction of local schemes that can be managed through all health work to improve both short-term and and safety processes and systems The estimated cost incurred by our long-term absence.
An improvement is with the objective of driving safe Americas operations for injuries anticipated in the first quarter of the systems of work and a reduction resulting in days away from work new financial year.
This cost is based on a Target: One major facility to implement Marketplace $34,000 average cost per disabling our own Safety STAR Safety Through In our CSR policy we identify our injury as estimated by the US National Accountability and Recognition suppliers as a key stakeholder group Safety Council.
This cost includes wage programme in 2006. with whom we want to engage on losses, medical expenses, administration all aspects of corporate social Result: MCMs Springboro distribution expenses and employment costs.
This is the first year centre became the Groups first that we devoted resources to the CSR In Europe and Asia Pacific the figure facility to receive Safety STAR aspects of our relationships with our for recordable injuries was 0.81 per status in December 2006.
By the nature of our business 100,000 hours worked, compared with behaviour-based safety programme we have many suppliers, some 3,000, 0.95 in 2005.
The figure for lost time which requires supervisors to encourage so we set out to identify an appropriate injuries was 0.81, compared with 0.89 in safe work practices in their department: number with whom we could engage.
The total cost for these lost-time requires regular safety observations to Our first priority was to develop a injuries is calculated as 83,880 ensure employees are working safely: supplier policy based on independent 115,000 in 2005 applying UK encourages and holds employees ethical trading guidelines.
estimates of 2,097 2005: 2,445 per accountable for working safely and occurrence, based on Health and Safety regularly asks employees for their ideas Performance against 2006 Executive figures.
and suggestions for improving safety at marketplace targets their facility.
Employees perform Target: We will select an appropriate Performance against 2006 health and observations in their own and other number of suppliers with whom we safety targets departments and discuss findings at will engage to understand and, if Target: Monitor the number of regular safety meetings.
appropriate, influence their approach workplace injuries and illnesses that to corporate social responsibility.
occur at our facilities in 2006 and the Target: Set accident and safety number of lost-time injuries and performance targets and manage Result: Eighteen suppliers were illnesses as they directly affect our performance through continuing identified including electronic productivity and profitability.
Our goal in training programmes in each major component and MRO product suppliers 2006 was to achieve and maintain both business in the UK and Europe.
operating in the developed world and low PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW 33 cost economies.
Contact was made with people.
Regular activities such as Awards and achievements escorted shopping trips and team We are delighted to report that five each supplier to establish their approach to CSR, in particular to ethical trading.
Premier Farnell companies qualified for the US National Safety Council Target: We will develop a supplier policy In the US, all of the Groups Occupational Safety Excellence Awards.
based on independent ethical trading businesses participate in United Way, a These awards recognised exemplary community-based umbrella organisation guidelines.
safety records at Newark, MCM, Akron supporting various human services Brass, TPC Wire & Cable and Cadillac Result: A supplier policy has been organisations.
Group employees have developed in consultation with the Electric sites.
taken leadership roles in United Ways supplier management teams based on fundraising activities.
They have also the Ethical Trading Initiative and this participated in the American Cancer policy will be used in our discussions Societys Daffodil days fundraising event with suppliers.
and several employees volunteered with the American Red Cross and were Additional actions planned in 2007 to trained as part of the Ready When the develop our supplier engagement Time Comes programme.
Other programme We remain a member of the FTSE4Good volunteer programmes include the 1.
Follow up the supplier engagement Junior Achievement campaign through Index of Corporate and Social Responsibility.
process with a CSR questionnaire We are also among a small number of which students at local schools are which includes environmental instructed on business basics.
companies that have participated in the matters in addition to ethical trading.
Business in the Environment regional The Group recognises that these 2.
Include CSR criteria in all new supplier survey of Corporate Environmental types of activity not only benefit the audit and selection processes.
Engagement every year since its community groups involved but also inception and shown continual 3.
Widen the supplier CSR policy to deliver business benefits in the training progress, increasing our overall include environmental practices.
and development of those employees score by 5.0% in the latest survey.
This year we will assess Workplace and community how we can fully integrate volunteering Audit of this report Our aim is to be recognised by existing activity into our training and As part of the process of ensuring that and potential future employees as a development programme and we have robust data as a reference responsible employer that values its performance review process.
point, our Internal Audit Department people and provides an environment in have assessed the processes used to which they can develop their skills and Performance against 2006 workplace collect and collate the information make a contribution to the success of and community targets contained in the Corporate Social the business.
We also wish to make a Target: Maintain our inclusion in the Responsibility section of the Business contribution to the communities in Per Cent Standard.
Review and their proposals for which we operate, building goodwill Result: The Group has achieved the improvement have been implemented.
and a reputation as a good neighbour Per Cent Standard for the second year The Internal Audit department carry and employer.
out a review of the key data presented The Group joined Business in the in the report every two years.
This was Community in 2005, a movement of undertaken for the 2006 report and 700 of the UKs top companies will be undertaken again in 2008. committed to improving their impact on society, and we have now participated in the Business in the Community Target: Achieve an improvement in our Corporate Responsibility Index for two rating in the Business in the Community years.
The feedback from our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Index.
submission assisted us in identifying those areas where we should focus our Result: We participated in the efforts.
The majority of these were Business in the Community Corporate addressed this year and we improved Responsibility Index for the second time our Index rating from 61.5% to 78.0%, this year.
We used the feedback from our putting us in the bronze category.
The 2005 submission to identify those areas Group has also achieved the Per Cent where we should focus our efforts and Standard which recognises that it achieved an increase in our rating from has made contributions to good causes 61.5% to 78.0%, one of the biggest with a value equal to 1.0% of the improvers in 2006.
Groups pre-tax profits for the second Additional action planned in 2007 to year running.
develop our workplace and community Our Group Charitable Giving Policy programme encourages employees to volunteer their Participate in the Business in the time to good causes, their own or those Community CR Index and achieve a identified by the business they work in, further improvement in our rating.
and allows this time to be taken within working hours.
All our businesses undertake activities in their local communities.
This policy has encouraged employees to seek the Groups support for their good causes and the budget of 20,000 has been fully utilised.
In Leeds, where we employ 900 people, we have established partnerships with two local community groups who work with the elderly and disengaged young PREMIER FARNELL PLC BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 34 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Harriet Green, BA Hons Mark Whiteling, M. Comm Laurence Bain, CA Steven Webb, LLB Solicitor Aged 45 Hons Aged 44 Aged 53 Aged 44 Appointed Chief Executive Appointed Chief Financial Appointed Chief Operating Appointed Company Officer 3 April 2006.
Officer July 2002 and joined Secretary and General Previously ran volume Formerly Group Finance the Board as an Executive Counsel December 2000. distribution businesses in all Director Communisis plc, Director in July 2003.
Previously Company four continents, including pan-European print Previously Vice President Secretary and General Asia Pacific for Arrow management direct mail and Director of Operations Counsel of Kelda Group plc Electronics as well as having group.
Prior to joining for Motorola in Europe, and Company Secretary of functional responsibility for Communisis in November Middle East and Africa.
worldwide marketing, 2004, he was Group Finance suppliers and strategy.
Prior Director of Tibbett & Britten to joining Arrow in 1994 was plc, a FTSE 250 logistics Managing Director of the company.
Macro Group, part of Diploma plc.
THE PREMIER FARNELL LEADERSHIP COUNCIL The Premier Farnell Leadership Council At its core the PFLC comprises the PFLC was formed to be a global, direct reports of the Chief Executive representative and flexible leadership Officer and Chief Operating Officer body, focused on building the the individual business leaders and organisation and ensuring the results functional heads.
committed through the implementation The flexible nature of the Council means of the Groups strategy are delivered for it also draws on the participation of customers, suppliers, shareholders and professional experts from across the employees.
The PFLC will drive Group at all levels, as well as talented constantly to put people at the very performers as part of their ongoing heart of Premier Farnell in the quest development.
Such a breadth of to become a truly high performance involvement ensures that decisions are organisation.
Another part of the well guided, well formed and always in Councils activities will be to evaluate touch with the needs of the business.
the risks and opportunities to both This dynamic leadership body is key to our strategy and business.
the needs of an expanding organisation.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS AND ACCOUNTS 2007 35 Sir Peter Gershon, CBE, FREng, Chairman, Aged 60 Appointed Non-Executive Chairman 1 March 2005.
Currently Chairman of General Healthcare Group Ltd and Symbian Software Limited.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of HM Treasury, a member of BT plcs European Advisory Board, a member of the Advisory Board of the UK Defence Academy and a member of the Court and Council of Imperial College.
Formerly Chief Executive of the Office of Government Commerce, Managing Director of Marconi Electronic Systems and a member of the GEC plc Board.
John S Roques, CA Andrew Dougal, B Acc, CA William B Korb, B. S. I. E. Cary J Nolan, BA Aged 68 Aged 55 AMP, Aged 67 B. S. E. E. Aged 64 Appointed Non-Executive Appointed Non-Executive Appointed Non-Executive Appointed Non-Executive Director 1999.
Non-Executive Director on 1 September Director January 2003.
Formerly Director, BBA Aviation plc 2006.
Formerly Chief Formerly President and CEO President, CEO Picker and Henderson Group Plc.
Executive of Hanson plc, of Gilbarco Incorporated.
Formerly senior partner the international building Non-Executive Director of President Cooper Surgical Deloitte & Touche.
materials company and Cambrex Corporation.
and President Xerox previously Finance Director Medical Systems Division.
of Hanson, the diversified Non-Executive Director industrial group.
of Toshiba Medical and Non-Executive Director of Tomotherapy Inc. Taylor Woodrow plc, Creston Plc and formerly of BPB plc.
Sir Peter Gershon acted as Executive Chairman from 4 July 2005 to 3 April 2006.
Committees Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Membership at March 2007 John Roques Chairman Sir Peter Gershon Chairman Andrew Dougal Chairman Andrew Dougal William Korb William Korb Cary Nolan John Roques Cary Nolan William Korb John Roques Photographed here are some of the members of the Premier Farnell Leadership Council working at two recent events.
One event focused on the detailed implementation and measurement of the business strategy announced in October 2006, the second on a People Day reviewing and considering the Groups valuable people resources, talent development plans and succession planning for the future.
PREMIER FARNELL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007
