12 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review Premier Foods is the UKs leading food producer following its acquisition of RHM, which was completed in March 2007.
Description of the business part-baked products for retailers and a wide The Group manufactures a range of market range of bulk flours and branded and own leading branded and own-label products across label bagged flours.
many food categories including bread, cakes, preserves, convenience foods, ambient Cakes desserts, meat-free foods, cooking sauces, Premier is the largest manufacturer of cakes in stocks, gravies, flour, chilled ready meals, the UK.
Products include individual small cakes meat pies and desserts.
It currently employs and tarts, jam tarts, fruit pies, whole cakes, approximately 18,000 people.
swiss rolls, mini rolls and cake bars.
Branded cakes are predominantly sold under the Principal activities Mr Kipling, Cadburys under licence and Premiers principal markets are the UKs major Lyons brands.
food retailers, wholesalers and convenience stores, foodservice customers and food Customer Partnerships manufacturers.
Premiers principal products RF Brookes operates from two manufacturing are bread, ambient or shelf stable groceries facilities, primarily manufacturing chilled ready and chilled foods.
During 2007, we operated in meals for Marks & Spencer and other leading the following business units: food service retailers.
Products include pies, pizzas, pasties and chilled ready meals.
Convenience Foods, Pickles, Sauces & Meat-free Avana Bakeries produces own label large Batchelors soups, noodles, rice, pasta and celebration cakes, Christmas puddings and vegetables, Quorn and Cauldron meat chilled desserts, principally for Marks & Spencer.
alternatives, Oxo stocks, Branston pickles, baked beans and pasta, Homepride cooking Ireland sauces, Crosse & Blackwell convenience During the year Premier integrated all of its foods, Sarsons vinegar, Fray Bentos meat pies, operations in the Republic of Ireland.
It now Haywards pickles, Smash instant mashed trades as a single business and is one of the potatoes, Waistline salad dressings, soups leading food suppliers in the Republic of Ireland and cooking sauces, Loyd Grossman with brands such as Gateaux cakes and Chivers under licence cooking sauces and soups.
Spreads, Desserts & Beverages New divisional structure Ambrosia custard and milk puddings, Birds We have implemented a new divisional structure and Angel Delight desserts, Chivers jams following the acquisition and integration of the and jellies, Hartleys preserves and desserts, Campbells and RHM businesses.
The primary Gales honey and lemon curd, Sun-Pat peanut drivers of the structure are the commonality butter and Marvel powdered milk creamer.
of the categories we operate in and the supply chain to service them.
We have therefore Culinary Brands defined three divisions namely Grocery, Sharwoods Asian sauces and condiments, Bread & Milling and Chilled & Ireland.
Bistos range of gravy makers, Robertsons and The Grocery division comprises the original Frank Coopers preserves and marmalades, Premier business with the exception of the Saxa salt, Paxo stuffing mixes, pre-packed flour Meat-free business, the Campbells business, under the names of McDougalls, Be-Ro and RHMs Culinary Brands division, Ledbury Hovis and baking mixes under the names Preserves from RHMs Customer Partnerships McDougalls and Cadburys under licence, division and Manor Bakeries from the RHM and Rombouts under licence coffee.
The Bread & Milling division comprises the RHM Bread Bakeries division Bread Bakeries and the Chilled & Ireland division comprises the Premiers Bread Bakeries division is the RF Brookes and Charnwood chilled foods and biggest  baker and flour pizza base businesses from RHMs Customer miller in the UK.
It operates principally in the Partnerships division, Avana Bakeries from wrapped bread market, marketed under brands RHMs Cakes division, Premiers Meat-free such as Hovis, Granary, Mothers Pride, Nimble business and all of our operations in the and Ormo.
In addition Premier manufactures Republic of Ireland.
However, to maintain own label bread and morning goods, frozen consistent reporting, we have presented the 13 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 results for 2007 in line with the segments 2007 2006 m m existing within Premier and RHM at the time of Reported sales the acquisition of RHM.
The results for 2008 will Convenience Foods, Pickles, be presented in line with the new divisional Sauces & Meat-free 442.3 454.5 2.7% structure outlined above.
Campbells 250.2 97.1 Spreads, Desserts Operating review continuing operations & Beverages 251.0 278.0 9.7% Core Premier Chivers Ireland 22.0 11.1 Core Premier comprises Premiers Total Core Premier 965.5 840.7 14.8% Convenience Foods, Pickles, Sauces & Meat-free and Spreads, Desserts & Beverages Trading profit businesses and includes the Campbells and Convenience Foods, Pickles, Chivers Ireland businesses.
Sales of products Sauces & Meat-free 43.0 45.7 5.9% by Premier to Chivers Ireland in 2006 and Campbells 51.1 16.6 2007 prior to its acquisition in January 2007 Spreads, Desserts have been reclassified to Chivers Ireland.
& Beverages 60.6 67.1 9.7% Pro forma results include a full years trading Chivers Ireland 1.0 of Campbells and Chivers Ireland in 2006 and Total Core Premier 155.7 129.4 20.3% a full years trading of Chivers Ireland in 2007.
2006 2006 2007 2006 Adjustments Adjusted m m m m Pro forma sales Convenience Foods, Pickles, Sauces & Meat-free 442.3 454.5 454.5 2.7% Campbells 250.2 243.8 243.8 2.7% Spreads, Desserts & Beverages 251.0 278.0 14.2 263.8 4.8% Chivers Ireland 23.1 23.3 23.3 0.9% Total Core Premier 966.6 999.6 14.2 985.4 1.9% Trading profit Convenience Foods, Pickles, Sauces & Meat-free 43.0 45.7 45.7 5.9% Campbells 51.1 50.1 8.7 41.4 23.4% Spreads, Desserts & Beverages 60.6 67.1 5.0 62.1 2.4% Chivers Ireland 1.0 0.8 0.8 25.0% Total Core Premier 155.7 163.7 13.7 150.0 3.8% The adjustments to 2006 represent our estimate of the additional sales and profit contribution from the Cadbury hot beverages licence which ended in May 2006 and non-recurring trading distortions from the pre-acquisition period in Campbells.
14 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Convenience Foods, Pickles, The brands have responded to the focus that Sauces & Meat-free we have given them and, having arrested the Sales of Convenience Foods, Pickles, Sauces 4% rate of sales decline experienced by the & Meat-free decreased by 12.2m compared business prior to its acquisition, we are now to 2006 due to reduced sales of branded baked in the second phase of rejuvenation, which is beans, which were heavily promoted during based on increased marketing investment and the launch of Branston beans in 2006 and lower new product development.
During the second sales of retailer brand convenience foods, partly half of 2007 we launched new liquid Oxo stock offset by increased sales of Branston relishes, and Batchelors Soupfulls, the first Batchelors Haywards pickles and our market-leading liquid soup.
Soupfulls is being supported by Meat-free brand, Quorn.
TV advertising during the first quarter of 2008 following the commissioning of new pouch Our Meat-free business has continued to capacity at our Wisbech factory.
grow albeit at a temporarily slower rate during the first half of this year.
This was the Pro forma results include 7 months of preconsequence of reduced promotional activity acquisition trading of Campbells in 2006. behind the Quorn and Cauldron brands during The 2006 pro forma Trading profit for the commissioning of our new chilled Campbells business includes the effect of manufacturing facility at Methwold in Norfolk.
trading distortions as the business was being The plant is now operational and we have seen prepared for sale by its previous owners.
the rate of sales growth in the second half We estimate that these trading distortions return to its previous higher levels.
We also increased Trading profit prior to the acquisition announced an investment of 35m in a new in 2006 by 8.7m and that the comparable fermentation plant at our Belasis factory, Trading profit figure for the whole of 2006 which will significantly increase its capacity to would have been 41.4m.
support the continued rapid growth of Quorn.
This investment will be spread over three years Spreads, Desserts & Beverages and the plant should become operational Sales in our Spreads, Desserts & Beverages towards the end of 2009. product group decreased by 9.7% to 251.0m, primarily as a result of the end of the Cadbury Campbells hot beverages licence in May 2006 and the exit We viewed Campbells at the time of its from a number of low margin retailer brand acquisition as a classic Premier acquisition.
We estimate that the We saw a portfolio of iconic British brands Cadbury hot beverages licence contributed in need of rejuvenation combined with a sales of 14.2m and Trading profit of 5.0m to significant level of cost synergies available to results for the first half of 2006.
Adjusting for us through a full integration of manufacturing this, sales declined by 4.8%, primarily because and administrative functions.
We completed of the reduced retailer brand sales, whilst the integration of the administrative functions Trading profit decreased by 2.4%, primarily in line with our original plans in April 2007. due to higher raw material costs.
Our original integration plan for Campbells included the closure of the Kings Lynn and Chivers Ireland Ashford factories.
However, the manufacturing We acquired Chivers Ireland, a leading supplier review we conducted following the acquisition of preserves to Irelands retail grocery and of RHM identified that retention of Ashford foodservice markets and the distributor of and the closure of additional RHM factories Premiers brands in the Republic of Ireland, would optimise our manufacturing network.
For 2006, we have classified We closed the Kings Lynn factory in December under Chivers Ireland the sales Premier made following the transfer of production to our to Chivers Ireland prior to its acquisition.
The Wisbech and Long Sutton factories, whilst increase in reported sales from 2006 to 2007 Ashford is now being extended to receive primarily reflects the addition of sales of production lines to accommodate the additional Chivers Irelands own products to the sales production volumes that will be transferred of Premier products that they distribute.
15 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Bread Bakeries Having identified the specific consumer concerns with Hovis white bread, we have 2007 2006 developed an improved recipe, which in m m consumer testing performs ahead of the Reported competition.
This new recipe has required Sales 657.3 investment in both ingredients and Trading profit 25.7 manufacturing capability and we feel confident Pro forma that, in time, we will be able to rebuild our Sales 820.0 799.3 2.6% market share to levels seen in previous years.
Trading profit 35.1 68.0 48.4% As a result of the factors referred to above pro Pro forma results include 12 months trading forma sales in our Bread Bakeries segment of RHM in 2006 and 2007. increased by 20.7m to 820.0m, which reflects lower bread volumes more than offset by higher The acquisition of RHM took Premier into the bread and flour prices and pro forma Trading bread category for the first time and brought profit for the Bread Bakeries segment with it Hovis, which became our largest brand.
Our plans for the division at the time of acquisition were to leverage Hovis through Culinary Brands its position as the healthy bread brand whilst reducing the cost base.
2007 2006 m m We have made progress on these plans with Reported the launch during the summer of Hovis Seed Sales 218.9 Sensations, which comprised two varieties of Trading profit 48.5 multiseeded loaves, which capitalise on the Pro forma trend towards healthier eating.
By December Sales 271.2 270.1 0.4% 2007, Hovis Seed Sensations was achieving Trading profit 55.8 59.4 6.1% annualised retail sales of 20m.
We have also been tackling the divisions cost base with Pro forma results include 12 months trading of savings in its administrative functions and RHM in 2006 and 2007. during the year we closed our Plymouth bakery and distribution depot in Telford as well as As with Campbells, we saw the Culinary Brands substantially rationalised our bakery operation division as the part of RHM demonstrating the in Bradford.
closest fit to the existing Premier business.
Again, it had a portfolio of iconic British brands The bread market was highly competitive in such as Bisto, Robertsons and Sharwoods 2007, with a major relaunch by Kingsmill in which we felt had not received appropriate levels the first half of the year and a national rollout of marketing investment and a significant level by Warburtons.
Whilst our healthier breads of cost synergies available through integrating such as wholemeal, half and half and seeded the manufacturing base and administrative have competed well, we identified that our functions of the two organisations.
We completed white bread was not competing effectively.
the integration of the administrative functions In addition, we have also been faced with a to plan by October 2007.
We announced our quite unprecedented challenge during 2007 manufacturing integration plans in July, which when, during the summer, we saw the price were to significantly expand 5 of our factories of wheat rising in a matter of weeks to a level to accommodate the transfer of production approximately double that of 2006.
This from 6 other sub-scale factories.
Following dramatic increase in the cost of the single consultation with all the affected employees, we largest raw material purchase by the Group have commenced the programme which is due forced us to review our procedures on how we to be completed over the next twelve months.
seek price increases to recover raw material cost inflation more quickly.
We therefore rapidly sought price increases on our branded and retailer branded bread, which we achieved at the start of September and the end of October.
However, whilst the retail price of Hovis was increased, the retail prices of our major competitors were not raised until early December.
This differential in retail prices led to a significant decline in volumes of Hovis, exacerbating the decline of Hovis white bread.
16 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review continued In addition to a lack of marketing investment We indicated at the time of the RHM acquisition behind the brands, we considered that the that, to minimise integration risk, we would promotional strategies used for some of the integrate the Culinary Brands, Cakes and brands were inappropriate.
We implemented Customer Partnerships divisions sequentially.
revised promotional strategies following the Having completed the integration of Culinary acquisition in March, which in the short term Brands in October, we have now started the contributed to a decline in sales in the first half integration of Cakes.
However, our review of the of 3.1% but helped to grow sales in the second division identified that while the Manor Cakes half of 2007 by 3.4% to give a total sales growth business was a very good fit with the Grocery for the year of 0.4%.
Likewise, pro forma division, Avana Bakeries would be better placed Trading profit declined in the first half of the within our new Chilled & Ireland division due year by 5.7m but grew in the second half by to its relationship with Marks & Spencer and 2.1m, primarily driven by the higher sales and the nature of its distribution arrangements.
integration synergies though these were partly Consequently, we have now transferred the offset by increased raw material costs.
Manor Cakes management team to our St Albans office and the full integration will Cakes be completed in the latter part of 2008 with the transfer of the Cakes business onto the Grocery 2007 2006 divisions information systems.
Meanwhile, m m Avana Bakeries has been brought under Reported common management with our RF Brookes Sales 229.3 and Charnwood businesses.
However, to Trading profit 25.8 maintain consistent reporting, the results Pro forma of Avana Bakeries have been included in the Sales 277.5 257.6 7.7% Cakes division for 2007.
Trading profit 27.5 22.8 20.6% We are also pleased to have agreed an Pro forma results include 12 months trading of extension to the Cadbury cakes licence through RHM in 2006 and 2007. to the end of 2019.
The RHM Cakes division comprised two main Customer Partnerships trading companies, Manor Cakes, a supplier of both branded cakes under the Mr Kipling, 2007 2006 Cadbury and Lyons brands and retailer brands, m m and Avana Bakeries which supplies cakes Reported and chilled desserts primarily to Marks & Sales 176.6 Spencer.
Although the business performance Trading profit 24.5 had developed in the year prior to our Pro forma acquisition of RHM, we felt that as the market Sales 219.9 208.0 5.7% leader with an excellent portfolio of brands, the Trading profit 29.6 27.3 8.4% division should be able to achieve significantly higher margins.
Our review of the business Pro forma results include 12 months trading confirmed the significant cost saving of RHM in 2006 and 2007 and exclude the opportunities both through integration of the trading of RHM Frozen Foods, which has been division but also through organic cost saving classified within discontinued operations.
One of these was the exit from the van sales operation, which was a high The RHM Customer Partnerships division was cost route to market.
This was completed made up of a number of separate business successfully during the second half with a units including RF Brookes, a supplier of chilled minimal loss of sales as we continued foods, Charnwood Foods, a supplier of frozen supplying the customer base through other pizza bases, Ledbury Preserves, a supplier of routes.
This has helped the division to continue retailer branded and industrial preserves, RHM its strong performance with sales growth of Frozen Foods, a supplier of primarily retailer 7.7% and pro forma Trading profit growth of branded frozen ready meals, desserts and 20.6% in 2007. pies and RHM Ireland, RHMs distributor of its brands in the Republic of Ireland.
17 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2007 We considered the majority of these businesses The next phase of that programme is the to be underleveraged in the existing business implementation of the orders to cash structure and that there were not only cost module of SAP and the consolidation of our synergies to be achieved by integration of the manufacturing network.
During this major units but also commercial synergies through period of change, we will need to limit our being part of a larger group.
The disparate promotional activity, particularly during the nature of the division means that the first half of 2008, to provide a more stable integration solution is necessarily more operational environment.
complicated but we have already made significant progress.
We are progressing this transformation during a period of sudden and unprecedented cost We have completed the integration of our three inflation, to which the business has responded businesses in the Republic of Ireland, namely admirably.
At December 2007, we had the RHM, Campbells and Chivers Ireland recovered some 190m of the 225m of operations to create one of Irelands leading annualised cost inflation that we saw in 2007 food suppliers with a portfolio of iconic Irish and we intend to recover the remaining costs brands such as Gateaux cakes and Chivers during the first quarter of 2008.
We anticipate jams and jelly together with brands which cover that during this period the under-recovery of both the British and Irish markets.
2007 cost inflation will reduce Trading profit by approximately 10m.
During the first two Ledbury Preserves was integrated along with months of 2008 we have seen no evidence of a Culinary Brands into the new Grocery division slowdown in the inflationary pressures but we and the closure of the Ledbury factory has been are confident that we will continue to mitigate incorporated into the Grocery manufacturing these through our cost reduction programmes rationalisation programme.
As a result we anticipate that progress in 2008 will be Our review of the RHM Frozen Foods business weighted towards the second half.
concluded that we should close or dispose of the business due to its poor competitive We believe that the significant additional position and we completed the sale of certain investment we are making in Hovis will improve assets of the division and closed the remaining its competitive position, which in time will help parts of the operation during the second half rebuild volume and market share back towards of the year.
levels seen in previous years.
Pro forma sales in our Customer Partnerships Finally, we believe the action we have segment increased by 11.9m to 219.9m, taken on our financing provides us with the primarily reflecting branded sales growth in headroom we require to be able to continue Ireland and the successful launch of new our transformation to plan despite the current product lines by RF Brookes.
Pro forma Trading economic uncertainty and inflationary climate.
profit for the Customer Partnerships segment increased by 2.3m to 29.6m reflecting the increased sales and integration synergies achieved in Ireland, partly offset by higher raw material costs.
Outlook The acquisitions of Quorn, Campbells and RHM provided us with an unparalleled opportunity to transform Premier into the UKs leading food supplier.
We are now over half way through the transformation programme and we are delighted by the progress we have made and that the synergies continue to develop in line with our plan.
As we enter 2008, we are now operating in our three new divisions and our focus moves from integration of the business to enhancing our manufacturing efficiency and information systems.
