Indeed the underlying performance of the BusiNEss rEviEw dr. iaiN dorrity Groups core silicon production business grew CHIEF ExECuTIVE OFFICER dr pEtEr j. FiNNEgaN by 14.9% to 212.9 million.
This positive momentum CHIEF FInAnCIAL OFFICER demonstrates the Companys continuing position as one of the PV industrys leading wafer producers.
iNtroductioN when we reached agreement with one of our The financial year of 2007 has been one of solid current longstanding suppliers in March 2008 progress with full year revenue of 263.4, an to maintain existing volumes and extend increase of 8.7%.
This represents a very strong contracted supply through to 2014. second half performance with wafer output increasing as we took delivery of additional We improved our effective silicon utilisation polysilicon under existing contractual through our continuing work with our customers arrangements and with sales prices firming on the move to thinner wafers such that 20% due to the strong market demand.
Indeed the of wafers shipped in 2007 were supplied at underlying performance of the Groups core industry leading 180m thickness and all silicon production business grew by 14.9% customers had adapted to maximum 200m to 212.9 million.
thickness during the second half of the year.
In addition we adopted new technology for This positive momentum demonstrates the ingot cutting which will enable very significant Groups continuing position as one of the PV reduction in silicon losses during block production.
industrys leading wafer producers and builds The new ingot wire saws will effectively reduce on our unrivalled experience gained through kerf loss by 90% in comparison with the our pioneering development of directional sawing equipment used previously.
solidification technology for production of multicrystalline silicon.
In May we announced our plans to set up our own 1800MT polysilicon production facility in Our production output was equivalent to order to complement our external contracted 190MW and while this represented a reduction supply.
This internal production will provide on the 215MW achieved in the previous year, access to cost effective silicon and will be a key our earnings before interest, taxation and IPO driver of our future growth and profitability.
costs actually grew by 46.8% to 70.9 million.
The facility is based in Bitterfeld, Germany in one of the largest chemical parks in Europe opEratioNs and located next to an existing production sales of silicon product 2007 saw the completion of our transition facility operated by our supplier Evonik from an ingot supplier to become first and formerly Degussa who is the worlds foremost a supplier of wafers such that in largest producer of high purity chlorosilanes.
14.9% the second half of the year only wafers The raw material will be piped to our plant were supplied to our PV customers.
and will be decomposed to produce silicon 212.9 million using a modified Siemens process.
The The limited availability of silicon raw material production will operate with a closedloop continued to restrict growth in the PV industry chlorine cycle in order to maximise production and led to significant increases in spot silicon efficiency and to eliminate environmental hazards.
EBit before ipo costs prices.
However the Groups strong position with polysilicon contracts with two of the major Construction of the plant started immediately after producers ensured deliveries in 2007 and enabled the ground breaking ceremony which was held on 46.8% us to effectively control our raw material costs.
19 September and attended by the SaxonyAnhalt Our future visibility was recently further enhanced Minister for Economic Affairs and Employment.
70.9 million 06 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 BusiNEss rEviEw coNtiNuEd Free cash flow 195% 36 million operating cash flow 290% Below: first stage polysilicon feedstock used for the production of multicrystalline silicon ingots.
63 million Below right: intermediate stage square silicon blocks are sectioned from multicrystalline silicon ingots.
large image: typical rooftop mounted solar silicon photovoltaic array.
08 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 opEratioNs coNtiNuEd We continue to strengthen partnerships with and partnerships were further consolidated with With orders placed for all the major equipment we major PV companies in Japan and Germany two of these companies through the signing of remain on schedule for commercial production where we have long established relationships.
long term agreements for the sale of 355MW to start in 2009 with projected output of 900MT In 2007, 81.4% of our sales were made to these of wafers over the next five seven years.
At the in the first year of operation and increasing to geographic markets which represent two of same time we are developing relationships 1800MT in 2011.
However, the increased demand the worlds three leading PV manufacturing with those smaller companies which we for raw materials and global engineering and centres.
Our strategy of cost leadership and identify as having the potential to grow to construction services has resulted in materially flexibility is underpinned by carrying out wafer become significant players in the market.
These price increases, together production in both of these two key countries.
with some productivity enhancements to the This proximity of production to customers not Our new polysilicon production facility planned plant, have led to projected overall only facilitates closer cooperation but also in Bitterfeld will provide further flexibility capital investment being increased from the enables us to rapidly address changes in and enhance our position as one of the original 80 million to approximately 100 million, customer needs.
Furthermore our dual PV industrys low cost producers.
of which 21 million will be receivable in grants geographic wafer production locations and subsidies.
The Groups strong free cash help offset the influence of Euro yen exchange risks flow which was up by 195% to 36.1 million rate variations.
We also recognise the growing The Board regularly reviews risks faced by in 2007 is more than adequate to cover importance of China as a manufacturing location the Group and how they may be mitigated.
and our developing relationships there meant The principal risks and uncertainties can that sales in this region accounted for 6.3% be summarised as follows: stratEgy of our revenues.
PV Crystalox Solar is committed to systematically Continued government incentives are critical enhancing its leadership in the PV industry as Although the PV industry sees an ever increasing to the development of the solar electricity an independent producer of multicrystalline number of new entrants to solar cell production, industry and without these, increased uptake silicon wafers.
By focusing on the wafer and the top ten producers continue to dominate and of solar electricity may be slow to develop.
not competing with our customers in cell accounted for 66.6% of total world production The Group mitigates these risks by focusing production we are able to develop strong in 2006.
Our focus remains on the top ten supply on major PV companies which through relationships with solar cell producers.
producers and these accounted for more than their superior market share and operating 74% of our core silicon product sales in 2007 efficiencies are better equipped to push product into the market.
Our new polysilicon production facility in Bitterfeld will provide further flexibility and enhance our position as one of the PV industrys low cost producers.
The Groups strong profitability, strong balance sheet and strong operational cash flow give the directors a firm basis to be confident about the year ahead.
The Group is well positioned both operationally and financially to play a significant role in the PV industry and looks forward to the future with confidence.
PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 With more than 80% of our wafer output BusiNEss rEviEw coNtiNuEd in 2008 now secured through existing long term or framework agreements our prospects for 2008 remain very positive.
Furthermore, the Group expects to announce additional long term wafer supply agreements with both new and existing customers during the next few months and these will provide greater visibility for future years.
10 PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 risks coNtiNuEd the Groups natural hedging position in terms We anticipate further tightening in the Sales to a small number of customers of Japanese yen meant that there was a limited supply of scrap silicon during 2008 but represent a substantial portion of the Groups impact on profitability in the year.
The Groups this will be partially offset by our continuing revenues and the loss of any major customers EBIT, after IPO costs of 3.4 million, was efforts in improving silicon utilisation through could significantly impact on the Groups 67.5 million 2006: 48.3 million.
increased levels of recycling, thinner wafers financial condition.
However the Group seeks and new ingot cutting methods.
Deliveries to mitigate this risk by the use of long term net interest income at 3.3 million 2006: of polysilicon will increase under existing agreements wherever possible.
In addition 0.7 million is significantly higher than last contractual arrangements to 1540MT and our strategy is to concentrate on customers year due to interest arising from depositing thus the Group anticipates that 2008 wafer that are financially strong with a clear strategic the proceeds from our IPO and the funds shipments will be in the range 210225MW.
vision for the PV industry and accordingly generated by our strong operational cash the potential to be long term major players flow.
The main part of the IPO proceeds will be Strong market demand during the start of 2008 in the industry.
expended during 2008 on our new polysilicon has meant that wafer prices, which firmed during plant at Bitterfeld and on capital expenditure the second half of 2007, have been maintained Silic on availability is crucial to the efficient to expand our existing production operation.
and this trend is expected to continue.
Thus, operation of the Group.
The Group mitigates with more than 80% of our expected wafer this by securing high quantities of feedstock Earnings increased to 47.0 million 2006: output in 2008 now secured through existing at fixed prices from key suppliers and this 31.6 million and unadjusted earnings per share long term or framework agreements our year has taken the step to set up a silicon increased by 42.9% to 0.120 2006: 0.084. prospects for 2008 remain very positive.
feedstock production facility in Bitterfeld.
Furthermore, the Group expects to announce These strong financial results generated additional long term wafer supply agreements L oss of a key facility.
The Group operates operating cash flows of 63.3 million with both new and existing customers during two ingot manufacturing facilities in the uK 2006: 16.3 million and net cash inflows the next few months and these will provide together with a wafering operation in Germany of 97.1 million 2006: 29.6 million.
The greater visibility for future years.
and is also reliant on a subcontractor to process net cash inflows obviously include our IPO its ingots into wafers in Japan.
Production proceeds of 76.8 million although 26.1 million Consequently the Board believes that the problems at any one of these would had already been expended on capital expenditure Group is well positioned both operationally interrupt revenue streams.
and financially to play a significant role in the PV industry and looks forward to the FiNaNcial rEviEw The Groups strong profitability, strong balance future with confidence.
In the period under review the Group generated sheet and strong operational cash flow give underlying earnings before interest and taxation the directors a firm basis to be confident EBIT before IPO costs of 70.9 million 2006: about the year ahead.
48.3 million benefiting from robust second half performance.
The continuing improvement outlook in underlying profitability was driven primarily The market drivers for the business remain iaiN dorrity by higher market prices, although volumes positive and although there is diversity in the CHIEF ExECuTIVE increased in the second half of the year various forecasts for growth of PV installations, 2 APRIL 2008 following higher quantities of raw materials even the relatively conservative view of the being available from existing suppliers.
The European Photovoltaic Industries Association relatively weak Japanese yen had a negative EPIA envisages doubling of the market by impact on Group sales turnover in the period 2010, with the European countries and uSA although there was some improvement in this expected to be the major markets.
respect in the second half of 2007.
However, opposite page: a spectacular solar array using multicrystalline silicon wafers.
left: intermediate stage ingots are carefully divided into individual silicon blocks prior to wafering.
right: final stage wafers pass through a cleaning bath before packing and despatch.
PV Crystalox Solar PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
