18 | Business Review: Europe | Annual Report 2007 Europe Our desire to grow our leading brands to category leading positions has resulted in innovative new product development as well as significant activity in brand renovation, with product relaunches and the introduction of innovative new variants, including special limited editions, in the competitive European market.
Business Review: Europe | Annual Report 2007 | 19 Personal wash and soap Within this category are household leading brands including products such as shower gels, bath foams and soaps.
There has been significant activity in the year to grow these brands through new product development and brand renovation to satisfy the changing needs of local consumers.
The significant activity in the year has helped establish a position as market leader in the personal wash market.
Household and detergents This product category includes concentrated dishwash, detergent powders, fabric conditioners and cleaning products.
The Groups strategy to grow its brands has been evidenced in the year by the introduction of new products, new variants and improvements to product formulations.
Food This product category consists of edible oils and spreads.
Our continuous product review has seen numerous new products launched in the year, with a particular focus on healthier products to control and even reduce cholesterol levels, demonstrating our commitment to create products suited to local consumer needs and tastes.
Haircare This category includes quality haircare products from shampoos and conditioners through to styling products.
Many of the products in the haircare range have benefited from renovated packaging in the year, as well as more extensive distribution methods compared to prior years.
20 | Business Review: Europe | Annual Report 2007 Our business in Europe In the UK, performance has exceeded expectations as a result of a successful programme of brand renovation across the portfolio, resulting in the achievement of the number one position in the Personal Wash category.
The Imperial Leather range was body scrubs and an innovative range In the UK, the supply chain focus is expanded during the year with new of skin food shower and bath products.
largely on the new manufacturing variants and the launch of limited facility which will begin operation in edition shower and bath products.
The Charles Worthington haircare brand mid 2008 as part of the new Innovation Consumer loyalty to the Carex range was successfully rolled out to the Centre.
Negotiations for the sale of the remains high and growth was nationwide trade during the year with Manchester and Ellesmere Port sites achieved through the introduction of a very positive response from both are at an advanced stage.
Completion new variants and a Hand Carexperts the trade and consumers.
Towards the of the sale of the Nottingham site, campaign which was run both on end of the financial year, the core which is subject to a conditional television and in targeted print Charles Worthington Results range contract, is still expected by the end publications.
The Original Source brand, was completely renovated with exciting of the 2008 calendar year.
which was completely renovated new graphics and is being supported last year, has grown as a result of the in the new financial year with the first introduction of new products such as Charles Worthington TV campaign.
Charles Worthington Original Source Imperial Leather IL Carex The Charles Worthington brand Since its acquisition Original IL foamburst, which combines Carex is a popular handcare has developed signicantly since Source has evolved signicantly, the innovation of the foamburst brand because of its effective it was acquired, with the launch with last years packaging product and the strength of use against germs and of the Dream Hair and style.
com relaunch, supported by a national the IL brand, has seen a number bacteria without being harsh ranges being well received in television and press campaign.
of new limited edition variants on hands.
Further commitment The product categories have launched in the year.
The variants, development has seen the to evolve the brand is illustrated been expanded to include new which have been very well launch of a new bathroom range by the recent relaunch of the variants and the newly launched received in the market, include and innovative new hand Results range in the UK.
Tahitian Retreat and Japanese washes containing collagen.
Business Review: Europe | Annual Report 2007 | 21 During the year, a UK restructuring with new variants of both powders and Sales and profitability in Greece have programme was undertaken both to fabric conditioners and was expanded improved in the year following the prepare for the new Innovation into household cleaning products in the rebranding and relaunch of the core Centre and as part of a wider move to second half with the launch of E Boom.
Our share of the build up overseas resource in areas The Luksja range of soaps and shower olive oil market has increased and the previously supported by head ofce.
gels was also expanded in the year portfolio of products has been An exceptional charge relating to this and achieved market leader position strengthened with the launch of programme has been made in the year.
During the a premium range of olive oil in tins.
year, the head ofce and warehousing Further expansion of the product range Sales in Poland have been strong site in Warsaw was sold therefore continues with successful launches against a competitive background with enabling the business to operate from of Minerva So Real butter and Minerva both the E detergent brand and Luksja a reduced xed cost base and to focus Benecol cheese products.
personal wash brand performing well.
on margin improvement initiatives at The E range was renovated in the year the Wroclaw factory site.
E Luksja Minerva spread Minerva oils E is a much loved brand in Luksja is a good example of one Our desire to expand our portfolio Minerva is a brand with a great Poland.
Its popularity has been of our brands that is unique to of category leading brands, deal of history and heritage established through the delivery a territory, Poland, and is also in a has seen the successful launch in Greece.
Recent innovations of quality products over many market leading position.
The in the period of a number of new have seen the launch of new years.
The brand has recently brand has been developed and spreads and soft cheese packaging which protects the been developed to include an expanded in recent periods to products which are focussed on delicate avour, golden green innovative range of cleaning and include soaps and shower gels in delivering the consumer positive colour and the subtle aroma of stain removal products.
