10 | Business Review: Africa | Annual Report 2007 Africa With over 100 years experience of trading in Africa we are proud of the knowledge of local markets and consumers we have developed, which has resulted in a strong portfolio of local brands.
Our passion to continue to grow these brands and develop innovative products in response to local needs has delivered success in the emerging markets of Africa.
To provide clarity and focus management continue to structure the Nigerian business into the following units: | | Soaps and detergents Health and beauty Electrical goods HPZ, | a joint venture with Haier Food and nutrition Nutricima, a joint venture | with Glanbia Supply chain and distribution Business Review: Africa | Annual Report 2007 | 11 Soaps and detergents The soaps and detergents portfolio forms the backbone of the African business in an increasingly competitive market.
Products include laundry and toilet soap and bulk and branded detergents.
Health and beauty This unit has a variety of strong trusted local brands which includes haircare and skincare products, medicated rubs and pharmaceutical products.
Pan-regional development of these brands has brought benets to the African region as a whole.
Electrical goods This unit sells Haier Thermocool branded electrical goods manufactured with our Chinese partner Haier which include fridges, freezers, washing machines, televisions, DVD players, mobile phones and air conditioning units.
The Group has capitalised on the strength of the Haier Thermocool brand by introducing a number of new products in the year.
Food and nutrition The food and nutrition unit, which manufactures milk and nutritional products with our joint venture partner Glanbia Plc has built on last years success.
Work to extend the factory is well under way, while there have been exciting new products developed in the year.
Supply chain and distribution One of our key strengths in Africa is our extensive network of depots and factories in Nigeria.
Placing distribution in its own unit has given the business focus and the continuous desire to improve its distribution network.
12 | Business Review: Africa | Annual Report 2007 Our business in Africa Overall, performance in Nigeria has been strong, with limited disruption from the election process which took place in April 2007.
Revenue and profit in local currency and Premier, Canoe and Duck soaps.
Venus, Joy and Carex personal care showed increases over the prior Savings from in-house power generation and Cussons Baby.
During the year year of 30% and 12% respectively.
as a result of the investment made manufacturing operations for this The Nigerian currency remained last year have helped to counter cost division were reviewed, resulting in the stable against the dollar during the increases elsewhere within the business.
transfer of production for certain year, however the results are affected products to Ghana.
on translation to sterling as a result Sales in Health and beauty grew year of the weak dollar.
on year predominantly through new The Electrical goods business product launches such as Super Robb experienced another year of significant Soaps and detergents performed well mentholated rub and relaunches of growth with the business strengthening in the year although the market remains our existing brands such as Venus hair its number one market position in competitive with increased levels of relaxer.
The Venus relaunch was the both the refrigerator and freezer supply and pressure on margins through first product launch under the pancategories.
Growth is also being achieved higher commodity costs.
However, brand regional project to leverage the strength in the other product categories including positioning remains strong and was of our brands across the African air conditioners, televisions, DVD supported in the year with significant territories.
A review of the portfolio of players, washing machines, dishwashers, new product launches including Elephant brands in this division has now been microwave ovens and water heaters.
Gold detergent and extensive brand concluded in order to prioritise those that Sales of laptop computers and mobile renovation of all of the category leading will be targeted for growth in the future.
phones commenced early in the new brands including Zip and Jet detergents, These include Robb medicaments, financial year.
Super Robb Venus Powerfist Nunu Super Robb is a good example Venus is one of the first health Our extensive nationwide depot The recently introduced Nunu of how a local leading health and and beauty brands to be network in Nigeria allowed brand product categories have beauty brand, Robb, has relaunched and aligned as a for the quick distribution of our already been reviewed and been developed to expand the regional African brand.
Venus innovative energy drink, developed to include Nigerias mentholated rub category to comprises a range of Powerst.
The launch of the first non-chocolate avoured suit local tastes and help deliver haircare, bodycare, facecare product was supported by a milk drinks.
This has seen the profitable growth for the Group.
television advertising campaign launch of new avours including with a popular Nigerian artist berry and banana.
Business Review: Africa | Annual Report 2007 | 13 In June 2007, HPZ was proud to open a are now moving upwards.
There will be I mprovements to the clearing and showroom in Lagos being the first world further new product launches in the forwarding operation to assist in class standard electrical retail outlet of new financial year and further capacity the reduction of lead times of supply its kind to be opened in Nigeria.
Named for existing products available at into Nigeria HT Cool World, the showroom will the end of 2007 on completion of the allow the full range of electrical products current factory extension.
During the course of the new financial to be sold to both retail and commercial year, a wider review of the traditional customers to complement sales A number of significant initiatives in Nigerian manufacturing base will through existing distribution channels.
Supply chain and distribution have been be undertaken to ensure facilities are rolled out in the year including: appropriately structured to cater for The joint venture with Glanbia C ompletion of a second phase of future growth plans.
continues to progress well with turnover upgrades to the nationwide depot considerably ahead of last year network Revenue and profitability in the other following a number of successful new O pening of two regional distribution African territories, Ghana and Kenya, product launches including Coast centres to enable faster supply to are ahead of last year mainly as a result milk, Nunu avoured powdered milk and the depots and a lower stockholding at of growth from relaunches of existing Powerst energy drinks.
While the each individual depot products and the introduction of new rising cost of milk across global markets E xpansion of the dedicated haulage products, such as Nunu milk and HPZ has impacted margins in the short-term, eet which now numbers in excess electrical goods, which commenced selling prices in the Nigerian market of sixty megatrucks sales in Ghana during the year.
Elephant Premier Haier Thermocool Haier Thermocool Our detailed knowledge of the Premier is a trusted popular Continuous brand review has Haier Thermocool products are local African markets in which brand of toilet soap in West seen the Group capitalise on the sold throughout Nigeria and we operate has led to the Africa.
The brand has grown strong Haier Thermocool brand, the hard work and passion to expansion of the Elephant organically along with consumer by expanding product categories develop the brand has resulted detergent brand to include the needs to include a number of to deliver exciting new products in a category leading white new Elephant Gold detergent successful variants in both toilet to the market-place which include goods product.
product, to cater for the changing and bath soap.
LCD televisions, DVD players, needs of the consumer.
mobile phones, dishwashers and microwave ovens.
