14 | Business Review: Asia | Annual Report 2007 Asia A key feature of our Asian region is our first class distribution network in emerging markets, which enables us to deliver our strong brand ranges efficiently, responding quickly and appropriately to local needs.
The Asian markets in which we operate offer a naturally balanced portfolio geographically, offering both mature and emerging markets with good opportunity for growth.
Business Review: Asia | Annual Report 2007 | 15 Babycare The region has a number of products falling within this category such as soaps, lotions, shampoos, talcum powder and rubs.
These products are distributed under strong local brands, which are in category leading positions in their marketplaces, demonstrating the effectiveness of the Groups strategy of developing leading local brands to suit the needs of local consumers.
The babycare category has been expanded with the launch of the new Cussons Sahaja brand.
Household and detergents This region has a diverse range of products falling within this category.
Examples include detergents, manual dishwash products and automatic dishwash products.
Strong brand renovation in the year has been driven by our inherent knowledge of the local markets in which we operate.
Our innovation in Australasia has seen the development of detergents which inject sunscreen into clothing and detergents that use less water than other products in the market.
Personal care and soap Products falling within this category include soaps, deodorants, bodywashes, talcum powders, gels, creams and colognes.
The diverse product range, which includes a number of leading local brands such as Extreme, is distributed to the vast Asian market through our first class distribution networks in Indonesia, Thailand, the Middle East and Australia.
Group sourcing centre The new world class manufacturing facility in Thailand has helped service the bar soap requirements of our UK and Australian markets, following the successful factory commissioning last year.
The factory will continue to play an integral role in the Groups future bar soap sourcing requirements going forward.
16 | Business Review: Asia | Annual Report 2007 Our business in Asia In Australia, the market for branded detergent products has become signicantly more competitive, principally as a result of the introduction of private label ranges by the prominent retailers.
Consequently sales and margins number of innovative new products order to restore margins to previous have been impacted by the effect of are being launched across the brand levels.
The fundamentals of the lower selling prices and additional portfolio of Radiant and Duo clothes Australian business remain sound and promotional support costs.
A number care, Morning Fresh dishwash the Groups strength of local market of initiatives are being actioned in and Pure personal wash in the early knowledge is expected to assist in order to respond to these market part of the new financial year.
returning this business to growth in the developments.
Firstly, the businesss Secondly, cost reduction initiatives coming year.
extensive new product pipeline have been accelerated supported by has been prioritised and a significant a cross functional group team in Radiant Pure Morning Fresh Baby Needs Radiants power packed granules Pure liquid soap is a mild and Morning Fresh is a popular The Baby Needs range evolved have been developed and gentle soap which uses natural global brand, which is marketed from a review, and subsequent improved to include innovative products to leave the skin differently across our regions to expansion, of the marketvariants that are more friendly on clean and fresh.
The Australian leading Cussons Baby brand the environment and can brand has evolved to include a in Indonesia.
The popular Baby decrease water consumption.
variety of innovative dishwasher Needs range includes baby tablets, to supplement the utensils such as bottles, bowls, existing liquid range.
Business Review: Asia | Annual Report 2007 | 17 Sales and profitability in Indonesia feeding spoons.
The core Cussons Improvements to the nationwide depot improved in the year as a result of Baby range was also complemented network have continued in the year successful development of the baby by the launch of a basics range called with rationalisation of depot operations range, resulting in a strengthening Cussons Sahaja to target a further in Jakarta now complete.
of the brands number one position in segment of the population.
During the year, range extensions are also planned for In the other Asian units, Thailand, the baby range was extended with the new financial year.
Other brands Malaysia and the Middle East, revenue the launch of a Baby Needs range of such as Imperial Leather and Cussons and profitability were maintained at products, including bottles, plates and Extreme continue to perform well.
Cussons Baby Extreme Imperial Leather Morning Fresh Cussons Baby is a Extreme is a good example of The global Imperial Leather In Asia the Morning Fresh comprehensive range of a local brand which has become brand, which is associated with product has been adapted products which gently care for established in the male personal wash products, has a to suit local consumer and protect your baby.
Cussons grooming market in Indonesia.
high prole in Thailand through needs.
The dishwashing liquid Baby has grown signicantly Products include deodorants, sales of bar soap.
The popularity rell pouch is a popular to become Indonesias leading colognes, sprays and gels.
of the brand has resulted in a alternative to the conventional brand in the competitive diverse range of bar soaps with European packaging.
