Business Review 2007 This review for the financial year ending The Company also has a number of local Other 31 December 2007 conforms to the Business market positions in Laundry Detergents and The Company also has two non-strategic Review required under the Companies Act Fabric Softeners for example in Spain, Italy, businesses, Food and Pharmaceuticals.
It should be read in conjunction with certain East European markets and Korea.
The Company owns a largely North the rest of this annual report, the Companys The Company also has a small private label American Food business, the principal brands Sustainability Report and the Companys business, the majority of which provides of which are Frenchs Mustard, the No.
Laundry Detergent to major multi-national mustard, and Franks Red Hot Sauce, the No.
NATURE, OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGIES hot sauce in North America.
OF THE BUSINESS Surface Care Pharmaceuticals formerly known as BBG Reckitt Benckiser is one of the worlds leading No.
1 worldwide in the overall Surface Care or the Buprenorphine Business Group is manufacturers and marketers of branded products category due to leading positions across responsible for the development of the in household cleaning and health & personal disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant all Companys Subutex and Suboxone care, selling a comprehensive range through purpose cleaners, lavatory care, specialty prescription drug business.
Both products over 60 operating companies into around 180 cleaners and polishes waxes.
are based on buprenorphine for treatment countries.
Over 75% of net revenues in 2007 No.
1 worldwide in disinfectant cleaners of opiate dependence.
Suboxone is a more were generated by brands that are either market products which both clean and disinfect advanced product compared to Subutex, as leader or ranked second in their markets.
The surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs with Lysol in it has substantially better protection against Companys principal product categories and North America and the Surface Care products abuse by the opioid-dependent population.
brands are listed on pages 10 and 11 of the in the Dettol range outside North America.
Subutex is principally marketed in Europe by Shareholders Review.
Schering Plough Corporation, Kenilworth, No.
1 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol Reckitt Benckisers vision is to deliver better New Jersey to whom it is licensed, while in North America and Harpic across Europe consumer solutions in household cleaning and Suboxone is sold by Reckitt Benckiser directly and Developing Markets.
health & personal care for the ultimate purpose in the USA and Australia with US exclusivity of creating shareholder value.
The Company has a number of local leading until the end of September 2009.
Suboxone brands in non-disinfectant all purpose cleaners, has recently received marketing approval from The strategy of the business is described in detail specialty cleaners and polishes waxes.
the European Commission for treatment in in the Chief Executives Review.
In summary: the 25 states of the European Union, Norway Dishwashing Have a disproportionate focus on our and Iceland, with exclusivity until 2016.
1 worldwide in Automatic Dishwashing 18 Power Brands to realise our vision and with all prescription drugs, the intellectual products used in automatic dishwashers drive above industry average growth to property protection of this business has a with Finish Calgonit internationally and strengthen their global market positions.
finite term unless replaced with new treatments Electrasol Jet Dry in North America.
Therefore, the revenue and income Transform the above industry average The Company also has some small, local of this business may not be sustained going net revenue growth into attractive profit positions left in the declining manual forward unless replaced with new treatments and cash flow.
or forms on which the Company is actively THE COMPANYS BRAND PORTFOLIO working.
At the same time, the Company Home Care AND MARKET POSITION is engaged in developing potential new Home Care consists of Air Care, Pest Control The Company benefits from many very strong treatments with third parties that would have and Shoe Care.
market positions for its brand portfolio.
either patent protection or market exclusivity Excluding Laundry Detergent and Fabric Softener No.
2 worldwide in Air Care with Air Wick.
in similar areas to where it is active today.
the Company is the world market leader in No.
2 worldwide in Pest Control with Mortein, household cleaning products and has leading the Companys international brand, supported positions in selected health & personal care by local brand franchises like d-Con in categories.
These positions derive from the North America.
strength of the Companys leading brands, described as Power Brands, which are the No.
2 worldwide in Shoe Care with such flagship brands in the Companys five major brands as Cherry Blossom and Nugget.
categories and on which the Company focuses Health & Personal Care the majority of its efforts and investment.
The Health & Personal Care category consists of The Company also has other brands and market products that relieve or solve common personal positions that are less of a strategic focus and health problems.
but which play a role as scale builders in local markets.
1 worldwide in topical Antiseptics and Antiseptic personal care products with Dettol.
These leading positions include: No.
1 worldwide in depilatory products Fabric Care with Veet.
1 worldwide in Fabric Treatment products to remove stains from clothes, carpets and No.
1 worldwide in medicated sore throat upholstery with Vanish around the globe and products with Strepsils.
Resolve Spray n Wash in North America.
Leading positions in Analgesics and Upper No.
2 worldwide in Garment Care laundry Gastro-Intestinal products in Europe and cleaning products for delicate garments Australia with Nurofen and Gaviscon.
The company has also local leading positions in Denture Care, Dry Skin Care and No.
1 worldwide in Water Softeners products Cold Flu products.
to prevent destructive limescale build-up on washing machines and laundry with Calgon.
4 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 THE INDUSTRY, MARKET AND Technological change and product improvement The geographical structure is in three Areas COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT can therefore be a key determinant of the which are responsible for local execution of The household cleaning and health & personal Companys success.
Reckitt Benckisers success marketing and sales programmes: care industry is characterised by steady growth in introducing new and improved products stems Europe.
The Area covers the regions of in demand with little variation due to macrofrom its heavy focus on developing a pipeline Northern Europe UK, Ireland, Scandinavia, economic factors, particularly in developed of product innovation.
The Company maintains Central Europe Germany, Netherlands, markets.
Some developing markets exhibit more a large category development organisation, Austria, Switzerland, Western Europe volatile demand in reaction to macro-economic including market and consumer research, R&D France, Belgium, Southern Europe Italy, factors.
The principal drivers of market growth and marketing sales best practice, to fuel this Greece, South Western Europe Spain, in all markets are the rate of household pipeline and share category success factors and Portugal and export business and Eastern formation and growth in the level of disposable learning.
The Company invested 92m in 2007, Europe Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic income, combined with demand for new in R&D.
While the Company believes R&D to be Slovakia Romania, Adriatics, Russia CIS, Turkey.
products that offer improved performance a key contributor to innovative new products, or greater convenience.
it does not believe it to be the dominant North America & Australia.
The Area covers performance indicator for innovation success.
the markets of North America USA, Canada The industry is intensely competitive, with The Companys success is demonstrated by the and Australia and New Zealand.
a comparatively small number of major multifact that almost 40% of its net revenues come national competitors accounting for a large Developing Markets covers the regions of from products launched over the last proportion of total global demand.
The Company Latin America Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and three years.
competes with numerous, well-established, local, smaller markets, Africa Middle East South regional, national and international companies, INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS Africa, Middle East, Pakistan, East Africa, some of which are very large and aggressively AND REGULATORY POSITION West Africa, South Asia India, Bangladesh, establish and defend their products, market The household and health & personal care Sri Lanka, Indonesia and East Asia Korea, shares and brands.
Principal competitors include industry is heavily regulated by, inter alia, the Hong Kong, China, Taiwan, Singapore, FMCG companies like Procter & Gamble, Colgate European Union, the United States government Malaysia, Thailand, Japan.
Palmolive, Clorox, S. C. Johnson, Henkel, Unilever, and individual country governments elsewhere.
The Supply function is responsible for all and such pharmaceutical companies as Ingredients, manufacturing standards, labour procurement raw and packaging materials and GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis standards, product safety, marketing and services, production and logistics globally, and and Bayer, plus a number of strong local advertising claims are all subject to detailed is directly responsible for the operation of the industry players.
The Company competes, particularly in strongly Reckitt Benckiser has operating companies in Approximately 80% of manufacturing and branded segments, through its focus on its some 60 countries and has sales in up to 180 supply is through these 42 sites around the leading position in higher growth categories countries worldwide.
At present, over 75% of world, with facilities located in Europe 15 where it is typically the market leader or a close the Companys net revenues derive from Europe, facilities, North America six facilities, Australia follower and through its ability to introduce new North America and Australia New Zealand with New Zealand one facility and the remaining products whether improved or newly developed the remainder coming from mostly semifacilities spread across Asia 12, Latin America supported by a rising and substantial level of established or developing economies.
The four and Africa Middle East four.
These include marketing, particularly media, investment.
Much Company is expanding its operations in these a small number of facilities in higher risk labour industry competition focuses on competing semi-established and developing economies, and social environments in Asia and claims for product performance rather than price which may bring increased risks from greater Latin America.
For this reason, failure to introduce economic volatility, additional governmental Information Services is responsible for the new products and gain acceptance thereof may burden and regulation, political instability, and Companys global systems infrastructure and significantly impact the Companys operating local labour conditions.
However this is not the global systems, including the Companys chosen results.
The Company also encounters challenges case with all developing markets many of which Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system and to its leadership positions in markets, the defence offer higher economic growth potential.
against which requires significant marketing The Company structures its business through expenditure and promotional activity.
The Company has a comprehensive set of a matrix of a centralised Category Development policies and procedures designed to enforce and The Companys products also compete for organisation, Global Sales organisation, Supply protect its reputation and govern its business consumers with private label products sold by organisation and support functions Finance, methods and practices.
These cover, inter alia, major retail companies.
The Company competes Human Resources and Information Services a comprehensive Code of Business Conduct, an with private label primarily by focusing on combined with three Area organisations, Environmental Policy, a Global Manufacturing delivering innovative new products with real Europe, North America & Australia, and Standard, and a policy on product safety.
consumer benefits, which private label typically Developing Markets.
Internal controls on environmental, social, does not focus on, and by consistent marketing The central Category Development function, governance ESG matters and reputational risk investment to communicate the benefits of its where appropriate supported by Global Sales, are further outlined on pages 7, 14 and 15 brands direct to consumers, where private label is responsible for Power Brand strategies, brand of this report.
equity programmes and best practices, new product development, including R&D, consumer and market research, for implementation by the Area organisation.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 5 Business Review 2007 continued RESOURCES The Company closely monitors and tracks its manage its interface with the growth of The major resources required by the business are Top 400 international managers T400, the core international retailers.
an adequate supply of the raw and packaging management team of the business.
This is a The Company has many suppliers.
The suppliers materials consumed by the Companys products, diverse group, consisting of 50 nationalities, are predominantly international chemical and and the necessary funds for developing new and over half of the T400 group is working in packaging companies.
The Company sources products and reinvestment in advertising and a country that is not their original domicile, most of its supplies through its global purchasing promoting those brands.
The other principal consistent with the Companys policy to develop function, which acts as its primary interface with resource is management.
within this T400 group in 2007 was 10.1% The Company considers that its primary raw which the Company considers satisfactory given The principal risk factors that may be considered materials, such as bulk chemicals including a the need to retain high-quality management in relation to the Company are, in the opinion of number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, metal offset by the benefits of refreshing the team the Directors: cans etc are generally in adequate supply globally.
2007 saw around 40 The costs of these items fluctuate from time to Market risks promotions, 50 moves and fewer than 30 time but not at levels that seriously impinge on Demand for the Companys products may external recruits.
The Company ended the year the ability of the Company to supply its products be adversely affected by changes in with a historically low level of vacancies within or generate profit.
The Company is profitable, consumer preferences.
the T400 group of 12, or around 3% of the and cash generative, even after reinvesting in measured group.
Customers, mainly large retailers, may decide marketing, specifically media, at levels well above to fide-list the Companys brands, or not the industry average.
The Company therefore There is a comprehensive set of policies participate in the active promotion of the believes that its ability to reinvest in supporting governing employment and employees to brands through in-store programmes.
and building its brands is a significant ensure that the Company remains an attractive competitive advantage.
The Group is committed to the Competition may reduce the Companys principle of equal opportunity in employment: market shares and margins.
Supply constraints do exist in the Companys no applicant or employee receives less favourable supply chain from time to time.
These normally The expiry of the Companys exclusive licence treatment on the grounds of nationality, age, arise due to unexpected demand for new products for Suboxone in the United States in 2009 gender, religion or disability.
It is essential to or to the time delay involved in stepping up with the possibility that the Company will not the continued improvement in efficiency and production of new items to the levels required develop new forms that offer new intellectual productivity that each employee understands the to supply many millions of units internationally.
Companys strategies, policies and procedures.
The Companys supply chain is deliberately Open and regular communication with employees Competition from private label and unbranded relatively well spread in terms of geography at all levels is an essential part of the management products may intensify.
and technology such that the reliance on any process.
A continuing programme of training Operational risks one facility is minimised.
However there are a and development reinforces the Companys The Companys new product pipeline may number of facilities that remain critical to the commitment to employee involvement.
The not generate consumer-relevant innovation Companys supply chain where major interruption Board encourages employees to become and improvement to fuel growth and build to normal working could involve disruption to shareholders and to participate in the Companys market shares.
The Companys suppliers are similarly employee share ownership schemes.
deliberately well spread in terms of geography Key management may leave or management The Company relies on its brand names and and supplied items but there are nonetheless turnover may significantly increase.
All of the Companys some risks to continuity of supply arising from brand names are protected by nationally or Information technology systems may be some specialised suppliers both of raw materials internationally registered trademarks.
The disrupted or may fail, despite the Companys and of third party manufactured items.
Company also maintains patents or other disaster recovery processes, interfering with The supply of strong management for the protection for its significant product formulation the Companys ability to conduct its business.
Company remains more than adequate.
The Company Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal is attributable to the Companys culture and to aggressively monitors these protections and and regulatory environment could increase its highly performance-oriented remuneration pursues any apparent infringements.
costs or liabilities or limit business activities.
system which is based on paying for excellent RELATIONSHIPS AND PRINCIPAL RISKS performance.
The Company believes that Operating results may be affected by The Companys critical external relationships its ability to attract and retain the excellent increased costs or shortages of raw materials, are with its major customers, typically the large management it needs to continue its success labour or by disruption to production facilities grocery, mass market, multiple retailers, and its depends critically on this system.
suppliers of raw and packaging materials and The Company trains and develops its finished goods.
Unfavourable economic or business management pipeline through formal training conditions may adversely affect or disrupt The Companys customer base is diffuse with programmes focusing on three areas: leadership operations in countries in which the no single customer accounting for more than skills, functional skills and general skills, and Company operates.
10% of net revenues, and the top ten customers through a deliberate policy of training on the only accounting for between a quarter and a The Company may not be able to protect its job.
The Company has 12 formal training third of total net revenues.
These customers are intellectual property rights.
modules for middle management and Top 400 becoming more concentrated and more multimanagers.
During 2007 the Company ran 50 national, increasing demands on the Companys courses on these modules, training over 800 service levels.
In addition, many retailers people.
Management is international, and is compete with the Companys products with trained through rotation in international postings their own private label offerings.
The Company both in countries and in the Companys central maintains its relationship with its principal retail functions.
Succession planning is a critical customers through the efforts of its dedicated management discipline and is reviewed at sales force, including key account directors, and least annually at the full Board and the its global sales organisation specifically set up to Executive Committee.
6 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Environmental, social and governance risks PERFORMANCE OF THE BUSINESS IN 2007 GEOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS AT CONSTANT Another group of risks concern the reputation Net revenues grew by 7% 10% constant to EXCHANGE EXCLUDING EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS of the Company and its brands, but are reduced 5,269m.
The extra month of BHI in 2007 Europe 54% of net revenues by the fact that the Company and its brands contributed 1% to this growth rate.
are not necessarily connected in the mind The extra month of BHI in 2007 contributed Reported operating profit for the year rose of consumers.
1% to this growth rate while business disposals 35% 39% constant to 1,233m.
Risks from the perspective of Environmental, income was 39% 43% constant higher at Social and Governance ESG matters are 938m.
Basic EPS was 131.2p: diluted EPS was Growth was broad based across all five core discussed in the Report of the Directors.
127.9p, an increase of 39% on 2006. categories.
Fabric Care grew due to the success These should be read in conjunction with the of Vanish Oxi Action Multi and Vanish Oxi Action Adjusted operating profit increased 12% Companys Sustainability Report available on Crystal White, and Calgon Water Softener 15% constant to 1,190m.
Gross margin was the Companys website which addresses the following increased investment.
Surface Care 160bps ahead of last year at 58.3% due to Companys exposures to a number of growth benefited from the launch of Cillit Bang the benefit of price increases early in the year, reputation-affecting issues and how the Grease & Floor and from growth for Harpic favourable mix and cost optimisation.
Marketing Company is addressing such risks, and which Power Plus and Harpic Max In Toilet Bowl device investment was substantially higher, with media is independently verified.
In Automatic Dishwashing, investment increased by 14% constant to the key drivers were Finish Quantum, Finish In summary, the principal ESG risks identified 12.4% of net revenues, 50 bps ahead of 2006.
All in1 and Finish Turbo Dry.
In Home Care, Air by the Company are: Adjusted operating margins increased by 110bps Care growth was driven by continuing success to 22.6% due to the gross margin expansion Industry sector product & consumer safety for Air Wick Freshmatic.
In Health & Personal somewhat offset by higher marketing investment, risks.
The household products and health Care, growth came from the former BHI brands: and to the BHI synergies which have been & personal care sectors have a number Nurofen, Strepsils and Clearasil with all three achieved ahead of schedule.
of product and ingredient issues relating brands responding to increased marketing to concerns voiced over the long-term The exceptional profit net, pre-tax in 2007 was investment, and from Depilatories.
effects of household chemicals and OTC 43m compared to charges in 2006 of 149m.
Full year operating margins were 60bps ahead drug ingredients on human health and Cumulative synergies from the BHI acquisition of of last year at 24.2% due to higher gross the environment.
87m exceeded the increased target of 80m.
margins and BHI synergies, partially offset by Supply chain risks.
Most product and raw Net interest charges were 24m 2006 36m higher marketing investment to support new material supply chains present a number of reflecting the reduction in debt during the year.
This resulted in an 11% increase in potential reputational risks relating to: labour The tax rate is 22%, benefiting from the 20m operating profits to 681m.
standards: health, safety and environmental of one-off tax releases in the second quarter standards: raw material sourcing: and the of 2007. social, ethical and environmental performance Adjusted net income growth was 15% 18% of third party manufacturers and suppliers.
Adjusted, diluted EPS increased by Product quality & safety risks.
product quality controls could potentially lead With these results the Company achieved to damage to the reputation of and trust in the profit forecast set out on page 32 of the the Companys brands.
Prospectus issued by Reckitt Benckiser Group plc The Company has a full set of policies, building dated 11 September 2007, which stated that on its central Code of Business Conduct, that we will likely exceed our full year target of net address all aspects of the Companys ESG revenue growth of between 7% and 8% at behaviour.
The Code itself is the subject of an constant exchange base 4,922m and net annual review and certification process.
The income growth in the mid teens percentage Board holds an annual review of ESG issues.
Financial risks The Companys policies and procedures on the 2007 results excluding RB Pharmaceuticals management of financial risk are explained in In light of the increasing significance of the RB Pharmaceutical business, the Company provides detail below.
The Company has a number of risk the following information relating to the performance of the business in 2007 excluding exposures in relation to tax, treasury, financial RB Pharmaceuticals on an adjusted basis : controls and reporting that are actively managed RB ex Pharmaceuticals RB Pharmaceuticals Total RB through the Companys financial manual of policies and procedures, through regular reviews m % Const m % Const m % Const and controls, and through regular auditing, both Net revenues 5,058 9% 211 42% 5,269 10% internal and external.
Adjusted Operating Profit 1,072 13% 118 44% 1,190 15% Adjusted Operating Margin 21.2% 80bps 55.9% 90bps 22.6% 110bps Adjusted Net Income 830 16% 75 44% 905 18% Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 7 Business Review 2007 continued North America & Australia NAA 28% of CATEGORY REVIEW AT CONSTANT FINANCIAL REVIEW net revenues EXCHANGE RATES Constant exchange.
Movements of exchange 2007 net revenues increased 11% to 1,488m.
2007 net revenues increased rates relative to sterling affect actual results Within this, NAA Household grew 7%, NA Food 5% to 1,241m.
The major drivers were strong as reported.
The constant exchange rate grew 7% and NAA Pharmaceuticals grew 60%.
continuing growth for Vanish Oxi Action Multi basis adjusts comparatives to exclude such and Vanish Oxi Action Crystal White.
Calgon Full year growth in Household came particularly movements and shows the underlying growth.
Water Softeners grew as a result of higher from Surface Care, Automatic Dishwashing and marketing investment.
Woolite Garment Care Exceptional items.
Surface Care growth was driven benefited from the roll-out of Woolite Color and the term adjusted excludes the impact of by Lysol in NA and by Harpic in ANZ.
Excluding the private exceptional items.
Exceptional items in 2007 Dishwashing increased as a result of the label business, where the level of activity was consist of a net gain in respect of business continuing success of Electrasol 3in1 monodose reduced in the year, the branded business disposals and impairments of 73m offset by tablets.
In Home Care, Air Care growth came grew 8%.
Reported results from both Airwick Freshmatic and Airwick for 2007 therefore include a net exceptional Electrical Oils.
In Health & Personal Care, increased Surface Care.
Net revenues grew 8% to 951m gain of 43m pre-tax compared to a pre-tax net revenues came mainly from strong growth principally due to the launch of Cillit Bang charge of 149m in full year 2006. for Nurofen in ANZ behind higher investment.
Grease & Floor, and to strong growth for Lysol in North America and Veja in Brazil.
Net interest payable was 24m, Pharmaceuticals grew sales of Suboxone very Lavatory Care net revenues were also stronger a 33% decrease on 2006 36m due to strong strongly in the USA where the sales organisation due to the success of Harpic Power Plus and cash inflow in the period and a reduction in the has been substantially increased and helped by Harpic Max.
level of net debt during the year.
a regulatory change which allows doctors to take on more patients for this treatment.
Net revenues increased 5% to Tax.
The tax rate is 22% 2006 23%, 616m due to the success of Finish Quantum benefiting from a 20m one-off tax release in Food grew strongly due to the consumer brands and Finish All in1 in Europe and Electrasol 3in1 Q2 2006 19m release in Q4.
of Frenchs Yellow Mustard, Franks Red Hot tablets in North America.
Sauce and Frenchs Fried Onions.
Net revenues improved by 16% receivables and short-term liabilities excluding Full year operating margins were 130bps higher to 779m.
Air Care grew strongly due to the borrowings and provisions improved by 98m at 25.5% mainly due to mix benefit from the continuing success of Air Wick Freshmatic to minus 826m compared to the position high growth of Suboxone plus gross margin globally and strong growth for Air Wick Electrical at the end of 2006, mostly due to further expansion and BHI synergies resulting in profits Oils in North America.
Pest Control growth significant reductions in the BHI net increasing 16% to 379m.
benefited from a number of initiatives such working capital.
Excluding NAA Pharmaceuticals, operating as Mortein Lantern, Mortein with Dettol and Cash flow.
Operating cash flow was 975m margins were 20 bps lower at 21.2%.
2006 1,017m and net cash flow from Developing markets 18% of net revenues Health & Personal Care.
Net Net revenues for 2007 grew 15% to 968m increased 13% to 1,199m.
The extra month of interest paid was 6m lower at 24m 2006 with strong growth across all regions of Asia, BHI in 2007 contributed 5% to this growth rate 30m and tax payments increased by 51m Latin America and Africa Middle East.
The major while business disposals deducted 2%.
Capital expenditure contributors to growth were Fabric Care, was higher than prior year at 134m 2006 Dettol was significantly ahead in Developing Surface Care, Home Care and Health & Personal 88m due to one-off investment in healthcare Markets due to new personal care products Care.
In Fabric Care, the growth came from manufacturing.
Proceeds from the disposal of like Dettol Herbal soap and shower gel, and Fabric Treatment, mainly driven by initiatives Hermal were 260m.
on Vanish to increase category penetration.
Veet benefited from the launch of the new Net debt at the end of the year was 125m In Surface Care, the main drivers were Harpic Veet Pump Pack.
Power Plus lavatory cleaner, supported by higher This reflected net cash flow from operations of investment, and Veja in Brazil.
In Home Care, Healthcare, including the former business of 861m, receipts on the disposal of Hermal of the increase was in both Pest Control and Air BHI, contributed strongly to the growth in the 260m, offset by payment of the two dividends Care.
Mortein growth came from a number of year.
Net revenues from the former BHI business, 358m and share buy backs 300m.
new initiatives such as Mortein with Dettol, led by Nurofen, Strepsils and Clearasil, were while in Air Care the key driver was Air Wick 560m compared to 494m in the eleven Balance sheet.
At the end of 2007, the Group Freshmatic.
In Health & Personal Care, the Dettol months of ownership in 2006.
Like-for-like had shareholders funds of 2,385m 2006 personal care range grew strongly, benefiting growth in the former BHI business was 10%, 1,866m, an increase of 28%.
Net debt was from the Herbal range extension and additional mainly due to substantial growth for Strepsils, 125m 2006 660m and total capital employed investment, while in Healthcare both Strepsils, Nurofen and Clearasil.
due to higher investment, and Gaviscon, due to Pharmaceuticals.
Full year net revenues were This finances non-current assets of 4,426m geographical expansion, grew strongly.
211m, 42% ahead of 2006, driven by the 2006 4,421m of which 479m 2006 425m Full year operating margins expanded 230bps to growth of Suboxone in the USA following a is tangible fixed assets, the remainder being 13.4% as operating profits increased by 43% substantial increase in the sales organisation goodwill, other intangible assets, deferred tax to 130m.
and helped by a regulatory change that allows and other receivables.
The Company has doctors to take on more patients for this negative net working capital of 826m 2006 treatment.
Operating profit for 2007 was 728m, current provisions of 36m 2006 118m, up 44%.
47m and long-term liabilities other than borrowings of 1,054m 2006 1,120m.
Net revenues grew 7% to 191m with good performance across the consumer The Companys financial ratios remain strong.
portfolio, in particular further growth for Return on shareholders funds net income Frenchs Yellow Mustard, Frenchs Fried Onions divided by total shareholders funds was 39.3% and Franks Red Hot Sauce.
Operating profits 2006 36.1% on a reported basis or 37.9% increased 10% to 51m, with operating 2006 42.1% on an adjusted basis.
8 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 In October 2007 a Scheme of Arrangement was The Groups financing and financial risk Interest rate risk put in place to create additional distributable management activities are centralised into the The Group has both interest-bearing assets reserves whereby Reckitt Benckiser Group plc Group Treasury Centre GTC to achieve benefits and interest-bearing liabilities.
The Group was introduced as a new parent company.
The GTC manages financial manages its interest expense rate exposure consolidated financial statements of Reckitt exposures of the Group centrally in a manner using a mixture of fixed-rate and floating rate Benckiser Group plc are presented as if both consistent with underlying business risks.
The Group manages its interest rate Reckitt Benckiser plc and Reckitt Benckiser The GTC manages only those risks and flows exposure on its gross financial assets by using Group plc had always been part of the generated by the underlying commercial a combination of fixed rate term deposits and same Group.
operations and speculative transactions are forward rate agreements.
The Board of Directors recommends Credit risk a final dividend of 30.0p 2006 25.0p, an The Board of Directors reviews and agrees The Group has no significant concentrations of increase of 20%, to give a full year dividend of policies, guidelines and authority levels for all credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties 55.0p 2006 45.5p, an overall increase of 21%.
areas of treasury activity and individually approves are subject to approval under the Groups The dividend, if approved by shareholders at the significant activities.
The GTC operates under counterparty risk policy and such approval is AGM on 1 May 2008, will be paid on 29 May to close control of the Chief Financial Officer and is limited to financial institutions with a BBB rating shareholders on the register at the record date subject to periodic independent reviews and or better.
The amount of exposure to any of 29 February.
The ex-div date is 27 February audits, both internal and external.
individual counterparty is subject to a limit defined and the last date for election for the share within the counterparty risk policy, which is Foreign exchange risk alternative to the dividend is 7 May.
reassessed annually by the Board.
a Translation risk Share buy back.
During 2007, the Company The Group publishes its financial statements in Liquidity risk purchased 11.1m shares at a cost of 300m sterling but conducts business in many foreign The Group has bilateral credit facilities with as part of its ongoing share buy back currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign high-quality international banks.
In Q4, the Company purchased currency exchange risk due to the effects that facilities have similar or equivalent terms and 2.4m shares at a cost of 66m.
The Company exchange rate movements have on the conditions, and have a financial covenant, which has announced the continuation of its buy back translation of the results and the underlying is not expected to restrict the Groups future programme with a target spend of 300m net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
The committed borrowing facilities, in 2008. together with available uncommitted facilities The Groups policy is to align interest costs and central cash and investments, are considered Hermal disposal.
The Company announced and operating profit of its major currencies in sufficient to meet the Groups projected cash on 16 July that it had agreed to dispose order to provide some protection against the requirements, including the acquisition of of the Hermal prescription skincare business to translation exposure on foreign currency profits Adams Respiratory Therapeutics, Inc. Laboratorios Almirall S. A. for a consideration of after tax.
The Group may undertake borrowings 260m in cash.
The disposal was completed on and other hedging methods in the currencies Funds over and above those required for short- 31 August 2007.
Results for Hermal are included of the countries where most of its assets term working capital purposes by the overseas in full year as reported up to the date of disposal.
businesses are generally remitted to the GTC.
The gain on disposal has been reported as an The Group uses the remittances to settle b Transaction risk exceptional item in the 2007 income statement.
obligations, repay borrowings, or, in the event of It is the Groups policy to monitor and, only a surplus, invest in short-term instruments issued Adams acquisition.
The Company where appropriate, hedge its foreign currency by institutions with a BBB rating or better.
completed the acquisition of Adams Respiratory transaction exposure.
These transaction Therapeutics, Inc. on 30 January 2008 for a exposures arise mainly from foreign currency Capital management consideration of $60 per share or approximately receipts and payments for goods and services The Companys objectives for managing $2.3bn 1.1bn.
Results for the Adams business and from the remittances of foreign currency capital are to safeguard the Group's ability to will be included in the Companys results from dividends and loans.
The local business units continue as a going concern in order to provide the date of acquisition.
The Company enter into forward foreign exchange contracts returns for shareholders and benefits for other announced an exceptional charge of $60m, with the GTC to manage these exposures where stakeholders and to maintain an efficient capital or approximately 30m, to cover the necessary practical and allowed by local regulations.
The structure to optimise the cost of capital.
reorganisation associated with the integration GTC matches the Group exposures, and hedges In maintaining an appropriate capital structure of Adams into Reckitt Benckiser, to be recorded the net position where possible, using spot and and providing returns for shareholders, the post completion during 2008. forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
Company adopts a programme of returning cash Financial risk management Market price risk to shareholders through a combined dividend and The Groups multi-national operations expose The Group is not exposed to equity securities share buy back programme, current details of it to a variety of financial risks that include the price risk.
The Group is somewhat exposed to which are included in the Financial Review for effects of changes in foreign currency exchange commodity price risk, predominately through its the year, above.
rates foreign exchange risk, market prices, suppliers.
The Group has a policy of contracting The Group monitors net debt total borrowings interest rates, credit risks and liquidity.
The Group where possible with suppliers to reduce the less cash and cash equivalents.
Due to the low has in place a risk management programme that impact of short-term volatility of purchase prices.
level of net debt in the recent history of the uses foreign currency financial instruments, Company, the Company does not actively monitor including debt, and other instruments, to limit a gearing ratio, but seeks to pay down net debt the impact of these risks on the financial using cash generated by the business to maintain performance of the Group.
an appropriate level of financial flexibility.
Detail of numerical disclosures relating to the Groups financial risk management are included in note 23 to the Accounts on page 53.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 9 Business Review 2007 continued KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs that are most relevant to the Company and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2006 2007 Comments Net Revenue growth 7% 9% Measures the increase in sales of the Company % like-for-like growth of net revenues at constant exchange Power Brands 58% 61% Measures the growth and importance of the % of net revenue from top 18 brands Companys flagship brands Gross Margin % 56.7% 58.3% Measures the resources available for reinvestment gross profit as % of net revenues or profit growth Media Investment 11.9% 12.4% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the media investment as % of net revenues Companys brands Operating Margin % 21.5% 22.6% Measures the profitability of the Company Operating profit as % of net revenues EPS fully diluted 107.1p 123.4p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Company % change in EPS fully diluted 19% 15% Net Cash Flow m 953m 861m Measures how the Company converts its profits into cash See page 31 26% -10% Net Working Capital Ratio -728m -826m Measures the ability of the Company to finance defined as inventories, short-term receivables and its expansion and release cash from working capital short-term liabilities excluding borrowings and provisions as % of net revenue -14.8% -15.7% Management Turnover 9.2% 10.1% % of T400 management that has left the Company % of Net Revenues in No.
1 76% 77% Measures the health of the Companys or No.
2 Brand Positions brand market positions Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items.
COMPANY PROSPECTS The Company is targeting for another The Company believes it is well positioned to strong year in 2008 with net revenue growth continue to deliver on its strategic objective of from continuing operations, excluding profitable growth.
Adams, of around 6-7% continuing operations base 5,220m and for adjusted For the medium-term outlook, the Company ie.
excluding exceptional items net income targets to deliver above industry average growth growth of 10%, both at constant exchange.
in net revenues, converted into attractive growth in earnings, with increasing capital efficiency.
Cautionary note concerning forwardThe Company has confidence in its ability to looking statements continue to generate strong cash flow and to This document contains statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of Reckitt Benckiser return substantial cash to shareholders annually.
and certain of the plans and objectives of the Company with respect to these items.
These forward-looking statements are The unknown factor is the ability of the made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the United Company to enhance its prospects through States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations mergers and acquisitions.
The industries in and projections with respect to future matters, including trends which it competes are already characterised by in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability high levels of concentration, resulting in very of financing to the Company, anticipated cost savings or infrequent opportunities to buy worthwhile synergies and the completion of strategic transactions are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking assets or businesses.
The Company is of the statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to belief that add-on acquisitions, geographically events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the and by product category, could enhance the future.
There are a number of factors, discussed in this report, that could cause actual results and developments to differ business, but is not in a position to forecast if materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardand when such acquisitions might occur.
The looking statements, including many factors outside Reckitt Benckisers control.
Past performance cannot be relied upon Company retains substantial resources to fund as a guide to future performance.
such acquisitions and believes it has the management capability to absorb, integrate and manage such acquisitions within its existing structure.
10 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
