Business Review During the year, we continued to execute our strategy to focus Our strategy is set out on page 2.
In short, it is to on higher growth, higher margin segments and emerging markets.
generate profitable growth by strengthening our In June the Glass business was sold and the proceeds reinvested relationships with our customers, consolidating our in the acquisition of OI Plastics, a leading US manufacturer of rigid plastic healthcare packaging and plastic closures.
As a consequence position in chosen industries, segments and geographic of the acquisition, we have enriched our overall profile, shifting the markets and leading in operational excellence whilst emphasis further towards higher growth segments.
We invested in operating to the highest standards with regard to safety, a beverage can joint venture in Guatemala increasing our presence in the growing Central American market.
At the start of 2008 we the environment and our people.
This section looks at completed the acquisition of Rostar, a Russian beverage can maker.
It also looks at our markets This transaction gives us the leading position in the Russian beverage can market, which grew 12% in 2007 and is expected to continue and industry as well as the principal relationships and to grow at a similar rate for the foreseeable future.
risks that may affect our long term value or prospects.
We are in the middle of a significant capital investment cycle as 2007 was a difficult year for Rexam.
The reported profit figures we invest in new plants, additional lines and line conversions, mainly were disappointing but they mask great progress in a number of in Beverage Can, to meet market growth, details of which can be areas, which is helping Rexam to build a robust platform for future found on page 40.
Capital expenditure by continuing operations at profitable growth.
294m for the year was appreciably higher than historic levels, and investment will continue in the coming year as we look to crystallise For the twelve months to 31 December 2007, Rexam delivered the opportunities for organic growth.
good top line growth of 11%, reporting sales of 3,566m from ongoing operations and building on the momentum from last year.
Owing to this increase in capital expenditure, free cash flow Organic sales growth contributed 11% and acquisitions 5%, reduced generation was 24m, compared with 173m in 2006.
Net 5% by currency translation, mainly relating to the US dollar.
borrowings were 1.562bn with interest cover at 3.7 times.
Further details can be found on page 41 Balance sheet and borrowings.
Underlying operating profit from ongoing operations was 349m compared with 369m last year as restated for the sale of the Glass For continuing operations on a statutory basis, which includes the business in 2007.
Whilst we achieved price improvements, cost effect of acquisitions, disposed businesses and currency translation, reductions and better product mix, our business continued to be sales were 3,611m 2006: 3,301m and profit before tax was impacted by high aluminium costs 65m the 13m gain realised 260m 2006: 268m.
Total profit for the period, including profit in 2006 on the renegotiation of a metal supply contract could not from discontinued operations of 66m 2006: 28m, was 240m be repeated in 2007 : further weakening of the US dollar and US 2006: 223m and total basic earnings per share were 39.0p dollar related currencies 20m : start up issues at the new end 2006: 39.7p.
making plant in Manaus, Brazil 5m as well as a strike at nine of our US can making facilities in April and May 2007 13m.
Underlying profit before tax was 245m and underlying earnings per share were 28.0p compared with 264m and 35.6p respectively in 2006.
The price of aluminium remained high during 2007, spot prices averaging $2,664 per tonne 2006: $2,595, but going forward we have now practically eliminated our exposure to aluminium volatility which has been a major factor influencing our financial performance in recent years.
In the Americas we are largely unaffected by the cost of aluminium since changes are passed through to customers.
In Europe for 2008, we negotiated with a number of our large customers to adopt the pass through model such that some 50% of our European metal requirements are now on this basis.
We renegotiated about a third of our European contracts for 2008 supply at prices reflecting the higher input costs and put hedges in place for this metal.
The balance of the exposure is largely covered by existing hedges.
We remain confident that we will achieve further price increases as contracts come up for negotiation in 2009.
Leslie Van fide Walle Chief Executive Officer We continued to make good efficiency savings delivering 32m despite the sale of the Glass business.
Plastic Packaging accounted for almost half of that figure as its operations adopt and benefit from the Lean Six Sigma culture and extract the synergy opportunities afforded by recent acquisitions.
14 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Key Performance Indicators We measure the achievement of our objectives through a number of financial and non financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Measure Objective KPI Shareholder value Improve organic financial performance Sales growth Operating profit growth Earnings per share growth Free cash flow Dividend growth Growth by investment Capital expenditure Return on investment Operational excellence Operating profit margin Cost efficiencies and savings Safety Zero work related injuries Lost time accident rate performance Implementation of management systems Environment Manage environmental impact No uncontrolled or abnormal environmental releases Emissions per tonne of production To have certified Environmental Management Systems Number of certifications in all businesses 1 1 Shareholder value 2007 2006 2005 2 Sales m 3,611 3,301 2,806 2 Underlying operating profit m 354 375 371 2 Underlying operating profit margins % 9.8 11.4 13.2 2 Underlying earnings per share pence 28.0 35.6 34.8 Capital expenditure gross m 311 214 176 Free cash flow m 24 173 248 Ordinary dividends per share pence 20.0 19.0 18.12 Return on invested capital % 11.9 15.0 15.5 2 Annual cost efficiencies and savings m 32 28 29 1 Sales and underlying performance have been restated for the discontinuance of the Glass business 2 From continuing operations For progress on Safety and Environment KPIs, see pages 33 to 35 or visit the Rexam website, www.
com We are in the middle of a significant capital investment cycle as we invest in new plants, additional lines and line conversions and look to crystallise the opportunities for organic growth.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 15 Business Review Fifteen years ago Hornell Brewing, makers of Arizona Iced Tea, had an unknown brand, new to the market place.
They wanted to differentiate their product from the competition by doing something unique: introducing their beverage in a single serve 24oz can with bright graphics.
Pricing and the unique packaging caught consumer attention and helped the company become the US leader in the retail iced tea business.
To meet growing demand for this package across beverage categories such as energy drinks, beer and teas, Rexam has added extra 24oz capacity to our manufacturing plants.
16 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Beverage Cans In Europe, volumes grew 9% compared with last year.
We are the number 1 beverage can maker in Europe with more than 40% 2007 2006 market share.
We benefited from growth in a number of European Sales 2,686m 2,490m countries and the sustained growth of the energy drinks market whose Underlying operating profit 244m 289m packages of choice are the 25cl can and, increasingly, the Rexam Return on sales 9.1% 11.6% Sleek can.
Capacity utilisation remained very high at all our European beverage can plants and we succeeded in gaining Beverage Cans is a global business that operates on a regional significant price increases on the open contracts in Europe.
basis North America, South America and Europe & Asia.
This structure enables us to remain flexible and responsive to customer In 2006, due to the high utilisation rates and prospects of further and market needs.
Within these regions, however, the business growth, we embarked on a growth capital expenditure programme is highly centralised and managed on a lean basis for cost control.
to ensure that we would continue to provide customers with the The regional businesses are also connected globally to ensure that level of service needed to meet market demand.
In 2007, we we leverage effectively areas such as supply chain, engineering, inaugurated a greenfield can making plant in Austria.
This plant innovation, R&D activities and marketing intelligence.
is dedicated to specialty cans for Red Bull, the worlds number 1 energy drinks brand, and was our first new can making facility in Beverage Cans is a high speed, high precision business, built on Europe for almost 10 years.
It was completed ahead of schedule a bedrock of operational excellence.
Manufacturing and engineering and on budget which speaks volumes for the engineering expertise expertise, cost reduction and best practice sharing, based on Lean within Rexam and the excellence of the project team as a whole.
and Six Sigma activities and world class customer service all form The continued growth of the energy drinks market has led to us part of this foundation.
adding a third line in the new plant in Austria, which will be fully Overlaying this, there are two organic growth strategies.
First is operational by late 2008.
We are installing additional steel ensuring that we are positioned to capture growth in both developed beverage can lines to meet local market growth in Spain and in and emerging markets the latter representing 22% of our global Egypt which are expected to come on stream in the second quarter beverage can sales.
This includes the conversion of lines, the of 2008.
Each will supply an additional 600m cans pa to their installation of new lines and greenfield plants.
It also includes forming respective markets.
alliances with local partners, as was the case with the joint ventures In October we announced the construction of a new aluminium in India in 2006 and in Guatemala in 2007. beverage can plant in Denmark.
The facility, the first beverage can The second element is the development of new and innovative plant in Denmark, will initially have a capacity of just over 1bn 33cl beverage can products.
In recent years we have focused on and 50cl cans.
It is expected to be operational during the first half understanding consumer needs and market trends to see how of 2009.
The new plant will support market needs, and its location different can sizes, shapes, closure options and graphic finishes is expected to help optimise logistics costs associated with the supply uniquely support brand owners desire for differentiation and brand of beverage cans to the Northern European market.
We have initiated a shift from standard 33cl and 50cl This year, 2008, marks the tenth anniversary of our arrival in the products to a wider variety of specialty cans, where demand is Russian beverage can market.
During this period we have been growing more quickly.
This enables us to capture growth at higher instrumental in developing that market in tandem with our customers margin in certain beverage categories that might have been forfeited and suppliers.
Beverage cans only account for less than 20% of the to other types of packaging in the past.
The successful introduction Russian beverage pack mix for beer, carbonated soft drinks CSD of the one litre beer can in Russia is a typical example of this.
Today, and energy drinks, compared with 27% in Western Europe, and specialty cans account for 17% of our overall beverage can volumes represent a clear growth opportunity.
The beverage can market in Russia continued its growth in 2007 During 2007, we stepped up the implementation of both these increasing by 12%.
The construction of the new plant in Argayash elements of our growth strategy.
Strong demand in Europe and South in the Urals is proceeding according to plan and is expected to come America was offset by a weaker market performance in standard size on stream in the first half of 2008.
At the start of 2008 we acquired cans in North America.
Margins were lower than last year, mainly Rostar, the Russian beverage can maker for 149m.
The transaction owing to continuing high aluminium prices and the costs associated is expected to both cover Rexams cost of capital and be earnings with the US strike.
They recovered in the second half of the year and enhancing in 2008.
We also announced that we had plans to build we remain confident that they will continue to progress in 2008 and a new plant in Novosibirsk south west Siberia in due course to meet beyond as volumes grow and product mix and pricing improve.
market growth in and around that region.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 17 Business Review Ludesch in Austria is Rexams first new beverage can plant for a decade.
It is dedicated to cans for Red Bull, the worlds number 1 energy drink.
The plant was opened on time, on schedule and is producing cans ahead of expectations testimony to the engineering skills of Rexam.
It stands wall to wall with the fillers plant, reducing road transport and congestion as well as carbon emissions and fuel costs.
Ludesch marks another milestone in a long and close relationship with Red Bull which has generated profitable growth for all parties.
New applications such as wine in cans are helping to drive profitable growth in the beverage can business.
Beverage cans are lightweight, compact and easy to chill, and research has shown that the can keeps sparkling wine perfectly fresh, ideal for drinking at parties or outdoor occasions.
Single serve sizes are increasingly popular across many categories to accommodate the active lifestyles of todays consumers, and the 20cl can has now become synonymous with the wine category.
18 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Rostar has two manufacturing facilities: one near Moscow and one Following the resolution of the strike, we signed a labour agreement near St Petersburg with a combined capacity of around 3bn beverage with the United Steel Workers to the satisfaction of all parties, which cans.
Clearance of the acquisition was conditional on certain puts us in a good competitive position for the next five years.
At the undertakings given to the Russian Federal Antimonopoly Service onset of the strike, contingency plans were quickly put into action including a 15% cap on annual price increases over the next ten years to secure production and meet our customer commitments.
Working other than in exceptional circumstances and continued investment in closely with our customers, we managed the situation well in the Russia.
The acquisition, along with the new plants and the investment circumstances and maintained our delivery promises, which is in new lines at our existing plant, positions us well in a market that testament to the strength of our customer relationships as well as is expected to grow at around 8% pa in the medium term.
the dedication and attitude of the management team and employees in the US.
In the Asia Pacific market, we increased our management focus to explore further opportunities for profitable growth in this key emerging The North American beverage can making operation continued region where the market is growing at more than 15% pa. We to leverage its operational excellence.
It reported another strong year already have a beverage can making plant in China and a joint in cost performance but this was not enough to counteract the effect venture in South Korea.
Our joint venture in India produced the first of lower volumes, the strike or the impact of the foreign exchange ever two piece beverage cans in India and we are increasing the translation of the US dollar.
capacity of the plant to meet the demands of this small but In Guatemala, we announced the formation of a 50 50 joint developing market, which grew by 50% in 2007 to 200m cans.
venture with Envases Universales to invest in a greenfield plant, Whereas in Europe we manage our beverage can business for whose capacity is already being expanded to 1bn cans.
We have growth, market conditions in North America mean that we are a beverage can making plant in Queretaro, Mexico, and this new repositioning the business for margin improvement.
In 2007, the joint venture will strengthen our presence in the Central American North American market volumes of 12oz beverage cans for soft market which is growing at a rate of about 6% pa. drinks declined 4% compared with last year.
The market decline In South America, the Rexam beverage can business enjoyed another reflects the maturity of the US market as well as a move towards year of strong top line growth.
Volumes increased 15% compared revenue rather than volume management by the big brand owners with last year, driven by economic growth and stability, the suitability who increased their prices to consumers during the year.
Our own of the can to the market conditions in South America, as well as 12oz volumes declined 9% largely owing to the impact of a strike further growth in specialty cans in Brazil.
at nine of our can making plants and a drop in production capacity as we converted 12oz lines to specialty sizes.
Like its counterparts in Europe and North America, the beverage can business in Brazil is operated from a solid base of manufacturing The 12oz market is mature and still represents a major part of our excellence.
A number of the plants are considered world class in North American volumes.
While we remain dedicated to managing terms of operational efficiency and spoilage and many of the best this part of the business and serving our customers needs, during practices that are shared across the beverage can global 2007 we continued to realign our business to take advantage of the organisation originate in Brazil.
We converted a number of 12oz lines, added a new line for higher growth, higher margin specialty sizes and During 2007, the previously mothballed plant in Jacarei, Brazil, was initiated further optimisation projects on our 24oz lines.
We also recommissioned to help meet market growth in specialty cans.
A new secured a strategically important long term supply contract with one can end plant in Manaus, in the Amazonas region, was completed of the main users of 24oz cans for non alcoholic beverages.
Our and, although there was a delay in the start up which affected specialty cans now account for 14% of our volumes in the US and production, the plant is now operating in line with expectations.
grew 19% compared with last year.
Underlying operating profit was impacted by 5m due to the shortage of supply from the Manaus can end making plant.
In addition, the strengthening of the Brazilian real put pressure on our cost structure relative to our pricing structure in Brazil, which is US dollar based.
In 2007 Rexam introduced its Fusion aluminium bottle.
It represents a unique opportunity for customers to differentiate their brands.
It not only showcases Rexams engineering excellence but its ability to add value.
Thanks to Rexam Fusions resealability, consumers will appreciate an improvement in their drinking experience.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 19 Business Review The Airless SkinCare packaging developed with LOral Paris for its Derma Gense Skin Genesis products is an example of Rexams innovation and technology translating into profitable growth.
The new packaging combines the aesthetic appeal required by world leading brands with cutting edge technology to deliver superior value and shelf stand out.
The total packaging project was delivered to plan by a joint group comprising Rexam development teams across the world.
Thanks to its global manufacturing footprint, Rexam was also able to meet the customers need for worldwide production and support.
20 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Plastic Packaging We see significant opportunities to create additional value from incremental growth through OI Plastics technology and innovation 2007 2006 capability which complement our own efforts in this area.
For Sales 880m 709m example, more than 75% of OI Plastics closures are based on Underlying operating profit 105m 80m proprietary designs, and a third of closures sales are from products Return on sales 11.9% 11.3% developed in the last three years.
Plastic Packaging in Rexam has undergone fundamental change Plastic Packaging now has leading positions in three important in the past two years transforming itself from an essentially European growth segments.
Our strategy is based on leadership, global business with sales of 0.5bn into a truly global one with an capabilities, innovation, pricing and operational excellence.
In 2007 ongoing turnover in excess of 1.1bn.
The high point in this process sales were up 24% on last year with organic growth contributing 4% of change was the acquisition in August of OI Plastics.
It gives Plastic and acquisitions 25%.
These were offset by a 5% negative effect of Packaging meaningful scale and critical mass turning Rexam into a currency translation.
Underlying operating profit was up 31%, global leader in rigid plastic packaging.
Following the acquisition, benefiting 7% from organic growth and 30% from acquisitions, offset Plastic Packaging was restructured to create a portfolio of three world by 6% on currency translation.
Margins continued to improve and class customer facing divisions of broadly similar size in revenue were up on 2006.
They will progress further as a result of top line terms: Healthcare, Closures and Personal Care.
These three divisions growth, our focus on innovation and continuous efficiencies and as have a broad range of products and served markets and our long the synergies from the OI Plastics acquisition start to come through.
term aim with this portfolio is to deliver overall annual organic sales Organic growth, which excludes the impact of OI Plastics, was growth of some 4 to 6% and to expand margins consistently.
driven by good overall sales in Personal Care which grew 5% mainly The OI Plastics acquisition provides us with leading positions in as a result of a good performance by Dispensing Systems in growth markets in the US.
It also opened up further growth potential fragrance and lotion pumps.
Make Up turned around and improved through cross selling due to complementary customer bases and its profitability following a restructuring programme that included a through the expansion of what is an essentially US focused business.
head count reduction of 1,000 and plant rationalisation in China An example of this is our plans for the Chinese market, where we and Europe.
These good performances were tempered by lower originally set up to manufacture cost competitive products, mainly volumes from some key Home & Personal Care customers.
The Make Up packaging, for export to the West, and currently have five Pharma business delivered 8% sales growth owing to good market major manufacturing sites.
With our enhanced capability, we can growth and improved product mix.
Results were held back by some now transform this Chinese business into one that can manufacture price reductions on some long term contracts as well as the one off our whole portfolio of plastic packaging products to serve global impact of a manufacturing issue with one of our pharmaceutical and local customers.
Sales in Rexams Closures were down 2% reflecting lower demand from key customers in particular, and from closures users in At the time of the OI Plastics acquisition, we anticipated that we North America in general, but profit and margins increased.
In High would generate significant value through synergies amounting to Barrier Food, overall sales dropped 2% as continued strong growth approximately 20m pa by 2010.
The synergies are expected to in the US was offset by a decline in the UK where high barrier food come from purchasing, manufacturing and other efficiencies as well containers have not yet compensated for the strategic exit of thin wall as cross selling opportunities.
The integration process, led by a containers.
Profits and margins for Food held up well, however, and dedicated team comprising Rexam and former OI Plastics people, were ahead of last year buoyed by another good performance from is moving ahead according to plan.
Since completion, we have the US business, which delivered on a consistently strong track record.
identified further synergy potential and now expect that figure to reach 25m pa by 2010.
The new scale and structure have enabled us to consolidate certain activities and functions at the Plastic Packaging sector level in order to create further efficiency across the global operations.
As in Beverage Cans, this includes traditional functions such as human resources and finance, as well as global manufacturing, supply chain, technology and innovation.
We now have greater flexibility to optimise manufacturing capabilities and the way in which we utilise our operations.
This manifested itself in North Following the acquisition of OI Plastics, Plastic America with the announcement of our intention to close two plants.
Packaging was restructured to create a portfolio of three We also divested a plant in Holland transferring production to our world class customer facing divisions of broadly similar new plant in Poland.
Rexam Plastic Packaging Plastic Packaging Healthcare Closures Personal Care Pharma Beverage Dispensing Systems Primary Packaging Specialty Make Up Prescription High Barrier Food Home & Personal Care Rexam Annual Report 2007 21 Business Review Overall, Plastic Packaging delivered organic sales growth of 4%.
The business is split mainly between Europe and the US but it also has plants in Mexico, Puerto Rico and India.
It manufactures During the five months of ownership, sales, profits and cash mainly drug delivery devices and various types of primary and generation of the former OI businesses were all in line with our prescription containers.
In the US, it is market leader in packaging expectation at the time of the acquisition.
Customers include top pharmaceutical Resin is a major input cost in Plastic Packaging.
We use two main companies such as Abbott, Eli Lilly, GSK, Hospira, McNeil, Pfizer types of resin: polypropylene and HDPE.
More than 80% of sales and Schering Plough as well as pharmacies and retailers.
Its main contracts are on a pass through basis but with resin costs now attributes include engineering and manufacturing expertise, strong representing an ever increasing part of our cost base owing to the technology and patent protection as well as a complete solutions growth of Plastic Packaging, we are examining ways to manage the offering.
The Healthcare market is growing currently at 6 to 8% pa remaining 20% more effectively either by further consolidating resin driven by an ageing population, an increased focus on well being suppliers, renegotiating outstanding contracts to a pass through basis and economic growth in emerging markets.
or using forward contracts or other such mechanisms.
Closures is made up of Rexams Closures and Containers and High The following section describes the characteristics of the three Barrier Food, and the Closures business acquired with OI Plastics.
The two Closures businesses account for 80% of the sales, with margins for the division as a whole in line with the average for Personal Care comprises Make Up, Dispensing Systems and Home the portfolio.
Products include closures for home, health, food and & Personal Care, each accounting for approximately one third of beverage applications, tamper evident and child resistant closures, divisional sales and, as a whole, currently delivering margins slightly as well as high barrier food containers and lids.
It is a predominantly below the average level of the portfolio.
Personal Care is a global US based business whose customers include Campbells, Clorox, business with manufacturing bases in Europe, the US, China and Coca-Cola, Nestl, Novartis, PepsiCo and P&G.
Its strengths lie in Brazil.
It also has the added advantage of having its own mould its proprietary moulding technologies and a consistent track record making facility.
It makes a range of largely custom manufactured of innovation.
The closures market is currently growing at 3 to 4% pa products including lipstick cases, compacts, samplers, fragrance and while the high barrier food container market is growing at more than lotion pumps, non aerosol foam dispensing systems, deodorant sticks 20% pa. and shaving trays.
Customers include such global players as Avon, Colgate-Palmolive, Este Lauder, LOral, LVMH, Mary Kay, P&G Although the focus is very firmly fixed on the integration of the and Unilever, all attracted by our strong innovation record, global predominantly US based OI Plastics business, we continue our footprint and capability to provide complete packaging solutions.
strategy to expand our emerging markets position.
The OI Plastics The Personal Care market is currently growing at around 2 to 3% pa. acquisition increased our presence in Brazil, where we already have a plant, and opened up new opportunities in Mexico.
It also gave us Healthcare now has three sub divisions: Rexams Pharma, together a foothold in Singapore and Malaysia.
Several of our Personal Care with Primary Packaging and Prescription Products acquired with OI customers are now looking at relocating their own production from Plastics.
Each contributes about one third to total Healthcare sales Asia back to Central and Eastern Europe, which is expected to open and, overall, margins are substantially above average for our up opportunities for us to utilise our existing Plastic Packaging plant in Poland, as well as our Group footprint in that part of the world.
Rexam successfully brought together its different areas of global expertise to supply Dior with a full package for the launch of Dior Addict Ultra-Gloss Reflect in the line of Addict fide Dior Lip glosses.
The resultant Addict Ultra-Gloss Reflect case is an innovation in high tech and high fashion.
It showcases Rexams exclusive know how in injection technology in accommodating different thicknesses, as well as its custom high quality assembly and surface treatment with patented Metareflect metallisation.
22 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Plastic Packagings strategy is based on leadership, global capabilities, innovation, pricing and operational excellence.
Rexams RFID radio frequency identification containers The acquisition of OI Plastics, a leading US provide peace of mind.
As the concern for counterfeit manufacturer of rigid plastic healthcare packaging pharmaceuticals increases, Rexam offers its customers a and plastic closures, gave us meaningful scale in total package solution with track and trace features from Plastic Packaging and additional growth opportunities.
the manufacturer through the fill line to the consumer.
We have enriched the overall quality of our business The RFID chip is neatly embedded in the base of the profile, shifting the emphasis further towards higher bottle to maintain product integrity.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 23 Business Review Market and industry characteristics Packaging is a dynamic industry which is having to evolve In 2007, the global market for consumer packaging was estimated continually to meet new trends and changing consumer demands to be worth US$450bn and grew in value by almost 5% compared and to accommodate shifting lifestyles, demographics and consumer with the previous year.
Growth was especially pronounced in the habits.
For example, the trend towards single households in many BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and China economies, reflecting their Western European countries brings with it the need for simpler, single rapid development and increasing importance as global serve, rather than family size packages.
be a strong driver for packaging development as busier lifestyles and a new generation of on the go consumers change the way we eat, Growth in consumer packaging tends to follow at least GDP drink and live.
The average age of the population is increasing in development.
On a global basis, consumer packaging market developed countries giving rise to challenges such as ease of growth is expected to be between 3% and 5% in the foreseeable opening and legibility of labels.
Environmental concerns have led future, although individual segments and regions, such as Asia, to growing consumer interest in packaging materials and their Eastern Europe and South America, are expected to display higher recyclability.
As a consequence, the industry is focusing even harder growth rates.
on innovation in both materials and design.
The infinite recyclability Food is the largest end use market accounting for half of all global of the aluminium can makes it a particularly strong packaging packaging sales, with beverage packaging a sizeable second.
material from an environmental viewpoint.
In plastics, non resin The healthcare and cosmetics packaging markets are also of based materials or more readily recyclable resin grades are being a significant size and importance.
In terms of end use markets, used to meet the demands from brand owners and end users alike.
healthcare was the fastest growing category globally, driven by the Product premiumisation is another trend as brands fight to increased purchasing power of ageing populations and a greater differentiate themselves and catch the eye of consumers.
Packaging focus on well being.
is often a first point of contact for the customer.
Thanks to its almost limitless ability for variation of shape, size and finish, packaging From a materials perspective, plastic represents close to 40% of has become a vital weapon in a producers armoury to promote its world packaging and is growing faster than any other packaging brands.
The examples are numerous: all of them underpin the growth material.
Its growth is mainly attributable to advances in material prospects for the consumer packaging industry.
properties which have led to a substitution of packages in other materials predominantly glass and the development of new The following section examines more closely the two major markets applications.
Metal as a packaging material is performing strongly in which Rexam operates.
in beverage applications in line with increased consumption of packaged soft drinks and beer.
Consumer packaging is generally regarded as relatively insensitive to economic cycles as people tend to consume the same amount of food and beverages in good times as in bad and, although the type and price of products chosen by consumers may vary, there will invariably be a need for packaging to transport and maintain the integrity of these products.
Consumer packaging market by material 2007 % Consumer packaging market growth by material 2007 % Rigid plastics Paper and board 30% Beverage cans Rigid plastics 24% Flexible plastics Flexible plastics 15% Paper & board Other metal 13% Glass Glass 8% Other metal Beverage cans 5% Others Others 5% 012 345678 2007-2012 CAGR: 4% Source: PIRA 2005, PIRA 2007 and Rexam estimates excludes industrial bulk Source: PIRA 2005, PIRA 2007 and Rexam estimates excludes industrial bulk Consumer packaging market growth by end use 2007 % Consumer packaging market growth by geographic region 2007 % South America Healthcare Rest of World Cosmetics Asia Food Europe Home other North America Beverages 012 345678 012 345678 2007-2012 CAGR: 4% Source: PIRA 2007 excludes industrial bulk 2007-2012 CAGR: 4% Source: PIRA 2007 excludes industrial bulk 24 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Beverage cans Plastic packaging Beverage cans are a popular form of beverage packaging among Plastic is the most common material used for consumer packaging.
consumers because they are light, easy to buy, quick to chill and It is also the fastest growing, having grown in the region of 6% pa protect their contents effectively.
Beverage producers favour them in recent years.
Customers appreciate plastic because it is light and because they are quick and efficient to fill, easy to transport and easy to shape.
There are a variety of plastic grades with a range store, and maintain product integrity.
Their appeal has been of properties such as high barrier, microwaveability, good impact enhanced by different shapes and sizes, higher quality graphics strength and more.
Plastics are also recyclable, where facilities exist, and finishes and improved convenience features such as resealability.
and biodegradable plastics are becoming more common, although Added to all this, beverage cans are fully recyclable and, with limited availability, high prices and performance limitations are widespread recycling facilities, meet growing consumer demand currently inhibiting growth.
Today approximately 45% Plastic packaging represents a large and diversified market of the unit pack mix for CSD and around 30% for beers is made currently estimated to be worth about US$180bn globally.
Rexam up of beverage cans.
concentrates predominantly on rigid plastic packaging which accounts Beverage can making is a capital intensive business where profit for about US$110bn of that total market value.
Within rigid plastics is dependent on the high utilisation of installed plant capacity.
Rexam we mainly focus on packaging for beauty and personal care works continually to achieve and maintain high levels of utilisation products, pharmaceuticals, food and beverages, and household at its plants.
Optimum capacity is around 95% which allows for full products.
The segments in which we operate are technologically utilisation of assets whilst allowing for sufficient maintenance advanced and have significant intellectual property associated downtime and peak demand periods.
with many of the products.
The beverage can industry is a well consolidated, global industry The rigid plastic packaging market remains highly fragmented with sales in the region of US$20bn.
Rexam is the leading player with the top ten manufacturers accounting for just 16% of the market.
producing just under a quarter of the approximately 230bn beverage Overall the market is growing at more than 5% pa, and remains cans currently made globally each year.
We operate predominantly the fastest growing segment within plastic packaging.
in the US, South America and Europe.
There are four players in the Within rigid plastics, there are various subsegments all displaying US and three significant ones in South America and Europe.
The demand for rigid pharmaceutical market share in these regions is 22%, 68% and 45% respectively.
packaging is expected to grow at 6% pa although the demand for The overall global beverage can market, which is made up of some products such as dry powder inhalation devices is expected largely standard 12oz 33cl cans, is growing at a rate of nearly to experience double digit growth.
Industry estimates put growth 5% pa in terms of value.
In the markets in which we operate, growth in the global beauty and personal care packaging market in the in non standard sizes, such as those for energy drinks or larger cans foreseeable future at 2 to 3% pa, whilst the plastic closures market for beers or iced teas is significantly higher but from a lower base.
will grow at 3 to 4% pa with closures for sports beverages expected Recent developments include cans with resealable closures and to grow at a higher rate.
the aluminium bottle, further enhancing the appeal of metal beverage packaging.
With the development of new plastics, new applications and a mixture of standard and highly customised products, the plastic packaging market shows a high degree of both product and process innovation, a trend expected to continue going forward.
As an industry leader, we constantly seek to understand the dynamics that are shaping markets so that we can deliver the innovative packaging our customers need and want.
In 2007 we published our latest Consumer Packaging Report which collates and shares our insight and knowledge of global consumer trends, key growth drivers, market statistics and more.
Copies can be downloaded from our website.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 25 Business Review Russian brewing giant Baltikas supersize 1 litre King Can towers above the competition, literally.
It was conceived to meet local needs for a large size packaging without compromising Baltikas leading brand status.
The new size has been an unqualified success for Baltika.
It is another example of our ability to provide value adding solutions and reaffirms our commitment to lead the industry in innovation.
26 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Relationships and risks Following the acquisition of OI Plastics, Rexam Supply Chain teams Relationships have focused efforts on the integration of the new businesses and Rexams critical external relationships are with its major customers, on positioning ourselves so that we can ensure that our business which are typically large global or regional brand owners, and relationships with strategic suppliers deliver maximum value.
its suppliers of raw materials, mainly aluminium and resin.
On 1 June 2007, REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals, a new framework for regulation of chemicals The vast majority of our sales are made to large multinational in Europe, came into force.
It requires industry to register materials consumer products companies who are growing their businesses and substances that are manufactured, imported or used in Europe.
These customers are becoming increasingly With most of the materials used in our products, the responsibility consolidated which puts increasing demands on the Groups service for registration lies with suppliers.
Rexam has established an internal levels.
At the same time, they continue to rationalise their supplier steering group to ensure that its products and materials remain base and look to align themselves with global partners who compliant and we will continue to work closely with our suppliers understand the scale and nature of their business, and who can as REACH is implemented.
supply their needs on a local level.
Following the acquisition of OI Plastics and Rostar, Rexam is now number 2 global consumer Risks packaging company.
There are many risks facing a global company such as Rexam: Our customers are invariably world class organisations.
They require market, operational, environmental, social and governance, as well us to support their growth plans in established and emerging markets, as financial.
Our challenge is to identify those risks that are most with investment in plants or capacity or through acquisition, and to relevant and develop appropriate methods to avoid or mitigate them.
deliver consistency in terms of technological capability, service and An overview of Rexams process for managing and reporting risks quality.
They expect us to be proactive in contributing to innovative is covered on page 50 Internal Control in the Corporate solutions to their changing packaging needs and in driving costs Governance Report.
In this respect everyone in the Rexam Rexam has traditionally been considered a defensive type of organisation shares in the responsibility to maintain relationships with company in shareholder terms but, with the high level of capital our customers: from the sales force, through global account managers, investment in the last two years, that profile is beginning to change.
technical and engineering staff and quality controllers to those We have upgraded our portfolio to higher growth segments and involved in the day to day manufacture of the products.
expanded the geographies in which we operate.
In 2007 alone, Rexam increased its presence in emerging markets with new plants Our customer base is highly concentrated.
As a Group, our top ten or lines and acquisitions in countries such as Brazil, Egypt, customers account for 58% of our annual sales following the Guatemala, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia and Singapore.
In Beverage Cans, our markets are dominated Whilst a diversified product portfolio can help mitigate risk, the by a few key customers with the top ten accounting for 78% of sales.
higher growth potential in emerging markets is associated with The equivalent figure for Plastic Packaging is 35%.
Of the remaining greater risks in terms of political and economic stability compared customers, none accounts for more than 1.4% of our sales.
with more established and mature economies.
These risks, as with Rexam uses more than 25,000 suppliers globally.
We have strong all other risks, are always assessed in detail by directors and senior strategic relationships with the major aluminium producers and resin management when considering investment opportunities and setting companies.
The procurement of these primary raw materials, as well financial policies and procedures.
as energy, is coordinated across the businesses for efficiency and economies of scale.
These raw materials are considered to be in The principal risk factors and the way we aim to manage them are adequate supply globally.
As we look forward, our aim is to ensure that we drive performance improvement and value within the supply chain applying both strategic procurement and Lean Enterprise tools.
In 2008, we will be seeking to use existing Supplier Relationship Management programmes to practically set targets for Quality, Supply, Cost and Innovation, define improvement plans and work with our strategic suppliers to deliver those targets.
Top 10 consumer packaging companies by 2007 sales US$bn Top 10 customers account for 58% of Rexam sales Anheuser-Busch Tetra Pak Rexam Cadbury Schweppes Crown Carlsberg O-I Glass only Coca-Cola Ball Alcan now Rio Tinto Heineken 58% Amcor InBev Toyo Seikan PepsiCo St Gobain Alcoa Procter & Gamble 0 2468 10 Red Bull Source: Company annual accounts and Rexam estimates SABMiller The figures are proforma, which for Rexam includes its 2007 acquisitions Rexam Annual Report 2007 27 Business Review Beverage can making is a capital intensive business.
Profit is dependent on high utilisation of installed plant capacity.
Rexam works continually to achieve high levels of utilisation at its plants.
Optimum capacity is around 95% which allows for full utilisation of assets whilst allowing for sufficient maintenance downtime and peak demand periods.
Rexam is not just a business partner to some of the worlds most famous and successful consumer brands.
We are equally keen to partner rising stars such as Go Girl energy drink which has become a hit with female consumers in the US in recent years.
Available in Rexam 12oz Sleek cans, the category defining size, Go Girl is a premium energy drink formulated for and marketed directly to females.
Sporting a distinctive pink package design, the brand not only stands out from the competition, but also supports a worthy cause in the process, with Go Girl donating a portion of all proceeds from the sale of its products to breast cancer research.
28 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Dependency on key customers Competition may reduce market share and margins Loss of sales volumes from key customers would adversely impact Rexam operates in competitive markets.
In most of these markets our business.
Many of our largest customers have traded and, in Rexam is either the leader or one of the top three players.
In Beverage some cases, grown with us for many years, during which time we Cans, for example, we are the worlds number 1 manufacturer, and have built up a strong interdependency and sense of partnership.
in Plastic Packaging we hold leading global or regional positions in Relationships are often beyond the pure procurement level and the majority of our markets.
Aggressive pricing from our competitors extend far into the supply chain.
This not only helps drive out costs may cause a reduction in our sales and margins.
To minimise this to the benefit of both Rexam and its customers, it also increases the risk, we aim to build long term relationships with our customers with likelihood of retaining customers, always provided that we are the aim of becoming an integral part of their supply chain and supplying the quality of product required at a competitive price.
helping to drive out costs.
We also ensure that we are the supplier Our proprietary online ordering system for beverage cans in North of choice by focusing on innovation for our customers and maintaining America is one example of how we can cement and deepen our the highest standard of operational excellence to achieve lowest cost relationships with customers.
Another is the completion in 2007 manufacturer status.
of the wall to wall beverage can plant at Ludesch in Austria to Changes in consumer lifestyle, nutritional preferences and health serve Red Bull.
related concerns National political and economic stability The majority of our sales are generated by packaging for products Rexam is a global company operating in countries and regions such as carbonated soft drinks and alcoholic beverages.
Any far with diverse economic and political conditions and sensitivities.
The reaching consumer shift away from these product types as a result degree of diversity is increasing as we expand our operations into of lifestyle, nutrition and health considerations, or even legislation, new geographies.
Our operations and earnings may be adversely could have a significant impact on our customers and hence our affected by political or economic instability and unrest, including business.
Whilst it is difficult to fully plan for this change, we monitor civil unrest, wars, international conflicts, financial crisis, greater and market and consumer trends as well as political developments through tighter government regulation on cross border trading, production, our own and external business intelligence services and through our pricing and environmental regulation.
We remain vigilant to these involvement in national and international packaging associations in risks.
We take external advice on such matters and consider the the countries and regions where we operate.
Even if a change were risks when determining whether or not to do business in countries to occur, it is clear that consumers will still need and want beverages or regions which are recognised as unstable.
New categories of drink would most likely replace any void, and beverage cans are inherently an important part of Supply of faulty or contaminated products a customers pack mix.
The rise of the energy drink segment and, Rexams reputation as a business partner relies heavily on its ability more recently, nutritional drinks and iced teas are examples of to supply quality products on time and in full.
of not being able to do so, owing to accidental or malicious raw material contamination or due to supply chain contamination Changes in the cost and availability of direct materials caused by human error or equipment failure, could be severe.
Steep and prolonged rises in input prices may have a material Such consequences might include adverse effects on consumer health, impact on our results as witnessed by the rise in aluminium cost in loss of market share, financial costs and loss of turnover.
One consequence of a substantial rise in material costs our Environment, Health and Safety policy and our Lean Enterprise could be a change in demand for our products as customers adjust framework we have strict control measures and systems in place their packaging mix and the materials they use, although we have to ensure the safety and quality of our products are maintained.
not noticed this in the recent period of aluminium price volatility.
Aluminium is our most significant raw material cost but resin costs are Changes in packaging legislation increasingly important as we build our Plastic Packaging business.
Changes in laws and regulations relating to deposits on and recycling of packaging could adversely affect the business if In the US beverage can business, we charge our customers on arbitrarily implemented on a large scale in the major markets in a pass through basis.
Whilst these commercial arrangements are which we operate.
Our experience is that deposits and recycling agreed with customers and suppliers and are intended to protect us systems per se pose limited risk to our business: indeed, many of from price risk, changes could occur in the commercial arrangements the markets in which we operate have mandatory deposit systems.
which expose Rexam to risk.
In Europe, we are increasingly moving The risk to the business, in our view, is the way in which these to a pass through model with our main customers such that 50% of systems are implemented and managed.
We make available our supply needs are now on this basis.
To mitigate the risk on the our considerable packaging know how and our experience of remaining aluminium exposure, we hedge the aluminium cost and involvement in setting up deposit and recycling systems to ensure associated currency requirements.
that any recycling system is optimised from the very outset.
In Plastic Packaging, some 80% of the resin costs are on pass Changes in the regulatory environment through contracts which include resin escalator fide-escalator clauses Changes to health and food safety regulations could increase costs that change our selling price as resin prices change.
and also might have a material adverse effect on sales if, as a result, public opinion of end products for which we provide packaging changes substantially.
When it comes to such risks, we remain vigilant to changes.
To monitor the regulatory environment and to minimise the risk of arbitrary implementation of any measures that may affect consumer packaging, we have a Director of External Environmental Affairs reporting to the CEO.
We engage with governmental and non governmental organisations directly or through trade associations to ensure that our views are represented.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 29 Business Review Financial risk Rexam people Rexams financial risk management is based upon sound economic We have over 22,000 employees in more than 20 countries around objectives and good corporate practice.
Our main financial risks the world.
We understand the important role that our operations play are related to the availability of funds to meet our business needs in community life both as an employer and in contributing to society.
and movements in interest and currency exchange rates as well as Additionally, as part of this role, providing employees with a safe, commodity costs.
Derivative and other financial instruments are used fair and enjoyable place to work is core to our business and our to manage exposures under conditions laid down by the Board and approach to people.
monitored by its Finance Committee.
Further details of our financial The Rexam vision to be the leading global consumer packaging risks and the way in which we mitigate them are set out in note 24 company communicates a direction for the future and a clear sense to the financial statements on page 101. of purpose.
Leading covers many areas but fundamental to Rexam Tax risk is leading in profitable growth, operational excellence, innovation As a Group we seek to plan and manage our tax affairs efficiently and service to customers, safety and in how we treat each other.
in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
In doing so, we aim to act It means being the best and, as a result of being the best, to be the in compliance with relevant laws and disclosure requirements.
Tax most profitable company in our business.
In doing so, we want to planning will complement and be based around the needs of our lead in creating a rewarding environment where Rexam people thrive.
In an increasingly complex international tax Our four core values, embodied in The Rexam Way, are Continuous environment, a degree of uncertainty is inevitable in estimating our Improvement, Trust, Teamwork and Recognition.
They form a set of tax liabilities.
We exercise our judgement in assessing the required fundamental beliefs and underpin everything we do.
They give us level of provision for tax risk and allocate resources appropriately standards by which we judge ourselves.
These standards are to protect our position.
measured through regular employee surveys which are conducted on a global basis, looking specifically at how the Rexam Way values are embedded in our businesses.
We know that informed and engaged employees make great companies.
We make use of a range of communications tools and channels in order to reach different employee groups within the business at local, sector and group level.
We produce regular Group news bulletins to give people a broad view of Rexams activities, and have a Group wide team briefing process, which cascades news and information down to local plant teams.
The CEO has a web log on the intranet where employees can ask questions directly to him.
Additionally, the CEO also posts regular video broadcasts on the intranet at important times of the year, such as full year and half year results, or when there is a need to reach a wider audience quickly.
Sectors also publish their own regular newsletters highlighting matters pertinent to their specific business and to keep their employees informed of news and activities.
Informed, motivated people create great companies.
In 2007 Rexams CEO, Leslie Van fide Walle, launched a web log to share his day to day views and to keep employees informed of developments.
It is not all one way communication: employees can ask questions directly to the CEO.
Answers get posted on the intranet so that everyone has an opportunity to stay informed.
30 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Rexam understands how our people can give us a key competitive Motivating, engaging, recognising and developing our people are advantage in our business performance.
We sustain and build on important factors to us.
We also see the ability for everyone to work this by training and developing our people at all levels through the in an environment free from discrimination and bullying as a organisation, whether by Group wide programmes for managers fundamental right.
In return, we expect our employees to demonstrate or through sector or business programmes to ensure that people high levels of ethical behaviour and to have a genuine respect for have the right skills to perform their job.
Training and development the rights of individuals.
The Rexam Code of Conduct sets out clearly is managed either centrally or on a local basis, depending on what the expectations that we have of ourselves.
is most suitable to each of our programme areas and businesses.
Rexam also believes that it is responsible for its employees Our central programmes include the Impact Program employee welfare and for providing a safe, clean, rewarding and supportive engagement, the Talent Management Program and the Horizon environment for them to work in.
We value the positive cultural and Program an internal business school for leaders, all run by our background differences that our people bring and we aim to harness Group Leadership Development team.
this potential for innovation in our business, processes, products In support of our employees specific development and career and performance.
advancement requirements, we use a combination of standardised Our commitment to operational excellence, and our three other tools and processes which include online performance management strategic drivers, profitable growth, satisfied customers which includes to help identify employee performance, development and career innovation and Rexam people, is mirrored in the Companys award advancement needs.
These are then handled by our businesses structure which recognises both team and individual achievements.
where, through individual dialogue and discussion, we ensure Through these awards we not only recognise outstanding employees receive the most relevant and tailored training to match accomplishments, but use them as the catalyst for developing their specific skills and needs.
best practice across the organisation and in further embedding Through a consistent application of the tools, we have seen an the Rexam Way values.
increase in the number of employees moving internationally and across sectors.
As an outcome, we see improvements in lateral working across the organisation and use this as a cornerstone for developing and extending best practices across the business.
Rexam remains convinced that creating a Lean Enterprise across the entire supply chain is one of the ways to deliver maximum value to all stakeholders including customers, shareholders and employees.
In this respect, Rexam continues to build capability into all areas of its business to be able to identify and act where waste can be continuously reduced and more value added.
For five years, we have had a consistent systematic framework for all our businesses to ensure our operations are constantly monitored and supported to achieve outstanding improvements in these areas.
This framework is continually evolving to ensure that we improve and adapt to the changing business environment.
Rexams Lean Enterprise audit system, established in At present the majority of plants excluding acquisitions in 2007 2004, aligns the continuous improvement tools of 5S, operate at a Gold level for Lean Enterprise and Six Sigma with the remaining plants embracing the system and moving forward.
VSM, SMED, TPM and Six Sigma to our business goals.
Our ambitions for 2008 and beyond include developing Lean The system evaluates the activities which Rexam plants Enterprise much further within our supply chain and taking our very best plants to a level we are calling Beyond Gold to set our internal are undertaking in and around process improvement to benchmarks for all to see.
As we develop this programme we will see achieve our Gold standard in Lean Enterprise.
The audit Rexam plants being comparable with the best in the world.
This year forms a foundation to develop knowledge and enhance saw another significant contribution in efficiency savings of 32m.
our capability to operate within a Lean framework.
Our ultimate goal is to provide superior stakeholder value through a world class, value creating process.
Efficiency gains m 2007 2006 2005 0 5101520253035 Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging Restated to exclude Glass Rexam Annual Report 2007 31 Business Review Short in size.
Rexams new short height closure for Coca-Cola contributes to cost savings as the new design reduces the amount of resin used: a raw material whose price increased significantly in 2007.
Rexams longstanding and continued relationship with global brand leaders such as Coca-Cola demonstrates Rexams ability to deliver technically advanced solutions to make customers businesses successful.
32 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Corporate Responsibility Environment As one of the worlds leading consumer packaging companies, Rexam has had a formal environmental policy in place since 1991. we acknowledge our responsibilities towards the environment and The policy is set and implemented by our senior management, led society as a whole.
We want to be seen as company that is making by the CEO, but ownership and leadership at every level of our a positive contribution to the world in which we live.
We are organisation remains the basis of the day to day management committed to managing and reporting our impacts on the social and of environmental issues.
physical environments in which we operate, and we are continually We have three basic guiding principles that our operating systems striving to improve and develop our Corporate Responsibility CR and core behaviours fully support: policies and performance.
reduce the consumption of resources We realise that sustainable development is an ongoing journey.
minimise impact on nature Our approach to CR is to integrate practical solutions into our core management procedures and behaviours.
We are confident that increase product value we are well positioned and prepared to deliver against our Each Rexam plant has its own measurable targets.
These, combined responsibilities in the short, medium and long term thanks to a clear with our overall corporate requirements, form the basis of our Group understanding of what we need to achieve and maintain our targets.
This bottom up, top down approach to target setting helps continuous improvement culture, our product and process innovation to ensure consistency between our corporate and operational goals programme and an increasingly sophisticated approach to physical and aids best practice identification.
Our Corporate Responsibility programme addresses four clear areas: The established Group targets are: No uncontrolled or abnormal environmental releases Environment what we do to manage our impact and the risks, and to build capability and awareness to act responsibly No fines imposed or actions taken against the Group Our People their working environment and safety, showing To implement an Environmental Management System EMS based respect for all our employees and stakeholders on the requirements of the International Environmental Management System standard, ISO 14001 in all our manufacturing sites.
The Community what we can do to further enhance our reputation by partnering with the community on social or To work with our strategic and critical suppliers to understand environmental projects especially in less privileged areas and help reduce environmental impacts.
Governance our business controls and procedures, Our operations produce a range of air emissions including carbon code of conduct and supply chain management dioxide, particulates, nitrous oxide and volatile organic compounds but since the disposal of our Glass division in 2007, our Group Each of these is dealt with below.
For more detailed information, consumption and emissions levels have reduced markedly.
refer to the CR section on our website, www.
2007 saw a number of technical breakthroughs Innovative ways are consistently being sought to in injection moulding technology allowing for even ensure our plastic resin production scrap is turned higher process efficiencies and lower consumption back into products through our regrind process.
Extensive work throughout the Beverage Can Oil and aluminium prices remain a constant reminder Sector improved oven efficiency and electrical motor that materials efficiency is key and a main driver for performance as just two examples of initiatives to our global Excellence In Performance continuous reduce emissions and consumption.
Resource consumption raw material tonnes tonnes of production Energy consumption 2007 Total consumption MWh 2007 2006 2005 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.53.0 Consumption per tonne of raw material MWh Tonne 2007 2006 2005 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.21.4 1.6 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.53.0 3.54.0 Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging Rexam Annual Report 2007 33 Business Review We measure our performance using a simple set of indicators In order to effectively manage energy sustainability activities a based firmly on industry and stakeholder expectations.
We collect baseline or internal benchmark of corporate wide GHG emissions is environmental data from all our manufacturing sites through our necessary.
This GHG database is a multi step process where scope, bespoke global web enabled system.
Data is collated and analysed method and ongoing process are vital and management will expect consistently to identify and act on improvement opportunities locally, figures to be lowered yearly although production increases.
regionally and globally through embedded best practice sharing Level 1 and 2 figures will be measured from the start with numbers mechanisms.
directly collected from our production process.
As a next step we In 2007, we constructed a new performance baseline for emissions will be measuring all levels of involvement from subcontractors, and energy consumption to take into account the recent acquisitions employees means of travel, etc.
Better energy consumption management will lead Two years ago 2005, the Make Up plant in Annecy, France, to lower total emissions and lower costs, both of these are ongoing discovered a leak in the underground system for a solvent used programmes across Rexam and we hope to show meaningful for cleaning metal parts, trichloroethylene TCE.
We are now well progress going forward.
into the industrial extraction phase and have reached removal levels The data in the charts on page 33 covers the period June to June, that will now require a modification to our approach to increase the rather than a calendar year: 2007 figures are therefore June 2006 speed, effectiveness and economics of the clean up.
The data is normalised per tonne of production and approach going forward will be in situ chemical oxidisation ISCO grouped into our primary product types: metal aluminium and steel and is supported by our clean up partners and by the local authorities.
These figures have become our eco efficiency indicators.
Following the decommissioning of an underground storage tank Volumes of the above mentioned emissions, measured per tonne at our Beverage Can plant in Nogara, Italy, a groundwater sample of production, continued to show a downward trend in 2007. has indicated slightly higher than acceptable levels of fluorides and hydrocarbons.
The findings are thought to be as a result of leakage Going forward, our systems will be continuously improved to from the tank.
Work is underway to fully quantify the situation, but ensure that we are always focused on areas where our continuous initial reports suggest that the contamination affects only a limited improvement activity has the most impact.
Our aim is to increase area.
Once the scope of the issue has been more precisely defined the number of leading indicators that can warn us of problems a remediation plan will be put in place.
developing so that we can shift from remediation to prevention.
During 2007, the number of minor reported incidents of oil and Rexam also started in 2007 a programme that will highlight our acid spillages remained few and all were quickly remedied to responsibility for levels of greenhouse gas GHGs emissions and prevent recurrence.
report this on a designated web page.
Harmful gases to the environment such as carbon dioxide, methane, nitrous oxide, sulphur, hexafluoride, HFCs and PFCs will all be part of this strategy.
Rexam takes a more exacting measure of lost time accident rates to ensure we drive continuous improvement even when operating at high levels of performance.
We also include accidents that occur travelling to and from the place of work if employee transport is provided by Rexam.
Lost time accident rate per 100 employees per year The beverage can is 100% recyclable.
For example, you can recycle every part of an aluminium can over and over 2007 2006 again, either into new cans or into other products.
It ranks Industry rate amongst the highest in the world in terms of numbers returned and recycled.
Rexam takes a leading role in 2007 2006 developing environmental best practice by supporting Industry rate and developing recycling schemes and infrastructures both 012 34 The industry rate is based on US labour statistics data 2006 on a national and local level, in conjunction with raw Beverage Cans Plastic Packaging material suppliers, retailers and government organisations.
34 Rexam Annual Report 2007 People welfare and safety The community Rexam is responsible for its employees welfare and for providing a We understand that, in serving the needs of our customers, we safe, clean, rewarding and supportive environment for them to work operate within a wider society and environment.
As part of our safety culture, each business reports details of all responsibilities to ensure that our activities contribute to sustainable health and safety incidents directly online.
The incidents are then development both locally and globally.
We encourage all our collated and reviewed and programmes are put in place to redress manufacturing locations to invest in local charities, voluntary groups the related risks.
Despite operating at very high levels of safety and environmental We have a number of initiatives, the majority at the local level, performance we earnestly believe that no person, property or that are helping to improve the well being and welfare in our environment should be harmed in the pursuit of Rexams activity.
The Environment Week held across our eleven South American beverage can plants in June 2007, which included the Therefore we must achieve a sustained change in performance to planting of 2,000 eucalyptus seedlings, one for each employee, reach breakthrough levels in all our reactive indicators such as LTAR.
at the reopened Jacarei plant, is just one example of the kind of work We will do this going forward by creating a true culture of safety that is being done.
Further examples of the environmental and social and environmental consideration where the behaviour is supported, work our employees are doing to help local communities can be recognised, measured and demonstrated consistently and found in the CR section of our website.
We do not pretend to have all the answers.
But we are committed Physical risk management should never be a constraint but should to understanding the issues and responding to the wider expectations support Rexam businesses to operate successfully in the safest that society has of our business.
We believe there is great opportunity possible way.
to fulfil peoples emerging hopes in the area of CR, and we will do In 2007 our Group average Lost Time Accident Rate LTAR was our utmost to listen and respond to ensure that we continue to slightly higher compared with 2006.
In Beverage Cans the LTAR improve and develop our policies and performance in this area.
increased slightly owing to a bus crash in South America which Governance involved our people, whilst in Plastic Packaging the rate decreased The Board openly embraces its responsibility to promote ethical and slightly.
The severity of injuries measured by the number of days sound business behaviour and to lead as an example to the Group.
away and or restricted time has dropped significantly since 2002.
As a Group, Rexam is committed to complying with the standards of Our lost time accident rate includes restricted work days in the corporate governance in all countries in which it operates, including calculations.
This is a more precise method than the one used in our UK governance rules contained in the Combined Code on Corporate industry and by regulatory bodies such as the HSE and OSHA.
We also recognise the additional standards that are operations have proactive indicators as performance measurements.
expected of us in terms of how we conduct our business to ensure we behave and report in an open and transparent manner.
More detailed information on Corporate Governance can be found on pages 47 to 54.
Rexam employees actively contribute to the well being of the communities in which they operate.
In Beverage Can South America BCSA, employees have been working on a number of initiatives aimed at making a difference to the lives of those less fortunate.
In 2007, employees donated more than 7.5 tons of food to 12 institutions as part of a Christmas without Hunger campaign.
The food came from voluntary donations by Rexam employees at all eleven BCSA plants.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 35 Business Review Group financial performance A summary of underlying business performance from continuing The financial review of our results is based on what we term the operations is set out below.
underlying business performance, as shown in the first column of 2006 the table below, which excludes exceptional items and discontinued 2007 restated operations.
We believe that the underlying figures aid comparison m m of the Groups financial performance.
Ongoing operations 3,566 3,199 Disposals 45 102 Underlying Sales 3,611 3,301 business Exceptional 1 performance items Total m m m Ongoing operations 349 369 2007: Disposals 5 6 Continuing operations: Underlying operating profit 354 375 Sales 3,611 3,611 Share of associates profit after tax 1 Operating profit 354 17 371 Underlying total net finance cost 109 112 2 Total net finance cost 109 2 111 Underlying profit before tax 245 264 Profit before tax 245 15 260 Underlying profit after tax 172 200 Profit after tax continuing operations 172 2 174 Discontinued operations: Underlying earnings per share p 28.0 35.6 Profit for the year 66 Total profit for the year 240 The following tables, showing sales and underlying operating profit, compare the ongoing operations on a consistent basis to demonstrate Total basic earnings per share p 39.0 like for like trading performance.
This excludes disposals and Underlying earnings per share p 28.0 businesses held for sale described as Disposals but includes Interim dividend per share p 8.3 prior year acquisitions as if acquired on 1 January 2006, by adding Proposed final dividend their pre acquisition results described as Acquisitions 2006 and 3 per share p 11.7 OI Plastics is included from the date of acquisition.
The table also highlights organic change and currency fluctuations arising on translation.
Organic change is the year on year change on ongoing 2006 restated: operations from businesses owned since the beginning of 2007.
Continuing operations: Sales 3,301 3,301 Analysis of sales movement Operating profit loss 375 1 374 Beverage Plastic Total Cans Packaging Share of associates profit after tax 1 8 9 m m m 2 Total net finance cost 112 3 115 Sales 2006 restated 3,301 Profit before tax 264 4 268 Disposals 102 Profit loss after tax continuing Ongoing operations 2006 operations 200 5 195 reported 2007 3,199 2,490 709 Discontinued operations: Acquisitions 2006 22 2 20 Profit for the year 28 Currency fluctuations 156 123 33 Total profit for the year 223 Ongoing operations 2006 pro forma basis 3,065 2,369 696 Total basic earnings per share p 39.7 Acquisition of OI Plastics 155 155 Underlying earnings per share p 35.6 Organic change in sales 346 317 29 Interim and final dividends Ongoing operations reported 2007 3,566 2,686 880 per share p 19.0 Disposals 45 Sales reported 2007 3,611 1 Underlying business performance is the primary performance measure used by management, who believe that the exclusion of exceptional items aids comparison of underlying performance of continuing operations, which exclude the discontinued Glass business.
Exceptional items include the gains and losses on disposal of businesses, the restructuring and integration of businesses, major asset impairments and disposals, significant litigation and tax related claims, the subsequent recognition of acquired deferred tax assets, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, non hedge accounted fair value movements on financing derivatives and significant gains arising on reduction of retiree medical and pension liabilities.
2 Comprises underlying net interest expense of 95m 2006: 90m and retirement benefit obligations net finance cost of 14m 2006: 22m.
3 Subject to approval at AGM 2008 and payable on 3 June 2008.
36 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Organic sales growth, which excludes the impact of acquisitions, Within our Beverage Can operations, price increases and pass disposals and currency, was 346m, an increase of 11% of which through arrangements recouped the effect of rising aluminium prices.
157m came from pass through of raw material cost increases A gain of 13m realised in 2006 on the renegotiation of a metal principally aluminium in the Beverage Can operations.
Price supply contract in the US was not repeated.
The strike in the increases contributed 60m in total, primarily from Beverage Can Beverage Can North America operation cost 13m, hampering Europe & Asia on renegotiation of its open sales contracts, and progress in that business.
Overall, the growth in non standard can Beverage Can North America.
Volume gains, predominantly from sizes and energy drinks together with efficiency savings helped to the European and South American Beverage Can operations, added counter the effect of higher conversion costs, US dollar Brazilian real a further 129m.
Volumes in Beverage Can North America were exchange rates as well as production start up issues in the new can down due to reduced demand for12oz carbonated soft drinks cans, end manufacturing facility in the Beverage Can South America a strike at a number of its plants in the first half of the year and operation, which cost around 5m.
production downtime due to conversion of 12oz can lines to higher Plastic Packaging reported an 8% organic improvement in underlying growth specialty can lines.
Plastic Packaging benefited from stronger profit.
Efficiency savings and good volume growth across most volumes across its Dispensing Systems and Pharma businesses.
businesses were more than sufficient to cover the rise in resin, energy Analysis of underlying operating profit movement and other input costs.
Although the impact of price increases was negative for the year, it showed a positive trend in the second half Beverage Plastic Total Cans Packaging of 2007: the negative price change noted in the above table relates m m m mainly to pass through to customers of cost reductions in certain types Underlying operating profit 2006 of resin.
restated 375 OI Plastics, acquired in August 2007, contributed 155m in sales Disposals 6 and 22m in underlying operating profit for the five month period Ongoing operations 2006 following acquisition.
The net impact of fair value adjustments reported 2007 369 289 80 reduced underlying operating profit for the period by 2m including Acquisitions 2006 2 2 a charge relating to finished goods inventory of 4m.
The integration Currency fluctuations 19 14 5 of the OI Plastics business is progressing well and we are on track to Ongoing operations 2006 achieve the synergy benefits.
When we announced the acquisition, pro forma basis 352 275 77 the integration costs were estimated to be 23m, comprising 10m Acquisition of OI Plastics 22 22 for restructuring and plant closures and 13m for new IT systems.
The Organic change in underlying synergy benefits arising were expected to rise to 20m pa by 2010. operating profit 25 31 6 Following completion of the acquisition, a detailed review revealed Ongoing operations reported 2007 349 244 105 further opportunities for integration and synergy benefits.
1 Disposals 5 Consequently, the total integration cost is now estimated to be Underlying operating profit 35m, comprising 20m for restructuring and 15m for capital reported 2007 354 expenditure to support the business infrastructure.
Synergy benefits are now anticipated to reach 25m pa by 2010.
1 Includes the Petainer refillable plastic bottle operations which is classified as assets available for sale.
Consequently, no depreciation has been charged in 2007, which has increased Exchange rates reported underlying operating profit by 2m.
The exchange rates used to translate the consolidated income statement and balance sheet are set out in note 1 to the consolidated Analysis of the organic change in underlying operating profit is set financial statements.
Income statement Beverage Plastic Total Cans Packaging The US dollar and the euro are the principal currencies that impact m m m our results.
During 2007 the US dollar continued to weaken against Price changes 217 218 1 sterling whilst the euro strengthened, particularly in the second half Cost changes 317 298 19 of the year.
The net effect of currency translation caused sales and Price and cost changes 100 80 20 underlying operating profit compared with 2006 to be reduced Volume and mix changes 43 32 11 by 156m and 19m respectively.
Efficiency and other savings 32 17 15 The movement in exchange rates had the following impact on the Organic change in underlying translation into sterling for reported sales, underlying operating profit operating profit 25 31 6 and underlying profit before tax in 2007: The reduction in underlying operating profit, after allowing for Underlying Underlying operating profit the impact of acquisitions, disposals and currency, was 25m 7% Sales profit before tax which reflects continued high input costs and the impact of the strike m m m in the Beverage Can North America business.
US dollar 158 20 15 Euro 5 1 1 Other currencies 3 156 19 14 Rexam Annual Report 2007 37 Business Review In addition to translation exposure, the Group is also exposed to m movements in exchange rates on certain of its transactions.
These Defined benefit pension plans: are principally the US dollar euro and the US dollar Brazilian real Plan assets returns higher than expected 81 movement on the European and South American Beverage Can Plan liabilities principally higher discount rates 136 operations respectively.
The exposure in Europe is largely hedged Actuarial gains before tax 217 and therefore did not impact underlying operating profit in 2007.
Tax 65 In 2007, exchange rate movements between the US dollar and Actuarial gains after tax 152 Brazilian real reduced underlying operating profit by around 7m.
Balance sheet During the year the Group agreed revisions to its obligations in Most of the Groups borrowings are denominated in US dollars respect of retiree medical benefits for certain current and retired and euros.
Year on year movements in exchange rates reduced employees in the US which reduced liabilities by 61m net of legal net borrowings by 44m, due principally to the US dollar, and costs.
The net gain is recorded within exceptional items.
There were increased net equity by 86m.
further reductions of 29m in defined benefit and other pension liabilities arising on the disposal of Glass which have been reflected Underlying total net finance cost within discontinued operations.
2006 2007 restated The retirement benefit obligations net finance cost for continuing m m operations is analysed as follows: Net interest 95 90 Retirement benefit obligations net finance cost 14 22 2006 2007 restated Underlying total net finance cost 109 112 m m Defined benefit pension plans: The underlying total net finance cost reduced by 3m compared Expected return on plan assets 127 123 with the prior year primarily due to the reduction in retirement benefit Interest on plan liabilities 131 133 obligations net finance cost of 8m following the significant 4 10 decrease in liabilities as discussed in Retirement benefits below.
Retiree medical interest on liabilities 10 12 The increase in net interest of 5m is attributed to higher average interest rates the US dollar and euro rates were up by 10 and 120 Net finance cost 14 22 basis points respectively and higher average net borrowings.
The The total cash payments in respect of retirement benefits are as latter is a consequence of the acquisition of OI Plastics and increased follows: capital expenditure, partially offset by proceeds from the disposal of the Glass operations and the share placement, both in June 2007.
2007 2006 Overall, the average interest rate during the year was 6.5% m m compared with 6.2% in the prior year.
Defined benefit pension plans 47 44 Other pension plans 8 4 Based on reported underlying operating profit, interest cover was Retiree medical 11 12 3.7 times compared with 4.8 times for 2006.
The reduction is due Total cash payments 66 60 to lower underlying operating profit.
The impact of the latter is to exclude the underlying operating profit of the Glass business but not Cash payments to defined benefit pension plans increased as a result to recognise the expected reduction in interest cost on the disposal of a higher rate of contribution to the UK plan, which includes 21m proceeds.
Including notional interest attributable to the Glass 2006: 20m to reduce its deficit, and further contributions to the proceeds, interest cover would have been around 4.3 times.
Based on current actuarial projections, it is expected that cover is based on underlying operating profit and underlying total net cash contributions to defined benefit pension plans and retiree medical interest expense excluding charges in respect of retirement benefit payments in 2008 will remain at similar levels to those in 2007. obligations and, in 2006, preference dividends.
A detailed analysis of retirement benefits is set out in note 25 to the Retirement benefits consolidated financial statements.
Retirement benefit obligations net of tax as at 31 December 2007 were 128m, a significant reduction from 365m at 31 December Tax 2006, principally due to a reduction in retiree medical liabilities and The underlying tax charge for the year was 73m 30% on profit higher discount rates which are used to value the liabilities in the before exceptional items 2006 restated: 64m 24%.
Last years defined benefit pension plans.
tax rate benefited from provision releases following progress on certain European tax audits.
The current rate reflects the mix of Changes to the actuarial value of retirement benefits at the balance territories in which Rexam operates, partially offset by the availability sheet date are shown in the statement of recognised income and of tax incentives in certain jurisdictions.
The acquisition of OI Plastics expense, these changes increased shareholders funds by 152m has changed the geographic mix of the Groups profits and will in 2007 as follows: therefore impact its underlying tax rate going forward.
In 2008 and beyond we anticipate a modest increase in the rate, as most of the OI Plastics profits are generated in the US.
38 Rexam Annual Report 2007 Cash tax payments in the year were 42m compared with 58m The fair value of the derivatives arising on financing activities directly last year.
Payments in 2007 were reduced by repayments received, relates to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The the utilisation of tax losses and tax benefits attributable to the OI fair value will change as the transactions to which they relate mature, Plastics acquisition.
It is expected that the cash tax paid in future as new derivatives are transacted and due to the passage of time.
years will be between 65% and 75% of the underlying income The fair value change on financing derivatives for the year was statement tax charge.
The impact of embedded derivatives and derivatives arising on trading items such as Exceptional items commodities and forward foreign exchange contracts is included The exceptional items arising in 2007 in respect of continuing within underlying operating profit.
operations are as follows: Earnings per share m 2006 Retiree medical gain net of legal costs 61 2007 restated Underlying earnings per share p 28.0 35.6 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 Basic earnings per share p 39.0 39.7 Integration of businesses 6 Legacy and other tax based exposures 17 Average number of shares in issue millions 615 561 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 22 Year end number of shares in issue millions 643 583 Total included in operating profit 17 Financing derivative market value changes 2 Underlying earnings per share fell from 35.6p to 28.0p.
This is Total exceptional items before tax 15 due to lower underlying profit before tax, the increase in tax rate Tax 13 compared with the prior year and a higher number of shares in issue Total exceptional items after tax 2 following the placement of 58m ordinary shares in June 2007 as well as the conversion of the convertible preference shares in In the second half of 2007 court approval was obtained for a October 2006. mediated settlement of a class action litigation involving retiree medical coverage for retirees who were formerly unionised The basic earnings per share, which include exceptional items, employees.
The changes in the provision of retiree medical benefits and profit from discontinued operations were 39.0p per share resulted in an exceptional gain of 61m, net of legal costs.
Overall, the level of exceptional items and the results from discontinued operations were greater than those reported in The Group completed the disposal of a Personal Care plastic 2006.
However, they were not sufficient to offset the factors that packaging business based in the Netherlands and a business reduced underlying earnings per share.
engaged in reinsurance activities based in Luxembourg for a combined net gain of 1m.
Discontinued operations On 12 March 2007 we announced that we had reached As discussed above, the restructuring and plant closure cost agreement to sell the Glass business to Ardagh Glass Group PLC.
associated with the integration of OI Plastics is now estimated to be Following that announcement, the Glass business was classified as 20m.
A 6m charge was recorded in 2007 relating to the intended a discontinued operation and consequently its results are disclosed closure of two plants in North America and other integration costs.
separately from the continuing operations.
The disposal was The remainder of the restructuring cost will be charged to exceptional completed on 21 June 2007.
A summary of the performance items in 2008. of discontinued operations is set out below.
Intangible assets, such as technology, patents and customer contracts, 2007 2006 are required to be recognised on the acquisition of businesses and m m amortised over their useful economic life.
The directors consider that Sales 213 437 separate disclosure of the amortisation of such acquired intangibles Underlying operating profit: amounting to 22m 2006: 11m aids comparison of organic Before depreciation and amortisation growth in underlying profit.
Therefore this cost, which will become 1 adjustment 15 40 more significant as the impact of recent and future acquisitions is 2 Depreciation and amortisation adjustment 11 reflected, should be separately disclosed within exceptional items.
After depreciation and amortisation adjustment 26 40 Rexam operates in a global tax environment, which can give rise Underlying profit before tax 26 39 to uncertainty over the quantification of some of its tax liabilities Underlying profit after tax 18 28 in certain territories.
The tax environment in Brazil is complex: Exceptional gain on disposal net of tax 48 interpretation and application of tax law continues to change and Total profit after tax 66 28 claims are usually subject to long judicial processes.
In this territory, Rexam has certain indirect tax exposures, some of which relate to 1 Central overheads, excluded from the above table, previously allocated to the Glass business, periods prior to Rexams acquisition of ANC in 2000 and Latasa in have been reallocated to the Beverage Can and Plastic Packaging operations.
In view of the uncertainty surrounding these Brazilian tax risks, overheads been allocated for 2007 they would have amounted to 2m 2006: 4m.
management has concluded it would be appropriate to record an 2 The Glass business was classified as a disposal group on 12 March 2007 and accounting exceptional provision of 17m in 2007.
Notwithstanding the standard IFRS5 requires that depreciation and amortisation is not charged following such classification.
provision, the Group considers that it has defensible positions in most instances and will continue robustly to defend its position on any assessments and claims.
Should the risks crystallise, the cash outflows related to this provision are likely to arise over a number of years, although a payment of approximately 4m is anticipated to be made during the first half of 2008.
Rexam Annual Report 2007 39 Business Review Cash flow Capital expenditure continuing operations Free cash flow was 24m compared with 173m in 2006.
2007 2006 This reduction is largely due to an increase in capital expenditure Capital expenditure gross m 294 168 to support organic growth in strategic and emerging markets together Depreciation and amortisation m 136 131 with a lower contribution from the Glass business sold during the year.
Ratio times 2.16 1.28 2006 2007 restated Capital expenditure includes computer software that has been m m capitalised.
Amortisation in 2007 excludes 22m 2006: 11m Continuing operations: amortised on patents, customer contracts and intangibles other than Underlying operating profit 354 375 computer software.
1 Depreciation and amortisation 136 131 Gross capital expenditure by continuing operations was 294m, Retirement benefit obligations 42 31 representing 216% of depreciation and amortisation.
This increase Change in working capital 11 7 in expenditure reflects a substantial commitment to investments in Other movements 5 25 strategic and growth projects which in 2007 amounted to 224m Cash generated 432 443 2006: 102m.
The principal projects were in the Beverage Can Capital expenditure net 288 154 business and in the European operations in particular, including new Net interest and tax paid 128 144 can plants in Austria and Russia and additional can lines to support All other movements 3 market growth.
The North and South American Beverage Can Free cash flow from continuing operations 16 148 businesses are converting lines to produce specialty cans to meet market and regional demand.
Discontinued operations: Cash generated 26 74 Going into 2008 there will be further investment in growth and Capital expenditure net 17 46 strategic projects within the Beverage Can operations in particular, Net interest and tax paid 1 3 including: completion of the new plants in Austria, Russia and Free cash flow from discontinued operations 8 25 Denmark: additional lines, conversions and can end capacity within Free cash flow 24 173 the European operations and further line conversions in North and South America.
These projects and a range of smaller projects Equity dividends 118 103 within Plastic Packaging, generally targeted at new product Business cash flow 94 70 2 development, are expected to support profit growth in 2008 and Acquisitions 921 215 beyond.
Therefore, it is anticipated that capital expenditure in 2008 3 Disposals 402 25 will be around 330m depending on the timing of projects.
Cash flow including borrowings acquired and disposed 613 120 Capital expenditure discontinued operations Share capital changes 281 9 Gross capital expenditure by the Glass business in 2007 was 17m 2006: 46m and depreciation and amortisation charged was Conversion of convertible preference shares 69 8m 2006: 39m.
Other non cash movements 58 90 Net borrowings at the beginning of the year 1,172 1,220 Acquisitions Net borrowings at the end of the year 1,562 1,172 Expenditure on acquisitions in 2007, including net cash assumed, totalled 921m, as set out below.
1 Excludes amortisation of certain acquired intangibles amounting to 22m 2006: 11m.
2 Includes net cash acquired of 1m 2006: net borrowings 13m.
m Plastic Packaging: OI Plastics 904 3 Includes net borrowings disposed of 130m 2006: 4m.
Beverage Cans: joint venture in Guatemala 14 Payments in respect of prior year and other acquisitions 3 921 40 Rexam Annual Report 2007 The principal transaction was the acquisition of OI Plastics in August Net borrowings include interest accruals and certain financial 2007 for an initial consideration of 905m including net cash derivatives as set out below.
assumed and accrued costs, which transformed the scale and reach As at As at of the Plastic Packaging operations.
The structuring of the acquisition 31.12.07 31.12.06 is still expected to give rise to tax benefits with an estimated net m m present value of around 130m and, therefore, the effective cost Net borrowings excluding derivative for OI Plastics is 775m.
Following receipt of regulatory approval, financial instruments 1,730 1,277 we completed the acquisition of Rostar for a consideration of 149m Derivative financial instruments 168 105 in January 2008 to extend our scale in the rapidly growing Russian Net borrowings 1,562 1,172 beverage can market.
These acquisitions, together with the investment in a joint venture in Guatemala, are consistent with our strategy to Derivative financial instruments comprise instruments relating to net expand our positions in growth markets.
borrowings eg cross currency and interest rate swaps and those related to other business transactions eg forward commodity and Disposals forward foreign exchange deals.
Total derivative financial In June 2007 we completed the sale of our Glass business to instruments are set out below.
The profit on sale after tax, reported as an exceptional item within discontinued operations, was 48m.
The sale followed As at As at a review of the position of the Glass business within our consumer 31.12.07 31.12.06 m m packaging portfolio and was in keeping with our strategy to focus Cross currency swaps 166 102 investment on organic growth and acquisitions in higher growth, Interest rate swaps 2 3 higher margin and emerging markets.
Derivative financial instruments included Proceeds from the disposal of the Glass business, net of costs in net borrowings 168 105 and including borrowings and retirement benefit liabilities disposed, Other derivative financial instruments 12 29 totalled 401m.
The process to sell our Petainer refillable plastic Total derivative financial instruments 156 134 bottle operations in Sweden and the Czech Republic is continuing.
The increase in the value of cross currency swaps can be mainly Balance sheet and borrowings attributed to the strengthening of the euro on the swaps related to the As at As at 31.12.06 Euro 750m subordinated bond, which was issued in June 2007 to 31.12.07 restated part fund the OI Plastics acquisition.
The reduction in other derivatives m m was due principally to the aluminium price at the end of 2007, Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,204 1,532 which was close to the low point for the year.
Property, plant and equipment 1,322 1,190 Retirement benefits net of tax 128 365 Other net liabilities assets 3 64 3,395 2,421 Total equity, including minority interests 1,833 1,249 1 Net borrowings 1,562 1,172 3,395 2,421 2,4 Return on invested capital % 11.9 15.0 3,4 Interest cover times 3.7 4.8 5 Gearing % 85 94 1 Net borrowings comprise borrowings, cash and cash equivalents and certain derivative financial instruments.
2 Underlying operating profit plus share of associates profit after tax divided by the average of opening and closing of each of net borrowings and total equity after adding back retirement benefit obligations net of deferred tax.
For 2007, the opening assets and liabilities attributable to the Glass sector have been excluded.
3 Based on underlying operating profit divided by underlying total net interest expense, excluding convertible preference share dividends in 2006.
4 The return on invested capital and interest cover for 2006 have not been restated for the reclassification of the Glass business to discontinued operations.
5 Based on net borrowings divided by total equity including minority interests.
The return on invested capital was 11.9% 2006: 15.0%, it has reduced mainly as a consequence of the fall in underlying operating profit and the impact of the acquisition of OI Plastics: excluding OI Plastics, the return would have been 13.2%.
