RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Ed Williams Group Managing Director BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW of the Rightmove.
co. uk website followed in December.
Revenue profit This has substantially enhanced the experience of what was already the most popular single place for home hunters % % looking for property.
69 7 7 Brand advertising: our investments also included the creation of the first products in the Rightmove Choice range.
Underlying profit before 1 Revenue grew from tax increased from These products allow our customers, estate agents, letting 33.6m to 56.7m 17.7m to 31.4m agents and new homes developers, to differentiate themselves by increasing the prominence of their brand or 2007 saw Rightmove achieve a landmark gure of 90% of particular properties they are marketing on the of all estate agents in the UK listing their property on the Rightmove.
Our email campaign service also Rightmove.
We believe we now also have allows our customers to target specic propositions to highly three-quarters of lettings only agents and half of all the new selective and receptive Rightmove home hunters.
home developments currently being actively marketed in the Expansion of the customer proposition: in 2007 we added UK.
During 2007 on average over three million different two new advertising services to our pre-existing estate agency, people visited the website each month spending a collective lettings only agents, new homes developers and overseas 2 total of 10,116 years looking at property.
The first of these is holiday lettings, Continued strong growth has resulted in underlying profit allowing agents and holiday home owners to advertise their 1 before tax increasing 77% to 31.4m in 2007 2006: 17.7m.
properties in the UK and abroad.
Through our acquisition of a 66.7% interest in Holiday Lettings Limited we are now What we do placed as the number two, and fastest growing, UK holiday Rightmove has substantially accomplished its first goal: to be lettings site.
The other is the introduction of general banner the website of choice for all UK home movers looking for advertising around the maps on our AboutMyPlace mapping details of every property available to buy or rent.
This service has been developed in-house by also made great strides in 2007 with its second aim: to be Rightmove using Microsofts mapping technology, for which both the most effective place for property professionals to a three-year user licence was obtained.
advertise their properties and to differentiate their own brand.
Property advertising: we provide an easy-to-use but Keys to success sophisticated online property search.
During 2007 we have Rightmoves success is the result of our contribution to our made significant investments in the development of our advertisers success.
We help our advertisers by providing service including the introduction of our interactive mapping quality enquiries at a signicantly lower cost than their and aerial photography site, AboutMyPlace.
co. uk, in traditional advertising alternatives.
For estate agents and February.
A completely new design, layout and presentation letting rental agents, Rightmove also plays a key role in 1 2 From continuing operations and before share-based payments, NI on Source: Hitwise January to December 2007 share options under issue, otation and capital reconstruction costs.
06 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Graham Zacharias Group Finance Director generating new opportunities to win instructions the right to number of enquiries generated is not an immediate marker offer a property for sale or for rent on behalf of the owner.
of success and although the absolute number may decline in Many home movers and landlords now expect their a tougher housing market, the value to our members of each properties to appear on Rightmoves website in order to enquiry increases.
reach the largest audience possible.
Strong top-line growth Connecting more people with more property Rightmoves profit growth is driven by increased revenue.
than anyone else This has been achieved through: We are able to make the contribution that we do to our Increased number of advertisers: members businesses because we are the destination of Increases in the perceived value our advertisers choice for home hunters.
In a typical month in 2007, recognise from their spending with us: and between three and four million people visited the website, Increased spend per advertiser.
each averaging more than one visit a week and spending around 16 minutes on the site each time.
2007 saw substantial success in terms of sales.
Overall In 2007, usage of the Rightmove.
co. uk website grew by property advertiser membership increased by 18% from 23% compared to 2006.
This generated 15 million enquiries 16,321 to 19,287 with 90% of estate agencies now using tracked through our systems for agents and developers.
Based on our estimate of the market of growth in visits to our website underscores the fact that approximately 24,750 potential advertisers, this represents Rightmove specically and the internet generally are now a an increase in our customer base from 64% to 78% of the key part of how people search for property.
Of all people total addressable UK market.
who bought a home last year, 72% used the internet as part The slowdown in the rate of growth compared to previous of their search and of them, 82% used Rightmove.
years is a consequence of the high proportion of potential UK property advertisers that are already Rightmove The key performance indicators that we monitor are: members.
Notable areas of strong progress in 2007 were among smaller new homes developers and with central Page impressions Enquiries Properties displayed London agents.
The 92% retention rate was within our historical range 900m 800,000 236,000 of 91-94%.
The majority of the estate agents and lettings Number of properties Number of page Number of enquiries delivered displayed on Rightmove.
co. uk agents who left Rightmove did so because their own impressions in the year increased to 15.0m 2007 at 31 December 2007 was grew from 4.0bn 2006 from 14.2m 2006, up 6% business ceased to trade or because there was a significant 1,038,000 2006: 802,000, to 4.9bn 2007, up 22% up 29% change in their business focus.
The impact of a tougher housing market was detected in the last few months of the While our members value enquiries received, Rightmove year but this has not resulted in a substantial decline in often makes its biggest contributions at times in the cycle overall retention.
when enquiries in general are most scarce.
Hence the 07 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The role of the internet % 33% of home buyers found their new home 33 on the internet All of the statistics are from our BMRB Omnibus Survey conducted in November 2007.
Total sample size of over 6,000: 786 had bought or rented a home in the previous 12 months and 285 had sold or let a property.
08 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The value that our advertisers place in being a Rightmove in the market.
Our estate agent and new home developer member also increased signicantly.
It was particularly customers own business models are driven by transaction pleasing to see more than one in five of our customers volumes.
taking up our Rightmove Choice products between launch These market conditions create opportunities for in February and the end of December 2007.
Our position as a cost effective means of average monthly spend per advertiser rose from 192 per generating enquiries from home buyers is rmly established.
month at the end of 2006 to 259 per month at the end of This is a position which is of more value to our customers 2007, an increase of 35%.
when it is hard to sell properties than when there is a list of We continued to invest heavily in technology and in our applicants queuing to snap up properties as they come onto eld consultants and customer service teams.
The level of the market or, in the case of developers, off-plan.
support we provide, including our investment in helping our Our service also includes a range of reports that allows customers make the most of the service we provide them, agents to justify the correct pricing of properties to vendors is frequently noted within the industry as a key differentiator as well as demonstrating what is and is not currently selling.
between Rightmove and other advertising companies.
More A range of further Rightmove Choice products has been than 5,000 estate agents took advantage of the free online launched in the first quarter of 2008.
These products have learning package we provided to master the requirements of a particular focus on giving our customers the right type of the Home Information Packs HIPs legislation which came advertising options for operating successfully in a tough market.
We expect many of our customers to be faced with Rightmoves cost to its members continues to represent difficult choices about how much they spend on marketing a small proportion of the total industry spend on advertising, and where they spend it.
Given the signicantly higher return a total of a little over 50m compared to over 600m across on investment from advertising with Rightmove relative to traditional media based on the Advertising Yearbook 2007 newspaper advertising, we expect a tougher market to see and Rightmove estimates of the size of the online property property advertising spend following the same prole as jobs marketing spend.
The considerable majority of spending by and cars a sharp and sustained shift from newspapers agents and developers continues to be in local and regional to online.
As in the past, our successes in 2007 have been achieved as a result of the hard work and dedication on Driving the business forward the part of our employees.
I would like to thank them for Without doubt 2008 has the characteristics of a much their efforts past and continuing.
The high level of take up tougher housing market.
This may or may not lead to of our second Sharesave scheme for staff provides a absolute falls in house prices.
It has however already caused further opportunity for that effort to be acknowledged a drop in the number of housing transactions taking place and rewarded.
09 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The online leader % 82% of home buyers using the internet used 82 Rightmove.
co. uk 10 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Encouraging strong performance from our people Uncertainties, threats and risks Rightmove is an organisation which thrives on strong Rightmove is in a privileged position.
We have a strong, collaboration within and between teams.
Delivering our healthy and growing business.
Though new, the service to our customers depends on the quality of this fundamentals of our business model seem well established.
collaboration between areas from sales and customer The opportunity for a clear market leader to emerge and support to marketing, technology, product development extend that position has been demonstrated by online and finance.
property advertising in other countries such as France, The number of employees has grown from 240 to 313 Germany and the US and in other classied advertising during the course of the year.
There was a strong uptake of categories such as cars and collectibles.
our first employee Sharesave scheme in 2006.
A similar Nonetheless, the position of our business and, no doubt, scheme was offered in 2007 and proved equally popular similar successful businesses, has been achieved and will be among those who were eligible.
An Executive Share option maintained through hard work, in particular, through a plan is in place with options vesting over three to five years dedication to providing the best service to both the from March 2006.
All the above future obligations are members who pay to advertise and the home hunters who provided for in the form of shares held in an employee choose to use our website.
2007 has seen, as in several benefit trust, thus avoiding the allotment of additional shares.
previous years, the entry of credible competitors, usually from a traditional media background.
Protecting shareholder value We believe there continues to be three main areas of uncertainty or risk to our business: How the Board monitors performance First, the extent of Rightmoves exposure to the state of Our Board reviews performance at Board meetings and on a the UK housing market is uncertain.
Almost all our revenue monthly basis through a detailed monthly management comes from businesses themselves exposed to the state of report, which covers all the key performance indicators the UK residential housing market and particularly to the level featured in this report at a summary level and at the level of of transaction volumes.
Given Rightmoves relatively short each of our main customer groups.
The primary method by history and the state of the housing market during that which risks are monitored and managed is by the monthly period, there is little evidence of the impact on the Company Executive Management Board, which reports to the main of a significant, sustained downturn in the UK residential Board on such matters bi-annually or as the business property market.
So far, in a signicantly worsening market, requires.
With the assistance of the Audit Committee, the the impact of a somewhat lower level of retention as a result Board at least annually reviews the effectiveness of internal of more agents ceasing trading has been minimal and has controls.
been counter-balanced by increased spending among new homes developers.
11 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The place to nd homes % 23% of home buyers first saw their new home 23 on Rightmove.
co. uk 12 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Second, we face further competition from traditional media modest increases in overheads.
On a like-for-like basis, companies seeking to defend a threatened franchise, as well excluding Holiday Lettings Limited, the margin in 2007 was as from potential new entrants.
We subscribe to the view that 55.3%.
providing the best service to our members is the strongest form of defence.
Taxation Third, the rate of adoption of our new services and the rate The Groups consolidated tax rate for the year ended 31 at which advertising spend switches from traditional to online December 2007 was 31% 2006: 40%.
The difference media are uncertain.
On the one hand, a tougher market is between this and the standard rate of tax of 30% relates likely to result in reduced discretionary spend on advertising chiey to non-deductible costs.
On the other hand, the big opportunities for significant savings by agents lie in their newspaper spending Share-based payment IFRS 2 which dwarfs their online outlay.
In accordance with IFRS 2, a non-cash charge of 2.3m We believe there are limited risks relating to operational 2006: 2.2m is included in the income statement failures, to financial and legal exposures, to fraud or representing amortisation of the fair value of share options embezzlement or from onerous commercial obligations or granted, including Sharesave options, since November 2002. liabilities.
The business has few tangible assets and the major intellectual assets are tied up in the design of our website and Earnings per share in our brand identity, recognition and reputation.
Earnings per ordinary share of 15.2p 2006: 3.6p is based on profit after taxation and a weighted average of Financial position 123,023,728 shares in issue 2006: 122,468,206.
Underlying earnings per ordinary share based on continuing Margin growth operations and before share-based payments, NI on share Year Year options under issue, otation and capital reconstruction ended 31 ended 31 costs was 18.7p 2006: 10.5p.
2nd half 2nd half December 1st half 2nd half December 2007 2007 2007 2006 2006 2006 Underlying Balance sheet operating Total shareholders funds amounted to 12.4m at margin % 51.9 56.1 54.2 54.7 50.1 52.1 31 December 2007 2006: 16.0m.
Non-current assets rose from 4.1m to 11.0m chiey as a result of goodwill based upon operating profit from continuing operations and before arising on the acquisition of Holiday Lettings Limited.
share-based payments, NI on share options under issue, otation Trade and other receivables increased from 2.9m to and capital reconstruction costs.
The above gures are unaudited.
11.2m in part due to the strong growth in revenue but also as a result of a change in the Value Added Tax VAT tax The operating margin for the year increased from 52.1% to point date.
The latter resulted in a requirement to raise the 54.2% as a consequence of strong revenue growth and more January 2008 invoices in December 2007 thereby increasing 13 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The buyers preference % 68% found the internet more useful than the 68 local newspaper 14 RIGHTMOVE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Current trading and outlook trade and other receivables as at 31 December 2007 by Rightmove continues to be in excellent shape as the website approximately 4.5m.
Other debtors also included blocked of choice for UK home hunters to nd all available property.
cash balances of 0.9m which arose on the capital From our advertisers viewpoint, Rightmove remains a small reconstruction carried out at the end of 2006. proportion of their marketing spend and delivers a dramatically Trade and other payables rose from 5.8m to 14.7m.
enhanced return on investment compared to alternatives.
As a consequence of the change in VAT tax point date Our strategy continues to focus on creating and realising explained above, deferred income increased by 4.5m and the value we bring to the process of helping people nd a other taxation payable by 0.7 million.
Furthermore costs of home and helping UK property professionals to be successful 1.3m associated with the Scheme of Arrangement in selling homes.
This strategy seems all the more relevant completed in January 2008 were accrued.
during the stage of the housing market cycle where the real challenge for our customers is that of nding buyers.
Cash ow The outlook for continued growth remains strong.
Indeed, Net cash at 31 December 2007 was 11.8m 2006: 14.9m good progress has been achieved in the closing months of with operating profit converting into operating cash ow at 2007, despite the slowdown beginning to bite, and we have slightly above 100% as a consequence of a broadly neutral made a good start to 2008.
The Board is confident of meeting movement in trade working capital, notwithstanding the its expectations for 2008. significant growth in sales.
A total of 19.5m was invested during 2007 in the repurchase of own shares 2006: nil while a further 6.2m was paid out by way of dividends 2006: 1.9m.
Capital reconstruction On 30 January 2008, the capital reconstruction of the Group became effective following approval by the Court.
As was Ed Williams Graham Zacharias outlined in a shareholder circular dated 11 December 2007, Director Director the object of this exercise was to create additional distributable reserves to allow Rightmove to continue its current strategy of returning capital to shareholders via dividends and share buy backs, subject to market conditions.
The costs involved in this exercise amounting to 1.7m have been fully accounted for in the 2007 results.
