Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 18 Governance Financial statements Business review Our business One core technology many uses We apply technology advances across our businesses creating value byinventing once, using many times.
While the market can be temporarily disrupted The expansion of trade and technological Market outlook by external events, such as war or acts of advances mean more ship construction for The Group operates in four long-term terrorism, it has, in the past, always returned growth and for replacement as older designs global markets civil and defence aerospace, to its long-term growth trend.
Finding and extracting oil marine and energy.
These markets present, and gas oshore requires a large number of in aggregate, an opportunity of some two In addition to the demand for engines, oating drilling and production units which, trillion US dollars over the next 20 years and the Group forecasts a market opportunity in turn, are supported by a variety of service have common characteristics.
All these markets worth US$550 billion for the provision craft.
Merchant and oshore markets are have very high entry barriers and: of product related aftermarket services.
rarely at the same stage of the business oer the opportunity for organic growth: cycle, which helps to reduce overall volatility.
Defence aerospace feature extraordinarily long programme In naval markets, the Group expects surface The Group forecasts that demand for military lives, usually measured in decades: vessels to represent 15 per cent of the total engines will be worth US$180 billion over the demand, and submarines five per cent.
can only be addressed through significant next 20 years.
The largest single market is expected investments in technology, infrastructure to be the US, followed by Europe and the Naval markets are driven by dierent and capability: and Far East.
Within Asia, demand will be dominated considerations, with customers looking by Japan, South Korea and India.
Trends are to get more for their budgets, leading to create a significant opportunity for extended driven by the scale of defence budgets and increasing demand for integrated systems customer relationships, with revenues geopolitical developments around the world.
from aftermarket services similar in size to original equipment revenues.
As in the Groups other business sectors, As in the Groups other markets, marine programme lives are long and there is a aftermarket services are expected to generate The size of these markets is generally related significant opportunity to support equipment significant demand, forecast at US$120 billion to world Gross Domestic Product GDP growth, with aftermarket services.
Customers budget over the next 20 years.
or in the case of the defence markets, global constraints and their need to increase the value security and the scale of defence budgets.
they derive from their assets have accelerated Energy the move in this direction.
The Group estimates Civil aerospace The International Energy Agency has forecast the value of services revenues over the next The Group publishes a 20 year global market that over the next 20 years, the worldwide 20 years to be US$300 billion.
outlook, which covers passenger and cargo demand for oil will grow by 40 per cent, jets, corporate and regional aircraft.
We predict for gas by more than 50 per cent and for that over the next 20 years 131,000 engines, Marine power generation by nearly 60 per cent.
worth over US$700 billion, will be required, The Group forecasts demand for marine power To satisfy this demand, there will be a growing for more than 60,000 commercial aircraft and and propulsion systems of US$230 billion over requirement for aero-derived gas turbines.
Demand will be greatest in The Groups 20 year forecast values the total the commercial sector, where the merchant The forecast predicts faster growth rates for aero-derivative gas turbine sales in the oil market represents 50 per cent of the total and long-haul markets and those markets to, from and gas and power generation sectors at the oshore market, 30 per cent.
These markets will continue to US$70 billion.
Over this period, demand for benefit from more liberal air service agreements, Commercial shipping plays a crucial role in associated aftermarket services is expected which boost demand.
The need to transport to be around US$50 billion.
raw materials, nished goods, people, and oil Factors aecting demand include GDP While the oil and gas market is large and and gas requires a large eet which has to be growth, aircraft productivity, operating costs, growing, demand for aero derivatives in the renewed progressively.
environmental issues and the number of old power generation segment is four times that aircraft retirements.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 19 Governance Financial statements Group financial highlights Strategy Order book rm and announced The Group delivered underlying organic We have followed a consistent strategy over bn 45.9 sales growth across all businesses, growth in many years to grow the business profitably underlying profits and a further year of positive based on five key elements: cash ow.
Address four global markets We are a leading power systems company 26.1 operating in the civil and defence aerospace, 24.4 21.3 marine and energy markets.
Europe 18.7 Invest in technology, capability and Americas infrastructure Middle East Over the past five years, we have invested Asia 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 3.5 billion in research and development.
We invest approximately 30 million annually Record order book Order book has increased Underlying revenues on training and some 300 million a year on Our order book continues by 76 per cent compared 7,817 to be balanced with market to 2006 capital projects.
m success in all the major 7,353 regions of the world.
Develop a competitive portfolio 6,458 of products and services 5,947 76% 5,645 We have more than 50 current product programmes and we are involved in many of the major future projects in the markets we serve.
These key projects will define the power systems market for many years.
Grow market share and installed product base 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Across the Group, the installed base of engines in service is expected throughout their long Underlying profit before nancing Employees product lives to generate attractive returns 832 39.5 m '000 over several decades.
38.0 36.2 748 35.4 35.2 Add value for our customers through 679 the provision of product-related services We seek to add value for our customers with aftermarket services that will enhance the performance and reliability of our products.
417 375 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total shareholder return over five years Underlying earnings per ordinary share pence 34.06 Rolls-Royce 700 FTSE 100 29.81 600 500 24.48 400 15.62 300 12.20 200 100 12 2002 12 2003 12 2004 12 2005 12 2006 12 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Total Shareholder Return Index Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 20 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Our business continued Cash ow New product launches Key performance indicators In a business requiring significant investment, As discussed in the Chief Executives review on the Board monitors cash ow to ensure that page 11, the Group has broadened its product The Board uses a range of financial and profitability is converted into cash generation, portfolio over the past 20 years.
This portfolio non-financial indicators to monitor Group both for future investment and as a reward for is subject to continuous review and new and segmental performance in line with shareholders.
The Group measures cash ow programmes are launched only after rigorous the strategy described on the previous page.
as the movement in net funds debt during review, where the business case confirms that These indicators are chosen to monitor the year, after taking into account the value of the programme will create shareholder value.
both current performance and the success derivatives held to hedge the value of balances of investments that will sustain and enhance denominated in foreign currencies.
The order book provides an indicator of future Key performance indicators are included Research and development business and is measured at constant exchange in the appropriate sections of the business Investment in research and development rates and list prices and includes both rm review and are as follows: underpins all the elements of the Groups and announced orders.
In civil aerospace, it is strategy.
Programme expenditure is monitored common for a customer to take options for in conjunction with a gated review process future orders in addition to rm orders placed.
Underlying revenue on each programme and progress is reviewed Such options are excluded from the order book.
Monitoring of revenues provides a measure at key milestones.
In defence aerospace, long-term programmes of business growth.
Underlying revenues are are often ordered for only one year at a time.
used in order to eliminate the eect of the In such circumstances, even though there may decision not to adopt hedge accounting and Gross research and development be no alternative engine choice available to to provide a clearer year-on-year measure.
expenditure the customer, only the contracted business is The Group measures foreign currency sales at The Groups research and development included in the order book.
Only the first seven the actual exchange rate achieved as a result activities comprise both self-funded and yearsrevenue of long-term aftermarket of settling foreign exchange contracts from customer funded programmes.
expenditure measures the total research and development activity and is an indicator of the Underlying revenue grew by six per cent eectiveness of the actions taken to improve Training expenditure in 2007 and has grown by eight per cent continuously the Groups intellectual property.
Training is a core element of the Groups compound over the past five years.
investment in its capability and is measured as the expenditure on the training and Research and development as a proportion Underlying profit before nancing development of employees, customers and of underlying sales Underlying profit before nancing is presented suppliers.
Eectiveness is ensured by using Research and development is measured as the on a basis that shows the economic substance a range of external and internal sources, self-funded expenditure before both amounts of the Groups hedging strategies in respect and by gathering user feedback.
capitalised in the year and amortisation of of the transactional exchange rate and previously capitalised balances.
The Group commodity price movements.
In particular, expects to spend approximately five per cent Employee engagement surveys a revenues and costs denominated in US of revenues on research and development Regular surveys are undertaken to identify dollars and Euros are presented on the basis although this proportion will uctuate year-byand address emerging issues.
of the exchange rates achieved during the year depending on the stage of development year, b similar adjustments are made in Training and employee engagement surveys of current programmes.
This measure reects respect of commodity derivatives, and c are discussed further in the corporate the need to generate current returns as well consequential adjustments are made to reect responsibility section of this review.
as to invest for the future.
the impact of exchange rates on trading assets and liabilities and long-term contracts Product cost index on a consistent basis.
The derivation of Capital expenditure Unit costs are a key determinant of the underlying profit before nancing is shown To deliver on its commitments to customers, Groups ability to deliver its commitments in note 2 on page 77 of the consolidated the Group invests significant amounts in its on a profitable basis.
The Group monitors financial statements.
All investments are subject the year-on-year change in the actual average to rigorous review to ensure that they are Underlying profit before nancing grew unit product cost of its gas turbine operations consistent with forecast activity and will provide by 11 per cent in 2007 and has grown by and seeks over time to improve productivity value for money.
Annual capital expenditure 22 per cent compound over the past five years.
in all owned facilities and suppliers.
is measured as the cost of property, plant and equipment acquired during the period.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 21 Governance Financial statements Engine deliveries The Groups installed engine base represents an opportunity to generate future aftermarket business.
Within each business segment except marine as its products do not lend themselves to this measure due to their diversity, this is measured as the number of Group products delivered during the year.
Underlying services revenue Underlying services revenue shows the amount of business during the year that has been generated from the installed engine base.
This is measured as the revenue derived from spare parts, overhaul services and long-term service arrangements.
Percentage of eet under management Long-term contracts are an important way of generating value for customers.
The percentage of eet under management gives a measure of the proportion of the installed base where the future aftermarket arrangements are agreed under long-term contracts.
This is measured as the percentage of gas turbines and submarine propulsion units where the Group has contracted a long-term service arrangement.
In civil aerospace, marine and energy, the percentage is weighted to reect the value of the equipment under management.
The amounts shown for civil aerospace for 2003 and 2004 dier from those disclosed in Annual reports for those years as a result of reecting this weighting.
Emissions Much of the research and development expenditure is focused on reducing emissions of the Groups products.
The Group measures both the emissions of its products and the emissions of its manufacturing operations.
These measures are described in detail in the environment report, Powering a better world, which is available on the Groups website, www.
com Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 22 Governance Financial statements Business review continued Our business continued Business environment risks Principal risks and uncertainties Environmental impact of products and operations The Group continues to be exposed to The Group recognises that its activities have a number of risks and has an established, an impact on the environment and the approach structured approach to identifying, assessing taken is to be part of the solution to resolving and managing those risks.
The risk committee the challenges faced by climate change.
has accountability for the system of risk A high priority is given to responding to the management and regularly reports to the Board challenge of reducing the environmental on the key risks facing the business and the impact of the Groups products and business mitigating actions the Group has put in place activities.
It is recognised that the solutions to deal with them.
The Group has a consistent are not straightforward and that novel strategy and long performance cycles and developments represent both significant consequently the risks faced by the Group have threats and opportunities.
not changed signicantly over the past year.
Our Environment report was published in 2007 The principal risks reect the global growth and shared with key stakeholders.
This details of the business, and the competitive and our global strategy to address the risks and challenging business environment in which reports on our approach to working towards it operates.
Risks are considered under four achieving challenging performance broad headings: improvement targets for noise and carbon dioxide emissions by 2020.
Technology acquisition programmes for more fuel-ecient products form a major part of the management of these risks.
External events which might aect demand for air travel or cause the business to be disrupted Civil aerospace is an important contributor Business environment risks to Group revenues and profits.
The willingness Environmental impact of products of passengers to travel by air is inuenced and operations by a range of factors, including economic, External events which might aect demand for health and security issues.
Exposure to this risk air travel or cause the business to be disrupted is mitigated by the Groups business strategy, which has enabled it to develop a broader, global business base, with the defence, marine and energy businesses being less Strategic risks susceptible to this type of risk.
In addition, Aftermarket the civil aerospace business model, with its Competitive pressures emphasis on increasing aftermarket services revenues, continues to be resilient, providing a high degree of protection against any shortfall in demand.
The Groups ability to respond rapidly to changes in demand through the adjustment of its cost base is a key mitigation.
Financial risks see pages 43-45 Counterparty credit risk, funding, liquidity and credit rating Market risks foreign currency, interest rate and commodity Sales nancing Operational risks Performance of supply chain IT security Ethics Programme risk Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2007 Overview 23 Governance Financial statements Disruption to the Groups business operations Financial risks Ethics and the ability to respond to and recover from These are risks that arise as a result of The Group recognises the benefit that is derived disruption, for example, from an outbreak of movements in financial markets.
Principal risks from conducting business in an ethically and pandemic u, is recognised as a key element are: movements in foreign currency exchange socially responsible manner.
This approach of, and risk to, both financial performance rates, interest rates, commodity prices and extends from the supply of raw materials and and the Companys reputation.
The Groups counterparty credit risk.
components to the manufacture and delivery operations strategy aims to deliver world-class of end products and services.
It applies to the A description of these risks and details of manufacturing capabilities with an increasing provision of a safe and healthy place of work the Groups risk mitigation actions in this area global footprint, providing exibility and and investment in technologies to reduce the are provided in the Finance Directors review ability to respond to disruption.
A Group Crisis environmental impact of the Groups products on pages 43 to 45.
Management framework and plan is in place and operations.
A failure in any of these areas as part of the wider business continuity and could damage the Groups reputation and risk management activities.
Operational risks disrupt its business.
Performance of supply chain The Group is committed to embedding high A significant element of the Groups risk Strategic risks ethical standards and a new Global Code of prole is the delivery performance of its Aftermarket Business Ethics was issued to all employees supply chain.
The Group manufactures The Groups business model is balanced during 2007.
A training and engagement approximately 30 per cent by value of its between original equipment delivery and programme for employees will be completed gas turbine products, the remainder being aftermarket services.
The growth in product during 2008 to strengthen employee awareness provided through external supply chains.
sales has provided a larger base from which to of the Groups values.
The Group communicates Strong growth in order intake has been generate aftermarket revenues.
These continue its standards to its first-tier supply base through experienced and any failure of the supply chain to contribute over half of annual sales and a supplier code of conduct.
would present a risk to the delivery of products are an essential element of the returns the to meet customer requirements and achieve Programme risk Group expects to make from its investments.
The Groups supply chain The Group manages complex product The ability to deliver the operational service to strategy is to seek opportunities to simplify and programmes with demanding technical the satisfaction of its customers while managing globalise the external supply chain by forging requirements against stringent customer the costs of the service, will determine the deeper, strategic relationships with fewer but schedules.
This requires the co-ordination Groups profitability.
The Group is focused stronger global suppliers, working together of the external supply chain, manufacturing on working in partnership with all of its global on design and manufacture.
operations, partners and engineering functions.
customers and driving improvement through Failure to achieve programme goals would have the supply chain to provide a high standard The Group is close to completing the significant financial implications for the Group.
of service to all its customers.
The Group has modernisation of its production facilities, made investments in service delivery capabilities which will improve productivity and reduce The Group employs project management and works closely with its customers to costs.
Investment in developing world-class controls on a routine basis.
All major understand better their requirements, manufacturing processes continues in Asia, programmes are subject to Board approval with a continued focus on standardisation North America and the UK.
In addition, and are regularly reviewed by the Board and processes to manage cost.
the Group has an established global business with a particular focus on any emerging risks.
continuity programme, to manage the risk Competitive pressures of a loss of a major capability or facility.
The markets in which Rolls-Royce operates are highly competitive.
The majority of its IT security programmes are long term in nature and access Continuing globalisation of the business to key platforms is critical to the success of the and advances in technology have resulted business.
This requires sustained investment in more data being transmitted across global in technology, capability and infrastructure, communication links, posing an increased which presents a high barrier to entry.
Security systems operate with these factors alone do not protect the Group the latest technology and Rolls-Royce from competition, including pricing and maintains eective communications with technical advances made by competitors which other industrial companies and the appropriate could adversely aect the Groups results.
government agencies to share information on potential threats.
The Group has developed a balanced business portfolio and maintained a steady improvement in operational performance.
This, together with the establishment of long-term customer relationships and sustained investment in technology acquisition, allows the Group to respond to competitive pressure.
