Shanks Group plc is a modern waste and resource management group serving customers in the United Kingdom, Belgium and the Netherlands.
The Group offers a wide and often innovative range of waste management solutions within its various collection, transport, recycling, treatment and disposal services.
Business Review Within the national markets a further distinction may be made Much of the background information given in last years Business between collection, transfer and recycling and treatment and Review remains valid but it has been updated where appropriate.
The former has historically had low barriers to entry An additional section has been included on the key performance and hence has been made up of many small participants.
indicators KPIs used by management to monitor the business.
Increasing recycling requires greater investment in infrastructure which is moving this market towards the larger players.
The European Waste Market Treatment and disposal have high barriers to entry as facilities Waste management is an essential service.
In societies where tend to be capital intensive and projects have long gestation there is a high level of regulation and enforcement, it is a periods.
These activities are therefore the domain of well sophisticated industry using advanced technologies.
In societies capitalised companies, and are populated by a few large players, with little or no regulation or enforcement, waste tends to be often multinationals.
The markets may also be split between the industrial and In the European Union EU the level of environmental regulation commercial sector and the municipal sector.
In most EU is high, however unlike trade regulations, there are no common countries the municipalities have a statutory duty to deal with standards for waste management.
EU legislation on waste sets household waste, which they either do themselves or use private minimum standards which member nations must meet, however sector contractors.
They have no such duty in respect of they are free to exceed these standards in order to follow their industrial and commercial waste.
The municipal sector is own political and environmental agendas.
The result is that therefore typified by long-term contracts which tend to be 5 to 10 within the EU national regulations differ and there is no single years for collection and often in excess of 20 years for treatment market.
The industrial and commercial sector tends to be a much more short term market, with contracts in excess of a The waste management market can be subdivided into noncouple of years being rare.
The former tends to be a local business, as the relatively low unit cost of treatment makes Market Trends and Drivers transport a significant part of the overall cost.
Hazardous waste There is currently convergence between the waste, energy treatment costs tend to be higher making it a more regional intensive and power industries.
This is being driven by a number business.
of factors: Both the public and the private sector are active in the waste The European Landfill Directive - over time this directive market.
The degree of privatisation varies across Europe: it is seriously restricts the types and quantities of waste that may be high in the United Kingdom and France but lower in Germany, the landfilled by European member states.
Advancing EU legislation is necessitating substantial investment in new infrastructure.
This Landfill tax is a significant mechanism being used by many investment combined with budgetary constraints is driving European states to drive waste out of landfill to more privatisation initiatives in many EU countries.
Within the private environmentally acceptable options.
sector, consolidation of the industry has been a feature for many years.
The new infrastructure requirements and the long term Soaring energy prices have increased the pressure to find nature of the business have recently attracted private equity alternative fuels: waste is one of these.
annual report 2007 facilities The Groups innovative Mechanical Biological Treatment process is a practical solution to the United Kingdoms landfill diversion requirements.
continued Carbon emissions quotas have further increased the cost of government has introduced new legislation which will require preusing fossil fuels.
Waste derived fuels can be exempt from treatment of non-hazardous waste prior to landfilling from carbon emissions calculations, increasing interest in this source October 2007. of fuel.
The Netherlands Renewable electricity - many waste based electricity generation The Netherlands has had some of the most advanced projects qualify for renewable electricity subsidies and credits, environmental legislation in Europe in place for some time.
They available in various forms across Europe.
also have high levels of landfill tax.
These, together with the geological characteristics of the country, have resulted in a low The effects of these drivers vary from country to country.
reliance on landfill, incineration being the predominant final disposal route.
The higher cost and limited capacity of final United Kingdom disposal outlets has made sorting and recycling in the The UKs heavy reliance on landfill means that the imposition of Netherlands more viable and it is not uncommon for recycling the Landfill Directive is having a major impact, particularly on the rates to be 70% or above.
The Dutch market is therefore municipal sector.
Implementation of the directive implies that relatively stable and not subject to the major changes currently some 20 million tonnes per annum of biodegradable municipal occurring in the UK.
This said the significant restrictions imposed waste needs to be diverted from landfill by 2020.
DEFRAs on landfilling in Germany in June 2005 closed off a cheap outlet website estimates that the investment in new infrastructure for significant volumes of Dutch waste residues.
The Dutch required to achieve this is between 600m and 700m per market has now been substantially realigned via higher prices annum for the next 10 years.
In an endeavour to secure least and increased recycling.
cost compliance the Government has introduced the Landfill Allowance Trading Scheme LATS, a tradeable permit scheme Belgium between local authorities.
Here authorities who overachieve In Belgium, environmental responsibility is devolved to the three against their landfill diversion requirements may sell their regions: Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels.
The Flemish overachievement to an underachieving authority.
Failure by an legislation is very similar to that in the Netherlands.
In the authority either to meet its diversion requirements or to secure Walloon Region a reasonable proportion of municipal waste is the necessary LATS, results in a 150 per tonne penalty for the still landfilled as, unlike industrial and commercial waste, there excess.
In parallel, the government has stated that landfill tax is currently very little landfill tax on municipal waste.
This is not will increase.
Landfill tax is one of the primary drivers for an issue from the Landfill Directive perspective, as the Directive diverting industrial and commercial waste.
In the 2007 Budget applies to entire member states and Belgium as a whole the government increased the annual landfill tax escalator from landfills very little municipal waste due to the low levels of 3 per tonne per annum to 8 starting in April 2008 and landfilling in Flanders and Brussels.
There is however a political committed to keeping it at this level until April 2010.
This means move to reduce landfilling, and to this end the Walloon Region that UK landfill tax, which increased to 24 per tonne in April will introduce regional landfill tax on municipal waste in January 2007, will rise to 48 per tonne in 2010, a similar amount to 2008.
This will start at 20 per tonne and rise to 60 per the tax on industrial and commercial waste in the Benelux.
The effective cost of these taxes to private Another driver for the industrial and commercial waste market is sector companies is increased by 52% as in Belgium regional restriction of the type of waste that can be landfilled.
A environmental taxes are non-deductible for corporation tax significant milestone of the European Landfill Directive is the purposes.
Like the United Kingdom the Walloon Region has also restriction on landfilling of untreated non-hazardous waste.
The introduced new legislation which will require pre-treatment of 6 shanks.
annual report 2007 people Universally our greatest asset!
continued non-hazardous waste prior to landfilling from October 2007 in Principal Risks and their mitigation order to comply with the Landfill Directive the Flemish and The performance of our commercial and industrial businesses is Brussels Regions and the Netherlands are already substantially linked to the economic activity in the sectors we serve.
We are compliant with these requirements.
therefore exposed to fluctuations in these sectors across our national markets.
We mitigate this risk by diversifying our The Brussels Region has no landfills, it has its own incinerator customer base where possible.
but beyond that it is reliant on the other regions for final disposal.
In addition to this general economic risk there are a number of waste industry specific risks: Strategy It is the Groups belief that to maximise the value generation it is Environmental Legislation and Its Interpretation necessary to be a top two player in a particular geographical As already mentioned, regulation is a key driver of the waste market.
This criterion applies to local markets, and is not market.
The ability of individual countries, and indeed regions in important at a country or European level.
The Groups strategy is the case of Belgium, to set their own legislation makes this a to expand existing operations via a combination of organic very complex field.
This is further complicated by the rapid rate growth and tuck-in acquisitions.
Should an opportunity arise to of change in legislation resulting from the increased profile of move into a new market area we would only pursue it if it met environmental issues.
Changes in the legislation or its this criterion.
interpretation can have a significant and far reaching impact on markets.
The Group endeavours to mitigate this risk by The rapidly changing market in the United Kingdom presents employing high quality management in each of our divisions to some specific opportunities.
In the next 5 years some 30% of influence the evolving legislative framework.
We therefore actively the UK market for municipal waste treatment will be tendered as lobby for our interests at European, national and regional levels.
local authorities strive to meet the EU Landfill Directive targets.
We have already secured three of these contracts, the ELWA Environmental Compliance contract being the largest PFI waste contract closed to date.
The All operating sites and activities are regulated by environmental Group intends to pursue these opportunities vigorously using our authorities in line with the requirements set out within licences innovative MBT technology where appropriate.
Our goal is to and permits.
These licences and permits are required to carry on secure contracts over the next five years which will increase the the business, therefore the negotiation of, and compliance with, total waste under management to 2 million tonnes per annum.
their terms is of paramount importance.
Maintaining the highest environmental standards is also important to ensure continuing It is strongly believed that advancing regulatory pressure from acceptance of operations by host communities, and to satisfy the EU Landfill Directive coupled with steeply rising landfill tax customers.
will drive industrial and commercial waste from landfill into the newer higher value added services on which the Group now Details of how the Group monitors and controls environmental concentrates.
The business model already operating in our compliance are given below in The Environment and The continental operations provides the example and much of the Community section of this report.
annual report 2007 recyclate More and more the use once culture is discouraged.
Health and Safety The waste management industry is recognised as one of the Table 1: Group Activities most hazardous sectors in which to work.
Shanks employees are Industrial & the Group's most important and valuable asset and their health Commercial Municipal and safety is paramount.
As a result Shanks devotes Non-hazardous Waste considerable management resources to ensuring the highest Collection UK, NL, BE NL, BE health and safety practices are imposed and maintained.
Transfer & recycling UK, NL, BE UK, BE Details can be found below in the Health and Safety section of Treatment NL, BE UK this report.
Landfill disposal UK, NL, BE UK, BE Hazardous Waste The Pace of the UK Municipal Waste Contracts Tender Process Industrial cleaning & transport NL, BE Significant resources are devoted to the bidding process due to Treatment & disposal NL, BE the size and complexity of these contracts.
A consequence is Land remediation UK, NL, BE that there are often unforeseen delays in, and in extreme cases cancellation of the process.
As the investment in the bidding process is only recouped in the event a contract is won, the contract in The Hague area, their first involvement in this activity.
Group regularly reviews the risks and rewards.
The Group also In addition to these waste activities we also operate a sand tries to have its advisors work on a contingency fee basis quarry adjacent to our landfill site in Wallonia and have small wherever possible, and restrict expenditure in the early stage of infrastructure and groundworks operations in Ghent in Belgium a bid when the certainty of success is less.
and Amersfoort in the Netherlands.
Activities and Structure Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Group is a major player in the United Kingdom, the The Groups KPIs can be divided into three categories, health Netherlands and Belgium.
The Belgium activities also incorporate and safety, environmental and operational.
some small activities in France close to the Belgian border.
Health and Safety The Groups organisational structure reflects the national nature Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences of the markets in which it operates, with divisions in the United Regulations RIDDOR is UK law which requires companies to Kingdom, the Netherlands and Belgium.
Management of the report specified more serious accidents and incidents to the Group is decentralised to ensure that the people making the Health and Safety Executive.
While RIDDOR is UK law the Group decisions are close to, and understand, their markets.
This requires all of its operations, no matter which country they are structure is underpinned by strong central financial control.
based in, to report to this common format.
Minor incidents are Throughout the organisation we employ high calibre management also reported.
The minor and RIDDOR KPIs for the current and who are properly trained and motivated.
prior years are given in the Health and Safety section below.
Table 1 summarises the Groups waste activities in each country.
Environmental The acquisition of Smink Beheer BV in the Netherlands has The Group closely monitors compliance with environmental added landfill disposal to the Dutch activities.
The Dutch permits at all locations.
All issues are reviewed at monthly operations have also secured a small municipal collections divisional meetings and, at least quarterly, at Group Board level.
continued Details of prosecutions during 2007 are given in the Environmental Management section below.
Table 2: Operating Returns by Geographical Region Operational 2007 2006 Variance The number of waste activities undertaken by the Group is Revenue m m m % significant, with each site involved in differing ranges of United Kingdom 133 126 7 6% activities.
The performance indicators used to monitor these Belgium 123 110 13 12% activities are varied and range from lifts per day, lifts per Netherlands 253 206 47 23% kilometre and tonnes per lift for collection activities, to input and Continuing 509 442 67 15% output tonnages and final elimination diversion rates for Discontinued 23 treatment and recycling activities.
Also, even where two sites Total 509 465 perform similar activities, the type of customer or urban characteristics of the area the site serves may be quite different.
The result is that whilst non-financial measures are extremely 2007 2006 Variance Operating Profit m m m % important at an activity or site level, they are of very limited United Kingdom 3.2 4.1 0.9 -22% value when aggregated across sites or activities.
For this reason Belgium 17.3 15.7 1.6 10% the KPIs used at a regional or country level are financial in Netherlands 31.0 23.5 7.5 32% nature, being those common to most businesses namely Central Services 5.3 4.4 0.9 20% revenue, operating profit, cash flows and return on capital Continuing 46.2 38.9 7.3 19% employed.
Details of these for the three business units are Discontinued 0.4 included in the Operating Review section below.
Total 46.2 39.3 2007 Operating Review Thanks are once again due to the staff who have responded superbly to the industrys rapidly changing conditions to deliver a 2007 2006 Variance Operating Cash Flow m m m 19% improvement in operating profit from continuing operations United Kingdom 14.3 0.5 13.8 which increased 7.3m to 46.2m 2006: 38.9m.
Chart 1 and Belgium 21.8 16.1 5.7 Table 2 give an overview of the Groups operating returns by Netherlands 33.2 20.6 12.6 geographical region.
Central Services 5.6 4.4 1.2 Total 35.1 31.8 3.3 Chart 1: Operating Profit Split by Region Return on Capital Employed 2007 2006 Variance 6% United Kingdom after PFI Project Financing %%% United Kingdom 17 18 -1 60% Netherlands Belgium 55 50 5 Netherlands 12 9 3 Group 15 13 2 34% Belgium 10 shanks.
annual report 2007 materials processing A wide variety of processes is used to separate waste streams into their recyclable fractions.
United Kingdom Contaminated Land Services was down year on year due to a Operating profit was down 0.9m at 3.2m 2006: 4.1m.
The particularly large contract in the previous year and low market major factors behind this are summarised in Table 3 below.
The outlook is more promising with the potential of significant work from the clean up of the 2012 Olympics site in East London.
Table 3: The first of our innovative Mechanical Biological Treatment MBT United Kingdom Operating Profit Major Factor Analysis facilities used on the East London Waste Authority ELWA PFI 2007 2006 Change m m m contract and that used on the Dumfries and Galloway D&G Operating profit 3.2 4.1 0.9 contract are now operational.
Construction of the second ELWA Major factors: facility was interrupted by financial problems at a subcontractor Solid Waste 1.8 during the second half.
This has now been resolved and Joint ventures 0.6 commissioning is underway, albeit a couple of months later than Contaminated Land Services 1.2 planned.
This will not affect the scheduled price rise in summer Scottish PFI contracts 1.5 2007 which will address the current predicted squeeze in profits Overheads and PFI bid team 0.5 on the project.
Property disposals and other 1.1 Total 0.9 Stricter interpretation of landfill regulations by the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency SEPA is causing costs to rise significantly on the former local authority landfill sites now managed by the Group within the D&G and Argyll & Bute A&B Solid Waste improved significantly on prior year aided by the PFI contracts.
Lower investment returns will result.
The mitigation acquisition and integration of Eden Recycling and the waste programme started early in the year is beginning to yield management and recycling activities of John W Hannay & Co benefits.
The MBT facility in the D&G contract is not affected by Limited during the first half of the year.
In the Central Belt of this issue.
Scotland virtually all waste collected by our vehicles now passes through a recycling centre: there is very little that goes directly to Finally one-off profits from surplus property disposals were landfill.
Across the board recycling levels are increasing as we significantly lower than in 2006. move towards our Benelux model of collection fleets feeding large regional recycling centres which allow waste to be diverted from Belgium landfill to more cost effective outlets.
We see this as a significant Operating profit improved 10% on last years already strong competitive advantage as the market shifts to accommodate the performance to 17.3m 2006: 15.7m.
The major factors ban on landfilling of untreated non-hazardous waste from October behind this are summarised in Table 4.
2007 and the escalation in the rate of landfill tax: now scheduled to increase by 8 per tonne per annum.
All three Belgian regions showed a marked improvement, particularly in the industrial and commercial sector.
Our landfill in Our joint venture landfills have improved due to increased waste Wallonia continued to benefit from bonus volumes diverted from inputs and, at the Avondale site, additional green electricity public sector incinerators experiencing operational difficulties.
There was also a full years benefit from the enlarged Lige municipal collection contract which commenced in July 2005.
continued The acquisition of Smink Beheer BV on 30 June 2006 has expanded our geographical coverage eastwards from our strong Table 4: Belgian Operating Profit Major Factor Analysis presence in the Randstad area.
The performance in the first nine 2007 2006 Change m m m months, which is in line with our acquisition plan, has Operating profit 17.3 15.7 1.6 significantly enhanced earnings.
Major factors: Industrial & commercial Solid Waste 1.7 In December 2006 we completed a second tuck-in acquisition for Municipal collections 0.2 10m which will augment our collection and recycling activities in Other 0.3 The Hague.
Total 1.6 Profits from the existing solid waste businesses have improved.
In June 2005 disposal costs rose sharply as the result of the During the year one small tuck-in acquisition costing 0.6m was introduction of the landfill ban in Germany, depressing results.
The effect of these cost increases had been substantially completed.
mitigated by the start of the current year by increased recycling and price increases.
The construction industry, a major source of The outlook for the coming year is that the contribution from landfill will fall as the bonus volumes are unlikely to be repeated customers, is also buoyant boosting activity levels.
and restrictions on landfilling of non-hazardous waste from October 2007 and increased landfill tax on municipal waste from Our hazardous waste treatment activities performed well due in part to increased activity in the petrochemical sector, stimulated January 2008 divert waste away from landfill.
The Netherlands Operating profit in the Netherlands improved 32% to 31.0m Central Services Central Service costs increased by 0.9m to 5.3m 2006: 2006: 23.5m.
The key factors are summarised in Table 5.
The major elements within this were higher recruitment costs associated with the appointment of new Board Directors and increased provision for National Insurance on share options Table 5: as the share price has risen.
The Netherlands Operating Profit Major Factor Analysis 2007 2006 Change m m m Operating profit 31.0 23.5 7.5 Major factors: Smink including synergies 4.7 Solid Waste 2.5 Hazardous Waste 0.2 Other 0.1 Total 7.5 12 shanks.
annual report 2007 processed material There is a continuing quest to return high quality recyclates to the economy.
Financial Review entering into interest rate swaps to match its future cash inflows The background to the Groups trading performance is given in and outflows.
Under IAS 39 these swaps must be valued at the Operating Review above.
The contributions to revenue and current market value irrespective of the commercial reasons for operating profit from acquisitions during the year were 37.0m entering into them.
Revaluation of these swaps can lead to large and 5.5m respectively, the majority being attributable to the accounting gains or losses but does not affect the long term Smink Beheer BV acquisition.
profitability of the contract as the Group has matched its long term revenue and costs.
Whilst IAS 39 does allow these gains Finance charges for the continuing business increased 2.1m to and losses to be taken directly to reserves, it is on the proviso 7.0m, before taking into account the International Accounting that onerous verification requirements are fulfilled.
The Group Standard IAS 39 change in market value of financial believes it is not worth expending significant resources fulfilling instruments see below.
This increase reflected interest rate these requirements in respect of an item that does not reflect rises since last year and the higher level of core borrowings, due commercial reality.
These changes in value are excluded from our to acquisitions.
There was a 6.9m favourable 2006: 3.7m adverse change in the market value of these swaps during the The IAS 39 change in market value of financial instruments year.
relates to interest rate swaps which fix the interest rate on PFI contract borrowing.
At the financial close of a PFI contract the The average tax rate on Headline Profit fell to 33% 2006: 34%.
price of the service is determined by, inter alia, the long term This was attributable to a reduction in the Dutch headline rate interest rate available in the market.
The Group therefore from 29.6% to 25.5% in January 2007.
The underlying rates of protects itself against future fluctuations in interest rates by tax in the United Kingdom and Belgium remained unchanged at Table 6: Summarised Group Income Statement 2007 2006 Variance m m m Revenue 509 442 67 Operating profit 46.2 38.9 7.3 Finance charges 7.0 4.9 2.1 Headline profit 39.2 34.0 5.2 IAS 39 adjustment 6.9 3.7 10.6 Profit before tax from continuing operations 46.1 30.3 15.8 Tax - Headline 33% 2006: 34% 12.8 11.6 1.2 Tax - IAS 39 adjustment 2.0 1.1 3.1 Profit after tax from continuing operations 31.3 19.8 11.5 Loss after tax discontinued - operations 0.2 0.2 Profit after tax discontinued - disposal 10.8 10.8 Profit for the year 31.3 30.4 0.9 13 shanks.
In Belgium the effective rate on Waste businesses.
There was a 4m favourable movement on landfill derived profits is higher as landfill tax is non-deductible the translation of the Groups Euro denominated debt into for corporation tax.
This is mitigated via a deduction for notional Sterling, giving an increase in core net debt of 58m.
interest on Belgian equity introduced in January 2006.
The non-recourse aggregated net debt in the PFI companies Average Euro Sterling exchange rates have been stable year on increased by 18m mainly due to the funding of the construction year and so have had little impact on reported profits.
Small work in the ELWA and D&G contracts.
differences in year end rates have had a minor impact on the balance sheet.
Capital Expenditure The Group spent 69m net on capital expenditure 2006: 76m Cash Flow of which 39m was in the core business and 30m on PFI Details of the Groups cash flow performance are summarised in contracts.
The core business maintenance capital expenditure Table 7 below.
was 28m 2006: 23m, asset disposal proceeds were 2m and expenditure on growth projects was 13m.
Major growth The underlying cash generated by the core business was 6m projects in the core business included the expansion of the after net capital expenditure of 39m.
The 65m outflow on sorting facilities at one of our Dutch Solid Waste sites, extra acquisitions is the amount paid plus net debt in the acquired storage facilities at our ATM hazardous waste treatment facility in entities.
In the case of Smink this was a significant positive cash Moerdijk and additional green electricity generation at our joint balance.
The discontinued and exceptional cash outflow of 3m venture landfill in Scotland.
comprises costs related to the UK reorganisation instigated in 2004 and the disposed of UK Landfill and Power and Hazardous The capital expenditure on PFI contracts relates principally to Table 7: Summarised Group Cash Flow 2007 2006 Core PFI Total Total Variance m m m m m Operating profit 47 1 46 39 7 Depreciation & landfill provisions 35 35 30 5 EBITDA 82 1 81 69 12 Working capital movement 9 4 5 2 7 Net capital expenditure 39 30 69 76 7 Interest, tax, dividends and other 46 17 29 20 9 Underlying cash flow 6 18 12 29 17 Acquisitions 65 65 4 61 Discontinued & exceptional 3 3 29 32 Exchange 4 4 2 6 Debt movement before fair value of interest rate swaps 58 18 76 6 70 14 shanks.
annual report 2007 public recycling facilities High quality facilities make it easy for the public to recycle.
construction of MBT facilities at our ELWA and D&G contracts.
insurance is then used to mitigate these risks.
The level of cover This expenditure is treated as Financial Asset advances.
put in place will depend on the nature of the risks and the cost and extent of cover available in the market.
The majority of our Treasury insurances are renewed annually.
The Groups treasury policy is to use financial instruments with a spread of maturity dates and sources in order to reduce funding The Group uses renowned international brokers to advise on risk risk.
Borrowings are drawn in the same currencies as the management, appropriate insurers, cover levels and benchmarking.
underlying investment to reduce cash and net translation exposure on exchange rate movements.
No other currency Insurance requirements for our UK PFI contracts are set out in hedging mechanisms are used.
The Group maintains a the funding and project agreements.
significant proportion of its debt on fixed rates of interest in order to protect interest cover.
Pensions The Group uses IAS 19 Employee Benefits to account for The Groups principal financing is a 250m multicurrency pensions.
The pension charge for the continuing business for the revolving credit facility with five major banks expiring in April year has increased to 6.6m 2006: 5.7m.
Adjusting for cash, this facility was less than 50% utilised benefit obligations, which relate solely to the defined benefit at 31 March 2007.
The 2001 notes issued under the Groups section of our UK scheme, have reduced to 8.4m 2006: private placement of 35m have maturity dates between 2009 10.3m.
The majority of pension arrangements within our and 2013.
The Group also has 26m of working capital facilities Belgian and Dutch operations are considered to be defined with various banks.
Each of the Groups PFI projects has senior debt facilities which The defined benefit section of the UK scheme was closed to new contribute approximately 85% of the capital funding required.
members in September 2002 and new employees are now These facilities are secured on the future cash flows of the PFI offered a defined contribution arrangement.
During the year a companies with no recourse to the Group as a whole.
triennial actuarial valuation was completed based on the assets Repayment of these facilities, and any equity bridge facility in and liabilities as at 5 April 2006.
This showed a funding deficit respect of the remaining capital funding, commences when of 2.5m, 19.2m less than the previous valuation.
The main construction is complete and concludes one to two years prior to factors which have affected the funding position since the the expiry of the PFI contract period.
As the Group currently previous valuation are: holds 100% of the equity in its PFI companies, the net debt of 123m is fully consolidated in the Group balance sheet.
The favourably: the returns on the scheme assets and additional maximum which could be drawn down under these facilities at contributions over and above the ongoing service cost.
additional contributions include a total of 15m paid into the scheme following the sale of the UK Landfill and Power Insurance business in 2004 and the UK Hazardous waste activities in The Group places all its insurance with leading insurance 2005 in respect of the residual liabilities of those employees companies with sound financial credentials.
For obligatory who became deferred pensioners as a result of the sales: insurances, the policy is to obtain the necessary cover at competitive rates.
For other areas, regular risk assessments are adversely: the reduction in gilt yields and increase in the life undertaken to identify and assess risks: where appropriate expectancy of the members.
continued Going Concern waste management industry was published which the Group The Directors, having reviewed the Groups 2007 8 budget, its helped prepare in conjunction with both the UK waste industry medium term plans and its banking arrangements are satisfied trade association the Environmental Services Association and that the Group has sufficient resources to continue operations the Environment Agency for England and Wales.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Environmental management The Group is committed to setting high standards of waste The Environment and the Community management and to co-operating with all regulatory authorities in The Groups approach to its business is clearly outlined in a ensuring safe and environmentally acceptable working practices Statement of Business Principles and Corporate Ethics publicly for all its activities.
The Group aims to manage and reduce any available alongside all other corporate publications on our negative impacts of its business on the environment, including website at www.
The Environmental Policy, available on our website, sets out principles applicable across the Group.
The commitment to achieve business goals by acting with Implementation of the policy is a line management responsibility honesty, integrity, openness and fairness is plainly stated, within each of the separate operating companies of the Group, together with a clear and public definition of acceptable business requiring participation of all employees.
The statement also provides staff with the Group vision and guidance on dealings with stakeholders such as All waste management facilities within the Group have a site shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and contractors, licence, authorisation or permit, regulated by the relevant as well as covering the specific areas of environmental environmental regulators.
Site managers are responsible for protection and health and safety.
environmental issues, supported by various personnel such as environmental co-ordinators and management systems The Group is committed to making a significant contribution to personnel.
managing societys waste in a sustainable and acceptable manner.
All operating sites are regulated by environmental The majority of sites across the Group have Environmental authorities against requirements set out within licences and Management Systems EMS externally certified to ISO14001.
Data on emissions from our facilities is Other certifications are also held, including the ISO9001 quality submitted to the regulators and is publicly available.
In addition assurance system standard, and in Belgium and the we report on our performance within our annual Safety, Health Netherlands, the Veiligheids Checklist Aannemers VCA standard and Environment SHE Report.
This document is available on our Contractors Safety Checklist, a health and safety standard website.
which also focuses on the environment.
The Group was, once again, included within the FTSE4Good UK The Group has a well developed system of environmental index: a measurement of corporate social responsibility reporting at both operating board and Group Board level.
Where administered by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service, for appropriate the Group uses systems developed by the the independent FTSE Group.
There are a number of other environmental regulators such as the risk based Operator and benchmarking initiatives such as the annual Business in the Pollution Risk Appraisal OPRA system developed by the Environment BiE Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
Environment Agency in England and Wales.
In the Netherlands, The Group participated in the 2006 BiE Index and was scored as where environmental permits are of a more uniform type, we a silver band achiever 83.1%.
In 2006 a Sector Plan for the UK utilise a bespoke environmental software tool.
annual report 2007 health & safety Paramount in all that we do!
In our SHE Report we report against a range of indicators A summary of their activities for the review period will be including full disclosure of any prosecutions or fines.
Table 8 included in the SHE Report for 2007.
The EAB meets the Group summarises the prosecutions and fines imposed on our Chief Executive four times per year and the EAB Chairman operations during the 2007 financial year.
presents to the Group Board annually.
The EAB is free to visit any site within the Shanks Group and from time to time has also undertaken benchmarking visits to other waste management companies.
Table 8: Prosecutions and Fines 2007 Fine k Details Employees UK None Employees remain the Group's most important and valuable Belgium 0.8 Deficiencies identified during environmental inspection asset.
The Group has a management philosophy aimed at ensuring all employees feel respected and able to fulfil their Belgium 0.4 Discharge of non-compliant effluent Netherlands 6.8 Discharge of non-compliant effluent potential.
Dignity at work is a fundamental principle, which underpins all of our employment policies.
Equal opportunities is Netherlands 2.0 Breach of hazardous waste transport regulations at the heart of recruitment and employment practices and the Group is committed to the principle that it must invest in its people to ensure that they have the business, commercial and Prosecutions and fines in previous years are reported in previous technical skills appropriate to our industry to provide the best Environmental Reports available on our website.
possible service to the customer.
During the year, the Group published its seventh annual A culture of two-way communication is actively promoted and Environmental Report, once again covering all three operating Trade Unions, Works Councils and other employee groups are divisions: the United Kingdom, Belgium and the Netherlands.
the Report performance is measured in a quantitative manner using a set of environmental performance indicators developed Health and Safety by the Environmental Services Association in conjunction with the Waste management is a hazardous industry.
The 2007 Environmental Report will be published figures for all of the countries the Group operates in, show later in the year.
In 2006 we merged our Environmental Report sector accident rates well above the average and it is incumbent and our Health and Safety Report into a single Safety, Health on waste management companies to rise to this challenge and and Environment SHE document.
Data for previous years is place health and safety at the top of their agendas.
In addition, waste management is one of Europes fastest changing industries.
New technologies and the increasing trend Environmental Advisory Board towards recycling and recovery both place pressures on safety The Group set up an Environmental Advisory Board EAB in 1989 performance.
The Groups health and safety performance record, to act as an independent assessor of its environmental set against this background of a challenging environment, is first management and performance and to give advice on class with an accident performance that is more than twice as environmental and related matters.
Chaired by Professor James good as the sector average.
Bridges, the Emeritus Professor of Toxicology and Environmental Health at the University of Surrey, the EAB membership comprises All of the Groups operations have comprehensive safety a range of international environmental and technical specialists.
In the UK these are powered by a 17 shanks.
continued dedicated Safety Department staffed with qualified safety Group as a whole achieved a 9% reduction in its serious advisors.
In the Netherlands and Belgium, because of the accident rate over the year, a more than creditable result.
differing structure of the company in these countries, each operational unit has its own safety professional.
The Wider Community The Group strives to achieve effective communications with all To ensure co-ordination between operations, nominated safety stakeholders and seeks to secure good relations with advisors from each country report statistics such as accident operational site neighbours.
Increasingly, the internet and and incident performance into the UK Safety Department using a intranet are utilised as modern communications tools and the common system.
In addition, the Groups Health and Safety Group has developed its website as a source of easily Committee, consisting of safety advisors from each country of accessible and understandable information.
Informal operation, meets regularly to spread good practice and share discussions, meetings, newsletters, exhibitions and, where experience.
This performance measurement and co-ordination regarded as appropriate by interested parties, formal liaison system ensures that at a Group level management is both groups, remain among the more traditional methods employed.
informed on safety risk issues and is able to intervene to All sites subscribe to the open door policy for pre-arranged produce improvement.
visits and some also provide additional educational resources for students and community groups.
In June 2006 the Group held its first Group Health and Safety Conference.
This was attended by 24 safety professionals from the operations in Belgium, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
The major theme of the conference was risk control across the Group with the aim of spreading good practice and moving towards more common standards.
Improvements and outcomes from this conference have already been implemented in the operations and it is planned to repeat the event in 2008.
Table 9 below shows the accident performance for 2007 and 2006 by country of operation and overall.
Of note is that the Table 9: Accident Numbers and Rates 2007 2006 Minor RIDDOR Minor RIDDOR Minor rate RIDDOR rate Minor rate RIDDOR rate United Kingdom 109 10,400 27 2,500 133 12,700 28 2,700 Belgium 100 11,050 42 4,600 92 10,200 46 5,100 The Netherlands 48 2,550 41 2,350 53 3,400 40 2,500 Group 257 6,700 110 2,900 278 7,700 114 3,200 Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR is UK law which requires companies to report specified more serious accidents and incidents to the Health and Safety Executive.
While RIDDOR is UK law the Group requires all of its operations, no matter which country they are based in, to report to this common format.
2006 figures have been adjusted since last years Annual Report following reclassification of incidents between minor and RIDDOR in Belgium.
