business Review david williaMs gaReth davies chief executive finance diRectoR contents  09 intRoduction to siG 13 siGs stRateGy for specialist products.
15 Key PeRfoRmance indicatoRs 16 tRadinG PeRfoRmance siG has continually expanded the range 18 financial Review 23 outlooK of products it sells to specialist contracting 23 ResouRces 25 oPeRational RisK manaGement companies and professional trades.
26 tReasuRy RisK manaGement 27 otheR matteRs glossaRy of teRMs like for like is defined as the business excluding the impact of acquisitions made since 1 January 2006. underlying is before the amortisation of acquired intangibles and hedge ineffectiveness.
the continued pursuit and application of the groups clear growth strategy has once again driven excellent increases in sales, profits and earnings per share.
08 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice this Business Review has been prepared by the Board solely for the the Parent company of the Group, siG plc, oversees and supports the members of siG plc.
it is intended to provide shareholders with a summary strategic development of each business via the activities of the Group Board, of the development, performance and financial position of the Group for 2007. and the corporate development and Group finance teams.
it also provides details of the main trends and factors underlying the years results and which are likely to affect future performance and describes the sIGs market sectors , strategies, valuesandresources, over the last two decades, siG has continually expanded the range of products together with the main risks and uncertainties it faces.
a cautionary comment it sells to specialist contracting companies and professional trades.
siG now sells relating to forward looking statements is provided on page 27. products into four distinct market sectors across a number of different countries as set out below: IntroductIon to sIG specialist siG plc is a leading supplier of specialist products to professionals in the building, Roofing Construction construction and related industries, with 779 trading sites throughout the uK, and external commercial and safety ireland and mainland europe and employs over 12,100 people.
insulation elements interiors Products united Kingdom founded in 1957 in sheffield, uK, siG has grown from a single site insulation ireland distribution business into a multinational specialist distribution business operating Germany and austria in four different market sectors.
the company was listed on the london stock exchange in may 1989 and is a constituent member of the ftse 250 index france listed within the support services sector.
Poland Benelux on 12 march 2008, the share price closed at 7.645. at this date there czech Republic and slovakia were 135,002,485 shares in issue, giving a market capitalisation at that date of 1,032m.
sIGs orGanIsatIonal structure siGs operations are managed on a countrybycountry basis.
within each country there is dedicated divisional management focusing on each market sector.
this is critical to the success of the business, ensuring that focus is provided to both the customer requirements and the supply chain required to service the customer.
Back office functions such as hR, it, finance, property and fleet management are provided on a country basis and are shared across business units in a country where it is appropriate and economic to do so.
sIGs products Roofing and specialist construction Insulation external elements commercial Interiors and Safety Products thermal insulation flat roofing suspended ceilings Mechanical fixings and accessories fire protection Roofing felts glass, polyester partitioning fixings and fastenings and torchons acoustic insulation cleanroom technology products groundwork products Bitumen dry lining shoring equipment doorsets Roof lights and domes Geotextiles Refrigeration and cold storage category lighting solar reflective paints Reinforcement products flooring dry lining slating and tiling Ground stabilisation products heating and ventilation products concrete tiles fire protection temporary fencing and scaffolding industrial lining clay tiles insulation Masonry components Promenade tiles pipe insulation Raised access floors construction chemicals slates natural and manmade Roofing insulation column encasements shingles safety helmets waterproofing office acoustic screens sheeting and cladding protective clothing air handling and air treatment noise control fire cement sheeting safety glasses office furniture and storage products mastic asphalt safety boots fixing products Profiled metal sheeting ear plugs Rainwater goods gloves Roofline products dust respirators soffits facias Barge boards ventilation sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 09 business Review continued the coRe sig business offeRing: supply specIalIst contractors wIth specIalIst products In four key markets InsulatIon RoofIng and exteRnal elements CommeRCIal InteRIoRs speCIalIst ConstRuCtIon and safety pRoduCts the non-residential market is sigs largest market segment.
this includes both private and public expenditure on schools, hospitals, prisons, warehouses, leisure complexes, retail developments, sports stadia, airports and offices.
10 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice IntroductIon to sIG contInued pRoviding technical advice and pRoduct expeRtise sIGs actIvItIes siGs customer base values the comprehensive technical knowledge that siG is primarily a distributor handling and supplying specialist products siGs sales staff have of each products specific application to ensure that legal manufactured by other companies.
where products are bespoke to the end and safety standards are met in buildings and industry.
where particularly user, siGs only route to market is by manufacturing products for the specialist complex queries arise, siG is able to call upon advice from its supplier base.
siG currently manufactures partition systems and doorsets this is an important valueadded element of the service offered by siG.
in its uK commercial interiors division.
siG fabricates some custom products no other european company has the depth of experience and expertise in its insulation and Roofing and external elements divisions.
fabrication involves that siG has in its product fields.
adding value by cutting, reshaping or attaching two or more core products together.
the largest fabrication activity is the cutting and shaping of industrial insulation.
enabling contRactoRs to MaxiMise efficient use of labouR siGs contracting activity is focused on the uK, where it installs loft and cavity siGs ability to deliver product at short notice enables contractors to flex wall insulation in residential properties.
their work schedule depending upon the daily needs of the construction site.
this part of the service offering is highly valued by siGs customer base and siG operates under a wide variety of trading names in the respective markets ensures siG maintains its critical role in the supply chain.
and countries in which it has trading sites.
many of these brands are widely recognised throughout their respective market sectors or countries as the pRoviding cRedit teRMs to the contRactoRs leading supplier of focused products and services to customers.
siGs typical customer is relatively small to medium sized.
siG provides credit to enable a contractor generally to fit goods before they are paid for sIGs role In the supply chaIn to ensure continuity of the supply chain.
siG has very well established and the products that siG supplies are specialist in nature and are provided rigorous credit control procedures that limits its risk exposure whilst having to specialist contracting companies and professional trades, both for new regard to the needs of the customer base.
construction and for repairs, maintenance and improvement Rmi.
whilst , theyaremore these drivers have enabled siG to build businesses that are able to differentiate broadly served through the general builders merchant supply chain.
siG provides a crucial role in the specialist building products supply chain by: markets supplIed By sIG siG is well diversified, serving a wide range of industries and markets.
bReaking bulk foR ManufactuReRs the following table provides an indicative estimate, based upon siGs analysis siGs suppliers deliver products in large lorry loads to each of siGs trading of sector information, of the breakdown of the 2007 Group sales into the sites.
for fast moving items the product can often be taken from the end different end markets: of the production line straight to the siG trading site.
this enables the new manufacturers to focus on manufacturing the product as efficiently as possible, total build Rmi and allowing the distributor siG to focus on breaking and distributing the % of % of % of bulk to the many contractors fitting the product.
Group subgroup subgroup nonresidential 54% 57% 43% pRoviding iMMediate availability of pRoduct close Residential 36% 46% 54% to site location industry nonconstruction 10% 56% 44% through its 779 trading sites, contractors are able to obtain product in very quick timeframes to meet the demands of a fast moving construction site.
 the nonresidential market is siGs largest market segment.
this includes both safely and securely, and so the ability to source product quickly overcomes private and public expenditure on schools, hospitals, prisons, warehouses, the problems caused by such a space constraint.
leisure complexes, retail developments, sports stadia, airports and offices.
Residential is siGs second largest market segment.
in this market siG is having the Most extensive deliveRy fleet more heavily weighted to the essential repairs and maintenance market which in the industRy is less sensitive to the economic fluctuations which can impact the new build siG delivers over 70% of its goods sold to the construction site.
siG has a sector and provides a strong underlying market in periods of economic downturn.
wide range of commercial vehicles, including a number of mechanical offload and crane facilities to deliver the product to exactly where it is needed.
the smallest market for siG is industry.
siG predominantly supplies industrial insulation to this market and includes, for example, power stations and process .
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 11 business Review continued demand for sIGs products demand for the products sold by siG is influenced by a wide range of factors.
overall building activity is a main driver, both for residential and nonresidential properties, and also the expenditure on repairs, maintenance and improvement Rmi of all types of existing buildings.
demands for parts of the siG product range are influenced by other specific factors as follows: Business  insulation Regulation in both the uK and europe, environmental awareness and high energy costs are all key drivers for insulation demand.
higher standards of comfort both acoustic and temperature.
insulation usage in new construction is affected by the Building Regulations in operation in each country.
over time, it is expected that governments, businesses and the public will increasingly focus on reducing energy consumption more vigorously than in the past and that as a result insulation demand will continue to rise.
changing climatic conditions make it more a necessity to insulate in order to moderate temperature changes within a building.
Roofing and  external elements weather conditions.
demand for new products to reduce building exterior maintenance costs.
Growth of specialist distribution as the main supply route.
this provides a core product demand.
certain products are used extensively for upgrading existing properties and demand over time is expected to increase as people look for lowmaintenance products to replace traditional highmaintenance painted timber on the exterior of buildings.
increased demand for integrated solutions.
increased need for high security.
siG has experienced a trend towards higher quality internal working environments, for example,  acoustic regulations.
new interiors are often required following a change of use or a change of occupancy within existing , , .
specialist construction tightening of regulations.
over recent years, methods of construction have changed leading to a requirement for new innovative specialist products which siG is ideally placed to supply.
Regulation in both the uk and europe, environmental awareness and high energy costs are all key drivers for insulation demand.
12 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice sIGs strateGy unlike a bolton acquisition, there may be few immediate synergies with the Groups core strategy is to continue the growth and development of a platform acquisition.
however, siG would expect to expand its position siG as a leading european specialist supplier to the building and construction out from the platform acquisition, to grow sales and profits going forward.
industries, in order to increase long term shareholder value.
examples of platform acquisitions in 2007 are the first move into roofing in france with the acquisition of larivire, and the entrance into czech Republic and slovakia with the acquisition of BeK.
the diagram below explains the five key growth strategies siG is pursuing: in 2007, siG completed 27 acquisitions for a total enterprise value of 323m sIG growth 2006: 109m on 23 acquisitions.
the acquisitions in 2007 can be split into the two different types as follows: New countries in Europe Market demand growth 27 acquisitions Acquisition pipeline Wider product range 323m Enterprise Value More trading sites in existing regions bolt-on 1. new countrIes In europe 20 acquisitions siG is continually reviewing new countries in europe to assess whether 65m enterprise value there is an opportunity for siG to enter as specialist supplier in its chosen platfoRM four market sectors.
the most effective way to enter these markets is normally by acquisition.
7 acquisitions 258m enterprise value euroconstruct construction forecasts indicate that construction activity growth rates will be higher in new eu accession countries than the more mature european countries over the next few years.
in view of this, during 2007 siG acquired new businesses in the czech Republic and slovakia.
siG is currently building a central services team in this region to support its anticipated growth in the central europe region.
2. market demand Growth the wider european market into which siG already supplies is huge.
taking all the 2007 acquisitions were widely spread right across europe and in each the mainland european countries together except Russia, there is a population of siGs four market sectors, bringing annualised sales to the Group of 440m of c. 600m.
the market size for the supply of building and construction products 2006: 240m.
this is further analysed on page 18. is estimated to be c. 900bn per annum.
siG is well placed to exploit its product and market knowledge to take a larger share of this market place.
the acquisitions include siGs largest acquisition to date larivire the number one french specialist roofing supplier.
siG believes that the market demand growth for insulation products in particular will outstrip the demand for other building products as the world attempts to further details of siGs 2007 acquisition programme are provided on address the issues caused by climate change and increasing energy costs.
siG pages 18 and 19. is ideally placed to serve this additional demand.
4. wIder product ranGe 3. acquIsItIon pIpelIne extending the range of specialist products and services which siG offers siG employs a carefully targeted acquisition strategy.
the rationale is to improves customer service and market penetration.
once siG has identified improve siGs geographic coverage, widen its product range and consolidate a new product offering, consideration is then given to widening the supply of and strengthen its market position.
siG has two main categories of acquisition: this product through the existing trading site network.
an example of this is the a Bolton these are existing country and existing product acquisitions where recent product launches within the uK commercial interiors division which siG brings direct synergies post acquisition to enhance its investment returns.
include new security doorsets, a system of wall panel products for use specifically in hospitals and other health facilities and access panels for b Platform this describes an acquisition which creates a new substantive services in commercial and public buildings.
position in either: i an entirely new country: ii an entirely new product or market sector: or iii which introduces an existing siG product group into a country in which siG already has trading operations, but not in the product group of the newly acquired business.
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 13 business Review continued Revenue by MaRket 2,455m specialist constRuction insulation and safety pRoducts 916m 277m 37.3% 11.3% Roofing and coMMeRcial inteRioRs exteRnal eleMents 621m 641m 25.3% 26.1% Maintaining positive like for like growth in every business is a key target by which every business is measured and is a key component of being able to drive profit growth.
14 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice sIGs strateGy contInued .
SIGhasanobjectiveof 5. more tradInG sItes In exIstInG reGIons increasing the number of manhours of staff and management training each year.
a key feature of the essential service to customers is the ability to deliver product to site or the customers premises at very short notice.
lead times key performance IndIcators from order placing to actual delivery are usually between one and two days.
the Group uses the following key performance indicators to evaluate the in most cases customers are unable to hold any inventory and delivery times success of its business: are critical to ensure the efficient use of manpower on site.
1. lIke for lIke sales Growth siG has a programme of investing in new trading sites and relocating to larger like for like sales growth is defined as the percentage growth in the sales trading sites in order to increase inventory holding capability and reduce delivery of the Group excluding the impact of current year and prior year acquisitions journeytimes.
management in each trading area, is being expanded to ensure rapid availability and flexibility to meet customer demands.
the measure reflects the underlying sales growth in the business which typically arises from increased sales volumes to both new and existing the increase in the Groups trading sites over the last two years is shown below: customers, product price inflation and selling new products through our existing infrastructure.
the growth is supported by investment in new uK and mainland brownfield trading site openings and trading site relocations into larger ireland europe usa total premises with additional stockholding capability.
maintaining positive like 2005 337 139 20 496 for like growth in every business is a key target by which every business net new openings 4 5 1 10 is measured and is a key component of being able to drive profit growth.
acquired disposed 81 52 21 112 2005 2006 2007 2006 422 196 618 like for like sales growth 9.3% 7.1% 10.9% net new openings 9 4 13 the 2005 like for like sales growth figure has not been restated to reflect the acquired 30 118 148 elimination of the contribution from the usa business sold in november 2006.
2007 461 318 779 2. underlyInG operatInG profIt marGIn the underlying operating profit margin is defined as the ratio of underlying operating profit to sales.
underlying operating profit is defined as operating key lonG term oBjectIves profit before the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
 of its overall strategy: siG works to improve its underlying operating profit margin by managing develop and grow by applying the Groups three core principles of focus, its selling prices in the local markets in which it operates and by controlling the specialisation and service: cost base through operational efficiencies.
siG experiences lower underlying operating profit margins in mainland europe than it does in the uK and ireland expand the company and its activities as a leading specialist supplier and the mix of sales between these two regions has an influence on the overall to professional trades in the construction and related industries: Group underlying operating profit margin.
supplement organic growth with carefully targeted acquisitions: 2005 2006 2007 provide annual dividend growth not necessarily in line with earnings growth uK and ireland 7.7% 8.0% 8.0% but maintaining dividend cover of between two to three times: and mainland europe 4.1% 4.6% 4.9% create long term growth in shareholder value.
Group after Parent costs 6.3% 6.5% 6.5% development of our people continuing operations only for 2006 and 2007. siG is committed to ensuring that all employees and management are properly inducted into siG and given the necessary training to fulfil their roles.
3. workInG capItal to sales working capital to sales is defined as the ratio of working capital including the company has a wide range of programmes running, aimed at improving provisions toannualisedsales i. e.  the skill and competency of employees and also to provide opportunities in the current and prior year.
this ties in with siGs policy of offering opportunities for internal promotion and advancement whenever possible.
the ability of the Group to manage its working capital in relation to the value of sales made by each business is essential to ensure that the Group generates siG has recently introduced two new training and development programmes.
cash generation is important to fund and underpin the first is a Personal development award, providing high potential employees capital and acquisition investment expenditure, to enable the business to pay with an intensive training and development programme.
the second is an its taxes as they fall due and to support siGs progressive dividend policy.
 university aimed at developing the general management skills of siGs 2005 2006 2007 senior employees.
working capital to sales 10.4% 10.5% 10.4% there is an active and extensive programme of training in place.
full time dedicated professional trainers are employed and their work is supplemented as required by external courses and external agencies.
in order to meet ever increasing customer demand particular emphasis is placed on customer service sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 15 business Review continued tradInG performance overall construction and building activity grew in 2007 over 2006 in the uK, the Group had a very successful year in 2007, both in respect of the growth but declined in ireland, especially in new residential building.
whilst residential in sales and profits from its core operations in its geographic regions, and in new construction and Rmi weakened in the uK in the latter part of the year, terms of the expansion activities and new operations which were added .
sales of insulation and related products in the uK and ireland increased by the clear strategy of seeking expansion opportunities within the uK and ireland 12.9% in total, 8.3% like for like, as overall demand increased, partly driven and mainland europe, in specialist products and markets related to the building, by the new higher thermal performance standards required for new buildings in construction and key industrial sectors, was aggressively pursued and continues the uK.
in ireland, reduced construction activity caused a reduction in demand to fuel both geographic and product group development of the Groups activities.
for all products, including insulation.
increased manufacturing capacity and output of certain products created some oversupply, which reduced market examples of this continued strategic expansion during 2007 are as follows: prices of a number of insulation products.
acquired a total of 27 businesses, together adding annualised sales of 440m, in the specific market for insulation upgrading of residential properties, where representing additional sales of over 20% on a fullyear basis over the 2006 the Group is both an insulation supplier and in some situations an installer of sales revenue.
insulation into the roof and walls of existing properties, which have little or no insulation from when they were originally built, there was a reduction in increased the total number of trading sites within the Group by 161 during demand compared with previous years.
as previously reported, this was due to the year, to 779 at 31 december 2007 618 at 31 december 2006. a timing gap in the flow of grant funds under the Government energy efficiency commitment.
a new scheme, now called ceRt carbon emissions Reduction acquired a trading site in dubai and one in spain, both as part of a uK target begins in april 2008 and is expected to generate higher levels of insulation acquisition.
insulation upgrading work over the next three years.
Began trading in two additional countries czech Republic and slovakia demand for specialist high temperature insulation materials, which are used insulation and commercial interiors.
in a wide range of industrial applications outside the building and construction industry, including power plant, petrochemical and gas installations, metal expanded the specialist doorset product range into allmetal processing and other industries, increased during the year and the company performance doors.
performed strongly in this sector, where it is the clear market leader.
acquired the leading specialist supplier of roofing materials in france.
the number of trading sites increased by 4 to 75 at the end of december 2007. launched a successful range of innovative wall systems for the the commercial interiors division had an excellent year, benefiting from strong healthcare market.
market demand, increases to the product range and several acquisitions.
sales grew by 21.4% in total, 12.3% like for like including some modest price tradInG hIGhlIGhts inflation.
Products were supplied to a wide range of new and refurbishment all figures are excluding the usa business, which was sold in november 2006. .
These the term underlying in relation to the operating profit and operating profit included hospitals, health centres, schools, universities, airports and other margin is defined as being before the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
transport related facilities, offices, retail developments, cinemas, hotels and prisons.
in addition to marketing a wider selection of ceiling and washroom products, allmetal high performance doorsets and floorcoverings were added to the like for like sales increased by 120.0m 9.8%.
range to complement our offering to the nonresidential sector.
this ensures that siG maintains its position as a leading supplier by offering the most underlying operating profit increased by 21.4m 21.4% to 121.3m comprehensive range available.
the number of trading sites increased by 10 to 55 at the end of december 2007. the underlying operating profit margin was maintained at 8.0% 2006: 8.0%.
against the background of improved market demand and sales price inflation of c. 4% overall in the sector, the Roofing division traded strongly, with sales 39 trading sites were added in the year, taking the total at 31 december 2007 up over 18.1% in total, 8.2% like for like, compared with 2006. to 461 31 december 2006: 422.
16 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice tradInG performance contInued the growth in demand for specialist high temperature insulation materials the decent homes programme, which had been quite slow in 2006, increased, partly as a result of investment in Germany in power generation did pick up and generated increased demand for product for the ongoing facilities, and this part of our operations traded strongly.
Price inflation overall work of reroofing older residential properties.
storm damage in various parts in Germany and austria is estimated to have been c. 3% in the year.
of the uK mid year also increased the volume of repair and renovation work in the second half of 2007. the number of trading sites increased by 6 to 82 at the end of december 2007 31 december 2006: 76. significant sales growth was achieved in new products, particularly in relation to the growing trend towards low maintenance roofline, rainwater and other in france 29% of sales in mainland europe the core insulation and external building products, which are increasingly used in new construction as commercial interiors operations traded very strongly, contributing to total sales well as in repair and maintenance.
growth in 2007 of 104.4% in local currency, including the contribution from the large specialist roofing supplies business called larivire which was acquired the number of trading sites increased by 15 to 278 at the end of december 2007. on 29 June 2007. this is the largest acquisition made by siG and the retention of customers and staff has been extremely high.
the business has performed the specialist construction and safety products division had an excellent ,  year with total sales up by 66.1% in total, 14.8% like for like on 2006, driven expansion throughout france.
since the date of acquisition, 6 trading sites by strong underlying performance, continued expansion of the product range have been added, taking the total to 89 as at 13 march 2008. .
There overall market demand was reasonably good in france and price inflation was some volatility in some product pricing, for example steel and chemicals, averaged 3% across the product range.
like for like sales were increased but pricing overall increased year on year by c. 3.5%.
the number of trading sites increased by 10 to 53 at the end of december 2007. the number of trading sites increased by 91 to 142 at the end of december 2007 31 december 2006: 51.
Mainland euRope 38% of total sales sales increased by 325.9m 53.8% to 931.4m 2006: 605.5m.
in poland and central europe 15% of sales in mainland europe, total sales increased by 163%, including the substantial business acquired in Poland like for like sales on a constant currency basis increased by 12.3%.
in october 2006, and subsequent acquisitions in Poland, slovakia and czech Republic during 2007. underlying operating profit increased by 18.3m 66.3% to 45.9m 2006: 27.6m.
market demand for building products grew during the year, as reconstruction and economic resurgence continues.
underlying operating profit margin increased to 4.9% 2006: 4.6%.
the core business in Poland, which chiefly sells insulation and commercial sales and operating profits increased on an underlying like for like basis interiors products, traded very strongly with sales up 35.6% like for like over in each country, as well as on a total basis.
Prices were volatile throughout the year in some products, with sales price inflation averaging c. 5% overall.
significant expansion of geographic coverage, with a total of 122 trading sites added during the year, including 21 in two new countries for siG, the number of trading sites increased by 24 to 83 at the end of december 2007 czech Republic and slovakia, taking the total to 318 at 31 december 2007 31 december 2006: 59.
31 december 2006: 196. sales in benelux 6% of total sales in mainland europe grew strongly, in germany and austria 50% of sales in mainland europe sales were up 38.3% in total, 15.8% like for like, both in local currency.
consistent with increased substantially, up 21.2% in local currency and 8.0% like for like in local siGs other mainland european businesses, the core insulation and commercial currency.
overall construction activity grew on a year on year basis.
the rate of interiors operations performed strongly against the background of good market growth compared with 2006 was skewed towards the first half year, due to the conditions.
demand from both building and industry insulation increased and exceptionally weak market activity in h1 2006 as a result of extreme adverse price inflation is estimated to have been c. 3.5% averaged across the product weather conditions.
the core insulation and commercial interiors business made good progress, the number of trading sites increased by 1 to 11 at the end of december 2007 and the roofing operations in Germany, which commenced with the acquisition 31 december 2006: 10. of a regional business with 12 trading sites in July 2006, was expanded during the year to a total of 18 trading sites as at 31 december 2007. sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 17 business Review continued tradInG performance contInued fInancIal revIew acquIsItIons revenue a record 27 companies were acquired during 2007, for a total consideration sales rose by 32.0% or 595m to 2,455m 2006: 1,860m.
all figures in including assumed debt of 323m.
combined annualised sales of these acquired the financial review exclude the usa business that siG sold in november 2006. businesses is 440m, of which 217m impacted on 2007. like for like sales increased in all geographical locations with growth of 10.9% in sterling and 10.5% on a constant currency basis.
the Group has an impressive the geographic split of the 440m annualised sales is 300m mainland europe, record of like for like sales growth, averaging over 8.3% over the last five years.
By market sector, the spread of businesses acquired was very wide and added weight to each of our existing business streams, marGIns as shown by the table below.
Gross profit margin decreased from 27.3% to 26.8% reflecting pricing pressures as a result of temporary over supply in certain product sectors, looking at the acquisitions from a different perspective, they can be categorised a mix change in certain products and countries, and the impact of the 2007 as either bolton, ie adding to an existing position in a product range in any one acquisitions that have historically achieved lower gross margins than that of the country, or platform, where we are creating a new position in a product group Group.
Pricing management action plans have already been put in place as part in a country for the first time, from which we would then plan to expand our of our integration plans to improve the future profitability of these businesses.
position and grow sales and profits going forward.
as a result of tight cost control and operating efficiencies, operating costs as a the platform acquisitions in 2007 are as follows: percentage of sales fell from 20.8% to 20.3%.
the improvement in operating costs offset the reduction in the gross margin, leaving the underlying operating number one specialist distributor in france of roofing materials.
leading uK supplier of nonresidential flooring materials.
operatInG profIt underlying operating profit increased by 31.3% or 38.0m to 159.4m, insulation and commercial interiors supplier in slovakia.
with 14.2m 12.2% of the growth being like for like.
operating profit increased by 24.2% or 27.7m to 142.2m.
insulation and commercial interiors supplier in czech Republic.
fInance costs our strategy is to add to each of these initial acquired positions both by organic net finance costs before hedge ineffectiveness and financing items relating to expansion of their product range and geographic coverage, and by making our defined benefit pension schemes i. e. net borrowing costs increased by further bolton acquisitions to accelerate the rate and pace of expansion.
6.3m to 18.9m in 2007. the net borrowing cost as a percentage of average debt in issue during the year reduced from 6.2% to 5.7%.
this is primarily due during the year we expanded the team of inhouse professionals who work to the Group borrowing a larger proportion of its overall debt in nonsterling on the acquisition search, selection and execution programme.
at the currencies that bear a lower interest rate than sterling, in line with the Groups end of december 2007 we have dedicated specialists located throughout treasury policy.
mainland europe and in the uK and ireland.
net borrowing costs benefited from our continued efforts to manage our the postacquisition action plans are tailormade for each acquisition and involve working capital, which reduced the daily amount of debt outstanding with our finance, hR, it and commercial management.
the integration process with banks.
further details are provided in the cash flow and financial position section each of the 2007 acquisitions is progressing well.
2007 acquisitions pRoduct iMpact further details of siGs interest rate policies are provided in the interest rate risk section on page 26. uK and mainland ireland europe finance income and charges relating to our defined benefit pension schemes insulation amounted to 0.4m in 2007 2006: 0.6m.
further details are provided in commercial interiors note 29c to the accounts on pages 105 to 110.
 hedge ineffectiveness on certain financing derivatives gave rise to finance specialist construction and safety Products income of 1.4m 2006: 1.4m.
this is recorded in the other items column of the consolidated income statement and is explained further in the sections summary of tradInG performance that follow.
in 2007 the Group has expanded significantly: geographic coverage has increased in both existing and new countries.
the specialist product range has profIt Before tax continued to widen, and we have invested in inventories and customer service underlying profit before tax increased by 29.5% or 31.9m to 140.1m facilities to maintain and develop our reputation for high quality products and 2006: 108.2m representing another year of solid profitable growth.
before tax, i. e. after all other items, increased by 21.0% or 21.6m to 124.3m 2006: 102.7m.
the continued pursuit and application of the Groups clear Growth strategy has once again driven excellent increases in sales, profits and earnings per share.
we believe that 2007 marks another year of solid growth in shareholder value.
18 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice non-underlyInG Items earnInGs per share eps an explanation of the nonunderlying other items included within profit underlying basic ePs amounted to 74.8p 2006: 61.3p, which represents before tax of 15.8m 2006: 5.5m is set out below: an increase of 22.0%.
Basic ePs amounted to 66.3p 2006: 58.1p, which represents an increase of 14.1%.
the weighted average number of shares in amortisation of acquired intangibles 17.2m 2006: 6.9m.
this increase was the accounting policies section on page 69 and note 12 to the accounts primarily due to the issue of 11,363,637 ordinary shares under a share placing on page 88 provide details of what is included within intangible assets that completed on 30 may 2007. further details of the share placing are and over what periods the assets are amortised.
the increase in the provided on page 22. amortisation expense is a result of our significant acquisition activity during 2006 and 2007: and dIvIdends hedge ineffectiveness income of 1.4m 2006: 1.4m.
there is a the proposed final dividend of 18.7p per share delivers a full year dividend small element of ineffectiveness in our sterling euro net investment hedge of 26.7p, representing an increase of 30.2%.
this sets another new record derivatives that we have held since 2001 in relation to our private placement for dividend growth and is a reflection of the Boards confidence in the notes.
under ias 32 and ias 39 the movement in the fair value of this business going forward.
dividend cover, when measured against basic ePs ineffective portion is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Going forward siG intends this hedge ineffectiveness is explained further within the treasury risk to maintain a policy of dividend progression, whilst maintaining dividend cover management section on page 27. of between two and three times.
the chart on page 20 tracks the dividend growth over the last ten years.
foreIGn currency translatIon overseas earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange acquIsItIons for the year with balance sheets at closing rates.
the table below sets out acquisitions are a key component of siGs growth strategy, supplementing the relevant exchange rates used: organic growth.
a total of 27 acquisitions were completed in the year for a consideration of 323m including assumed net debt and contingent average rate closing rate consideration, all of which complement existing businesses within siG.
2007 2006 2007 2006 euro 1.458 1.468 1.362 1.490 the Group continues to strengthen its management structures and corporate development resources to enable it to successfully continue its acquisition us dollar n a 1.847 n a 1.898 strategy.
the table below provides a detailed breakdown of the acquisition Polish Zloty 5.500 5.717 4.880 5.683 spend over the last two years: czech Koruna 39.732 n a 36.185 n a 2007 2006 slovak Koruna 48.482 n a 45.751 n a number of transactions 27 23 as a result of siG selling its usa business on 20 november 2006, the us dollar annualised sales 440m 240m rates shown are for the period up to 20 november 2006 average rate and as additional trading sites 148 133 at 20 november 2006 closing rate.
acquisition consideration fluctuations in exchange rates have and will continue to give rise to translation including assumed net debt differences of overseas earnings streams when translated into sterling.
and contingent consideration 323m 109m the movement in average exchange rates compared to 2006 had a very transactions by geographic segment small effect on total overseas earnings streams.
total sales were increased by uK and ireland 18 19 11.4m and profit before tax was increased by 0.5m.
further details of siGs mainland europe 9 4 foreign exchange policies are detailed in the foreign currency risk section on pages 26 and 27.
27 23 taxatIon all of the acquisitions meet the strategic requirement of being suppliers the income tax charge on underlying profits amounts to 41.9m of specialist products, chiefly to the building and construction industry and 2006: 32.5m which represents an effective rate of 29.9% 2006: 30.0%.
the integration process of each acquisition is progressing well.
in 2008, the Group will benefit from lower tax rates in the uK and Germany, and as a consequence we currently anticipate the effective tax rate to be up the 148 additional sites added through the 2007 acquisition programme to one percentage point lower in 2008. have enabled siG to reach new customers, extend our product offering to existing and new customers and to further improve our standards of in 2007 cash tax payments were broadly in line with the underlying tax charge.
service to all customers thereby continuing the process of strengthening the company going forward.
in order to support siGs continued acquisition strategy during 2007 the company increased its borrowings from its relationship banks and undertook an equity placing exercise.
details of the equity placing are set out on page 22. sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 19 business Review continued ten yeaR histoRy dividend 26.7p 2007 full year dividend The proposed final dividend of 18.7p per share delivers a full year dividend of 26.7p, representing an increase of 30.2%.
this sets another new record for dividend growth.
20 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 10.2p 11.0p 11.6p 20.5p 12.4p 14.0p 16.8p 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 8.4p 9.3p 1998 1999 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice fInancIal revIew contInued on advice of the pension scheme actuary, a further special contribution shareholders funds has been made into the main scheme in January 2008 of 7.2m.
shareholders funds increased by 222.1m to 573.6m 2006: 351.5m.
the increase comprised the following elements: the Group continues to monitor the life expectancy assumptions used to value its pension scheme liabilities.
for the main pension scheme, m the life expectancy for a male employee beyond the normal retirement  86.2 age of 60 is 27.5 years 2006: 24.0 years, which is considered appropriate for a scheme of this nature.
dividends paid 28.4 exchange differences on assets and liabilities after tax 12.8 the cost of the Groups defined contribution schemes increased by 7.7% movements attributable to share options 0.8 0.3m to 4.2m.
actuarial gain on pension schemes net of deferred tax 4.2 cash flow and fInancIal posItIon equity placing net of issue expenses 147.2 siG has benefited from another good year of generating cash from operating new share capital issued under employee share schemes 0.9 activities to help support its strategy of investment in both organic and increase in shareholders funds 222.1 acquisitionbased growth.
the following table explains the movement in siGs net debt: pensIon schemes 2007 2006 details of the pension schemes operated by siG are set out in note 29c m m to the accounts starting on page 105.
 160.3 132.4 siG contributed 5.5m 2006: 2.9m into its eight 2006: six defined interest and tax 54.1 48.4 benefit pension schemes during the year, which included 2.5m as a special maintenance capital expenditure 30.3 24.1 contribution into the main defined benefit scheme in december 2007. the total  75.9 59.9 charge in respect of defined benefit pension schemes to the consolidated income statement was 2.3m 2006: 2.9m : of this total 1.9m 2006: 2.3m acquisition investment including loan notes issued was charged to operating expenses and 0.4m 2006: 0.6m was charged to vendors 317.1 104.6 to net finance costs.
net proceeds after expenses from sale of usa business 25.3 investment capital expenditure 30.3 19.7 the overall gross defined benefit pension schemes liability reduced during dividends including minority dividends 29.2 22.4 the year by 8.2m to 15.7m.
this can be broken down as follows: Proceeds from equity issue 148.1 1.9 increase other items including foreign exchange decrease in pension and fair value movements 47.5 5.5 scheme liability m movement in net debt 200.1 54.1 increase in mortality assumption from 24.0 to 27.5 years opening net debt 228.8 174.7 in the main scheme 5.0 closing net debt 428.9 228.8 experience gains and losses in all schemes 4.4  15.9 maintenance capital expenditure is considered as equivalent to depreciation, with the balance being considered investment capital expenditure.
capital expenditure shown cash contributions to the schemes above the P&l charge 3.2 above includes finance leases drawn down in each year.
the inclusion of two book reserve pension schemes in two mainland european acquisitions 1.0 the acquisition investment figure excludes contingent consideration of 5.7m 2006: 4.6m, which has been recognised as a liability in the accounts but is yet exchange difference 0.5 to give rise to a cash flow.
decrease in pension scheme liability 8.2 there have been a number of changes in financial assumptions, the key items being an increase in the discount rate used to value the pension scheme liabilities from 5.1% to 5.7% and changes in the assumptions relating to the settlement of liabilities.
this is principally due to a special contribution to the main scheme of 2.5m made in december 2007 on the advice of the actuary following on from the triennial pension scheme valuation undertaken as at 31 december 2006. sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 21 business Review continued fInancIal revIew contInued interest cover and leverage are the two key debt ratios forming the basis of the cash flow and fInancIal posItIon continued Groups borrowing covenants.
the levels at the end of 2007 still provide the Key points to note are: Group with significant headroom against the levels set out in the covenants.
included within cash flow from operating activities is a working capital details of the Groups treasury risk management policies are set out on increase of 29.0m, which represents 15.0% of our like for like sales pages 26 and 27 of this review.
this is above siGs year end working capital to sales ratio of 10.4% and represents an additional investment in working capital capItal structure at the year end of 8.9m, which is principally related to investment in the Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be working capital in newly acquired businesses: able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
the capital structure the total level of investment in our business, being acquisition investment of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in including contingent consideration and investment capital expenditure note 18, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders amounts to 353.1m 2006: 128.9m.
capital expenditure includes new of the Parent company, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained delivery vehicles, new brownfield sites and a number of site relocations earnings as disclosed in note 25. to larger trading sites.
these trading site relocations increase our operating capacity and will ensure we fully benefit from any upturn in market demand.
equIty placInG also included in capital expenditure is 7.0m 2006: nil in relation to on 30 may 2007 siG placed 11,363,637 new ordinary shares with scaffolding equipment, hired out to customers by a newly acquired business institutional and other investors to raise gross proceeds of 150m in the uK specialist construction Products division.
the net capital the Placing.
the shares were placed at 1,320p each, raising 147.2m expenditure to depreciation ratio amounted to 1.77 excluding the 7.0m after commissions and expenses.
the Placing proceeds have been used to hire equipment 2006: 1.82 : and fund the acquisition of larivire and the increased acquisition spend.
they also provide siG with financial flexibility to take advantage of acquisition as a result of the exchange rate moving to 1.362 at 31 december 2007, opportunities as they arise and ensure that siG continues to drive its the Groups euro debt has increased in value by 43.3m in sterling terms.
organic growth through ongoing investment in its businesses.
this is the principal component of other items in the table on page 21. it is important to note that the Groups euro assets have increased by workInG capItal statIstIcs more than this in value, and if the exchange rate continues at this level, the ratio of year end working capital to annualised sales for continuing then the reported 2008 euro denominated profits will also benefit from businesses at 31 december 2007 amounted to 10.4%.
the comparable this strengthening of the euro.
working capital to annualised sales ratio for 2006 is 10.5%, demonstrating a small overall improvement in the ratio.
overall, despite our significant rate of like for like sales growth 10.9%, which has the natural effect of increasing our working capital requirements to the , afteradjusting detriment of our cash balances, we have converted 78% 2006: 77% of the for both acquisitions and disposals in both years, are as follows: underlying profit after tax attributable to equity holders into free cash as follows: 2007 2006 2007 2006 inventory days 42 38 m m trade receivable days 48 48  75.9 59.9 trade payable days 38 38  97.3 77.7 Bad debt charge as a % of sales 0.5% 0.7% asapercentage  78% 77% inventory days have increased by 4 to 42. this is principally a result of including the acquisition of the french roofing distribution business in the year.
Given the 78% represents a measure of siGs cash conversion ability and is in line with essential repairs and maintenance focus of this business, in line with our existing prior year.
working capital management continues to be a key area of focus roofing businesses, inventory days are much higher than the Group average.
across all of siGs businesses.
our ability to generate free cash flow is a vital excluding the effect of the french roofing distribution business, inventory days foundation to support ongoing business investment.
the Groups trade receivable days were held at an historical low of 48 days reflecting our efforts in credit control right across the a summary of the key debt ratios is as follows: Group.
the number of days we take to pay our payables was also held against the prior year.
2007 2006 Gearing 75% 65% the bad debt charge as a percentage of sales has shown a marked improvement interest cover 8.2x 9.2x against prior year.
this reduction reflects our proficiency in credit management and a leverage net debt to underlying eBitda 2.26x 1.58x stable building and construction market in 2007. our policy in respect of recognition of provisions for doubtful debts has continued to be consistently applied.
net debt divided by net assets.
underlying operating profit divided by underlying net finance charges.
net debt divided by continuing underlying operating profit before depreciation.
22 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice outlook competItIve posItIon the Groups sales are more heavily weighted towards nonresidential siG aims to occupy leading positions as a specialist supplier in each of its main construction, both in the uK and ireland and in mainland europe, and it is markets of insulation, roofing and external elements, commercial interiors and believed that the substantial pipeline of work in progress of both public and specialist construction and safety products.
a position of market leadership privately funded construction programmes will continue to provide the Group has been achieved in a number of specific markets.
operations in the other with attractive opportunities in its four main product sectors.
countries and business streams are continuing to develop their position.
insulation and related products is the Groups largest product sector and Inventory demand is expected to continue to increase at a faster rate than overall immediate availability of a wide range of specialist materials is vital to the construction activity in the uK and ireland and mainland europe, both across customers served by siG.
the new construction and refurbishment markets.
this will continue to be driven by a range of factors including concern for the environment, rising materials are often required within hours on an emergency basis.
for example, energy costs, new legislation seeking to limit energy consumption, new when a roof leak occurs and immediate repairs are necessary to prevent building regulations, and grant schemes to improve energy efficiency in damage to the building and its contents, or in a chemical processing plant existing residential properties.
the Group is continuing to invest to ensure where a pipeline becomes dangerously overheated due to a breakdown that it benefits from this expected growth in demand going forward, of the insulation.
and capitalises on its market leading position.
in both of these examples, customers have an unplanned, emergency need for on a broader basis across the Group, a significant range of expansion specific and specialist products in order to prevent substantial damage and costs.
opportunities, both organic and acquisition, are being actively pursued.
the number of individual trading sites has increased substantially over a fundamental feature of siGs position in the supply chain is having these recent years throughout the operating regions, and this programme products, in depth, in strategically located trading sites to ensure customer of expanding market coverage is planned to continue.
in 2007, the Group expanded its operations and trading activities significantly tradInG sItes and these dynamics provide a strong platform coming into 2008. trading in siG has an extensive and expanding network of trading sites as demonstrated 2008 has begun well and the Board believes that the Group will continue in the chart on page 24. these are an important resource and an important its track record of outperforming across its markets.
the Board is confident feature of the siG business model in each country of operation, as they enable of further progress in 2008 and beyond.
the local market surrounding each trading site to be serviced on an immediate availability basis.
for customers conducting work on a regional or national basis in resources each country, siG can provide a full national service using locally held inventory, employees thus avoiding the time and cost penalties of shipping products over large distances.
the commitment, drive and enthusiasm of all siGs employees are its greatest asset and siGs ability to meet the demands of its customers, suppliers and fleet delIvery capaBIlIty shareholders is dependent upon their efforts.
throughout siG, regardless siG uses a mix of wholly owned delivery vehicles and external hire to deliver of country or sector, we believe our people are recognised as the best in goods to customers.
this enables availability and service to customers to be their particular field.
siGs policy and strategy towards its employees is maximised whilst ensuring that the cost base is flexible to cope with periods detailed further in the corporate social Responsibility Report on page 41. of higher or lower daily demand.
training, coaching and the opportunity for personal career advancement within the company are important features of how siG seeks to recruit, the direct ownership of a large proportion of the fleet and the management retain and develop skilled staff.
of this resource on a local basis is an important feature of the speed, flexibility and responsiveness that siG offers to customers.
Brand strenGth siG operates under a wide range of trading names in the respective markets and countries in which it has trading sites.
many of these brands, including the original company name, sheffield insulations, are widely recognised throughout their respective market sectors or countries as the leading supplier offering very focused products and services to customers.
siG believes that the strength and market awareness of its brands are important assets.
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 23 business Review continued five yeaR histoRy tRading sites 779 trading sites as at 31 December 2007 sig has an extensive and expanding network of trading sites.
24 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 2006 618 371 496 412 2003 2004 2005 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice operatIonal rIsk manaGement commercIal relatIonshIps there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a siG is exposed to changes in relationships with both customers and suppliers.
material impact on siGs long term performance.
siG has a comprehensive it is a key task for the operational management in each country and business system of risk management installed in all parts of its business and quickly unit to maintain and develop relationships with customers and suppliers.
introduces this into new acquisitions.
the processes are described in detail on page 51 of the corporate Governance Report.
credIt rIsk siG, by the nature of its position in the supply chain, buys products from levels of market demand In the BuIldInG and highly reputable suppliers in bulk and sells the products to a wide variety constructIon markets In whIch sIG operates .
 approximately 90% of siGs sales are made to the building, construction its customers on credit terms.
there is a risk that customers do not pay and civil engineering industries.
as the typical customer does not have many assets.
siG has therefore developed well proven credit control guidelines and procedures that are these industries are driven by private and government expenditure, and include designed to minimise its credit risk whilst trying to maximise sales potential.
 e. g. airports, hospitals, schoolsandsports for the year ended 31 december 2007 bad debt expense amounted to complexes, new residential housing developments and a wide range of 0.5% of sales 2006: 0.7% of sales.
renovation, upgrading and repair work on existing buildings.
Government leGIslatIon siG is exposed to changes in the level of activity, and therefore demand, from siG operates in a number of countries right across europe, each with their these industries.
Government policy and expenditure plans, private investor own laws and regulations, encompassing environmental, legal, health and safety, decisions, the general economic climate and both business and to a lesser employment and tax matters.
siG is committed to complying with each local extent consumer confidence are all factors which can influence the level requirement and the clear devolvement of responsibility to local operating of building activity and therefore the demand for many of siGs products.
management together with the employment of competent advisers supports this requirement.
changes to legislation are monitored locally and appropriate actions approximately 10% of siGs sales are made into specific industrial applications, taken to ensure they are incorporated into our business policies and procedures.
especially where there are temperature critical processes and the use of highly specialist insulation is an important part of the process plant itself.
these industries transport include power generation, oil and gas processing, chemical, pharmaceutical and in excess of 70% of siGs sales are delivered to customers.
disruption to road transport systems or the availability of vehicle fuel would result in reduced sales in any country in which this may occur.
siG is exposed to activity levels, and therefore demand for some of its products, within these diverse industries.
these industries would, in turn, be affected by product avaIlaBIlIty and product prIces the general economic climate, energy demand and energy costs and business the availability and the market prices of products that the Group supplies .
these changes can affect the Groups sales and operating profits.
the Group has very regular dialogue with its suppliers to ensure that it protects competItor rIsk its position regarding product availability and product pricing.
siG has a mix of both direct specialist competition and some overlap with more general suppliers such as general builders merchants in all its markets if product demand outstrips supply, be it due to demand rising or supply falling, and countries.
then this could have an impact on the Groups ability to service its customers needs.
the factories that produce insulation products take a number of years as a distributor handling and supplying products manufactured by other to build and so if demand exceeds the production capacity, product shortages companies, siG is itself dependent upon other companies for in excess of will ensue and this could damage the Groups ability to fulfil its customers 90%.
the Group does however source its products from a number are relatively bulky and inexpensive in relation to their mass and the cost of of manufacturers in order to reduce its reliance upon any one manufacturer.
this means that the risk faced by siG of price disruption and possible cross border or international trading having a detrimental impact on prices in the Group negotiates purchase prices with its suppliers.
the ability of siG any particular country is low.
to secure satisfactory terms of trade is key to its ability to supply the products to its customers at competitive prices.
similarly, the risk posed by internetbased trading dependent upon parcelcarrier service is very low because of the bulky nature of most of the products sold by Rising product prices are good for siG as our standard gross margin is achieved siG and the fact that specialist handling and delivery services are an important on a higher selling price resulting in improved overhead recovery, thus providing feature of the service provided by siG to many customers.
Rising prices may also provide siG with the opportunity to benefit from inventory gains whereby inventory is bought at the lower price and InformatIon technoloGy It sold on at the higher price.
conversely, falling product prices are not good for siG uses a range of computer systems to provide order processing, inventory siG.
over the last few years, product price inflation across the basket of siG control and financial management within each country.
any lengthy failure or products has been positive rather than negative.
disruption to the it system in any business unit or country would result in loss of sales and delays to cash flow.
these systems are not interdependent, and there are dedicated support staff directly employed, together with external support service providers, monitoring the it systems.
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 25 business Review continued operatIonal rIsk manaGement contInued the Groups financial liabilities at 31 december 2007 of 518.6m 2006: 292.9m IdentIfIcatIon and InteGratIon of acquIsItIons can be analysed as follows: the Groups growth strategy is partly dependent upon the identification 226.3m 2006: 137.2m has a maturity profile of greater than five years: of appropriate acquisition opportunities at an appropriate price and the successful integration of an acquisition into the siG Group.
siG is committing 382.7m 2006: 147.6m is denominated in foreign currencies, held to more dedicated resources to the research of new markets, the origination partially hedge the assets of our overseas businesses: of appropriate acquisition targets and the appropriate due diligence and 379.1m 2006: 223.4m carries a fixed rate of interest: and contract negotiation process.
once acquired, siG is constantly evaluating the management structures of its businesses to ensure that appropriate 504.0m 2006: 287.3m is borrowed on an unsecured basis.
management time can be dedicated to new businesses.
as at 31 december 2007, siG had undrawn committed borrowing facilities people from its debt providers of 96.2m 2006: 113.9m.
siG is dedicated to providing high quality service to its customers and therefore needs to have the best skilled and experienced staff available within the industry.
Gearing increased during the year from 65% to 75% as a result of increased siG is committed to providing employees with a professional working investment in property, plant and equipment, working capital and acquisitions.
environment where hard work and commitment is encouraged and rewarded accordingly.
siG is increasingly investing more resources in developing and Interest rate rIsk training its employees, identifying high potential individuals who will become siG finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits, shareholders tomorrows managers and senior managers and attracting and recruiting the equity, bank, private placement and other borrowings.
siG uses derivative best people into its businesses in the future.
financial instruments to create the desired currency and interest rate profile, so managing siGs exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
product defect claIms Product quality is a key reason why customers would buy from siG.
the Group a small proportion of siGs assets are funded using fixed rate finance lease is careful to source products very selectively to ensure any possible risk associated contracts.
at 31 december 2007 outstanding liabilities in respect of such with products of inferior quality is minimised.
treasury rIsk manaGement at 31 december 2007, 73% or 379.1m 2006: 76% or 223.3m of the siGs finance and treasury policies set out the approach to managing treasury Groups gross debt, being 518.6m 2006: 292.9m, was in the form of fixed risk.
these policies are approved by the Board of directors on a regular basis.
rate debt with an average remaining fixed life of 5.0 years 2006: 5.3 years.
the treasury risks that siG faces are interest rate, liquidity and foreign currency risk arising from its international operations.
lIquIdIty rIsk siG seeks a balance between certainty of funding and a flexible, costeffective siG faces a translation risk in respect of its euro, Polish Zloty, czech Koruna borrowing structure.
the Group uses a mixture of sources of funding in order and slovak Koruna profits.
siG also faces a translation risk from the us dollar in to reduce the risk of being over reliant upon any one provider.
the key sources respect of its private placement borrowings.
siGs financial instruments, other than of finance are private placement note providers, being mainly usa pension derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items funds, and principal bankers, the Royal Bank of scotland plc and Barclays Bank such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
the last private placement transaction completed on 1 november 2006 siG enters into derivative financial instruments principally foreign currency and increased the certainty of the Groups debt funding, being provided interest rate swaps to hedge certain currency risks arising from siGs operations on a committed 7, 10 and 12 year basis.
and to hedge interest expenses arising from siGs sources of finance.
siG has a policy to have a portfolio of borrowing facilities with different details of derivative financial instruments are shown in note 18 to the maturities to minimise the possible pressures of a large refinancing exercise.
accounts on pages 94 to 96. the year end maturity profile and value of undrawn committed borrowing it is, and has been throughout the period under review, siGs policy that facilities are set out in note 19 to the accounts on page 96. no trading in financial instruments or speculative transactions be undertaken.
to minimise the credit risk associated with derivative financial instruments, foreIGn currency rIsk siG only enters derivative financial instruments with its principal bankers, siG has a number of overseas businesses whose revenues and costs which are both aa rated by standard & Poors.
are denominated in the currencies in which the operations are located.
approximately 38% of siGs 2007 revenues were in foreign currencies, siG manages its financial liabilities using derivative financial instruments where being euros, Polish Zloty, czech Koruna and slovak Koruna.
appropriate to ensure that it has appropriate maturity profiles in relation to its borrowings and appropriate levels of protection against interest rate and .
cross border transactions occur it is siGs policy to eliminate currency exposure at that time through forward currency contracts, if exposure is considered to be material.
26 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice treasury rIsk manaGement contInued cautIonary statement foreIGn currency rIsk continued this Business Review has been prepared to provide the companys the consolidated Balance sheet is inherently at risk from movements in the shareholders with a fair review of the business of the company and a sterling value of its net investments in foreign businesses.
this risk is mitigated description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing it.
it may not be relied by siG combining financial liabilities and derivatives in currencies that partially upon by anyone, including the companys shareholders, for any other purpose.
hedge the net investment values.
at 31 december 2007, siG had borrowings amounting to 384m, Pln94m and cZK313m that are designated as net this Business Review and other sections of this report contain forward looking investment hedges.
 circumstances occurring from time to time in countries and markets in which the net after tax effect on the consolidated Balance sheet of currency the Group operates and risk factors associated with the building and construction transaction and translation differences relating to our overseas subsidiaries sectors.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, in 2007 was a gain of 11.8m 2006: loss of 2.4m.
this significant gain arose uncertainties and future assumptions because they relate to events and or principally as a result of the 8.6% year on year appreciation of the euro versus depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could sterling 1.362 at 31 december 2007 versus 1.490 at 31 december 2006, cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed thus increasing the carrying value of siGs net investments in its euro in or implied by the forward looking statements.
no assurance can be given denominated businesses.
that the forward looking statements in this Business Review will be realised.
statements about the directors expectations, beliefs, hopes, plans, intentions hedGe IneffectIveness  hedge ineffectiveness income of 1.4m 2006: 1.4m has been classified and assumptions as to future events, circumstances and other factors which in the other items column of the 2007 consolidated income statement.
are in some cases outside the companys control.
actual results could differ the income relates to the release of the ineffective portion of the sterling materially from the companys current expectations.
to euro derivative financial instruments held as a liability in the consolidated Balance sheet.
the ineffective portion now remaining as a liability amounts it is believed that the expectations set out in these forward looking statements to 1.4m 2006: 2.8m.
these derivatives are held to form a net investment are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which hedge of our european assets and were entered into as part of the private could cause actual results or trends to differ materially, including but not limited placement transaction in 2001. to, changes in risks associated with the companys growth strategy, fluctuations in product pricing and changes in exchange and interest rates.
other matters shareholder return the forward looking statements should be read in particular in the context siG has delivered a 15.2% return on capital employed 2006: 17.6%, which of the specific risk factors for the company identified on pages 25 and 26 compares favourably to siGs estimated weighted average cost of capital of of this Business Review.
the companys shareholders are cautioned not to 7.1% 2006: 7.7%, providing another year of continued growth in shareholder place undue reliance on the forward looking statements.
the reduction on prior year reflects the dilutive effect of acquisitions has not been audited or otherwise independently verified.
the information made in 2007. siGs strategy is to continually enhance the returns from contained in this Business Review has been prepared on the basis of the acquired and core businesses to increase this return, before taking into knowledge and information available to directors at the date of its preparation account the effect of future acquisitions.
and the company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise this Business Review during the financial year ahead.
as at 12 march 2008, siGs share price closed at 7.645 per share, representing a market capitalisation of 1,032m at that date.
the total dividend for the year of 26.7p 2006: 20.5p provides shareholders with a yield on this date of 3.5%.
siG monitors relative total shareholder Return tsR for assessing relative financial performance.
as at 31 december 2007 the companys share price was 7.475 per share.
when dividends are included this gives a tsR of 402% over a five year performance period.
a performance graph has been included davId wIllIams Gareth davIes on page 57 where the Groups tsR is compared with the ftse support chIef executIve fInance dIrector services index which produced a tsR of 64% over the same five year period.
GoInG concern ,  facilities available, that siG has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 27
