Business review Sales Business review Sales were 2,161m, 1% lower than the 2,180m recorded in 2006.
Group activities The translation of sales of overseas business units at this years Smiths is a global applied technology business serving detection, average exchange rates reduced sales by 120m.
On an underlying medical devices and specialty engineering markets.
basis excluding the effect of acquisitions and disposals 9m and Strategy currency translation, sales increased by 5%.
Smiths is committed to creating long-term value for shareholders The United States remains the Groups largest market.
By destination, by building and sustaining strong businesses in growth sectors.
it accounted for 44% of sales while UK Europe accounted for 31% and The Groups objective is to create value from organic growth and from the rest of the world for 25%.
Adjustments are made to Details of sales by division are given in the divisional paragraphs.
the business mix through both acquisitions and disposals to enhance value for shareholders.
Profit Headline operating profit increased by 3m to 348m.
Headline Changes in Group composition operating margin increased to 16.1% 2006: 15.8%.
In line with the strategy of enhancing value for shareholders, in May 2007 Smiths Aerospace and Times Microwave Systems Inc.
The net impact of acquisitions and disposals on headline operating previously reported as part of Specialty Engineering were sold to profit was 1m.
The effect of currency translation held back year-on General Electric Company GE.
See page 14 for details of this disposal.
year headline profit growth by 21m.
The growth excluding the effect These businesses are treated as discontinued and disclosed as such of acquisitions, disposals and currency translation is 7%.
in the Consolidated income statement with comparative figures The operating profit of the continuing business on a statutory basis, adjusted accordingly.
after taking account of the items excluded from headline figures, Details of other changes in Group composition in the year are set out is 257m 2006: loss of 8m.
in the relevant divisional paragraphs below.
Headline pre-tax profit increased by 28m to 344m.
This was largely Performance of continuing operations due to a 17m reduction in net interest charges and a 9m increase The continuing operations comprise the Detection, Medical and in the net finance credit from the pension schemes.
Profit before tax for continuing operations on a statutory basis is The key Smiths performance indicators, which are closely monitored 256m 2006: loss of 37m.
throughout the year and measured against pre-set targets, are: Cash generation sales and headline profits: Generation of above-average free cash-flow contributes to additional growth by providing resources for the growth of the business both cash generation: and organically and by acquisition.
Performance is evaluated by return on investment.
measuring the ratio of operating cash-flow to headline operating profit.
For this purpose, operating cash-flow is measured before the The table below shows the overall performance of continuing cash impact of exceptional items and special pension payments and operations.
after expenditure on property, equipment, software and development 2007 2006 costs.
Following sale of the aerospace business, a target conversion m m Movement rate of approximately 90% was set for the remaining business in a normal year.
Sales 2,161 2,180 1 % Headline: The operating cash-flow on this basis was 259m, representing operating profit 348 345 1% 75% of headline operating profit.
This compares to operating cash pre-tax profit 344 316 9% of 283m in 2006 and cash generation of 82%.
The cash generation earnings per share 47.0p 41.5p 13% outcome this year reflects investment in capital projects and Cash generation 75% 82% increased working capital to support business growth in the new year.
Return on shareholders funds 14.9% On a statutory basis, net cash inflow from continuing operations was page 14 205m 2006: 139m.
Compared with sterling, the average exchange rate of the US dollar Cash expenditure on exceptional items was 27m, compared fell by 9% year-on-year and the average euro exchange rate fell by with 17m in the previous year.
The Group made special pension 1.5%.
contributions of 56m 2006: 61m mainly relating to Aerospace.
Free cash-flow from continuing operations after interest and tax Headline figures but before acquisitions and dividends was 101m.
Headline profit is presented because Smiths believes it provides valuable additional information on underlying trends.
It is used by Dividends paid in the year on ordinary shares amounted to 182m, management to monitor the performance of the business.
Details of the return of 2.1 billion to restructuring costs are charged against headline profit, while the shareholders are set out in the aerospace disposal section page 14. following items are excluded: Aerospace in total, net of the return of cash, contributed 337m cash exceptional items including impairments : inflow.
During the year, the continuing Group spent 35m 2006: 54m on acquisitions.
amortisation of intangible assets acquired in a business combination: profit or loss on disposal of businesses: and other financing gains and losses.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7 Business review continued Earnings per share Net debt Basic headline earnings per share from continuing activities were Net debt at year end was 588m, down from 923m at the start.
Contributing to the net debt reduction were the Aerospace disposal and the related return of cash.
On a statutory basis, the basic earnings per share from continuing activities were 36.9p 2006: loss of 18.2p.
Research and development Investment in research and development R&D drives future These measures are distorted this year by the effect of the share performance and is a measure of the Groups commitment to the consolidation in June following the disposal of the aerospace business.
future organic growth of the business.
The average number of shares in issue during the year was a reflection of the capital structure appropriate to both the continuing and the Smiths invested a total of 79m in R&D on continuing operations, discontinued business.
Of that total, 8m was funded by customers.
The comparative figures for the continuing activities in 2006 were Interest and other financing costs 80m and 12m.
Under IFRS, certain of these development costs are For continuing operations, interest payable on debt, less interest on capitalised.
The gross capitalisation is shown as an intangible asset.
cash deposits, was 36m, compared with 53m in 2006.
The 17m Where customers contribute to the costs of development, the movement reflects the cash inflow following the aerospace sale.
Net contribution is included as deferred income and disclosed within trade interest costs were 9.5 times covered by headline operating profits.
The Group accounts for pensions using IAS19.
As required by this R&D is discussed further in the divisional paragraphs below.
standard, a finance credit is recognised reflecting the expected return on pension scheme assets and a finance charge is recognised reflecting the unwinding of the discount on the future pension liability.
The net financing income for continuing operations was 34m in 2007, compared with 25m in 2006.
Exceptional and other items relating to continuing activities excluded from headline profits These items were 88m, compared with 353m in 2006.
These comprised: 9m for integration costs associated with the Medex acquisition 2006: 19m : Impairment of goodwill and other assets 10m principally in respect of the automotive seals business and a loss on disposal of businesses of 5m 2006: profit of 18m : 13m in respect of costs written off following the decision not to proceed with the detection joint venture with GE: 43m proceeds from insurance commutation see litigation paragraph on page 16 : 101m provision for John Crane litigation costs and net 3m provision for other litigation see litigation paragraph on page 16 : A profit of 24m in respect of TI Automotive shares: Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations of 15m 2006: 13m.
The amortisation relates principally to technology and customer relationships.
Exceptional items in 2006 included 325m in respect of the write down of TI Automotive shares and 12m for the settlement of a product liability class action.
Financing gains amounted to 1m 2006: loss of 2.3m.
These represent the results of derivatives and other financing instruments which are not hedge accounted under IFRS.
Of this sum, 1.5m 2006: 1.8m was charged to operating profit.
8 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Divisional developments and performance The critical infrastructure market is diversified with varying growth rates in the different segments.
Smiths Detection is focusing on three Smiths Detection key areas: mass transit, sports and events and government and military facilities.
Smiths has a growing involvement in helping protect Group Managing Director a number of important metro systems in both the US and Europe.
A Stephen Phipson good example of a sporting event is the Asian Games held in Doha late last year for which Smiths supplied chemical detection equipment.
Sales to the ports and borders sector doubled, with new business in Russia, Italy and Nigeria.
The market is a rapidly expanding sector driven by government objectives of enhancing security screening and preventing tax evasion.
Customers require mobile and fixed units capable of detecting explosives, weapons, radioactive materials and Description narcotics.
In Russia, working closely with the relevant authorities, Smiths Detection is a prime contractor which designs and Smiths Detections new manufacturing facility in St Petersburg manufactures equipment to detect and identify explosives, is now fully operational.
weapons, contraband and dangerous substances.
The military market for UK and US technology is restricted by export It has a vast range of advanced technologies, including trace controls, and these two governments form a large part of the market.
detection, x-ray, millimetre wave, infra-red and biological This market is influenced by tendering opportunities for large agent analysis.
individual contracts that typically run for several years.
Late in the Employees financial year, Smiths Detection was awarded an important contract 2,100 to supply the US Department of Defense with new-generation lightweight chemical agent detectors under its Joint Chemical Agent Principal operating regions Detector JCAD programme.
Manufacturing is concentrated in North America, Germany, France and the UK.
Smiths Detection intends to develop new business by expanding systems integration activity, offering improved functionality in Contribution to 2007 Group sales protective shelters and introducing new technologies through 20% government funded partnerships.
The first responder market is smaller than the other markets, with US sales accounting for more than 50% of global addressable demand.
This market is characterised by more localised purchasing decisions and steadier growth.
The markets served by Smiths Detection are particularly influenced Key customers by specific events and the perception of the threat of terrorist activity Some 85% of sales are influenced by governments around the or other security issues.
This perception itself has been and is likely world including homeland security authorities, customs to remain variable.
authorities, first responders and the military.
Performance 2007 2006 Markets m m Movement Homeland security is a top priority in western countries, with 10% per Sales 438 412 6% annum market growth expected.
The worldwide market addressed by Headline operating profit 79 74 6% Smiths Detection products and services is estimated to be worth 3 billion.
Sales Smiths Detections products serve the transportation, critical Sales increased by 6% to 438m.
Adverse exchange rate movements infrastructure, ports and borders, military and first responder reduced reported sales by 4%.
Excluding acquisitions, disposals and markets.
The Group also adapts technology developed for these the effect of exchange translation, sales have increased 10%.
markets for carefully selected industrial applications.
The transportation sector grew at 11%, and new products were The transportation sector, which includes airports, is the largest launched giving prospects of strong growth ahead.
The airport security market is The military sector saw sales reduce by 11%, with some major expected to grow in response to: contracts reaching a conclusion and the new Joint Chemical Agent the projected growth in air traffic: Detector JCAD programme not yet in full production.
new security threats: and Headline operating profit Headline operating profit increased 6% to 79m and the operating customer demand to improve passengers experience and increase margin of 18% was sustained in 2007.
At constant currency operating throughput at checkpoints.
The HI-SCAN 6040aTiX is focused on profit growth of 10% matched sales growth.
On a statutory basis, this issue and is the first system that will be deployed that will allow operating profit was 65m 2006: 79m.
automatic explosives detection at security checkpoints.
It uses several, independent multi-energy generators, each of which is connected to its own sophisticated and state-of-the-art X-ray sensor technology.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 9 Business review continued Research and development Products are being continually upgraded to provide greater levels of Smiths Medical threat detection, working closely with customers to meet their most Group Managing Director demanding requirements.
Smiths is particularly investing in new Srini Seshadri products for detecting improvised explosive devices, bio-terrorism and radiation.
R&D expenditure increased by 9% to 33m, including 7m of capitalised projects.
Major projects included the aTiX machine which provides enhanced detection capability including the automatic detection of explosive.
Other projects included bio-terrorism and radiation detection, together with enhancements to the EDtS multiDescription beam X-ray machines for automatic inspection of airport checked Smiths Medical focuses on improving medical outcomes by baggage.
Future technology developments include millimetre wave providing specialist medical devices to global markets.
helps its customers: Forward-looking issues deliver medication, for example by providing equipment to deliver Smiths strategy is to build a global business in order to offer chemotherapy, pain relief and insulin: customers a range of different solutions for the threats they are provide vital care, for example, by providing equipment and facing.
The outlook for Smiths in the detection sector is positive.
devices which manage patients airways and temperature, The investment levels in 2007 were high, with increases in inventory monitor vital signs before, during and after surgical procedures, and capital investment, in order to meet the sales demand ahead.
and help treat longer-term respiratory conditions: Capital investment is being made to ensure the rapid build up of keep people safe, through safety devices that prevent needleproduction of the aTiX machine to meet expected demand from stick injuries and reduce cross-infections when drawing blood airports around the world.
samples, giving injections and delivering intravenous drugs.
BAA has selected Smiths as its long-term strategic partner to Employees enhance security at every passenger checkpoint at its seven major UK 8,200 airports.
The agreement, which is Detections largest ever UK airport contract, includes an initial roll-out potentially worth 20m.
Smiths Principal operating regions will supply aTiX machines, automated tray return systems, enhanced Manufacturing is concentrated in Mexico, the US, the UK, Italy trace detection systems and archway metal detectors, all designed to and Germany.
smooth the process of screening carry-on bags while strengthening Contribution to 2007 Group sales security at checkpoints.
Contracts for the initial supply and second increment of JCAD 32% detectors have been secured and will underpin growth in Military sales in the US.
Key customers Smiths Medicals end customers are hospitals and other healthcare providers worldwide.
Most territories are serviced through local wholly-owned sales and distribution companies.
Business developments Smiths Medical continues with a major integration and rationalisation programme which includes the integration of Medex.
Manufacturing rationalisation has continued and the cessation of manufacturing at Hythe, announced in July 2006, remains on track for completion by January 2008.
A smaller rationalisation of German manufacturing arrangements was announced during the year.
The reorganisation of distribution facilities also reported last year has continued.
The implementation of a common global computer platform continued with the UK launch in February 2007.
This, together with the manufacturing restructuring, has caused some temporary disruption to the internal supply chain, now resolved.
Internationally, Smiths Medical has acquired distributors in many of its key territories.
Most recently in December 2006 the Spanish distributor, Tecnicas Medicas, was acquired for 12m.
This strategy provides effective routes to market when countries adopt clinical best practices many of which, like the use of safety devices, have originated in the USA.
10 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Markets These major changes in the structure of the internal supply chain Smiths Medicals product ranges serve three main markets resulted in a faster utilisation of safety stocks and a slower ramp up medication delivery, vital care and safety.
Healthcare spending of production than was required to satisfy demand.
Action was taken continues to increase worldwide, driven by demographics.
The overall to increase capacity, in terms of the workforce in Mexico and world market for devices and equipment of the type supplied by investment in plant and machinery.
Customers requirements can Smiths Medical is estimated to be worth 3.5 billion and growing now be met in full and inventory levels are being rebuilt.
consistently at an average rate of 5% per annum.
At the same time, cost savings were achieved across the business, In the US Smiths Medical is benefiting from the move towards enabling the margin to advance even while sales were not growing.
treatment of illnesses in their chronic, rather than acute stages.
In the US, group purchasing organisations are important customers A number of airway management products and ambulatory pumps and in the year a number of sizeable agreements were reached with already address this trend such as the CADD ambulatory infusion Premier, Novation and Broadlane covering a wide range of products.
pump range and the Acapella respiratory therapy system and it is becoming a focus for our vital care products.
The Japanese business, which represents about 7% of total sales, has been held back by pricing pressure from the government The global market for medication delivery products is estimated to be reimbursement programme and a drive for improved efficiencies worth 1.5 billion and growing at around 6% per annum.
This growth in the public sector.
However, there are also some important areas is due to the increase in treatment of chronic conditions, integrating of growth, including a Government initiative to improve cancer medication delivery devices with hospital IT systems, and the move treatment, which is already benefiting the infusion business.
to treating patients outside hospitals.
Headline operating profit The market for vital care products is showing annual growth of around Headline operating profit fell 5% in the year.
The translation of 4%, partly due to a steady increase in chronic respiratory diseases and overseas earnings at weaker average exchange rates reduced profit obesity.
Demand is increasing for single use devices such as Portex by 7%.
Underlying profit growth excluding acquisitions, disposals and airway management products.
The market is expected to continue the effect of exchange translation was 2m.
On a statutory basis, growing as the number of operations and intensive care beds both operating profit was 106m 2006: 104m.
This market is currently worth about 1.5 billion a year.
The decline in sales is not reflected directly in operating profit because The global market for safety products is estimated to be worth 500m underlying profit benefited from: and growing at 6% per annum.
The advantages of using safety devices are well understood in the US, and there is now greater recognition increased manufacturing in low-cost countries: and of the contribution safety devices make to improving the safety and the incremental gain from the continued integration of Medex.
In other geographic markets, conversion to safety products is in its infancy, with opportunities for Research and development rapid future growth.
Demand for the Jelco ProtectIV range of Investment in R&D remained steady at 25m.
Of this, 15m 2006: intravenous catheters continues to grow and the product is seen as 16m was charged against headline operating profit, with the balance leading the field in Europe and the US.
Since the acquisition of Medex, being capitalised.
product launches have included a new range of Jelco AdvantIV passive Recent new products which will help to drive future growth include: safety catheters and an extended needle safety portfolio.
Safety power-injectable ports and needles for improved cancer treatment: a products are also being introduced into other areas of healthcare, comprehensive range of safety syringes: a broad range of respiratory such as dentistry.
devices: consumables and software upgrades for infusion pumps Smiths Medical has respected brands including CADD, Medfusion, including a Chinese language variant of our insulin delivery pump.
Portex, Level 1, Medex and Jelco, competitive positions, considerable Smiths Medical has also been investing in process technology.
expertise in design and manufacture and a worldwide sales network.
Moving to high-volume, high-speed automated production will help Performance to improve margins and increase market share, particularly for one-time-use consumable products.
2007 2006 m m Movement Forward-looking issues Sales 691 737 6 % Smiths Medical will focus on premium products with strong brands Headline operating profit 127 133 5 % in growing niche markets.
The year ahead will bring further significant product launches in key market segments.
The industry remains Sales relatively unconsolidated, with opportunities to add adjacent Sales fell 6% in the period.
Adverse movements in exchange rates product lines.
are responsible for 45m of the total 46m reduction.
In this period Smiths Medical failed to match market growth and sales declined by 1% on an underlying basis.
The shortfall was due to temporary supply disruption arising from the substantial change programme underway.
Production moves from Hythe UK, and Kircheseeon Germany to plants in lower cost regions are now nearly complete.
New integrated computer systems have been introduced, and manufacture of high volume products is now concentrated at highly automated plants close to the principal market.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 11 Business review continued In March 2007 Smiths purchased CDI Energy Services and Global Smiths Specialty Engineering Energy Products for US$38m.
These two closely linked US-based businesses supply artificial lift systems and maintenance services Group Managing Director to the oil and gas industry.
They complement the John Crane Paul Cox Performance Plus logistics management programme and expand our presence in the growing upstream segment.
In August 2006 John Cranes bearing lubrication business in Finland was sold for 15m.
On 31 July 2007 Smiths finalised the disposal of its automotive seals manufacturing businesses to Cyclam Holdings LLC for a contingent consideration of 3m.
Description Within Interconnect, Times Microwave Systems Inc. was sold as Smiths Specialty Engineering serves the international energy, part of the Aerospace transaction.
This will not affect the performance communications and industrial markets: John Crane designs and of the remaining Interconnect business because it was a discrete manufactures seals and associated products mainly for the oil & business unit.
gas, chemical, pharmaceutical, pulp & paper and mining sectors: At the year end the Marine Systems which represents less than 6% Smiths Interconnect designs and manufactures specialised of total divisional sales was being actively marketed for sale and the electronic products and systems for the wireless assets and liabilities of that business are disclosed as held for sale telecommunications, aerospace, defence, space and medical on the balance sheet.
markets: Flex-Tek designs and manufactures engineered components which heat and move fluids and gases for aerospace, Markets domestic appliances, and medical devices: Marine Systems is Smiths Specialty Engineerings principal businesses John Crane, smaller and supplies marine electronics and navigation charts.
Interconnect and Flex-Tek each address distinct markets.
High capital spending on energy production and communications networks Employees is expected to deliver average annual growth of 7% in these markets.
11,000 John Crane is experiencing strong demand for its products Principal operating regions and services, particularly in the oil, gas and petrochemical sector, John Crane is a global business with a presence in more than which is its largest market.
At this stage in the capital investment 50 countries.
cycle, the growth is in the sale of original equipment for new Interconnect is a global business with manufacturing in the US, production facilities.
This will provide aftermarket opportunities in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Costa Rica, Mexico and China.
the future which are expected to generate attractive margins.
Global capital spending in the energy sector is projected to continue growing Flex-Tek conducts a majority of business in the US, but also in the in the long term in response to increasing energy consumption.
The UK, France, Malaysia and Mexico.
acquisition of CDI Energy Services enhances John Cranes presence in Contribution to 2007 Group sales all aspects of oil and gas production upstream and downstream.
For John Crane example, liquefied natural gas LNG produced in Qatar and ultimately 25% drawn from the UK gas grid by consumers will have passed through John Crane seals and other technology at every point in its journey.
The largest markets for Interconnect are aerospace, defence Specialty Other and wireless telecommunications.
Interconnect provides technology 23% for un-manned aerial vehicles, next generation ground vehicles, communications systems, surveillance systems and self-protection Key customers systems.
The aerospace and defence product range includes antenna John Crane serves oil and gas companies, refineries, pump systems, connectors and frequency sources.
A good example of this and compressor manufacturers, chemical and other process includes five new component design contracts that Interconnect has industries.
won on Raytheon Companys surveillance radar programme which will be deployed in Taiwan.
Another is the work that Interconnect Interconnect sells to aircraft manufacturers, defence and wireless business TRAK has subcontracted from Northrop Grumman and telecoms companies.
Lockheed Martin for the Advanced Hawkeye naval surveillance Flex-Tek serves mainly domestic appliance manufacturers and aircraft.
These typify areas of spending that are expected to grow the US construction industry.
despite an overall long-term outlook of declining military budgets.
In the wireless telecommunications sector, Interconnect supplies Business developments devices to protect base stations from power surges and niche In response to increasing customer demand, John Crane has been microwave components.
The wireless infrastructure sector is growing adding production capacity and locating manufacturing closer to its strongly, driven by the demand for increased capacity on the existing customers.
Some of these facilities have been located in low-cost networks and for new infrastructure in Asia.
In China, Interconnect manufacturing locations, particularly in India and China.
Locating in business Transtector is providing key components including surge these countries has generated incremental sales from local customers.
protection for the TD-SCDMA wireless base station antennas, helping to achieve a high-level and reliable performance for mobile phone customers.
Growth in this area is expected to continue as subscriber numbers increase and subscribers demand greater coverage, better connectivity and increased functionality.
12 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Other applications for Interconnect products include medical Headline operating profit equipment such as MRI scanners and railway signalling systems, Headline operating profit rose by 3%, with growth of 13% at John both of which are seeing good growth at present.
Crane off set by a 6% decline at Specialty Other.
The translation of the overseas results at weaker exchange rates reduced the divisions Flex-Tek supplies engineered flow and heat technology equipment profit by 7%.
for construction, consumer products and aerospace applications.
Its products include proprietary hose and tubing technology, natural The benefit of volume, together with cost savings, generated strong gas delivery systems, rigid tubing assemblies in high ferrous metals profit growth at John Crane.
Excluding acquisitions, disposals and the and open coil convection heating.
The main customers are domestic effect of exchange translation, headline operating profit for John Crane appliance manufacturers and the US construction industry.
is normally a function of overall economic growth and the strength of Raw materials prices, particularly for stainless steel, nickel and the US construction industry.
However, strong demand enabled John Flex-Tek is strong in customer-focused product development.
Crane to pass on commodity price increases.
For example it has developed an air duct called Thermaflex which Excluding acquisitions, disposals and the effect of exchange has obtained certification for use in applications where children are translation, headline operating profit for Specialty Other reduced by present, including day care centres the first company to have 1%.
Reflecting the mixed sales performance, Interconnect had double obtained this certification.
The product reduces the amount of digit headline operating profit growth on this basis while Flex Tek chlorofluorocarbons and other hazardous materials that are expelled suffered from demand being significantly down.
In addition, Flex-Tek into the atmosphere and is being used extensively in the US.
had to absorb commodity cost increases.
Performance Higher raw materials prices also adversely affected working capital 2007 2006 management for Specialty Engineering as a whole, leading to higher m m Movement carrying values for inventory.
Sales On a statutory basis, operating profit was 1m for John Crane 2006: John Crane 532 518 3% 71m and 61m for Specialty Other 2006: 63m.
Specialty Other 500 513 3 % Research and development 1,032 1,031 1% R&D expenditure for the division is 21m, 3m lower than previous Headline operating profit years.
This decline partly reflects weaker US dollar exchange rates John Crane 75 66 13% in the period.
Specialty Other 66 71 6 % Forward-looking issues 141 137 3% Smiths strategy is to grow each of the principal Specialty Engineering businesses.
In pursuit of this strategy, Smiths aims to broaden the Sales customer or market base where the application of its technological Sales rose by 1%, driven by the sales growth at John Crane and expertise and engineering skills are most appropriate, for example Interconnect.
Adverse movements in exchange rates have reduced the development of Interconnect products for the medical equipment John Crane sales 5% and Specialty Other sales by 6%.
acquisitions, disposals and the effect of exchange translation, John Smiths Specialty Engineerings outlook is for further growth in the Crane sales rose by 9% and Specialty Other sales by 3%.
year ahead, helped by the continued upturn in the investment cycles In oil and gas John Crane had a 25% increase in its supply of seals for oil & gas and telecoms infrastructure.
to Original Equipment Manufacturers, well in line with the positive market trend.
Projects contributing to this growth were: new ethylene cracker plants in China: gas extraction and processing in the UAE: and ethane cracker and petrochemical plants in Saudi Arabia.
The performance of Specialty Other has been mixed.
Interconnect had a very good year with double digit sales growth after adjusting for acquisitions, disposals and the effect of exchange transactions.
FlexTek suffered from a reduction in demand for products serving the US domestic construction industry.
Marines financial performance was similar to the previous year.
Interconnect benefited from increased military spending on networkcentric systems to provide effective battlefield communications.
Interconnect provides a range of microwave components which are developed specifically for each project.
Smiths equipment is vital to the operation of the Eurofighter Typhoon, for example, generating healthy sales in this period.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 13
