Business review Business review contents Group overview Group overview 4 Spectris designs, develops and markets productivityStrategy and objectives 5 enhancing instrumentation and controls.
Our products, Key performance indicators 7 Operating review 8 applications and services help customers to improve - Materials Analysis 10 product quality and performance, improve manufacturing - Test and Measurement 12 processes, reduce downtime and wastage and reduce - In-line Instrumentation 14 - Industrial Controls 16 time to market.
Financial review 18 Principal risks and uncertainties 21 Resources 23 Corporate social responsibility 23 We operate on a global scale, with sales and service offices around the world We operate across a diverse range of markets Stability through the cycle Geographic diversity Rest of world UK Metals & mining 6 4 12 Other 21 Transport 11 Asia 28 Energy & 5 39 Europe utilities 6 11 Pulp & paper Distribution 8 9 R&D Pharma, life sciences 8 23 9 Semicon, telecoms North America Machine building & electronics 2007 Approximate sales by end user market % 2007 Sales by destination % Continuing businesses Continuing businesses 4 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Strategy and objectives We operate across a diverse range of markets Our businesses are leaders in their specialised markets, with strong brands and market-leading products.
Our customers Our objective is to deliver shareholder value over the are multinational, blue-chip customers in a diverse range of long term by supplying  solutions end markets, with no individual market representing more than for our customers.
12% of sales and no individual customer representing more than 1%.
Metals, minerals and mining, pharmaceuticals, pulp and Our strategy is based on five key elements: paper, and transportation primarily automotive and aerospace are the principal industry sectors.
Our core business is the Strengthening market positions through innovation design, assembly and testing of our products, and we outsource We invest around 6-7% of sales each year in R&D 7% in 2007, manufacturing and non-core activities where possible in order with the aim of developing and delivering advanced products to reduce fixed costs and speed up response times.
and applications to our customers.
Working closely with customers, experienced engineers develop solutions which are We operate on a global scale tailored to the customers specific requirements, based on Our sales and service offices are located around the world, standard platforms customised through high added value supporting customers in the key regions of Europe, Asia and the applications engineering.
This understanding of our customers Americas, and with a growing presence in other industrialising processes brings significant competitive advantage.
Much of our regions in the rest of the world.
We also add value for customers technology is proprietary and protected by patents or process by providing aftermarket services, for example supplying know-how.
New products and applications may be developed consumables, calibration, consultancy and support services.
in house, by acquiring bolt-on product lines or by collaboration This area is increasing in importance and currently accounts and licensing agreements for proprietary technology in for around one quarter of our business.
partnership with universities and other institutions.
We enable our customers to achieve rapid payback on Increasing regional expansion with the focus on their investment emerging markets Our products generally involve low capital expenditure and We seek to grow our businesses around the world, with bring significant and rapid payback for customers in terms particular emphasis on industrialising markets such as China, of increased productivity.
A typical example is the installation India and South America.
We continue to establish sales and of a BTG Mtek system at a large producer of recycled fibre-based support facilities in these regions so that we are able to support carton board, which, by cutting chemical additives and boosting our global customers wherever they are based.
productivity, paid for itself in just three months.
In another example, a UK mineral processing company has increased Growing existing businesses through acquisition throughput by around 60% following the installation of a We seek to enhance the growth potential of our business Malvern in-line particle size analyser.
The majority of our sales by pursuing an active but disciplined approach to bolt-on are to customers who are looking to upgrade existing processes acquisitions, focusing on businesses which are strong players at modest cost.
in specific application areas where there are significant barriers to entry.
Focusing on operational excellence We continue to focus on improving all aspects of our business through a range of actions including: process efficiencies, value pricing, optimising the business mix, cost competitiveness, designing products for low-cost production, reducing inventory and improving supply chain management.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 5 Business review continued Building our presence in key strategic growth areas have direct contact with users to develop solutions that deliver We aim to grow our existing businesses organically by tangible benefits.
Stand-alone acquisitions must share these developing new products as well as pursuing opportunities business characteristics and have the management strength for growth in new markets, such as nanotechnology and life to operate as autonomous units within the Spectris group.
Our investment in R&D enables us to maintain our Central to our philosophy is a small corporate centre which leading market positions and acquisitions are targeted at both sets the strategy and drives and monitors its implementation.
In addition to setting and monitoring the groups overall policies and values, the centre provides advice and selective support Business model services such as legal, tax and treasury, establishing a control To meet the challenge of delivering successfully across a diverse framework within which entrepreneurial cultures can thrive range of customers, markets and geographies, we organise our and knowledge can be shared between businesses.
businesses in a way that combines the benefits of a multinational group with the best aspects of entrepreneurial capability.
Our business model is based on four segments, each comprising a number of autonomous operating companies, with management teams who have a high degree of responsibility and accountability, operating within a framework of group management and control.
Within each business segment, the companies operate with their own brands, sales and service channels, tailored to meet individual customer requirements, enabling them to meet their customers demands.
The key benefit of this results-driven structure is that management teams have local ownership and can focus on their priorities and react quickly to changing customer and market needs.
High calibre employees, including qualified scientists, applications engineers and technicians, In November, Servomex acquired Controle Analytique, a leading provider of specialist gas analysis products based in Canada In July, Particle Measuring Systems acquired the distribution activities of Quest Technologies in Singapore 6 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Key performance indicators We monitor progress against our objectives via four key performance indicators.
1 Sales 3 Cash conversion We aim to achieve year-on-year growth in sales which excludes We continue to focus on cash generation, with the target of the effects of currency translation and divestments.
delivering high cash conversion of operating profit in each financial year.
Cash conversion is defined as operating cash flow In 2007, total sales for continuing businesses were 659.8 million.
as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
Sales growth, continuing businesses, In 2007, cash conversion was 99%.
at constant currencies % 6.5 07 Cash conversion, as reported % 99 06 8.0 07 05 5.9 06 107 05 107 2 Return on sales Return on sales is defined as adjusted operating profit as a 4 Earnings per share percentage of sales from continuing businesses.
Our aim is We aim to achieve growth in adjusted earnings per share.
to sustain or improve margins over time.
Adjusted earnings per share in 2007 was 58.1p.
In 2007, return on sales for continuing businesses was 15.8%.
EPS pence Return on sales, continuing businesses % 07 58.1 07 15.8 06 43.7 06 12.9 05 36.2 05 11.9 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 7 Business review continued Operating review Spectris comprises four business segments which reflect the applications and end user industries we serve.
Materials Analysis Sales Materials Analysis provides a wide range of analytical instrumentation and 32% systems for particle and material characterisation.
Applications are typically in batch process manufacturing industries and research and development Profit laboratories.
Industries served include semiconductor, pharmaceuticals and 34% life sciences, with applications also in metals, minerals and mining.
Test and Measurement Test and Measurement supplies test and measuring equipment for research and development, principally to the aerospace and automotive industries.
Further applications are in consumer electronics and the environmental monitoring market.
Profit 25% Sales 32% In-line Instrumentation In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical solutions, asset monitoring and control, gauging, and on-line controls for both primary processing industries oil and gas, energy generation, petrochemicals, pulp Sales 30% and paper and the converting markets plastics, rubber, film.
Profit 33% Industrial Controls Sales 6% Industrial Controls supplies automation and controls for general manufacturing processes.
Products include bar code scanners, panel Profit meters, human machine interfaces, industrial controllers and networking 8% products.
8 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Our businesses are leaders in the markets they serve, with strong brands and market-leading products.
Malvern PANalytical Particle Measuring Instruments Systems Analytical systems X-ray analytical Micro-contamination for materials equipment for monitoring systems characterisation, from industrial and for ultraclean bulk powders to scientific applications.
environments and nanomaterials and manufacturing macromolecules.
Brel & Kjr HBM Sound & Vibration Transducers, sound Load cells, level meters and transducers, strain analysers for sound gauges, signal and vibration conditioning and data measurement.
acquisition systems, test and measurement software and services.
Beta LaserMike Brel & Kjr Vibro BTG Group Fusion UV Systems NDC Infrared Servomex Engineering Non-contact, laserMachine condition Instruments, coating Ultraviolet light Infrared, X-ray, isotopic Gas analysers, gas based dimensional monitoring systems and creping processing technology and microwave analysis systems and measuring and flaw and maintenance technology for the for curing sensors for on-line transducers.
pulp and paper photo-sensitive inks, measurement of dimensional gauging.
coatings and moisture, composition, adhesives.
film thickness and coat weight.
Microscan Red Lion Controls High speed industrial Operator interfaces, bar code scanning signal conditioners, and decoding temperature instruments.
controllers, counters, rate indicators and panel meters.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 9 Business review continued Overview Materials Analysis Materials Analysis provides a wide range of analytical instrumentation and systems for particle and material 2007 Sales by destination % characterisation.
The companies in this segment are Malvern Instruments, PANalytical and Particle Measuring Systems.
Rest of world These businesses generally sell directly to global end user 8 customers and provide aftermarket services such as technical 35 Europe support, instrument calibration and replacement consumables.
Applications are typically in batch process manufacturing Asia 34 industries and research and development laboratories.
Industries served include semiconductor, pharmaceuticals and life sciences, with applications also in metals, minerals 23 and mining.
The total market for materials analysis North America instrumentation is estimated to be around 9 billion.
2007 Approximate sales by end user market % Market drivers In addition to the need to improve process manufacturing Other productivity, a key factor in the demand for this segments 18 Metals, minerals products is the requirement for certification to comply with & mining 33 Semicon, telecoms regulation, for example for quality control in the manufacture 10 & electronics of drugs in the pharmaceutical industry and detection of materials such as lead and cadmium to meet legislation 17 on the use of hazardous substances.
Another driver for materials R&D 22 analysis instrumentation is the demand from the growth in new Pharmaceuticals & molecular and material sciences, where the equipment is used life sciences to analyse and characterise materials and structures in the development of new products.
Improving product performance Malverns Zetasizer Nano particle measurement system is being used by speciality chemical manufacturers to develop innovative lacquers for the paints and coatings industry.
Incorporating nano-sized ceramic particles, these lacquers offer greater scratch resistance and improved gloss compared with conventional paints, and are particularly attractive to the automotive industry.
The Zetasizer Nano measures both particle size and zeta potential.
Particle size correlates directly with the visual aspects of paint performance, such as hue, gloss and opacity, and zeta potential is a critical variable when determining product stability, as the performance of paints can be affected by sedimentation during storage.
10 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Review of operations Demand from the pharmaceutical industry continued to be Sales in Materials Analysis increased by 4% in 2007 to strong.
Malverns recently launched Morphologi G3 product, 213.8 million, and by 8% at constant currencies.
Operating an automated particle characterisation system, has been profit increased by 15% to 34.8 million and operating positively received by large pharmaceutical manufacturers, margins improved by 1.6 percentage points to 16.3%.
with a significant number of orders already placed.
Particle Restructuring charges were 0.1 million, compared with characterisation is critical to the pharmaceutical industry, from 0.5 million in the prior year.
protein size and conformation analysis at the discovery stage The metals and mining industries continued to grow, through to on-line analysis during manufacture.
Both Malvern particularly in Australia, South America and southern Africa, and PANalytical have seen good growth for their benefiting Malvern and PANalytical.
Malverns in-line particle instrumentation from emerging regions such as India and characterisation products saw strong growth in areas such as China, where the establishment of R&D and production centres cement and print toners as the productivity benefits achieved by by leading pharmaceutical manufacturers is increasing, as is the existing customers led them to extend the use of these products production of drugs by generic manufacturers.
At Particle into their other facilities.
Measuring Systems good growth in contamination detection systems for the pharmaceutical industry compensated for cyclically weaker demand in the semiconductor industry.
Investment in research and development continued in the semiconductor industry, benefiting PANalytical.
During the year, Particle Measuring Systems launched the AirSentry II product for contamination monitoring in the semiconductor and electronics industries.
This product features a patented ion mobility spectrometry technique and is used for real-time monitoring of airborne molecular contamination, a critical factor in semiconductor processing and hard disk drive and liquid crystal display manufacturing.
Reducing environmental impact Antarctica is often thought of as the worlds last unspoilt wilderness, but unfortunately this is no longer the case.
Contaminated waste sites, left behind from abandoned research stations, are spreading into environmentally sensitive areas.
In a major programme of remediation, the Australian Antarctic Program is using PANalyticals MiniPal spectrometer at the abandoned Casey station to detect soil contaminants, mainly heavy metals, polluting the soil and melt water.
The data obtained has classified around 1000 tonnes of waste soil for disposal and validated the satisfactory clean up of the site.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 11 Business review continued Overview Test and Measurement Test and Measurement supplies test and measuring equipment for research and development, principally to the aerospace 2007 Sales by destination % and automotive industries.
The Rest of world companies in this segment are Brel & Kjr Sound and 6 Vibration and HBM.
Products include sensors and controls for noise, vibration, weight and stress measurement, data acquisition Asia 24 hardware and software, and advanced data analysis applications.
Services such as consultancy and instrument calibration and 58 Europe repair are also offered.
The general industrial test and 12 North America measurement market is estimated at around 2 billion.
Market drivers Product testing and quality control are the principal drivers 2007 Approximate sales by end user market % for demand in the Test and Measurement segment.
Prototype testing is a costly, but unavoidable, stage in the development of Other many consumer durable products.
R&D engineers must ensure 18 32 Transportation not only that consumer requirements are met within shorter development cycle times, but also that ever-increasing R&D 7 environmental, safety and efficiency targets are complied with.
8 Semicon, telecoms In addition to product development, increasing legislation and & electronics regulation on noise levels, for example EU directives on noise 11 24 Environment regulation for airports, cities and workplace noise, is also driving Machine building demand for our test and measurement applications.
Developing new products As portable audio devices become increasingly popular, concern is growing over potential damage to peoples hearing, particularly in children, from loud noise through headphones or earphones.
European standard EN 50332 sets a limit for the maximum sound output allowed.
Brel & Kjrs Head and Torso Simulator is used by manufacturers to measure the full volume level from the audio player at the eardrum with the help of ear simulators.
This ensures that their products comply with the standard, reducing the risk of ear damage.
12 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Review of operations particularly the automotive and aerospace markets, and a Sales in Test and Measurement increased by 3% in 2007 to significant order has already been received from the BMW 207.5 million, and by 5% at constant currencies.
Operating Group for the new engine, gearbox and power train test profit increased by 39% to 26.2 million and operating stands being developed at their Research and Innovation margins improved by 3.3 percentage points to 12.6%.
Restructuring charges were 0.1 million compared with In the aerospace industry, the increased use of new carbon 2.1 million in the prior year.
fibre composite materials in lightweight aerospace structures is Demand from the automotive industry continued to grow, setting new demands for structural testing and stress analysis, particularly in Europe, as manufacturers maintained their new benefiting HBM.
model development programmes and endeavoured to meet the In environmental monitoring, Brel & Kjrs airport challenge of testing prototypes in ever shorter time frames.
noise monitoring system was selected by the Metropolitan Brel & Kjr increased sales to the leading automotive Washington Airports Authority, serving Reagan National manufacturers and also grew their support and calibration Airport and Washington Dulles International Airport.
In September, HBM launched the QuantumX company also installed an airport noise and flight track data acquisition system for test and measurement markets, monitoring system at Zurich airport and noise monitoring systems in several cities in China.
Business review continued Overview In-line Instrumentation In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical solutions, asset monitoring and control, gauging, and on-line controls for both primary processing industries oil and gas, energy 2007 Sales by destination % generation, petrochemicals, pulp and paper and the converting Rest of world markets plastics, rubber, film.
The companies in this segment 6 are Beta LaserMike, Brel & Kjr Vibro, BTG, Fusion UV 39 Europe Systems, NDC Infrared Engineering and Servomex.
These Asia 27 businesses sell directly to global end user customers and systems integrators and the majority of sales are for new and upgraded production facilities.
All businesses provide aftermarket services.
The global market for in-line instrumentation is estimated to be 28 in excess of 1 billion.
North America Market drivers 2007 Approximate sales by end user market % The growing requirement to improve process manufacturing productivity and drive down costs in an increasingly competitive Other global environment has led to greater demand for process 23 instrumentation.
End user markets are facilities with critical 36 Pulp & paper plant assets such as paper mills and converting plants where downtime and lost production are costly.
Environmental Energy 12 issues are also key drivers for process instrumentation in these industries.
Higher oil prices have resulted in energy 29 generation expansion and efficiency to meet the global demand Converting for refining and petrochemical products.
At the same time, increasing power costs have led energy-intensive industries such as pulp and paper to install new instrumentation as they seek production efficiencies.
Reducing downtime Catastrophic machine failure was avoided at a major liquefied natural gas plant in the Middle East when Brel & Kjr Vibros remote surveillance service successfully diagnosed a fault on a turbine whilst the plant monitoring specialists were on holiday over Christmas.
The plant uses Brel & Kjr Vibros Compass system with a remote connection for predictive maintenance.
The high vibrations on the machine, spotted by an engineer at the plant, were investigated remotely, and a developing fault was identified just one day before the sensors were overloaded.
14 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Investment in infrastructure is also driving demand for different types of paper applications.
In the past two years, process control solutions worldwide.
The growth in demand for BTG has launched a number of new products for metering renewable resources, for example alternative energy sources such and doctoring solutions for specific coating processes and is as hydroelectric and wind power, as well as the need to meet a recognised innovator in this market.
regulations on reducing emissions, has led to an increase in Good demand in the energy and petrochemical markets demand for process control solutions.
Safety is also a priority in benefited Brel & Kjr Vibro and Servomex, as producers these industries, with the requirement to monitor gas emissions expanded their processing facilities in the light of higher oil and other harmful substances in order to comply with increased prices.
Brel & Kjr Vibro received a number of high value health and safety regulation.
orders from oil and gas customers for its condition monitoring systems.
At Servomex, demand for gas analysers was strong in Review of operations the hydrocarbon business in North America and Canada and in Sales in In-line Instrumentation increased by 2% in 2007 to the industrial gas business in Europe and the Middle East.
On 200.2 million, and by 6% at constant currencies.
Operating 1 November, Servomex acquired Contrle Analytique, a leading profit increased by 32% to 34.7 million and operating margins provider of specialist gas analysis products based in Canada, improved by 3.9 percentage points to 17.3%.
Restructuring enabling the company to increase its product offering in the charges were 0.7 million in 2007, compared with 5.1 million global industrial gas market.
In the converting industry, Fusion UV Systems, NDC and Investment in capital-intensive facilities in the continuous Beta LaserMike all saw good sales growth.
Fusion UV Systems process industries was strong.
In the pulp and paper industry, benefited from continued growth in the flat panel display the need to reduce production costs and become more energymarket, one of the fastest-growing sectors in the electronics efficient has led to a shift in production facilities from the west industry, as the quality and size of flat panel televisions increases.
to regions such as South America and Asia.
This has benefited Fusions UV technology is used to cure the anti-reflective BTG, particularly the Duroblade business where, in response to functionalised film applied to the screen.
Good demand from the industry focus on paper quality, the company has moved the converting market in China benefited both Beta LaserMike from producing ceramic blades to developing blades tailored for and NDC in their respective markets.
Improving productivity Advansa is Europes largest manufacturer of pure terephthalic acid PTA, a key constituent of polyester and an intermediate in the production of plastics.
To meet increased global demand, the UK plant has recently been upgraded and annual production of PTA has increased by around 100,000 tonnes.
A Servomex 2200 process oxygen analyser has been installed as part of a functional safety system to monitor the oxygen-enriched air used in the reactor to increase production of PTA.
If the level is too high it could cause an explosive atmosphere to form.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 15 Business review continued Overview Industrial Controls Industrial Controls supplies automation and controls for general manufacturing processes.
The companies in this segment are 2007 Sales by destination % Microscan and Red Lion Controls, which supply bar code scanners, panel meters, human machine interfaces, industrial 1 Rest of world controllers and networking products.
This segment sells Asia 13 indirectly to end users via distributors as well as directly to 23 Europe original equipment manufacturers OEMs, with a significant proportion of repeat business from existing customers.
The total market for industrial controls is estimated to be in excess of 10 billion.
63 Market drivers North America Manufacturing automation is growing in importance as customers compete in an increasingly global environment where 2007 Approximate sales by end user market % improving efficiency and reducing unit costs is key to survival.
Another significant factor in the demand for automation and Other Pharmaceuticals control equipment is the demand for increased operational 7 4 Semicon, electronics data regarding product manufacture, and the need to improve & telecoms 7 processes to reduce rework and scrap, for example by tracking products through the manufacturing process and beyond so that they can be traced in the event of a product recall.
In some industries, such as the aerospace and pharmaceutical 82 industries, product tracking by means of bar codes is a Distribution regulatory requirement.
Improving performance The Hoover Dam is one of North Americas largest hydroelectric facilities, generating more than 4 billion kilowatt-hours a year enough to serve 1.3 million people.
The control room, which runs a 24-hour operation, is critical to the efficient functioning of the facility.
Red Lions panel meters are used on a recently-installed dynamic mapboard to monitor generators, water levels and additional system components, replacing the previous video monitoring system which was not sufficiently reliable.
The 77 integrated panel meters deliver real-time readouts, providing systems at a glance status information which allows operators to monitor power flow and perform preventative maintenance when needed.
16 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Review of operations Red Lion Controls also grew sales internationally, with its Sales in Industrial Controls were 38.3 million in 2007, human machine interface and data station products proving compared with 38.9 million in 2006.
Sales increased by 6% particularly successful.
Human machine interfaces are being at constant currencies.
Operating profit increased by 10% to used increasingly in industrial applications, displacing 8.6 million and operating margins improved by 2.4 percentage traditional analogue displays, due to the increased operational points to 22.5%.
data and better interfacing with other plant systems they are Microscan saw strong sales growth in Europe and Asia, able to provide.
in part due to the increasing move of electronics assembly operations to Asia, particularly China, Taiwan and Korea.
The company launched the Quadrus MINI Velocity scanner, the worlds fastest mini imager, which can read up to 45 bar codes per second.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 17 Business review continued Financial review driven by the increase in sales, an increase in restructuring benefits, a decrease in restructuring costs, and good cost control.
Introduction The year-on-year impact on profits from acquisitions was Spectris uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in approximately 1.3 million or 1% of profits.
addition to those reported under IFRS.
Adjusted figures are Net interest costs, including IAS 19 pension charges but stated before amortisation of acquisition-related intangible excluding derivative fair value movements, reduced from assets, goodwill impairment charges, profits or losses on the 9.4 million to 6.8 million.
After taking account of lower termination or disposal of businesses or major fixed assets, interest costs, adjusted profit before tax increased by 28% unrealised changes in the fair value of financial instruments, from 76.3 million to 98.0 million.
related tax effects and other tax items which do not form part Unadjusted operating profit, after including goodwill of the underlying tax rate.
Unless otherwise stated, all profit and impairment charges of nil 2006: 1.2 million and acquisitionearnings figures referred to below are adjusted measures.
related intangible asset amortisation of 1.9 million The Spectrum and Ircon businesses were divested in 2006: 1.8 million, increased by 24% from 82.7 million to February 2007 and June 2007 respectively as described further 102.9 million.
The results of these two businesses are not considered to Unadjusted profit before tax increased by 38% from be sufficiently material to be presented as discontinued 85.6 million to 118.1 million.
In addition to goodwill operations under IFRS.
However, in order to aid understanding impairment charges, acquisition-related intangible asset of the results for the ongoing business, references below to the amortisation charges, and profit on disposal of businesses, sales and operating profit results for continuing businesses the 2007 unadjusted result includes an unrealised gain of exclude the results of these two businesses and the business sold 3.0 million on the groups cross-currency interest rate swaps in April 2006 Arcom.
Operating performance Acquisitions and disposals During the year, two of the groups businesses made acquisitions.
2007 2006 Increase The total consideration, including acquisition expenses and net decrease debt acquired, as well as deferred and contingent consideration Total group expected to be paid in future years, was 6.6 million.
The largest Sales m 668.4 684.5 2.4% of these acquisitions took place close to the end of 2007.
These Operating profit m 104.8 85.7 22% acquisitions contributed 0.6 million of sales during the year.
Operating margin 15.7% 12.5% 3.2pp Prior year acquisitions contributed 6.2 million.
In February 2007, Spectris sold the Spectrum business to Continuing businesses Illinois Tools Works Inc and in June 2007 the Ircon business to Sales m 659.8 642.6 2.7% Fluke Electronics Corporation for total net proceeds after Operating profit m 104.3 83.2 25% taking account of transaction costs of 29.8 million, giving rise Operating margin 15.8% 12.9% 2.9pp to a profit on disposal of 19.0 million 2006: 9.5 million.
Total group sales decreased by 2.4% 1.3% increase at Taxation constant currencies and sales in continuing businesses increased The effective tax rate on profits was 28.0% 2006: 28.8% by 2.7% 6.5% at constant currencies.
The year-on-year impact compared with the weighted average statutory tax rate of 32.3% on sales from acquisitions acquired in 2006 and 2007 was 2006: 32.1%.
The group benefited from utilising brought approximately 6.8 million or 1% of sales.
forward tax losses which had not previously been recognised on Adjusted operating profit rose by 22% overall 32% at the balance sheet, and from the favourable closure of prior year constant currencies and by 25% 35% at constant currencies tax returns.
The weighted average statutory tax rate is expected in continuing businesses, with operating margins improving to reduce in future by approximately two percentage points in from 12.5% to 15.7% overall, and from 12.9% to 15.8% on a line with reduced corporate tax rates on profits in several continuing businesses basis.
This growth in operating profit was countries where the group operates, principally Germany.
18 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Whilst the effective tax rate is expected to move closer to the 2007 2006 weighted average rate over time, it is not expected to increase Non-operating cash flow m m substantially in the near future.
Tax paid 23.8 21.5 Net interest paid 6.3 11.2 Earnings per share Dividends paid 22.2 20.2 Adjusted earnings per share increased by 33% from 43.7p to Acquisitions 6.0 13.6 58.1p, reflecting the net impact of a 28% increase in adjusted Disposals 29.8 13.3 profit before tax and the reduced tax rates.
Share buy-back 79.2 Basic earnings per share increased by 44% from 49.4p to Exercise of share options 4.1 5.3 70.9p.
The differences between the two measures are shown in Purchase sale of own shares by Employee 1.6 0.9 the table below.
Benefit Trust Exchange other 4.1 3.7 2007 2006 Total non-operating cash flow 109.3 43.3 Pence Pence Operating cash flow 103.7 91.5 Basic earnings per share 70.9 49.4 Movement in net debt 5.6 48.2 Goodwill impairment charges and acquisition- 1.6 2.4 related intangible asset amortisation Cash conversion of operating profit to operating cash was Profit on disposal of businesses 15.6 7.6 99% 2006: 107%.
This was achieved mainly through continued Unrealised changes in fair value of 2.4 2.3 control of working capital.
The year end working capital financial instruments expressed as a percentage of sales reduced from 14.8% to 14.2%.
Tax effect of the above and other tax items that 3.6 1.8 Average working capital expressed as a percentage of sales do not form part of the underlying tax rate reduced from 13.7% to 13.5%.
Adjusted earnings per share 58.1 43.7 Capital expenditure during the year equated to 1.9% of sales The weighted average number of shares outstanding 2006: 1.5% and, at 12.7 million 2006: 10.5 million, was during the year decreased from 124.3 million to 121.6 million.
This decrease arose largely as a result of the share buy-back The level of tax paid in 2007 was higher than in 2006 due programme.
primarily to the increase in profits.
Overall, net debt increased by 5.6 million 2006: reduction Cash flow of 48.2 million from 71.7 million to 77.3 million.
Interest cost, excluding the financing charge arising from IAS 19, was 2007 2006 covered by adjusted operating profit 15.6 times 2006: 9.4 times, Operating cash flow m m providing significant headroom over and above banking Adjusted operating profit 104.8 85.7 covenants which require a minimum of 3 times cover.
Add back: depreciation 13.1 13.2 Working capital movement other 1.5 3.1 Financing and treasury Net cash flow from operating activities before 116.4 102.0 The group finances its operations from both retained earnings capital expenditure and third-party borrowings, the majority of which are currently Capital expenditure 12.7 10.5 at fixed rates of interest.
Operating cash flow 103.7 91.5 The groups principal borrowings relate to its 2000 and Cash conversion 99% 107% 2003 US Private Placement loan notes.
The $100 million 2003 US Private Placement has been swapped into euro-denominated borrowings using a cross-currency interest rate swap.
At the year end, 96% of group borrowings were at fixed interest rates 2006: 97%.
The ageing profile at the year end showed that 3% of debt is due to mature within one year 2006: 4%, 31% of debt is due to mature in between one and five years 2006: 31% and the remaining 66% in more than five years 2006: 65%.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 19 Business review continued Total sales 668m 261 Share buy-back 249 244 Total costs 570m During 2007 the group purchased 8.9 million shares for a total PBT 98m cash consideration of 79.2 million and after the year end Sales 173 acquired a further 1.4 million shares for a total consideration Costs of 9.3 million before announcing its intention to stop the buy-back on 22 February 2008.
75 58 57 53 48 Currency 20 The group has both translational and transactional currency exposures.
Translational exposures arise on the translation of $ Euro Yen Other overseas company results into sterling.
Transactional exposures Dollar euro categories include tracking currencies arise where the currency of sale or purchase invoices differs Costs include interest from the functional currency in which each company prepares its local accounts.
The transactional exposures include situations Defined benefit pension schemes where foreign currency denominated trade debtor, trade creditor Operating profit includes a defined benefit pension scheme and cash balances are held.
current service charge of 0.9 million 2006: 0.8 million.
The largest transactional exposures are to the US dollar and, The net pension liability in the balance sheet before taking to a lesser extent, the euro and the Japanese yen.
The largest account of the related deferred tax asset has reduced to translational exposures are to the US dollar, the euro and the 11.1 million 2006: 18.8 million, largely as a consequence of Danish krone.
The table below shows the key average exchange cash contributions into the schemes and actuarial gains on the rates during 2007 and 2006.
Translational currency exposures are scheme assets.
During 2007, the group made cash contributions not hedged.
into the defined benefit pension scheme amounting to 3.1 million 2006: 3.3 million.
2007 2006 average average US $ 2.00 1.84 Euro 1.46 1.47 Yen 236 214 To demonstrate the currency exposures faced by the group, Clive Watson the chart opposite shows the differences between the groups Group finance director consolidated revenues and costs for each of the major currencies.
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge forecast sale transactions where there is reasonable certainty of an exposure.
At 31 December 2007, approximately 61% of the estimated US dollar and Japanese yen exposures for 2008 were hedged using forward exchange contracts.
20 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Principal risks and uncertainties annual financial plans for each business unit, significant capital investments or contractual commitments and major acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and The process for identifying, evaluating and managing any approval by the Board: significant risks forms part of the groups system of internal controls.
there is a Group Accounting and Policies Manual which sets out the minimum standards and procedures to be applied in Internal controls relation to those risk areas which are regarded as significant The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of in a group context: internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk a process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual of failure to meet business objectives and can provide only and reporting thereon has been established, providing for reasonable and not absolute assurance against material a documented trail of accountability from business unit misstatement or loss.
presidents and finance directors to the audit committee.
Following publication in October 2005 by the Financial The necessary actions are taken by the audit committee to Reporting Council of the updated guidance for directors on remedy any failings or weaknesses identified by its review internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on of the internal control system: the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the assessed significant risks faced by the group, that this has been business and external environment which present significant in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval risks.
The group finance director provides the Board with of the annual report and accounts, that this process has been monthly financial information which includes key performance reviewed by the Board during the year and that the group indicators.
Regular reports on significant legal issues and accords with the guidance.
The Board affirms the importance insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
it attaches to the continuous review and application of the guidance, the regular and systematic assessment of the risks The key potential risks and uncertainties which could have a facing the group and the value of embedding risk management material impact on the groups long-term performance are and internal control systems within its business processes.
experienced internal auditor assists the Head of Internal Audit with internal control reviews across the group.
Strategic risk The processes which the Board and the audit committee have Spectris has a broad spread of markets, products and customers, applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of as described previously in this review, and thus any specific internal controls are summarised below: risk to the ability to implement our strategy due to changes in the political and economic environments in the countries in risk assessment and evaluation for each business unit takes which we operate is limited.
This broad spread of markets also place as an integral part of the annual strategic planning cycle.
provides a good averaging of individual sector investment cycles.
Having identified the principal risks to achievement of their Our products typically involve low capital outlay but provide strategic business objectives, each business unit is required to significant and rapid payback.
These benefits become even document the management and mitigating actions in place more attractive to customers as they seek to reduce their own and proposed: costs of production.
A key element of Spectris strategy is to grow the business the principal risks identified during the annual strategic portfolio through acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on planning cycle and the effectiveness of the management and businesses which complement or extend the range of products mitigating actions in place are reviewed regularly by the and applications Spectris can provide.
Potential risks exist in executive directors and twice yearly by the audit committee: successfully integrating acquisitions.
However, Spectris believes that its track record of carefully selecting businesses which fulfil additionally, the executive directors consider those risks its acquisition criteria and rigorous financial assessment of the to the groups strategic objectives which are not addressed potential acquisitions ability to contribute to growth will within the business units and develop appropriate approaches continue to ensure that any businesses acquired will be to managing and mitigating these risks: successfully integrated.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 21 Business review continued Operational risk exchange translation risk, which results from converting foreign In order to sustain competitive advantage, the group invests currency to sterling, is not hedged but is actively managed significantly in research and development.
The development through natural hedging by matching invoicing and purchasing of all new technologies and products involves risk including currencies as far as is commercially practical.
In addition, it is the product being more expensive, or taking longer, to develop the aim where possible to hedge foreign currency investments than originally planned: that the market for the product with borrowings in the same currency.
In order to minimise is smaller than originally envisaged: or that the product fails interest cost and maximise interest income, companies are to reach the production stage.
We endeavour to reduce this risk required to pass surplus funds to Group Treasury through interby ensuring that the development of new products is carried company loans.
Where possible zero balance pools are in place out in conjunction with customers to ensure that the products to centralise cash automatically.
meet expectations of the market.
All businesses are exposed The long-term aim with regard to interest rate risk is to have to risk from competitive activity.
However, the diversity of a balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
Interest rate Spectris products and markets limits the overall risk from any swaps are considered to achieve this balance.
In order to ensure adequate liquidity the group maintains Although the majority of our business is to supply products sufficient lines of credit to cover expected cash requirements.
only, there may be instances where Spectris companies enter into complex long-term or multi-site contracts with customers.
Intellectual property risk Spectris has a strict approval process for such contracts in order Spectris business is focused on the design and manufacture to manage any risks they may present.
Potential risk from loss of technologically advanced products and applications and of a key customer is, however, limited as no single customer the group makes significant investment in research and accounts for more than 1% of turnover, and credit control development.
As a consequence, the group owns and protects procedures limit the risk from non-payment by customers.
patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright information and Group operating companies also monitor customer satisfaction intellectual property licenses.
Although these are important to to ensure they are meeting customers product, delivery and growth as a whole, no single patent, trade secret or trademark service requirements.
The company is also exposed to the risk is sufficiently important to present a material risk to the success that some of the components it sources, particularly for customof the company.
Appropriate measures are taken to protect the built items or older components, are provided by a single companys intellectual property rights and to minimise the risk supplier and are vulnerable to interruption of supply.
The group of infringement by third parties.
Spectris is prepared to initiate seeks to address this risk by finding alternative sources to reduce legal action if necessary to safeguard its interests.
Inadvertent dependency on single-source suppliers and building sufficient infringement of third-party rights also presents a risk and safety stock of critical components.
Spectris has procedures in place requiring its operating Spectris operations are characterised by short lead times and companies to maintain a watching brief on new applications and seasonal fluctuations in sales, with some businesses exhibiting to undertake specific reviews prior to commencing new product a greater trend towards sales in the second half of the year.
This development programmes, acquisitions or licenses.
limited forward visibility and the potential for delays in the shipment of orders exposes the company to the potential risk Information technology business interruption risk that it may not meet its sales forecast for the year.
Spectris depends on timely and reliable information from key software applications to aid day-to-day operational management Financial risk and to provide accurate financial information for its head office.
The principal financial risks managed by the group are foreign Whilst the company endeavours to ensure the continuous currency, interest and liquidity.
The groups exposure to availability and operation of these systems and software, any commodity risk is perceived to be small by virtue of the nature disruption could delay or otherwise impact day-to-day decision of the businesses.
Disaster recovery plans to maintain business-critical Foreign exchange transaction risk is managed principally processes and activities in the event of a significant interruption through forward contracts covering up to 75% of forecast to the normal course of business are in place throughout the forward exposures for up to eighteen months ahead.
Foreign group and are regularly tested.
22 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Hazardous risk Corporate social responsibility Assessment of risk to the business is carried out on a continuous basis to determine any potential effects on the environment Spectris is committed to creating business growth whilst resulting both from product manufacture and operation of ensuring that the impact on the environment is minimised.
our products at the customers site.
Each operating company The companys products are used to help customers reduce is required to produce a risk register which identifies possible their use of resources such as energy, water and raw materials hazardous risks to their business.
For each risk the likelihood during the manufacturing process.
For further details of of the occurrence is documented, together with the possible Spectris policies on the environment, health and safety, ethics consequences, the actions required to minimise the probability and human rights, refer to the Corporate social responsibility of the event occurring, and responsibility assigned to a member statement on page 24. of the companys management team.
The risk register is reviewed regularly by the Head of Internal Audit.
Resources The companys key resources include: the skills and expertise of our people our technology our relationships with customers People Spectris employs around 5,500 people in 150 offices throughout the world.
The success of the company is dependent upon the abilities of its employees.
We recruit high calibre people, with a high proportion of employees qualified at, or above, degree level, and are committed to providing them with the resources and working environment they require to achieve the highest standards.
In 2007, on average, 3000 people were employed in production and engineering, with 2000 in sales and marketing and 500 in administrative functions.
Further information on our employees, and on their recruitment, training and development, is set out in the Corporate social responsibility statement on page 24.
Technology As mentioned above, we invest significantly in research and development to develop new products and applications.
We have technology centres and applications laboratories around the world and our businesses are leaders in their markets, providing customised solutions to customers in all locations.
Customers We sell  instrumentation and services to a large number of customers around the world.
We have developed close working relationships with many of our customers and in many instances involve them in the development of new products.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 23
