Business review Market spread - in breadth and depth The Groups steam and peristaltic pumping markets are very well spread geographically with no industry sector accounting for more than 10% of sales and no customer accounting for more than 1% of sales.
Applications - Steam Industries Feedwater conditioning Combined heat and power Steam generation Oil rening and processing Steam distribution Industrial and agricultural chemicals Steam heat exchange Fine chemical, pharmaceutical Condensate recovery and biotechnology Condensate return HVAC Heat recovery Hospitals and clinics, medical devices Clean steam Government and commercial institutions Humidication Dairy Sterilisers, autoclaves Cars and aircrafts Tanks and vats Shipbuilding Rotating cylinders Boilers Tracing Electronics Textiles, bres and leather Tobacco Applications - Peristaltic pumps Food and beverages Fermenter and bioreactor feed Brewing and distilling Chromatography column feed Sugar Filling and dispensing Pulp and paper Chemical metering Rubber and plastics Potable water sampling Water and waste water treatment Ink and varnish transfer Print and packaging, paints and pH control pigments Vending of juices and avours Mining Surgical irrigation Science and research Tablet coating Ceramics and glass Abrasive slurry handling Concrete pumping Sludge transfer Business drivers - creating growth Our business is well spread geographically across the product range and over a diverse range of industries.
The following factors all have an inuence on the underlying demand in our markets.
Economic growth Industrial investment Globalisation Regulation e. g. food hygiene, emissions and climate change Energy costs Outsourcing Capital projects Technological changes Growing peristaltic pump usage 8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Business review market overview Heinz Energy savings have enabled the largest food factory in Europe to realise a payback of less than nine months, after investing in a Spirax Sarco steam trap survey and Strategy undertaking the resulting remedial work.
The Group remains focused on the development of its two market-leading businesses.
The Spirax Sarco business aims to be the steam users first choice provider worldwide of ecient solutions in the use of steam and related industrial uids.
Watson-Marlow Bredel aims to strengthen its position as the worlds largest manufacturer of peristaltic pumps, with capacities from micro litres to tonnes, providing problem-solving knowledge, constant innovation and lifetime value to process industries around the globe.
The position of our two businesses as world leaders is founded on our long held strategy of investing for growth both organically and, where appropriate, by acquisition.
The Groups prime financial objective is to provide enhanced value Adimmune to shareholders through consistent growth in earnings per share and dividends per share.
Both the Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow Bredel Investment in Spirax UltraPures new businesses are based on the philosophy of understanding in detail vapour compressor technology will not only the customers processes and being able to apply the product and simplify this pharmaceutical customers engineered solutions in order to give a benefit to the customer.
We water system, but reduce pure water are clear that by investing in sales and marketing resources, in product generation costs by as much as 40%, with development, in improved eciencies and in training our people, we expect to continue to grow sales, profits and dividends in the long less work in maintenance and validation.
Trends In 2007 we continued to develop and promote our two businesses and, as a result, we grew sales and profits and again increased the operating profit margin despite an adverse exchange transaction eect.
Both Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow Bredel supply a very broad base of customers in a wide range of industries and we concentrated on developing our ability to improve customers processes through our highly trained technical sales force.
The industrial and commercial steam-using market that is served by Ajinomoto Betagro the Spirax Sarco business is fragmented and, although Spirax Sarco is Frozen Foods market leader, we still have significant growth opportunities.
We are Thailand Co. Ltd. adding to our range of solutions and are improving product designs and performance.
There is good growth potential, whether in newer A modern steam system has been supplied less developed economies or in the large longer established markets to this Thai food company, to maximise such as the USA, Japan and Germany.
We will continue to increase the eciency and minimise their steam losses.
number of trained sales and service engineers across the world.
This The closed loop steam system solution has will also allow us to increase revenue from providing a range of services improved plant start-up and performance.
and pre-packaged solutions which incorporate our specialist technical expertise and our assurance of performance.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 9 Case studies market overview continued... Trends continued... Our Watson-Marlow Bredel business is the world leader in providing and applying peristaltic pumps for industrial use.
One of our major tasks is to educate customers about the intrinsic advantages of peristaltic pumps so that they will increasingly be used to solve dicult pumping problems.
These intrinsic advantages make peristaltics one of the fastest growing sectors of the global pumping market.
The product range is being steadily widened and developed, making use of improved electronics and materials to broaden the addressable market by taking business from other pump types.
As we widen the possible applications for our pumps, so we are seeing increasing opportunities including hygienic applications in pharmaceuticals, biotechnology and the food industries.
The acquisition of Flexicon A S in Denmark in February 2008 will increase our presence in the important pharmaceutical and biotechnology markets.
Current environment Market conditions in 2007 remained generally positive throughout the year.
Although there has been increasing speculation as to the future impact of the global credit problems, our markets remained rm and were underpinned by an increasing need to improve plant eciency and reduce energy consumption, due in part to high oil prices, increasing emphasis on climate change and requirement for reduction in CO emissions.
The 2 markets in Continental Europe were helpful through 2007 following the pick up in 2006.
Although we increased sales in the UK domestic market in 2007, our underlying market in the industrial sectors of the economy continued to be subdued, not helped by the strength of sterling.
The markets in North America remained positive with good levels of demand despite increasing general worries about a slow-down in 2008.
The economies in South America, Australasia and South Africa were positive, although with some degree of fragility, particularly in South America.
In Asia, market activity has continued to be good and the economic fundamentals have, in most cases, been strong.
Not surprisingly, exchange rate movements, on average, have had a noticeable eect on the 2007 results, particularly as the Groups business is so geographically diverse.
The US dollar and dollar-related currencies were substantially weaker against sterling than in 2006, which has held back the reported results - especially in North America.
By contrast, the euro and related currencies were roughly unchanged against sterling in 2007 as against 2006: this area accounts for roughly a third of the Groups sales.
The currencies in Asia tended to move with the US dollar.
Investment in marketing resources Improved website The Steam and Group Marketing A new Group website has improved Condensate Loop book Group Marketing provides us with the usability and experience, whilst The Steam and Condensate Loop book, is a information, identity and direction for maximising interaction with customers, unique culmination of 100 years of steam long-term sustainable business growth.
Intuitive navigation has application knowledge.
This indispensable To achieve these core responsibilities, encouraged repeat visits, to access the full-colour reference guide arms engineers the department is divided into three extensive information available and has with practical application knowledge coordinated teams: Group Strategic raised our prole in search engine results.
to improve productivity, minimise Marketing, Group Industrial Marketing and maintenance and deliver energy saving Group Media Services.
10 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc performance review Total Group sales increased by 9% in 2007 to 417.3 million 2006: 384.2 million.
This increase was after an exchange hit and, at constant currency, the sales increase was a strong 11%.
While some of this growth arose from the generally positive economic conditions, we continued to develop the product range and to implement a series of global and local sales plans, and, as a result, have increased our market share.
There has been good organic growth in all regions, with the strongest increases in Asia and the Rest of the World and solid growth in UK, Continental Europe and North America.
In the Spirax Sarco steam business, sales increases were achieved in controls, heat exchange solutions, clean steam products and steam system services: the latter also contributed to good growth in sales of traditional products.
In Watson-Marlow Bredel, there were good increases in business into the environmental and sanitary applications in both developed and developing markets.
The Groups operating profit was 68.7 million 2006: 62.3 million, an increase of 10% in sterling and 16% at constant currency - a strong result.
The profit was the highest ever achieved by the Group.
The increase in operating profit arose mainly from the organic sales growth and improved eciency, partially oset by higher material costs and the impact of exchange rate movements.
The operating profit margin improved again from 16.2% in 2006 to 16.5% in 2007.
The improvement was held back by exchange transaction eects and the impact of slow sales development at UltraPure as reported at the half year.
Geographical analysis of sales based on sales by location of customer in 2007 United Kingdom & Republic of Ireland 44m 154m Continental Europe 81m North America 85m Asia Rest of world South America, Africa, Australasia 53m Geographical analysis of trading profit based on location of operation in 2007 United Kingdom & Republic of Ireland 13.4m 26.3m Continental Europe 7.3m North America Asia 16.6m Rest of world South America, Africa, Australasia 5.1m Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 11 Change in sales Change in operating profit 2007 versus 2006 m 2007 versus 2006 m 16m 3.5m 3.0m 14m 2.5m 12m 2.0m 10m 1.5m 8m 1.0m 6m 0.5m 4m 0.0m 2m -0.5m 0m -1.0m -2m -1.5m -4m -2.0m -6m -2.5m -8m -3.0m -10m -3.5m United Continental North Asia Rest of Exchange United Continental North Asia Rest of Exchange Kingdom Europe America World rate Kingdom Europe America World Rate % change 8% 10% 9% 15% 13% -2% % change 19% 15% 5% 23% 11% -5% Change in sales is shown at constant exchange rates.
Change in operating profit is shown at constant exchange rates.
Based on sales by location of customer.
Based on the location of operations.
New products performance review continued... Trading continued..... United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland Sales into the domestic market increased by 8% in 2007 to 44.0 million from 40.7 million in 2006.
The underlying market remains quiet due to the continuing pressure on the manufacturing base.
In Spirax Sarco, we focused on our technical support for customers in helping to improve their plant operations and energy conservation, which resulted in good growth in sales of steam system services and prefabricated packages.
Watson-Marlow Bredels sales included a good increase in demand for Bredel pumps but was held back by a lower level of projects.
Our UK factories continued to be busy satisfying demand for both the domestic and overseas markets and benefiting from the increased throughput and tight control of costs.
Operating profit of 13.4 million was well ahead of the 11.0 million achieved in 2006, with good gains in both the sales companies and the manufacturing operations - with the latter helped by the overseas demand.
12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc New products Clean Steam product range extended To enhance our capabilities as a solutions provider to the biopharmaceutical industry we have expanded our range of high purity products, designed and manufactured to the latest industry standards.
Generation Controls and With an extensive range of FDA and cGMP instrumentation approved pure steam generators, and Our range of direct acting and water for injection distillation units, our pneumatically actuated control valves products are at the heart of any critical are amongst the most advanced in the utility service.
market place, providing accurate control to ensure successful process operation.
Steam trapping Ancillary products After developing the first true clean We now have a comprehensive range of steam trap we have evolved the design ancillary products, including check valves, to improve operation, helping to ensure pressure gauges, sight glasses, ball valves eective system sterilisation.
The introduction of a unique clean steam separator helps customers overcome steam quality problems and complies with the standard HTM2010.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 13 Continental Europe The good levels of activity that built up in 2006 continued through 2007, with sales increasing to 153.7 million from 138.3 million, an increase of 11%.
Exchange movements had little eect on the sterling gures as the average euro rates were similar in both years.
In 2007, levels of economic and industrial activity were positive with increases in GDP growth and industrial production.
The higher sales were reected across both the Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow Bredel ranges.
In particular, there was good progress in sales of controls, heat exchangers, steam system services and tubing.
Sales to OEMs, pharmaceutical, biotech, food and pulp & paper did well.
Geographically, the growth was also widespread with increases for the Spirax Sarco business in nearly all the operating companies, including in France, Germany, Scandinavia, Spain and Russia.
In Watson-Marlow Bredel, there was good progress in all companies and the new direct selling company in Denmark, acquired in January 2007, started well.
Operating profits increased 17% from 22.4 million in 2006 to 26.3 million in 2007, driven mainly by the organic growth.
The operating margin in 2007 was slightly ahead at 13.8%.
performance review continued... North America Sales in North America increased in sterling by only 1% in 2007 to 80.8 million from 80.0 million.
The substantial devaluation average year on year of the US dollar in 2007 as against 2006 has masked an underlying growth in sales of 9%, which is mainly organic growth.
In the USA, the markets remained positive and sales in the Spirax Sarco business grew well with increased sales of energy services, controls and traditional products.
The Watson-Marlow Bredel business saw good growth in water wastewater and sanitary applications.
Our Canadian company produced a strong performance in 2007.
Our Mexican operation also generated a significant increase in sales and profits, although it is accounted for separately as an Associate.
The operating profit in North America was down 18% at 7.3 million, which compares with 8.9 million in 2006: at constant currency, the operating profit was up 5%.
The operating profit margin was lower at 9.0% as against 11.0% in 2006.
The reduction in margin arises from unfavourable exchange rate movements, particularly in Watson-Marlow Bredel, and, to a lesser extent, the impact of slow sales development at UltraPure.
Excluding these, the operating profit margin in North America would have increased slightly over 2006.
14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Asia Sales growth in our Asian territories was 11% in sterling to 85.3 million 2006: 77.1 million and at constant exchange was ahead 15%.
The markets in most of the Asian countries continued to be buoyant, the main exceptions being Taiwan and Thailand.
In Malaysia and South East Asia, our sales and profits increased BASF Catalyst nicely and our operations in China and Korea turned in excellent A Watson-Marlow Bredel SPX50 peristaltic performances with good increases in profits.
We increased sales pump has transferred hundreds of gallons of coverage in the growing markets and increased sales of traditional aggressive and hot 50-60C, particulateproducts as well as heat exchange packages, boilerhouse products laden caustic liquid from a plastics scrubber.
The new factory in China and oces in Korea were delayed for some months for technical reasons and The pump has oered this electronics recycling the projects will now run into 2009.
Our Indian operation, which is company uninterrupted production and treated as an Associate, grew sales well and is strongly profitable.
The Asian currencies tended to weaken with the US dollar, particularly the Yen, Won and Taiwanese dollar, thus adversely aecting the Asian results when reported in sterling.
The operating profit in 2007 was 16.6 million, which compares with 15.1 million in 2006, an increase of 10%: at constant currencies, the operating profit increase was 23%.
The overall operating profit margin in Asia was unchanged at 20.9%, despite the exchange transaction impact.
Canadian Natural Resources Limited To combat freezing temperatures, three technologically advanced steam heat exchange solutions have been delivered to Canadian Rest of the World South America, Africa, Australasia Natural Resources Limiteds Horizon project.
These were made in line with the high We also increased sales well in the Rest of the World to 53.6 million in 2007 2006: 48.2 million, an increase of 11%.
Here too, net specications demanded by the oil industry for exchange rate movements adversely aected the sterling numbers a steam to glycol system.
and, at constant exchange rates, the sales increased by 13% in 2007.
Although the South American economies remain somewhat fragile, they were buoyant and our company in Argentina, particularly, produced strong increases in local currency sales and profits.
The Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow Bredel operations in Brazil also provided good growth.
In South Africa, the Watson-Marlow Bredel business produced an excellent result, but the Spirax Sarco business performed poorly and a management reorganisation is being implemented.
In Australasia, our New Zealand company continued to produce strong results, but in Australia sales were at and profits were slightly down.
Operating profits in the Rest of the World were 5.1 million, up 6% from 4.8 million in 2006: at constant exchange, the operating profit The Max Planck Institute increase was 11%.
The profit increase was reduced by the results in Pure steam is used in the biotechnology and Spirax Sarco South Africa and Australia.
The margin in the region pharmaceutical industries for sterilisation therefore came down slightly from 10.0% in 2006 to 9.5% in 2007. and for air humidication in critical air conditioning systems.
This institute for vascular biology had a complete pure steam generating unit developed by Spirax Sarco.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 15 Applications Interest Net finance income was 2.4 million which compares with 2.0 million in 2006.
The increase was due to improved net finance income in respect of dened benefit pension funds.
This arose because the higher value of the assets of the funds, following the special pension contributions in 2006 and early 2007, improved the return on assets by more than the interest on the schemes liabilities.
Net bank interest payable increased by 0.7 million in 2007 due to the share buy-back in 2006, the special pension contributions in late 2006 and early 2007, and the acquisition of UltraPure.
Associates We have minority shareholdings in our operations in India and Mexico, which are reported as Associates outside the operating profit.
They are nevertheless an integral part of the Group and both produced good performances in 2007.
During 2007, we increased our shareholding in the Indian operation from 40% to nearly 50%.
The Groups share of after tax profits of Associates increased to 1.6 million 2006: 1.4 million.
profits before taxation The Groups pre-tax profit increased by 11% to 72.8 million 2006: 65.7 million.
Taxation The tax charge at 31.6% compares with 32.4% in 2006.
More than 80% of the Groups profits are earned outside the UK and the majority of the overseas tax rates are eectively higher than UK rates.
We expect that the tax rate for 2008 will be broadly in line with 2007. performance review continued...
Awards SP200 wins award The SP200 electropneumatic control valve positioner was amongst winners at Flow Control magazines annual Product Innovation Awards.
This program is designed to recognise industrys most compelling advances in uid handling technology.
The improved SP200 marks a new standard in ease of use with simpler installation and commissioning, adaptive valve control, and smarter functions.
Eirdata wins Sustainable Energy Ireland award As part of the Spirax Sarco Group of Companies, Eirdata is a provider of engineering and consultancy services in the areas of energy management and conservation.
At the recent Sustainable Energy Ireland awards, Eirdata achieved first place in the Energy Service Supply company category, placed above two major competitors in this eld.
16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc p Earnings per share 80 The Groups prime financial objective is to provide enhanced value to shareholders 60 through consistent growth in earnings per share and dividends per share.
Earnings per 40 share rose to 65.5p from 58.1p, an increase of 13% including a small benefit resulting 20 from the share buy-back in 2006.
0 p 30 Dividends per share 24 The proposed final dividend is increased by 14% to 21.6p per share.
This gives a total 18 dividend of 29.9p per share 2006: 26.5p, an increase of 13%, in line with our improved 12 performance in 2007.
6 0 Capital employed The continued growth in the business is reected in a higher level of capital employed, although the overall increase is well below the increase in sales.
Working capital was higher with increases in trade receivables and inventories but reecting improvements in both debtor days and stock weeks as we continued to closely manage working capital levels.
Return on capital employed 2007 2006 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 93,933 88,802 Inventories 73,824 67,707 Trade receivables 98,067 90,023 Prepayments and other current assets liabilities 55,463 47,337 Capital employed 210,361 199,195 Intangibles and investments in associates 36,297 30,197 Post-retirement benets 21,533 29,592 Deferred tax 3,352 7,352 Provisions 1,343 876 Net cash borrowings 15,831 6,554 Net assets 242,965 199,722 Return on capital employed Operating profit 68,336 61,941 Acquisition intangibles amortisation 384 350 Adjusted operating profit 68,720 62,291 Average capital employed 204,778 193,691 Return on capital employed 33.6% 32.2% Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 17 Return on capital employed ROCE ROCE improved in 2007 to 33.6% from 32.2% in 2006.
Capital employed was carefully controlled and increased by 6% in 2007, whereas operating profit increased by 10%.
Capital expenditure The value of tangible xed assets increased by 2% at constant exchange rates to 93.9 million in 2007 as we continue investing in our businesses.
There were investments in new or extended premises in Denmark, Germany and South Africa, together with on-going plant and machinery expenditure in our manufacturing plants to increase eciency and expand capacity.
The additions in 2007 exceeded the depreciation charge by 22%.
2007 2006 000 000 Capital expenditure 16,052 19,153 Depreciation and amortisation 13,147 12,151 Capital expenditure as a % of depreciation 122% 158% The numbers above exclude acquired intangible assets and capitalised development costs.
There have been delays in the expansion plans for our plant in China.
During 2008 and 2009 there will be an investment of around 9 million in a new factory and oces to increase the volume of production in Shanghai and to accommodate the growth of the sales organisation of this successful company.
We also intend to invest 6 million in expanding the Watson-Marlow tube and pump production plant.
performance review continued... Energy solutions Energy saving research The Carbon Trust has awarded Spirax a grant to develop a range of energy saving devises.
These products will contribute to a C0 reduction of about 1 million tonnes 2 in the UK alone.
This innovation will also help to support our global survey and service business.
The Carbon Trust is a private company set up by the government to accelerate the UKs move to a low carbon economy.
18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Intangible assets and investments in associates Intangible assets include goodwill capitalised prior to 2004 under UK GAAP and goodwill and other intangible assets capitalised on acquisitions since the transition to IFRS.
Goodwill is the subject Oce extension - of annual impairment testing and intangible assets are amortised Germany over their expected useful lives.
There was no impairment In response to growth of the German of goodwill during 2007, or 2006.
Amortisation of acquired business, which has seen an increase in the intangible assets was 0.6 million for the year 2006: 0.4 million.
Of this 0.2m relates to Associates 2006: nil following the number of sales engineers, the oces have increase in our shareholding in India from 40% to nearly 50%, been extended by another oor.
which required the recognition of intangible assets in respect of This provides much needed space and brings our total shareholding.
Product development costs capitalised together the sales department, to improve and computer software are also included in intangible assets eciency and teamwork, and to improve in accordance with IFRS.
The Group balance sheet also includes the cost of investment in our Associate companies in India and customer service.
Mexico and our share of post-acquisition profit, net of dividends received.
Post - retirement benets The post-retirement benefit liability shown in the balance sheet reduced to 21.5 million at 31st December 2007 from 29.6 million a year earlier.
The improvement was due to the special pension contributions of 5.5 million made in early 2007 and to a reduction in pension liability values as bond yields rose both in the UK and overseas.
These gains were partially oset by a New training centre performance review continued... shortfall in the return on assets for the year and to a lesser extent Bredel in the Netherlands has opened a new by increased liabilities due to pay and demographic factors.
training facility, where technical training and practical experience is combined to give sales sta a better understanding of the behaviour of the peristaltic pump, especially at higher pressures.
Since the first use of the training centre in early 2007, already people from many dierent countries have visited the facility.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 19 Investment in sales & training performance review continued... Cash ow There was a good cash ow performance for the year.
Free cash ow was 39.0 million 2006: 10.0 million driven by the strong growth in operating profit and despite making the 5.5 million of special contributions into the Groups main dened benefit pension schemes.
Working capital levels were well controlled and movements during the year absorbed only 3.6 million.
Taxation payments at 18.2 million were reduced by tax relief on the special pension contributions, particularly in the UK.
Capital expenditure net of disposals at 16.5 million was at a normal level but is expected to increase signicantly in 2008 as previously explained.
Net dividend payments rose to 20.8 million and there was an outow of 1.2 million in respect of acquisitions.
Against this, there was an inow of 3.2 million due to the operation of the Groups share-based payment schemes which were satisfied by the reissue of treasury shares.
In February 2008, we acquired Flexicon A S in Denmark for DKK141 million 14.1 million of which DKK113 million 11.3 million was paid on completion with the remainder to be paid in three equal annual instalments starting in February 2009.
The good cash flow and a small favourable exchange eect meant that we finished 2007 with net cash of 15.8 million compared with net debt of 6.6 million a year earlier.
2007 2006 000 000 Operating profit 68,720 62,291 Depreciation and amortisation 13,847 13,014 Equity settled share plans 1,259 860 Working capital changes 3,572 13,726 Additional contributions to dened benets schemes 5,726 15,887 Net interest paid 793 154 Income taxes paid 18,162 16,484 Net capital expenditure, including development 16,524 19,942 Free cash ow 39,049 9,972 Net dividends 20,271 18,366 Acquisitions 1,170 3,969 Shares purchased, less proceeds from issues 3,157 14,254 Cash ow before exchange 20,765 26,617 Exchange movement 1,620 1,018 Opening net borrowings cash 6,554 19,045 Closing net debt cash at 31st December 15,831 6,554 20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Improvements made at BSA factory Through the implementation of Demand Flow Technology principles, the BSA isolation unit has reduced lead times, and improved stock availability, which has improved customer service.
Capital structure Net cash of 15.8 million at 31st December 2007 comprised 37.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, and 22.1 million of borrowings.
The Group had various borrowing facilities available to it and at the year-end undrawn, committed facilities were 35.1 million.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of availability of funding and exibility through the use of overdrafts, loans and finance leases as appropriate.
The Group has operations around the globe and therefore its balance sheet can be signicantly aected by movements in the rate of exchange between sterling and many other currencies, particularly the euro and US dollar.
The Group seeks to mitigate the eect of this structural currency exposure by borrowing in local Growth at Engineered currency where appropriate, consistent with maintaining a Systems low cost of debt.
Since investment in 2004 the factory has supported growth from the UK and is Our policy is to maintain an appropriately strong balance sheet.
The Groups good cash generation is used to invest prepared to support future growth in Europe.
in expanding the business both organically and through Oering a range of bespoke and standard suitable acquisitions.
The Group regularly considers the packaged solutions, it now has the capabilities appropriateness of the structure of its balance sheet.
to manufacture factored products in-house.
Historically, excess capital has been returned to shareholders in addition to ordinary dividends.
New BP99 line With its in-built quality control measures, this new line for the production of a critical component has meant an improvement in productivity and a decrease in costs.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 21 Investment in manufacturing performance review continued... Risks and uncertainties The Group has well established risk management processes, including insurance cover, which are an integral part of the operation of our business and which are outlined in the Corporate Governance Section on page 30 of this Annual Report.
Whilst risk can never be eliminated, our processes allow us to identify and appropriately manage and mitigate risks and uncertainties.
These mainly arise from the inherent risks of operating a worldwide business largely using our own local sales companies to sell in local currency direct to end-user customers, distributors, OEMs and contractors, a very wide range of products, mostly designed and manufactured in our own facilities in a number of dierent countries.
The business is well spread geographically, across tens of thousands of customers and across most industrial and commercial sectors.
This means that we do not rely excessively on any one customer, application or industrial sector.
The principal risks and uncertainties are strategic, commercial, operational and financial.
Ultimately these aect our ability to deliver our prime financial objective, which is to provide enhanced value to shareholders through consistent growth in earnings per share and dividends per share as a result of maintaining our world leading position and investing in our businesses for growth.
Strategic risks and uncertainties include customer relationships, the competitive environment, political and economic upheaval, technological changes, the regulatory and legal environment, and investment in acquisitions.
These relate to maintaining our market and technological leadership including branding and reputation.
Commercial risks and uncertainties include issues such as product design and performance, product liability, competitor activity, relations with customers and suppliers, pricing and profit margins.
Our employees are key to managing and mitigating risks and uncertainties and we therefore invest significant resources in the training and development of our people.
Operational risks and uncertainties include health and safety and environmental issues, employee relations, mitigation of, and recovery from, major disasters, product quality and customer service.
We have for many years complied with recognised quality, health and safety and environmental standards and regulations and have applied project management disciplines in our business.
The Groups approach to the health and safety of employees is more fully described on pages 33 and 34.
Appropriate measures are implemented locally, particularly in the manufacturing companies, and there were further improvements in health and safety in our operations in the year.
The environmental benets from the use of Group products are more fully described on pages 34 and 35.
General Managers of operating companies are responsible for local compliance with the Groups policy and with local legislation, and are required to report regularly.
Financial risks and uncertainties include exchange rate exposures, interest rate movements, financial instruments, financial irregularities and protection of assets including pension fund assets.
The Group has a comprehensive Treasury Policy covering many of these issues and dening our approach to minimise and mitigate such risks.
All profit measures exclude the amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets.
The total in 2007 is 0.6 million 2006: 0.4 million of which 0.2 million relates to Associates 2006: nil.
22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 75th anniversary Spirax-Sarco Limited in Cheltenham celebrates 75th anniversary Spirax-Sarco Limited celebrated its 75th anniversary during 2007.
The Company provides steam system solutions to UK customers in varied industries including pharmaceuticals, oil and petrochemical, food, drinks, electronics, textiles, paper and institutions.
It also manufactures and supplies steam system products to fellow Group companies around the world for subsequent sale in their own markets.
Spirax-Sarco Limited employs nearly 1, 000 people in the UK who regularly demonstrate their ability to provide the best products and services.
