Business review Description of the business The Spirent Group is organised into two business areas: Communications and Systems.
The Communications business comprises two divisions: Performance Analysis, providing test solutions for wired and wireless technologies, and Service Assurance, providing network monitoring solutions for telecom service providers.
Spirent Communications provides tools and systems to enable the world to communicate faster, better, more frequently and more reliably.
We develop new test solutions for the engineers working within the Communications industry to evaluate the performance of the latest technologies to be deployed across the worldwide telecommunications infrastructure.
We also provide tools for service management and field test engineers to improve quality and make trouble shooting more efficient and effective.
The networking technologies we address are broadband services, Internet telephony, wireless and web applications and security testing.
Eric Hutchinson Chief Financial Officer Spirents expertise in the Communications industry lies in next-generation communications networks, devices and applications.
We pioneered testing of Ethernet networks, IP telephony and VoIP, triple play, CDMA applications and Location Based Services.
We are providing test capabilities for the deployment of the next-generation internet, or IPv6, networks in Asia, Europe and North America.
The strong balance sheet and cash Performance Analysis provides expertise and solutions to accelerate the development and deployment of devices, networks, applications and services.
Testing functionality, generation both conformance, interoperability, scalability and quality of experience under simulated support the real-world conditions in the lab shortens the development cycle, improves quality and development of the reduces the cost and risk associated with service rollout.
business and reflect Service Assurance provides solutions to the worlds leading telecom service providers to the achievements ensure technologies and their associated revenue generating services are deployed realised in the year.
The benefits in using Spirents Service Assurance solutions are reduced operating costs, automation to scale the business and superior performance metrics that allow them to protect the subscriber base through high quality service delivery.
Systems is a leading supplier of high level and high functionality electronic control systems for specialist electrically powered vehicles in the mobility and industrial markets.
These include vehicles for medical use such as powered wheelchairs and scooters, industrial vehicles such as floor cleaning vehicles, fork-lift trucks, aerial access platforms and golf carts.
The control systems provide directional and speed controls, other vehicle functions such as seat and platform positioning, lights, vehicle diagnostics and interfaces to other electronic systems.
4 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 5 Business review continued Group overview and performance Introduction The Company performed well in 2007, due in large part to the talents of its employees, its strong base of technology and its customer relationships.
The strong balance sheet and cash generation both support the development of the business and reflect the achievements realised in the year.
As indicated at the beginning of the year, the successful outcome of the Boards review has come through the focus of resources, increased efficiency and effectiveness of the business in its leading markets.
Business portfolio In 2007 the Boards focus has been on developing the Performance Analysis business, which has an exceptional product breadth and comprises 7 per cent of overall Group revenue.
Performance Analysis generated a 20 per cent return on sales for the second half of 2007 compared with 6 per cent in the first half, as a result of the cost containment actions and operating changes set out in the Operating and Strategic Reviews.
During the period the division has reallocated significant development resources to expand its wireless and positioning product offerings.
In Service Assurance, although the expected adoption of triple play service assurance solutions did not progress to any great extent, the outlook for the business stabilised and the decline in legacy product revenues has slowed compared to past years.
In Systems revenues were impacted, as expected, by changes in the US government healthcare funding for powered wheelchairs, although the business is successfully diversifying its product range into new industrial products.
In addition, the weakness in the US dollar exchange rate impacted the results.
Increased outsourcing of production has been and continues to be undertaken to mitigate currency impact.
Change Restructuring million 2007 2006 % The cost savings objective of 2.
5 million announced in April was achieved and Revenue exceeded, as previously communicated in the Strategic Review at the beginning of Performance November.
Total realised savings of 29.0 million resulted in a significant improvement Analysis 169.3 79.5 6 in second half profits.
Revenues also increased during the second half in US dollar Service Assurance 34.3 43.6 2 terms.
Restructuring has been achieved with minimal effect on trading, as demonstrated Systems 33.4 35.8 7 by our stronger second half result, and with no delay in our product development 237.0 258.9 8 programme.
Restructuring actions have concentrated on eliminating duplicated activities and processes, consolidating manufacturing and reducing general overheads.
We 1 Operating profit loss have made significant progress in outsourcing our manufacturing activities across the Performance entire Group.
00 On-market share repurchase programme Systems 3.8 4.7 9 Substantial returns of cash were made to shareholders through the on-market share Non-segmental 3.9 5.8 33 repurchase programme during 2007.
Shares in issue were reduced by 03.4 million, 25.5 8.4 204 being 2 per cent of the opening issued Ordinary share capital, resulting in a 66.8 million return of cash to shareholders.
This in itself represents a meaningful 1 Return on sales % enhancement to future earnings per share.
Performance Analysis 13.2 5.9 Share-based payment Service Assurance 9.6 2.5 In addition, the potential and real dilution through the issue of share incentives has Systems 11.4 3. been addressed.
Share incentives granted in the year amounted to.
million share Before exceptional items and goodwill impairment options compared to 25.8 million share options in 2006.
6 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 The charge for share-based payment was 2.5 million, less than half of the 5.2 million for 2006, the charge in 2008 is expected to be about.
2007 in brief: The focus has been on Business performance developing the Performance The business improved in 2007 with the book to bill ratio growing to.
05 from 0.97, Analysis business, a resulting in an increased order book compared to the prior year.
Revenue was lower business which has by 2 per cent at constant currencies affected by the expected decline in legacy exceptional product product revenue in Service Assurance.
Adjusted pre-tax profits grew to 32.2 million breadth.
in 2007 from 4.4 million in 2006, with profit before tax for the second half year The cost savings of 24. million compared to 7.9 million for the second half of 2006. announced in April were achieved and exceeded, The resulting adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations was 3.57 pence resulting in a significant compared to.
The marked improvement primarily occurred in the improvement in second second half year, generating earnings of 2.72 pence for 2007 compared to 0.83 pence half year profits.
Substantial returns of cash were made to shareholders Board reducing shares in issue by As reported at the interim, the addition of two new independent non-executive directors 03.4 million.
A meaningful to the Board, Duncan Lewis in July and Tom Maxwell in October, has enabled the enhancement to future composition of the Board and its Committees to become fully compliant with the earnings per share.
Combined Code in terms of independent non-executive directors.
Adjusted earnings per share In addition, it is intended that the role of Chairman and that of Chief Executive will be for continuing operations separated before the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Summary and outlook The year ended with the Group restructuring completed, having exceeded the initial cost saving targets.
However, these strong results, with the performance in the second half ahead of our original expectations, reflect more than a successful restructuring and cost reduction exercise.
Operationally, the business is in a much better position with new products, improved manufacturing processes and a clear focus on key areas such as the wireless market which offer significant potential opportunities.
The year also saw an increasing trend of winning orders, enhancing visibility and in turn providing additional confidence around the prospects for the Group.
In addition, the strong free cash flow performance has enabled the Company to continue the share repurchase programme, reaching a total of 2 per cent of the opening issued Ordinary share capital during the year.
At this stage the outlook for 2008 is encouraging.
Key performance indicators The key performance indicators KPIs monitored by the Board in order to provide the most effective measures to determine performance are set out as follows for the continuing businesses: Book to bill ratio The ratio of orders booked to revenue in the period.
Growth in revenue per cent The percentage change in revenue period-on-period at constant currencies.
Gross profit margin per cent Gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the period.
6 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 7 Business review continued Growth in adjusted operating The percentage change in operating profit profit per cent period-on-period, before exceptional items and goodwill impairment, at constant currencies.
Growth in adjusted earnings The change in earnings per share period-on-period per share pence before exceptional items, goodwill impairment, prior year tax and tax on exceptional items.
Free cash flow million Operating cash flow, net interest and net capital expenditure for the period.
The Board does not monitor any specific non-financial measures as KPIs.
The KPIs for the full year 2007 compared to the prior year are as follows: 2007 2006 Book to bill ratio 1.05 0.97 Growth in revenue % 2 Gross profit margin % 62.4 60.6 Growth in adjusted operating profit % 260 22 Growth in adjusted EPS pence 2.09.
70 Free cash flow million 50.2 6.4 Comment is made on each of the KPIs in the relevant sections of the review.
Business group development and performance Communications Underlying change at First Second Full constant 3 half half year Restated Change currencies million 2007 2007 2007 2006 % % Revenue Performance Analysis 80.6 88.7 169.3 79.5 6 Service Assurance 16.5 17.8 34.3 43.6 2 6 Communications group 97.1 106.5 203.6 223.
9 2 2 Adjusted operating profit loss Performance Analysis 4.5 17.8 22.3 0.6 0 40 Service Assurance 0.9 2.4 3.3.
00 00 Communications group 5.4 20.2 25.6 9.5 69 205 2 Return on sales % Performance Analysis 5.6 20.1 13.2 5.9 Service Assurance 5.5 13.5 9.6 2.5 Communications group 5.6 19.0 12.6 4.3 Notes Restated to reflect the presentation of SwissQual as a discontinued operation.
2 Before exceptional items and goodwill impairment.
3 Change at constant currencies eliminating the effects of fluctuating exchange rates on the translation of operating results and on transactions during the year.
8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Performance Analysis Market conditions Performance Analysis Market conditions in 2007 were variable: after a subdued start to the first half, demand in brief: increased in the second half year.
For the Broadband business this was stimulated by Strong second half year the release of the flagship test product Spirent TestCenter 2.0 in the second quarter.
profit growth with adjusted This provided a catalyst for demand as customer confidence grew based on positive operating return on sales results after deployment in their labs.
The first half was characterised by capital increasing to 20%.
spending delays by major customers, whereas the second half saw increased spending Contributed 87% of Group on testing for developing IP requirements, such as integrated layer testing, multimedia operating profit before applications and services.
Application and mobility testing solutions achieved strong exceptionals for the year.
Wireless test products saw growth across the product range.
Demand Revenue growth in constant was driven by intense competition between wireless service providers to provide currencies for the second increasingly high levels of data transmission rates.
Service providers are seeking to half of 2007 was 5% over retain customers through increased reliability and provision of new applications.
the second half of 2006, Multimedia capabilities on high-end mobile devices are setting new benchmarks and with growth across all new content providers are entering the wireless market.
However, during 2007 the rate major product areas.
of deployment of video services across networks was lower than expected.
Passed key inflection point CDMA test demand grew with enhanced data service development EVDOrA.
with order intake growth for In the WCDMA and physical layer wireless test markets opportunities for growth are new broadband products of increasing, particularly driven by Location Based Services LBS and Radio Frequency 4.3 million in the second Channel emulation.
4G technologies are in the early stage of deployment, but we expect half of 2007, now outpacing the decline in legacy that 3G deployments will continue until 20 0 and other technologies, such as WiMax, will also be deployed.
Order book increased Revenue substantially compared to Performance Analysis revenues were flat in constant currencies year-on-year.
The rate of 2006 resulting in enhanced underlying growth in the second half was 5 per cent, following a 3 per cent decline in the sales visibility.
The growth in the second half of 2007 was a result of many factors, including the introduction of Spirent TestCenter 2.0 in the second quarter, and the switch over from legacy products to the new platform reaching the critical inflection point during the second half, with new broadband products order intake growing by 4.3 million, which outpaced the decline in that for legacy products of.
There was an increase in demand for wireless and positioning products.
Business was won with new and existing customers through the advantages of Spirents overall system performance and new features able to support customers product innovations.
The increasing pressure on customers for a faster time to market has created a need for a reduction in testing cycle times.
The focus on test automation and professional services support is helping customers to speed up their test processes to simplify and to automate their lab environment.
This has been evidenced in the growth of Spirents services business.
Wireless and positioning products underlying sales growth was 2 per cent year-on-year.
These revenues now account for 32 per cent of total Performance Analysis revenues.
Growth was achieved across all major product areas with WCDMA-based systems, particularly location test systems, increasing strongly through new customers being won.
CDMA test product revenues grew strongly in Asia and North America, whilst physical layer test product revenues saw a strong performance in Europe, Middle East 8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 9 Business review continued and Africa driven by WiMax investments.
Support services grew with the business and a new service centre was opened in India.
Positioning products revenue was stimulated by growth in GPS as a result of the continued take-up of new signals and the modernisation programme.
Due to government funding problems, activity levels fell in 2007 in the European positioning satellite programme, Galileo: however, recent events have increased optimism of generating revenues from this programme in the future.
The divisional revenues are broad-based, with no single customer accounting for more than 0 per cent of sales and the top ten customers accounting for 30 per cent of the total.
Profitability The profitability of the Performance Analysis division improved markedly, mainly due to the cost reductions and operating changes made as a result of the Operating and Strategic Reviews.
As a result the gross profit margin improved in the second half of 2007 by 5.3 percentage points compared to that for the first half year.
The cost reductions and operating improvements were primarily based in our Broadband business, but all operations have benefited from the lower shared service overheads across the Group.
Product development The development of the Performance Analysis business builds on its expertise in test and measurement of the performance of devices in real-world conditions.
A key objective is to emulate and test the quality of experience for end users, which is increasingly important in multimedia telecommunications.
The Company continues to build on its switching and routing test expertise through future enhancements to Spirent TestCenter.
Achievements are evidenced by the expansion of the customer base for Spirent TestCenter from 200 customers at the beginning of 2007 to 340 at the end of the year.
Additional application and mobility testing capabilities were, and continue to be, expanded, driving further growth in our professional services and support business.
Spirents broadband applications test capabilities are being utilised in the testing of devices used in the convergence of technologies and in the expansion of mobile communications.
These address the needs of new wireless technologies and will enable Spirent to increase its market share in the future.
The Companys development strategy is to select desirable market areas, with evolving technologies, showing faster than average growth, where there are large markets or market share opportunities that have a stable or expanding customer base.
Such opportunities are matched with Spirents relative strengths.
Product development projects are based on realistic engineering objectives that also enable access to greater engineering efficiency.
Such new products will be introduced in a way that will involve minimal disruption to existing activities.
In addition, the software content of sales is being increased, which will also result in the associated professional service and support business.
Applications being addressed include IPTV, wireless services, IMS and multimedia testing, wireless data services, testing increased entertainment content with integrated voice services.
Given the Performance Analysis divisions broad product portfolio, the business is in a position to benefit from the current positive market trends driven by the convergence of wired and wireless technologies in a world that is demanding more and more mobile communication.
0 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Service Assurance Market conditions Service Assurance in brief: General market conditions remained challenging throughout 2007 for the Service General market conditions Assurance division.
There were continued delays in triple play service assurance remained challenging.
deployments by most major customers.
More positively field test represents a growing Stabilised with marked market and offers potential opportunities.
improvement in profitability in the second half year.
Overall the service assurance market remains sluggish with limited growth opportunities Decline in legacy revenues in this sector.
Demand was limited by delays in procurement of service assurance continued but at a lower solutions due to customer reorganisations, consolidations and changes in ownership.
Revenue The decline in legacy revenues continued, but at a lower rate than in past years.
This indicates that carriers will continue to spend on legacy solutions following a period when they cut back spending in these areas dramatically.
The cut back in spending was in anticipation of shifting spending to next-generation network architecture, which has created some challenges across customers and potential customers.
Service revenues, through professional service engagements, were an area of growth.
Order intake grew year-on-year in constant currencies through customer acceptance of new products and growth in professional service engagements.
As expected, revenue declined in constant currencies by 6 per cent.
This reflected recognition of deferred revenue of 4.5 million for prior years in 2006, the decline in legacy revenues and their associated maintenance contracts.
Profitability Profitability improved markedly in the second half year compared to that for the first half.
The improvement was achieved as a result of higher revenue, additional gross profit margin and the full year benefit of cost savings previously actioned.
Product development New service assurance solutions were launched for triple play, including SmartSight Central software and the IPMax hardware probe.
These generated new revenues in 2007.
A major new development programme commenced for an in-home field test solution product in the last quarter of 2007.
Whilst the adoption of triple play service assurance solutions remain uncertain, the outlook for 2008 appears to be relatively stable.
The development of field test solutions offer opportunities for growth and the development of an in-home field test solution offers a capability which is compatible with fibre-to-the-node and fibre-to-the-home network topographies.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Business review continued Systems Underlying change at constant million 2007 2006 Change % currencies % Revenue 33.4 35.8 7 Operating profit 3.8 4.7 9 Return on sales % 11.4 3.
The Systems group comprises PG Drives Technology, a leading supplier of control systems for electrically powered medical and small industrial vehicles.
As expected, revenue was impacted in 2007 due to the previously announced changes in US government healthcare funding for powered wheelchairs.
This created a shift from premium systems to lower cost solutions.
The US dollar exchange rate impacted revenue and profit by 2.3 million and.
We continued to place more production into China to support our activities in the Asia Pacific region and in order to gain product and logistical cost benefits.
During 2007, new products for scooters and rehabilitation wheelchairs were introduced that further strengthen Systems position in the medical mobility market.
New industrial market segments, such as fork-lift trucks and golf carts, began to be served by new products, such as Sigma and X30 25.
The division continues to generate an per cent operating return on sales whilst the business is being diversified beyond the healthcare sector.
Non-segmental costs Costs not directly attributable to the operating segments reduced to 3.9 million compared to 5.8 million in 2006.
The second half costs were.
The cost reductions are a result of the actions implemented in the second quarter of 2007.
The actions included consolidating reporting activities and other functions in the business units, enabling a reduction in staff levels.
The deregistration in the United States has also reduced overhead costs.
Overall there has been a lowering in the cost of the Board of directors.
Group financial performance Results Underlying change at First Second Full constant 5 half half year Restated Change currencies million 2007 2007 2007 2006 % % Revenue 114.2 122.8 237.0 258.9 8 2 Adjusted operating profit 5.0 20.5 25.5 8.4 204 260 Return on sales % 4.4 16.7 10.8 3.2 Adjusted earnings per share pence 0.85 2.72 3.57.
48 4 77 4 Free cash flow 21.3 28.9 50.2 6.4 Notes Restated to reflect the presentation of SwissQual as a discontinued operation.
3 Adjusted earnings per share is based on adjusted earnings as set out in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
4 Operating cash flow, net interest and net capital expenditure.
5 Change at constant currencies eliminating the effects of fluctuating exchange rates on the translation of operating results and on transactions during the year.
2 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 The Groups financial performance is reported in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Financial performance in brief: All comments below refer to continuing activities only unless otherwise stated.
Revenue down 8% due to the expected decline in the The Group is reporting an underlying change in revenue and adjusted operating profit Service Assurance divisions given the significant effect the weakness of the US dollar has had on operating results revenue and the impact of this year compared with the previous year.
Underlying change is the change at constant the weak US dollar.
currencies and eliminates the effects of fluctuating exchange rates on the translation of Cost of sales reduced operating results and on the transactions during the year.
to 37.6% from 39.4% which reflects the improvements Revenue achieved through the Reported revenue in sterling was down 8 per cent compared with 2006.
The underlying restructuring and change was a reduction of 2 per cent.
The fall in revenue was largely due to the outsourcing actions.
expected decline in the Service Assurance divisions revenue and to the impact of the Cost savings of 29.0 million weak US dollar.
per annum at an exceptional cost of 4.4 million.
The impact of currency on reported revenue was to reduce the reported figure by 4.0 million on the translation of foreign currency denominated results and Strong cash generation by 2.5 million due to the translation impact on exports priced in US dollars.
with free cash flow of 50.2 million.
The geographic profile by market of reported revenues was as follows: million 2007 % 2006 % Europe 43.7 18 43.7 7 North America 132.2 56 52.
24 237.0 258.9 The geographical revenue profile did not change significantly, although there was a shift away from North America to Europe and Asia.
This effect was largely due to translation and the decline in Service Assurance revenue.
Adjusted operating profit improved by 7. million compared to 2006.
6.3 million of the improvement was achieved in the second half year.
This derived from increased underlying revenues, improved gross profit margin and reduction in overhead cost.
The resulting operating return on sales increased to 0.8 per cent for 2007 compared to 3.2 per cent in 2006, being 6.7 per cent for the second half of 2007.
Currency impact There was a significant weakening of the US dollar in 2007 compared with 2006, as the average US dollar to sterling exchange rate rose to $2.00: in 2007 from $.
Given that 64 per cent of our revenue arises in North America this had a marked effect on the translation of our revenue and profits, reducing revenue as previously noted.
The impact on operating profit was a reduction of 2.3 million due to translation and a reduction of a further 2.4 million due to US dollar priced exports.
The Systems group is exposed to transactional currency risk, but as it had hedged some of the 2007 US dollar exposures by the end of 2006 it did not feel the full effect of the US dollar weakness in 2007.
This business has hedged forecast US dollar exposures for Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 3 Business review continued 2008 at an average forward rate of $2.03:.
These forward contracts have been fair valued based at a closing spot rate of $.
99:, this has resulted in an unrealised loss of 0.5 million at the balance sheet date.
Cost of sales and operating expenses Cost of sales reduced to 37.6 per cent from 39.4 per cent in 2006.
This reduction reflects the improvement achieved through the restructuring and outsourcing actions undertaken in the Communications businesses and the benefit of the increased efficiencies achieved as new products were produced in higher volume.
8 percentage point improvement in gross profit margin.
Product development expense reduced from 53.7 million in 2006 to 44.5 million in 2007, or a fall from 20.7 per cent to 8.8 per cent of sales respectively.
The second half year run rate was 2.
The lower expense was achieved by the reduction in the number of sites and through increases in engineering efficiency.
The increase in engineering efficiency enabled an increase in on time delivery of engineering projects.
There was a significant investment in new product development, with an increased emphasis on wireless test products.
Other operating expenses reduced from 94.9 million in 2006 to 77.8 million in 2007, being 36.7 per cent of sales and 32.8 per cent of sales respectively.
The second half year operating expense run rate was 37.2 million, or 30.3 per cent of sales.
The annual reduction includes the lower expense for share-based payment of 2.7 million and the cost reduction benefit arising from the termination of the Companys reporting obligations under the US Securities Exchange Act.
Exceptional items The cost containment actions were identified in the Operating and Strategic Reviews.
The actions were to eliminate duplicated activities and processes, consolidate manufacturing and business sites and to reduce general overheads.
In total exceptional items of 4.4 million have been charged in 2007 2006 8.8 million.
This compares with the estimate of 5 million made at the time of the Operating Review.
Of this overall cost 5.3 million relates to severance and other reorganisation costs associated with the outsourcing of manufacturing, 3. million was charged for asset write-downs in relation to redundant property, plant and equipment as sites were vacated, inventory write-downs of 2.4 million in respect of excess and obsolete inventory, identified as a result of the outsourcing activities, and 3.6 million was in respect of onerous lease obligations on empty properties, net of releases, created by vacated manufacturing facilities and the consolidation of functions.
Progress has been made in reducing the obligations on certain empty properties where lease surrender or termination have been negotiated.
Goodwill impairment There was no goodwill impairment in 2007.
In 2006 9. million was charged in respect of the Service Assurance division, this was included in the continuing business results.
A further 27.7 million was charged in respect of discontinued businesses.
Intangible amortisation Operating expense for continuing businesses includes a charge of 0.9 million for the amortisation of intangibles in 2007, compared to 0.5 million in 2006.
4 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 5 Share-based payment The charge for share-based payment for 2007 was 2.5 million compared to 5.2 million for 2006.
The reduction reflects the lower number of share incentives granted in 2007 and the lapsing of prior year awards.
The charge for 2008 is expected to be about.
Net finance income Net finance income was 6.7 million compared with 6.0 million for 2006.
2006 excludes the exceptional cost associated with the repayment of loan notes of 8.8 million.
Net finance income includes 0.9 million in respect of the expected return on pension scheme assets less the interest charge on the unwinding of liabilities 2006 2.0 million.
The surplus cash is held on deposit earning current market rates of interest.
Profit before tax for continuing operations Reported profit before tax for continuing operations was 7.8 million compared with a loss of 22.3 million for 2006.
Adjusted profit before tax is set out below: million 2007 2006 Reported profit loss before tax 17.8 22.3 Exceptional items 14.4 8.8 Goodwill impairment 9.
Cost associated with the repayment of loan notes 8.8 Adjusted profit before tax 32.2 4.4 Tax There was a net tax credit in 2007 of 7.7 million 2006 0.4 million charge, which includes a 5.3 million credit in respect of prior years and a tax credit on exceptional items of 3.9 million.
This gives an effective current year rate of 4.7 per cent on the adjusted profit before tax.
A low effective tax rate continues to be incurred due to the carry forward of tax losses.
Included in the above, a deferred tax asset of 0.5 million has been recognised.
Under current conditions it is expected that the low effective tax rates will continue for the foreseeable future.
Discontinued operations 2007 discontinued operations relate to the loss making SwissQual business.
The disposal was completed on 5 July 2007 for cash proceeds of $3.0 million.
A loss on disposal of 4.2 million was recorded.
In the period SwissQual reported revenue of 3.6 million and an operating loss of 3.4 million.
Discontinued operations in 2006 also include the HellermannTyton Division sold in February 2006.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share for the Group was 2.05 pence compared with.
Earnings in 2006 include the profit on the sale of the HellermannTyton Division of 66. million.
4 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 5 Business review continued Adjusted earnings per share for continuing operations, being before exceptional items, goodwill impairment, costs associated with repayment of loan notes, net of any related tax and prior year tax, was 3.57 pence compared with.
Weighted average Ordinary share capital was 859.8 million shares compared with 925.9 million for 2006, significantly reduced by the on-market share repurchase programme during 2007. Financing and cash flow Cash generation was strong in 2007.
Cash and cash equivalents were 79.0 million at 3 December 2007 compared with 97.6 million at 3 December 2006, and this was after an outflow of 66.3 million for the share repurchase programme in 2007, with 0.5 million of share repurchases in 2007 being settled in 2008.
Cash flows improved throughout 2007 as the results of the cost containment actions started to take effect.
The Group continues to be debt free.
Operating activities generated 49.8 million in the year compared with a cash outflow in 2006 of 43.0 million.
In 2006 the Company made a payment of 47.0 million to fund the UK defined benefit pension plan.
Free cash flow is set out below: million 2007 2006 Reported operating cash flow before pension 49.8 4.0 Net interest income 5.6 4.
Net capital expenditure 5.2 4.5 Free cash flow 50.2 6.4 Tax payments are low as the Group benefits from tax losses carried forward and in 2007 there was a net tax refund of 6.0 million compared with a net payment of 2.3 million in 2006.
In addition, in 2007 tax obligations of 6.8 million due in respect of the sale of the HellermannTyton Division were settled.
Net capital expenditure for the Group was reduced to 5.2 million of cash outflow in 2007 2006 4.5 million.
This was well below the depreciation charge of 9.5 million.
With the outsourcing of production there is a lower requirement to make new capital investment, in addition the reduction in the number of sites and increased engineering efficiency has also had a beneficial impact.
Net proceeds of 0.6 million were received from the sale of SwissQual and 5.5 million of deferred consideration was incurred in respect of acquisitions made in 2006.
Pension fund The accounting valuation of the UK defined benefit pension plans at the end of 2007 was based on the results of the triennial valuation of the plans at April 2006.
This valuation was completed during 2007.
The surplus in the plans rose from 2.4 million at 3 December 2006 to 7.7 million at 3 December 2007 with the improvement in funding being a result of the rising equity markets and a change to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the liabilities, namely the rate of return on corporate bonds.
The accounting rules however limit the surplus that may be recognised by the Company and, due to this, the surplus recognised on the balance sheet at 3 December 2007 was restricted to 3.0 million.
The Group has also reported a liability of 0.7 million in respect of the UK unfunded plan.
6 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 7 Capital structure, on-market share repurchase programme and dividend In 2007 66.8 million of cash was returned to shareholders, representing 03.4 million Ordinary shares.
Including monies returned since May 2006, the total return of cash to shareholders to 3 December 2007 was 08.7 million, representing 93.7 million Ordinary shares.
The share repurchase programme has continued into 2008 and has now returned 75.0 million of cash in total since the start of 2007.
At the end of February 2008, there were 777.6 million Ordinary shares in issue.
Dividend policy is under review by the Board, however no dividend is being paid in respect of 2007.
US listing and SEC registration On 5 June 2007 Spirent filed an application to delist its American Depositary Shares ADS from the New York Stock Exchange and to terminate the US registration of its ADS and Ordinary shares from the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Companys US Securities Exchange Act reporting obligations have now ceased and the termination of registration occurred after the statutory 90 day review period.
Employee and environmental matters Employee and environmental matters are discussed in the Corporate social responsibility statement on pages 2 to 23 of this Annual Report.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties facing Spirent Communications plc are discussed below.
Communications sector Unfavourable conditions in the communications industry into which the Spirent Group sells most of its products and services have affected the Spirent businesses from time to time and may continue to do so.
Any decline in demand for products and services that has had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on the results could further harm the business, operating results and financial condition.
Technological change The Spirent Group sells products and systems in several industries that are characterised by rapid technological changes, frequent product and service introductions and evolving industry standards.
It believes that the continued success of the Communications business is dependent on its ability to advance next-generation technologies and services.
If the Communications business fails to extend its existing capabilities in the next-generation technology, the business, operating results and financial condition of the Communications group will suffer.
Industry consolidation The communications industry has recently experienced significant consolidation.
If this trend continues, the disruption caused by the process of consolidation for Spirents communications customers could reduce demand for Spirents products or could reduce the number of potential customers to whom Spirents communications testing products and services could be sold.
The consolidated entities could also purchase products and services from other sources or use the additional leverage they gain from their 6 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 7 Business review continued consolidated purchasing power to demand more favourable terms, which could harm the business, operating results and financial condition of the Communications group.
Customer concentration In some businesses, Spirent relies on a limited number of customers, which makes relationships with these customers, as well as the success of those customers businesses, critical to the success of Spirents business.
The loss of one or more large customers could harm the business, operating results and financial condition.
Product quality Whilst Spirent strives to ensure its products are of the highest standards, in the event that products are defective, Spirent may be held responsible for the damages that result and the costs associated with recalling the products themselves.
Spirents reputation with customers may be damaged as a result of any such event.
Product liabilities or the costs of implementing a recall could hurt profitability, and the damage to reputation if products prove to be defective could cause Spirent to lose customers.
Reliance on contract manufacturers The fact that Spirent uses contract manufacturers for the manufacture of a substantial amount of its products could have an adverse impact on the supply of its products and on operating results.
Financial problems of contract manufacturers on whom the Company rely, or limitations in the manufacturing capacity at contract manufacturers, could either limit supply or increase costs.
Also, a major contract manufacturer of the Company is located in Asia.
Any disruption of its operations could have an adverse impact on the Company.
Operational risks and systems Operational risks are present in the Spirent Groups businesses.
These risks include, but are not limited to, the risk of failed internal and external processes and systems including information technology systems, human error and external events.
Such events could have an impact on the business, operating results and financial condition.
A significant portion of Spirents communications operations are located in California which has experienced natural disasters, including earthquakes and wildfires, in the past.
A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or wildfire, could disrupt its ability to conduct business in the affected locations and could have a material adverse impact on business, operating results and financial condition.
Competition The Spirent Group faces competition in all of its businesses.
To stay competitive these businesses will need to introduce successful new products and also may have to adjust prices of some products.
The business, operating results and financial condition may suffer if the Spirent Group does not compete effectively.
Retention and recruitment of key staff Spirents success is dependent on attracting and retaining highly qualified and skilled employees.
There is intense competition for personnel from other organisations and the loss of key employees, or the failure to attract and retain other highly skilled employees, may impair Spirents ability to run and expand its business effectively.
Intellectual property While Spirent does not believe that any of its products infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third parties, it may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others 8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 9 that may cover some of its technology, products and services.
As a result Spirent could suffer litigation expenses or could be prevented from selling certain products as a result of third party infringement claims.
The success of Spirent depends in part on proprietary technology.
Should Spirent fail to maintain or enforce intellectual property rights, or if competitors design around its technology or develop competing technologies, its competitive position could suffer and its operating results may be harmed.
Regulation and taxes The businesses are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations currently in effect and scheduled to become effective in the near future, including but not limited to environmental, health and safety and import export regulations.
These regulations are complex, change frequently, can vary from country to country and have increased over time.
Spirent may incur significant expense in order to comply with these regulations or to remedy violations of them.
Any failure by Spirent to comply with applicable government regulations could result in non-compliant portions of our operations being shut down, product recalls or impositions of civil and criminal penalties and, in some cases, prohibition from distributing our products or performing our services until the products and services are brought into compliance, which could significantly affect our operations.
In addition, the Group is subject to income taxes in a number of tax jurisdictions and there are many transactions for which the final tax determination is uncertain.
Liabilities are recognised for anticipated tax audit issues determined on whether additional taxes are likely to be due using facts and circumstances known at the time the financial statements are prepared.
The final outcome could differ significantly from the amounts initially recorded and affect the financial position and results of the Group.
Exchange rate Since Spirent conducts operations globally, a substantial portion of the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in various currencies, principally the US dollar and the pound sterling.
Because the reporting currency of the Group is pounds sterling, fluctuations in exchange rates, especially if the US dollar weakens against the pound, could have a material impact on the reported results.
Forward-looking statements This document includes forward-looking statements concerning Spirents business, operations and financial performance and condition.
Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events.
These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about the Spirent Group.
The Spirent Group undertake no obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Given these considerations, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements.
Possible volatility of the price of Ordinary shares The market price of Spirent Communications plc Ordinary shares is significantly affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to, changes in sentiment regarding the Spirent Ordinary share, variations in the Spirent Groups operating results compared with the expectations of market analysts and investors, its business developments or those of its competitors, the operating performance of its competitors or speculation about the Spirent Groups business.
Shareholders should therefore be aware that the value of the Spirent Ordinary share can go down as well as up.
8 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 9
