16 17 The desire and drive for Business review innovation is central to SSLs growth strategy three core areas one approach Our brands Business review To exploit fully the economic potential of our brand Investing in our brandsinnovation and advertising portfolio and our global operating assets we must focus The desire and drive for innovation is central to SSLs growth on and measure performance in three core areas: strategy and we recognise that the ability to innovate successfully on a long-term basis will drive growth in Our brands: growing sales through consumer insightthe future.
With this in mind, innovation begins with our led innovation, cutting edge advertising, expanding consumers and listening to what they require from our distribution in existing markets and further establishing brands to help them lead better liveswhether this is our presence in developing markets.
enabling them to walk more comfortably with Scholl footcare and footwear or to enjoy happier and more Our business processes: improving our business fulfilled sex lives with Durex products.
processes through the implementation of a standard IT system and seeking further operational efficiencies Bringing scientific experts closer to our consumers and throughout the supply chain to ensure we are meeting enabling them to fully understand their needs has contributed the needs of our customers whilst controlling cost.
greatly to the generation and development of a stream of new products.
This has meant that our new product Our people: our employees are one of our greatest assets, introductions are well-founded on consumer insight, have and through continued development programmes we high efficacy levels and, where appropriate, are supported aim to strengthen the expertise across our business and by strong clinical trial data.
provide an environment which cares for the health and wellbeing of our people.
Supporting the launch of new products by investing in effective and targeted advertising is a key part of the success of our brands.
Specific marketing plans are developed to reach customers and consumers through TV and print advertising, PR, promotional materials, sampling and merchandisingall of which increase consumer awareness and help drive retail distribution.
Over recent years we have invested around 15 per cent of sales in our global and local brands which has helped drive our sales growth.
This means that our investment in advertising has increased in absolute terms.
Going forward we expect to maintain a similar level of investment in advertising and promotion as a percentage of sales.
Advertising and promotion expenditure 06 07 70.7m 05 06 68.0m 04 05 64.9m At constant exchange rates Delivering winning products In the development of one of our latest Scholl footcare products, Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover, we were able to combine our approach to innovation and strong advertising campaigns to deliver a winning product.
With a thorough understanding of the market, we identified an opportunity to provide an effective home treatment for the safe removal of verrucas and warts.
Using the latest available freezing technology, Scholl was able to launch Awaiting image Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover in the UK, France, Germany and Australia during the summer of 2006 in pharmacies and supermarkets.
Clinical trials have proved that this product is as effective as the freezing treatment used by healthcare professionals.
Supported by TV advertising targeted at mothers for treatment of their childrens verrucas, the launch was extremely successful, generating sales of 4.7 million.
We plan to continue the roll-out of this product in other markets during 2007 08.
Expanding our distribution Awaiting image Increasing distribution through existing channels and developing new distribution opportunities, underpins the ability to grow sales through innovation and effective advertising.
Nationwide distribution Top: Scholl Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover In October, our Japanese business entered into a TV advertising.
distribution agreement with Schick, part of Energiser Bottom: Durex Play range print advertising.
Holdings, to provide full selling and distribution services in Japan.
We are able to benefit from a well established, high calibre sales operation which has strong long-term relationships with trade customers on a nationwide basis.
Pharmacy opportunities As we continue to bring to market new and innovative products, it is imperative that we have the appropriate 18 19 The explosion of the Chinese Business review consumer market represents a real and exciting opportunity for Durex and Scholl salesforce structure so that we can better analyse our customer base, focus the efforts of our salesforces and expand distribution.
Our French management team took the decision that they could accelerate sales growth and launch products more quickly by additional investment to increase and strengthen their pharmacy salesforce.
By increasing the number of pharmacy field sales representatives they have started a programme to achieve significant distribution gains whilst also developing their major customer accounts.
Establishing our presence in developing markets The explosion of the Chinese consumer market represents a very real and exciting opportunity for SSL.
With a population of 1.3 billion and an estimated 300 million consumers, China represents untapped potential for both the Durex and Scholl brands.
We have successfully manufactured Durex condoms in China since 1998 working with our former Chinese joint venture partner.
In that time, together we have achieved market leadership with Durex and identified further opportunities to increase sales growth more rapidly.
To ensure that we realise the full potential offered in China, and with our experience and knowledge of the market, we decided to invest and to take full control of the operations there.
In January this year, we acquired the remaining 50 per cent of the business for 19.2 million.
Top: Garry Watts, Chief Executive, Full ownership gives SSL total control over marketing and interview in Chinese consumer magazine building the existing brands while working closely with our new Modern Weekly.
Initially, the focus will remain on developing Bottom: Mark Luscombe, SSLs General the Durex brand, as a key challenge is to manage the Manager in China, presenting to employees.
distribution model and being independent we can ensure that we introduce new products to the market more quickly.
Once our distribution network across major cities and towns is more established, our objective is to introduce and develop Scholl footcare products on a much wider scale such that it follows in the footsteps of Durex to become a major brand in China.
A single IT platform will provide greater efficiency, increased responsiveness and more accurate information To coincide with Chinese New Year, we celebrated our acquisition with our employees in China, introducing them to SSLs global organisation, our culture and outlining the major opportunities that lie ahead.
Our business processes Building a platform for growth A key element in our approach to improving the efficiency of our business processes is the implementation of a standard IT platform SAP across all our commercial markets and manufacturing facilities worldwide.
The history of SSLs creation and evolution has resulted in a legacy of different and ageing IT systems in many parts of the business which are currently operating on a stand-alone basis.
To take SSL to the next level it is critical that our current business processes are simplified, IT systems are fully integrated and best practice is shared across the Group.
Creating a single stable platform will provide the benefits of greater efficiency, shorter delivery lead times, increased responsiveness and more accurate information.
This will result in faster decision-making and improved customer service and working capital management throughout the Groupproviding a platform for growth for SSL.
We recognise the risks associated with the implementation of Top: SSLs Group IT Director Peter Whitehurst and his team discuss the next any new IT system, and we are managing the process to phase of SAP implentation across Europe.
mitigate these risks as much as possible through careful Bottom: European SAP implementation plan project management and a gradual roll-out of the new system.
Completed Holland, Belgium, Scandinavia, Germany, Austria and Switzerland.
The first phase of the project is to implement SAP in 2007 UK and Spain.
2008 France, Italy, Greece and Turkey.
European commercial markets and, to date, we have 2009 Eastern Europe.
successfully gone live in eight countries.
We expect to 20 21 Business review complete this first phase by 2009.
We are then extending the implementation of SAP to our manufacturing facilities worldwide and, indeed, have been able to bring forward implementation in our Indian joint venture factories to summer 2007.
The final phase will be implementation in our commercial businesses in Asia Pacific and the Americas.
Supplying our customers Efficient supply of high quality product is an essential part of SSLs success.
The overall supply process must be managed effectively, adhering to international standards of manufacture and ensuring delivery of the correct order to our customers at the right time.
The overall process starts and ends with the consumer who buys our products from our customersthe retailer.
Our commercial teams in all our markets work closely with the retailers to obtain and interpret transactional information.
Using this data, SSLs commercial teams, comprising sales, marketing and logistics specialists, work together to develop sales forecasts and stock requirements taking into consideration current stock levels, future promotions and advertising campaigns.
Stock requirements from each market are consolidated at a global level and a sourcing plan is developed taking into consideration such factors as available supply points, third Top and bottom: Condom testing and party vs in-house manufacture and existing demands on packing at SSLs condom manufacturing factories.
From this information, production and raw facility in Thailand.
material sourcing plans are developed and production commences according to this plan.
All products sold are tested rigorously so that they meet or exceed the international standards regulating our products.
Once we are satisfied that the quality standards are met, products are dispatched to the warehouse of each local market for delivery to their customers for sale to consumers.
Factory locations Europe 1 Peterlee, UK, OTC products 2 Guernsey, UK, OTC products 3 Redruth, UK, Compression 1 Hosiery products 4 Rubi, Spain, Condoms 2 6 3 Asia Pacific 5 Bangpakong, Thailand, Condoms 6 Qingdao, China, Condoms 7 Pallavaram, India, Condoms 10 9 8 Puducheri, India, Condoms 7 5 9 Virudhunagar, India, Condoms 8 10 Irungattukottai, India, Footcare 4 joint venture Changes to in-house manufacture During 2006 07, we closed two UK factoriesDerby, to move the footcare packaging operations to a more cost effective site in India: and Cambridge, as Avanti condoms, previously manufactured there, have been replaced by an alternative non-latex condom which is sourced from the manufacturing facility in Spain.
Flowchart of activities Information Flow Product Flow Consumer Raw Materials Retailer Factory Third Party Supply SSLs Local Commercial Team Transport SSLs Central Demand Planning SSLs Local Warehouse SSLs Factory Third Party Supply Retailer Raw Materials Consumer 22 23 By providing development Business review opportunities we can help maximise the potential of our employees Balanced lifestyle Our people The Shaping Your Future programme was successfully launched in the UK in 2006.
The programme encourages employees to take responsibility for their own personal Training and development of our people is at the development.
It focuses on three key elements: core of our approach to being a responsible employer.
By providing development opportunities which are Personal skills development: to improve competence available to people throughout our organisation, we within key skill areas e. g. learning the art of successful can help ensure that we are maximising the potential negotiation, managing people and teams more effectively of one of our greatest assets.
During 2006 07 we have further strengthened existing Business awareness: to promote a wider understanding training programmes and introduced new opportunities of our business operations e. g. understanding the for our people worldwide.
key drivers of business growth, the regulations and legal requirements surrounding product and quality management, Teamwork and sharing best practice and the interaction between the investor community and As a focused consumer brand company, SSL must exploit our business operations.
the full potential of our brands.
To do this effectively it is critical that our marketing teams are motivated and have Lifestyle: to promote a healthy and balanced lifestyle the right tools and confidence to help fulfil their vital role by providing information on a variety of issues including in the future success of our business.
work life balance, personal finance and wellbeing programmes.
In November 2006, 50 marketeers from our European business attended a residential course at the ESSEC Elements of this programme are being extended to our Asia Business School in Paris.
The objectives of the course Pacific operations and during 2007 08 will be made available were to enhance their business skills and to develop their to employees in targeted European commercial markets.
networking skills to promote the sharing of best practice.
Developing this marketing culture will allow SSL to deliver brand performance through new ideas, enthusiasm and energy and a common way of working.
Employees by geography 3 1 Europe 37% 1,950 2 1 2 Asia Pacific 62% 3,280 3 Americas 1% 50 2 1 Total 5,280 1 Headcount as at 31 March 2007 2 Includes 1,900 employees at our joint ventures in India Employees by function 1Commercial 41% 2,160 2 1 2Manufacturing 59% 3,120 1 2 Total 5,280 1 Headcount as at 31 March 2007 2 Includes 1,900 employees at our joint ventures in India Focus on quality To ensure that we meet international standards throughout our manufacturing processes, continual training programmes are essential both as part of the induction of new employees and as part of refreshing and updating skills of current employees.
The training programmes are specific to the requirements of each manufacturing location and cover areas such as GMP Good Manufacturing Practice and QA Quality Assurance as required by the MHRA, continuous improvement, health and safety and environmental performance.
Global employee wellbeing programme During 2006 07 we introduced an Employee Wellbeing Programme.
The programme provides employees with information to educate, to inform and to help them lead healthier and more rewarding lives.
A wide range of issues are covered which link directly to our business activities, such as World AIDS Day on 1 December and also link to international health promotion days such as World Cancer Day to make the overall programme topical and relevant to all our employees.
Top and bottom: European marketing managers attending a residential course at ESSEC.
