08 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 09 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Average revenue per occupied sq.
m p. a Growing occupancy occupied sq.
m at period end business review 45mm height TelecityGroup TelecityGroup Michael Tobin Chief Executive Officer Blended Telecity Total Telecity Redbus Interhouse Redbus Interhouse of bar in charts 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 a Adjusted for full year effect of Globix Source: Telecity Group plc October 2007 Prospectus I I n 2007 the Group was successful in winning significant new business.
Contracts were signed with a range of leading companies in all of our markets while the existing customer base remained a key source of growth.
This resulted in an increase of over 30% in our order book during the course of the year, providing the Group with good forward visibility of revenues.
Michael Tobin Chief Executive Officer 2007 was an exciting and successful year I continued strong demand from position as the leading content and EBITDA has increased 112.1% to Demand for high quality network independent data for TelecityGroup as we consolidated new and existing customers across connectivity hub for customers and network 23.4m 2006: 11.0m.
The main our position as the primary content and diverse sectors: service providers in key strategic markets factors driving this strong performance centre facilities continued to increase in all our connectivity hub in key European strategic by providing high levels of connectivity and are detailed below.
I began build of new data centres markets during 2007.
This was driven by continued markets.
In addition, we continued to a wide choice of network service providers.
in London and Amsterdam, on track deliver on the potential created by the To achieve this strategy the Group is Customers to open Q2 2008: and growth and adoption of internetbased services, integration of TeleCity plc, Redbus and focused on the following main activities: TelecityGroup provides web, IT Globix in 2006.
The following highlights I successful IPO raising net proceeds infrastructure hosting and connectivity and the knockon effects this has in driving content, were achieved during 2007: of 66.9m.
I growing the customer base by signing solutions to an increasing number of new contracts and renewing existing organisations.
Organisations seeking applications and day to day business and online Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings I revenue up 42.1% to 97.9m contracts priced towards prevailing to reduce costs, improve service levels before interest, taxation, depreciation, 2006: 68.9m : market rates: and focus on their own core competences leisure activities.
have been turning to TelecityGroup as I adjusted EBITDA up 112.1% I continued enhancement of revenue a reliable and trusted data centre partner.
to 23.4m 2006: 11.0m : The market per customer by providing additional Demand for high quality network value added services such as I adjusted EBITDA margin up In 2007 the Group was successful independent data centre facilities engineering, connectivity, security 7.8 percentage points to 23.8% in winning significant new business.
continued to increase in all our markets and backup services Value 2006: 16.0% : Contracts were signed with a range of during 2007.
This was driven by continued Added Services : leading companies in all of our markets I average revenue per occupied sq.
m growth and adoption of internetbased I capitalising on strong demand through while the existing customer base remained up 12.0% to 2,586 2006: 2,308 : services, and the knockon effects this expansion opportunities in both a key source of growth.
This resulted in has in driving content, applications and I occupied space up 9.3% to existing and new markets that meet an increase of over 30% in our order day to day business and online leisure 37,868 sq.
m : the strategic investment return book during the course of the year, activities.
In addition, an increasing criteria: and providing the Group with good forward I available fully fitted inventory and diverse range of industries are visibility of revenues.
Customer additions in existing facilities expanded recognising the benefits to be gained I consideration of selective acquisitions included Microsoft, ITV, Thales, Banca Sara to 46,597 sq.
m: by outsourcing their data centre as appropriate opportunities arise.
and a number of other highprofile requirements.
This sustained demand, I cash flow from operating activities The successful implementation of this broadcast and financial institutions, coupled with the limited supply of new of 12.5m 2006: 3.6m : strategy during 2007 is reflected in the while important renewals or upgrades network independent data centre space, Groups results.
These are the first included agreements with Barclays, I breakeven operating result resulted in constrained supply and results since our IPO in October 2007 HewlettPackard, Bwin, Siemens, Akamai 2006: loss 12.1m : strengthening market prices.
which was successfully completed despite and Sony Computer Entertainment I pretax loss improved by 50.8% challenging market conditions.
The Group was also successful Strategy to 7.8m 2006: 15.8m : show that revenue has increased 42.1% in renewing contracts with existing The key elements of TelecityGroups to 97.9m 2006: 68.9m and Adjusted strategy are to maintain the Groups The Business Review forms part of, and should be read in conjunction with, the Directors Report set out on pages 24 to 26.
1,781 a 2,308 2,586 28,468 34,651 37,868 010 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 011 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Relationships TelecityGroups mission is to deliver Owning stateoftheart data centre operational excellence for all customers.
assets is only part of the picture.
Reliable, secure, resilient and TelecityGroup attracts, trains and retains highlyconnected data centres, coupled highly skilled engineers, develops and with a range of services provided by follows rigorous processes and procedures, dedicated and experienced staff, are and offers a vast range of connectivity the heart of the business.
The Group and value added services in all locations.
combines engineering excellence, Organisations choosing to work with dynamic management expertise and TelecityGroup are freed to focus on their a commitment to customer service.
core business issues, leaving TelecityGroup to look after their infrastructure, reducing costs and increasing connectivity and reliability.
relationships 10 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 11 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Reliability The TelecityGroup facilities offer high TelecityGroups data centres are built levels of data and network security, to the highest industry standards and with electrical and mechanical systems designed for customers seeking secure, engineered with multiple levels scalable data centre locations and of redundancy, and 24x7 protection connectivity.
All of the Groups data against fire and natural disasters.
centres provide secure, resilient, and redundant environments for companies looking to house missioncritical equipment offsite.
Bandwidth requirements are met by a broad range of connectivity services.
By outsourcing the data centre we have the freedom to concentrate on what is unique for Ernst & Young.
Dr Harold Klein CTO, Ernst & Young reliability 12 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 13 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 business review Our ability to invest and deliver new space quickly has been received well by our continued customers.
This new space has continued to attract interest from both new and existing customers who have demonstrated a desire to expand rapidly.
I The new customer agreements that were signed in 2007 spanned a wide range of sectors from software and IT, to investment banking and high street finance, as well as from our established connectivity, content and media markets.
Customers continued physical access, high levels of power in place all key planning elements services in the broader economy should customers at rates closer to prevailing and telecoms connectivity to provide necessary for two new facilities in have the effect of mitigating any market market rates at the point of additional data centre capacity.
Amsterdam and London, both of which sentiment about a possible slowdown.
TelecityGroup has established a strong are designed to deliver 2kW of customer Furthermore, we continue to see a strong track record in overcoming these barriers power per square metre, well above the pipeline of interest for our products and The combination of increased contract by nurturing and further strengthening current industry standard.
Construction services and net order wins that are pricing and the successful growth in sales our existing relationships with key utility of both facilities commenced during the significantly higher than in the prior year.
of additional Value Added Services helped providers, planning authorities and year and they are on schedule to be ready to improve our revenue per occupied telecommunication network providers, for customers during the second quarter Construction of the new data centres square metre by 12.0% from 2,308 all of which supports our position as of 2008.
On completion, the new data in London and Amsterdam is on track to 2,586 per annum.
the largest European provider of carrier centres will add an additional 9,000 sq.
m for availability in the first half of 2008 neutral data centres and connectivity hubs.
to the Groups overall footprint.
More and we are encouraged by the level The TelecityGroup customer base significantly, together with the other of interest from both existing and new continues to be diverse across a broad Our ability to invest and deliver new expansion projects to existing data customers for the additional capacity spread of sectors, helping to minimise space quickly has been received well centres, this will increase the Groups we are bringing online.
The high the impact of demand fluctuations of by our customers.
This new space overall power capacity in Amsterdam customerpower specification of these any particular one.
The new customer has continued to attract interest from and London by over 100%.
new builds will provide the Group with agreements that were signed in 2007 both new and existing customers who competitive advantage as the availability spanned a wide range of sectors from have demonstrated a desire to expand Current trading of power increasingly becomes the main software and IT, to investment banking rapidly.
For example, a high density Trading during the start of 2008 has component of pricing.
and high street finance, as well as from hosting facility consisting of 40 racks remained strong and we have signed key our established connectivity, content delivering between 15 kilowatts kW new contracts as well as continuing to and media markets.
and 20kW per rack, which we opened renew existing contracts at rates nearer in one of our London data centres to prevailing market rates.
In spite of This success in winning and retaining in April, was built and sold continued growth in demand, there has customers is reflected in a net increase out during 2007. been limited increase in supply in the of 9.3% in occupied space.
At the end market resulting in robust pricing levels.
m of fitted out customer We believe that as an established part of space 2006: 45,683 sq.
m. A significant the IT outsourcing chain our colocation Capacity expansion proportion of the Groups investment proposition will continue to provide a During the year data centre operators in 2007 was devoted to maximising the costeffective solution that the market faced the challenge of securing suitable available capacity in terms of both space requires as demonstrated by the sites in key city locations which could and power in our existing data centres.
continuing demand for our services: the offer the combination of highly secure We have also been successful in putting increasing relevance of internetbased 14 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 15 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Flexibility TelecityGroup offers a range of highly flexible, scalable network independent data centre and related value added services to organisations from a diverse sector base.
These additional services range from managed connectivity to online security and data backup.
TelecityGroup works closely with its customers to understand their business processes and objectives, and tailors its services to deliver flexible technology solutions designed to optimise performance levels.
We decided to outsource critical systems for our retail office and print centre locations in the UK and the Netherlands to TelecityGroup.
With their assistance, we have a secure and stable environment for our corporate IT systems, and are able to use the platform to roll out new services and applications in the future.
Deepesh Bhandari International IT Infrastructure Manager,  Flexibility 14 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 15 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Security TelecityGroup data centres are highly secure environments manned 24x7x365 by onsite personnel to include verification of all persons entering and leaving the buildings.
CCTV video camera surveillance, security breach alarms, biometric checks and physical barriers feature as standard throughout each facility.
seCurity 16 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 17 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Group revenue m Adjusted EBITDA m Adjusted EBITDA margin % business review 45mm height TelecityGroup Brian McArthur Muscroft Group Finance Director Telecity Redbus combined 2005 of bar in charts 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 2005 2006 2007 I T otal revenue in 2007 up 42.1% to 97.9m 2006: 68.9m I UK an d Ireland 'UK&I' revenues up 56.2% to 63.4m 2006: 40.6m I R est of Europe 'RoE' revenues up 22.0% to 34.6m 2006: 28.3m I R evenues from colocation and Value Added Services up by 39.6% and 49.1% respectively I At the year end, occupied space was 37,868 sq.
m Brian McArthur Muscroft Group Finance Director Detailed group performance UK and Ireland UK&I revenues totalled a further 6.4m to operating costs.
IPO, there have been increases in legal In 2007, demand for the Groups services continued to grow In 2007, demand for the Groups services 63.4m for the year 2006: 40.6m, Costs have increased, reflecting improved and professional fees.
Finally, as part of continued to grow in all markets in which an increase of 56.2%.
This was partly due business volumes.
An analysis of the the continued focus on working capital in all markets in which we operate, with particular strength we operate, with particular strength to the inclusion of a full years revenue underlying increase in operating costs and in particular a detailed review of in London, Amsterdam and Paris.
in London, Amsterdam and Paris.
This, for two sites added following the is as follows: the debtor book, there was an increased along with the full year effect of Globix acquisition of Globix.
Additional growth bad debt expense in the year of 2.5m.
acquired in September 2006 and the was generated by increasing occupancy I Payroll costs have increased by 4.1m I Property costs have only increased improvements in pricing achieved on at improved pricing levels reflecting due to higher sales commissions slightly, by 0.9m, despite the high contract renewals, had a positive impact strong market conditions experienced linked to the growth in revenue, levels of revenue growth.
on the Groups financial performance.
across the sector, and power upgrades additional data centre staff in the Globix is fully integrated within the at several of the data centres.
UK and increased corporate costs Operating exceptional items of business and hence is not reported as a result of investing in business 4.7m were incurred during the year.
At the year end, occupied space was development and operating These comprised the following: 20,873 sq.
I 2.9m of listing costs incurred as a Total revenue for the current year was average revenue per occupied square I Electricity costs have increased result of the Groups flotation.
These 97.9m 2006: 68.9m an increase metre was 3,036 2006: 2,565. by 3.5m in line with increased costs, together with a further 5.4m of 42.1%.
The increase is a result of new occupancy and related colocation charged directly to the share premium order wins and price increases across Rest of Europe RoE revenues totalled revenues, and movements in power account, primarily relate to professional the Groups sites, as well as the full 34.6m for the year 2006: 28.3m, prices.
As power is generally fees paid to the Groups sponsors, year effect of Globix.
At the year end, an increase of 22.0%.
In addition to the recharged to customers this has a lawyers and accountants.
m 2006: strong market conditions experienced in limited impact on the profitability 34,651 sq.
m and average revenue per all of the Groups markets, growth was I 1.4m of costs were incurred during of the Group.
square metre was 2,586 2006: 2,308. generated by increasing occupancy the final stages of the integration of Revenues from colocation and Value at improved pricing levels.
At the year I The annual deprecia tion and Globix and Redbus, this integration Added Services have increased by 39.6% end, occupied space was 16,995 sq.
m amortisation charge has increased is now complete.
m and average by 1.9m as the Group has continued I 0.7m of costs were incurred in the Groups continued focus on selling revenue per occupied square metre to invest in its asset base.
respect of the new builds in London additional services.
I Other costs have increased by 3.0m.
and Amsterdam which relate to costs is expected that colocation revenues will Part of the increase is directly related to such as rent and rates during the grow more quickly than Value Added Underlying operating costs have costs in connection with sales of Value build period.
Services due to the significant amount increased by 13.4m.
In addition, the Added Services.
In addition, due to the of capacity provided by the new builds.
full year effect of Globix has contributed corporate activity in the past and the 50.7 68.9 97.9 0.6 11.0 23.4 1.2 16.0 23.8 18 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 19 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 business review continued I T he new 125.0m facility, which is held jointly with Barclays Bank and HBOS, comprises a term loan of 30.0m and a revolving credit facility of 95.0m.
This facility, together with the Groups cash balances, provides sufficient financing for all currently planned capital expenditure.
The Group does issue of shares before the Groups The new 125.0m facility, which is held The Group seeks to finance its business Current trade and other receivables have I Finally there is a credit of 0.3m not expect to pay significant amounts flotation taking the total cash raised jointly with Barclays Bank and HBOS, through an appropriate mix of debt and increased to 36.7m 2006: 24.8m.
to exceptional items following the of tax in the foreseeable future.
through issuing shares to 67.0m comprises a term loan of 30.0m and a equity.
Current and mediumterm interest This is primarily due to a capital reassessment of an onerous lease in the year 2006: 0.3m.
revolving credit facility of 95.0m, 6.9m rates are monitored when evaluating the prepayment of 8.9m, and associated provision in respect of a site in Munich.
Detailed review of group cash flow of which has been used to guarantee most cost effective sources of finance.
recoverable sales tax, in respect of the Cash flows from operating activities In total the Group has generated 26.4m lease deposits on certain of the Groups The facility described above, along with new build in Amsterdam.
In addition, the Group has incurred increased 8.9m to 12.5m 2006: of cash during the year 2006: 0.7m data centres.
This facility, together the IPO proceeds, result in the Group 2.1m of exceptional finance costs.
The strong cash performance outflow increasing year end cash balances with the Groups cash balances, provides having a strong liquidity position.
Provisions of 6.8m 2006: 7.2m In preparation for the Groups admission is primarily a result of the increased to 37.0m which will be used, along with sufficient financing for all currently primarily relate to an onerous lease to the London Stock Exchange, the Adjusted EBITDA of 23.4m 2006: the borrowing facilities described below, planned capital expenditure.
Despite Discussion of Balance Sheet provision in respect of a property in Group restructured its borrowings and 11.0m less nonIPO related exceptional to finance the Groups planned the reduced supply in the credit markets The Groups intangible assets of 46.9m Munich.
A full provision is made in unamortised loan issue costs in respect items of 1.8m 2006: 7.7m, net capital projects.
during the latter part of 2007, the Group 2006: 47.1m comprise acquired respect of this lease, however the Group of the previous debt were expensed.
interest payments of 5.7m 2006: 4.0m secured this facility at a competitive rate, customer contracts and goodwill that continues to pursue options to mitigate The new borrowings and facilities are and working capital, foreign exchange and Financing the margin being over one percentage arose during the acquisition of Telecity plc, the liability.
described in more detail below.
other movements of 3.4m During the year, the Group raised net point lower than that of the previous Globix and Redbus.
The terms of the financing of these assets has been reviewed during Operational and financial risks Netfinancecosts have increased from deducting all directly attributable costs required that the term loan be drawn the year and no impairment is needed.
The Groups operations expose it to a 3.7m to 5.7m.
During the year, the The Group has invested 24.1m of 8.3m relating to fees from the down immediately, although it was not variety of risks.
The Directors regularly Group incurred interest on its longterm 2006: 6.6m in capital expenditure, sponsors, lawyers and accountants.
It is expected that Capital expenditure of 16.9m review these risks and the appropriate loans of 5.2m 2006: 4.2m.
In addition 8.9m of which relates to a capital the planned capital projects will utilise 2006: 6.6m has been incurred during steps are taken to reduce or eliminate the Group incurred other financing costs prepayment for equipment and works In preparation for its admission to the the term loan during the first half of the year.
Offsetting these additions is the risks and mitigate their potential of 1.1m 2006: 0.1m, including an in respect of the Amsterdam new build.
public market, the Group restructured its 2008.
Under the terms of the facility, the the depreciation charge for the year of impact.
Below are listed the principal adverse movement on the fair value of The remaining 15.2m primarily relates borrowing facilities.
At 31 December 2006 Group is required to hedge the interest 17.4m 2006: 14.6m.
As a significant risks which the Directors consider the Groups interest rate swaps of 0.5m to the two new builds of 1.6m, fitouts the Group had gross borrowings of 60.9m.
rate on part of the borrowings.
It is the proportion of the Groups assets are could affect the Group but they are not 2006: 0.4m gain.
Finance costs have to existing buildings of 7.6m 2006: Up to the IPO, the Group made net Groups policy to hedge the interest denominated in Euros, the strengthening intended to be an extensive analysis of been offset by finance income of 0.5m 1.2m and general capital expenditure further drawdowns of 9.6m from this rate exposure on the majority of the Euro has given rise to a foreign all risks which may arise in the ordinary 2006: 0.6m.
facility, primarily to finance capital of the borrowings.
exchange gain on property, plant and course of business or otherwise.
At IPO, borrowings of 32.8m equipment of 4.7m 2006: 0.9m loss.
Tax remains a minimal expense for the Net proceeds of 66.9m were raised were drawndown under the new facility.
This results in a year end carrying value Group due to the availability of losses during the Groups flotation of which These, along with part of the IPO proceeds of the Groups property, plant and and unclaimed capital allowances 36.9m was used to repay existing were used to repay the borrowings under equipment of 103.0m 2006: 98.8m.
in excess of depreciation which are borrowings.
0.1m was raised through the old facility.
estimated at a total value of 139.9m 20 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 21 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 business review continued Key Performance Indicators I The Group hedges against the risks arising from Year ended Year ended transactions in foreign currencies by entering into 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 forward foreign currency contracts where appropriate.
m 2,586 2,308 Operational risks upgrades and replaces the equipment respect of mitigating the currency risk and liquidity management requirements.
The main area of exposure Summary I Business disruption risk.
Any failure of in its premises.
Although the Group arising on these balances, the Group The Group manages liquidity risk by relates to the price of electricity and The Group has achieved a great deal the physical infrastructure or services has budgeted for expected fitout did not undertake to hedge these maintaining adequate capital reserves its consequential impact on the during the year and we are confident of the Group could lead to significant and equipment expenses, additional exposures in 2007. and banking facilities and by Groups pricing of its services.
The about the Groups future prospects.
We costs and disruptions that could reduce expenses in the event of unforeseen continuously monitoring forecast and Group uses consultants to monitor look forward to reporting again in 2008, I The year end and average exchange revenues, harm the Groups business delays, cost overruns, unanticipated actual cash flows and matching the price changes in electricity and when our two new builds will have rates used when translating the reputation and have a material adverse expenses, regulatory changes, and maturity profiles of financial assets and negotiate fixedprice term agreements delivered significant inventory which results for the year to Pounds Sterling effect on financial results.
The Group increases in the price of equipment liabilities.
At 31 December 2007, the with the power supply companies.
we expect to be generating additional are 1.356 and 1.454 respectively manages this through a series of may negatively affect the Groups Group had finance leases amounting business for the Group.
for Euros and 12.762 and 13.479 Key performance indicators KPIs backup and safety systems.
The Group manages this to 1.3m 2006: 1.4m and had respectively for Swedish Krona.
The Group uses a number of KPIs to by utilising internal and external borrowings from the Groups bankers I T echnology risk.
The market for data measure performance which are set personnel with the appropriate level I Had the year end and average of 33.0m 2006: 60.9m.
This loan, centres and internetrelated products out above.
These KPIs have been chosen of skill and experience.
In addition, exchange rates been 5% weaker, along with the IPO proceeds, is being is characterised by continued evolution as they are considered to be the main detailed project appraisals are then the loss for the year would used to finance the Groups capital in technology, evolving industry factors underpinning the Groups Michael Tobin performed and kept up to date in have increased by 0.2m and the expenditure projects.
The Directors standards, changes in customer needs, performance.
The capacity of our Chief Executive Officer respect of all major capital projects.
Had are satisfied that the current capital heavy competition and frequent new existing facilities is a constraining factor the year end and average exchange and financing arrangements are product introductions.
The Group Financial risks to growth, as such the Group monitors rates been 10% weaker, then the adequate for the Groups operations manages this by developing new I Cr edit risk.
The Group has implemented both fitted out space and occupancy.
loss for the year would have and planned capital investment.
products and modifying or improving policies that require appropriate credit In addition, the amount of revenue increased by 0.3m and the net existing products in a timely and checks on potential customers to be I Interest rate risk.
The loans described generated per square metre is used assets increased by 2.3m.
Brian McArthur Muscroft costeffective manner.
The Value performed before sales are made.
above incur variable interest rates to measure the income generation Group Finance Director Added Services which the Group offers Rigorous procedures have been put The Group hedges against the risks based on LIBOR, which the Directors of the available space.
include engineering, connectivity, in place to ensure that customers pay arising from transactions in foreign consider to be appropriate.
The security and backup services.
Due to the high currencies by entering into forward Directors manage this risk by taking number of customers there is no foreign currency contracts out interest rate swaps to fix the I Ca pital expenditure risk.
Due to the credit concentration risk.
At 31 December 2007 increasing demand for the Groups the fair value of these swaps was a services, substantial management I F oreign currency risk.
The Group faces I Liquidity and capital risk management.
effort and financial resources are currency exposures on the translation The Group has built an appropriate employed by the Group in fittingout of the trading results and net assets liquidity risk management framework and upgrading new data centres.
Following for the management of the Groups In addition, the Group periodically a review of the options available in short, medium and longterm funding 22 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 23 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 board of directors John Hughes Michael Tobin Brian McArthur Muscroft Robert Morse 2 3 1 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director NonIndependent NonExecutive Director John Hughes has more than 30 years experience leading Michael Tobin is the Chief Executive Officer of TelecityGroup.
Brian McArthur Muscroft is responsible for financial strategy, Robert Morse is a Partner of Oak Hill Capital Management and complex, high technology businesses operating at a global level, He joined Redbus Interhouse in 2002 as Sales and Marketing policies, reporting, planning and control for the Group.
has been with the firm since 2001.
Mr Morse is responsible for including senior executive positions at Thales Group where he Director and became Chief Executive Officer in 2003, leading the Mr McArthur Muscroft has over 20 years experience dealing originating, structuring and managing investments in the firms was latterly Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, company through its integration with TeleCity, the subsequent with financial strategy, with the last twelve of these specialising technology group.
Prior to joining Oak Hill, Mr Morse worked at responsible for an organisation with over 25,000 people, Lucent acquisition of Globix in 2006 and its successful IPO in 2007. in the telecommunications and technology sector.
Prior to GCC Investments, a growth private equity firm, Loudcloud, Inc. Technologies where his responsibilities included being President He has more than 25 years experience in the joining the Group, he was Group Finance Director of Viatel, a an internet infrastructure provider, and Morgan Stanley Capital of its worldwide GSM and UMTS businesses and HewlettPackard.
Prior to TelecityGroup, panEuropean communications business, Eckoh Technologies Partners.
Mr Morse earned a BSE degree, summa cum laude, he headedup Fujitsus eCommerce operations in Germany plc, a UKlisted telecommunications and technology group, and from Princeton University and a MBA from the Stanford Graduate and before that ran ICLs Danish outsourcing subsidiary out Cable and Wireless HKT Multimedia.
He was also Director of Risk School of Business, where he was an Arjay Miller Scholar.
Mr Hughes has significant experience of managing growth of Copenhagen.
He has also held senior positions based in Paris Management for Cable and Wireless Asia.
Mr McArthur Muscroft companies, especially those supplying complex solutions and for over 11 years including International Computer Group and qualified as a Chartered Accountant FCA with services to business customers, mergers and acquisitions, Tricord Systems Europe, and was formerly Managing Director  in London, specialising in business international channel expansion and development of leadership of Goupil UK.
restructuring and turnaround assignments, and holds teams.
He has lived and worked in the USA and mainland Europe a law degree.
He is also nonexecutive Chairman of Intec Telecom Systems plc, Executive Deputy Chairman of Parity Group plc and a member of the boards of Nice Systems Ltd a NASDAQlisted company, Barco nv a Brussels exchangelisted company and of Spectris plc.
He holds a BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering.
Mr Hughes chairs the Remuneration Committee.
John OReilly Simon Batey Ian Nolan Sergei Riabtsov 1 2 1 2 3 2 3 Independent NonExecutive Director Independent NonExecutive Director NonIndependent NonExecutive Director NonIndependent NonExecutive Director John OReilly is Managing Director of Remote Betting and Gaming Simon Batey has 20 years experience in a number of senior Ian Nolan is a Partner in 3is European Buyouts business, and is Sergei Riabtsov joined the Sputnik Group at its founding in 1998 at Ladbrokes.
Mr OReilly joined the board of Ladbrokes following finance roles in industry.
Between 2000 and 2006, Mr Batey was responsible for its UK team.
Mr Nolan began his 3i career in 1987 and is now the Managing Director.
Mr Riabtsov has been a the completion of the sale of the Hilton International hotels Group Finance Director of United Utilities plc and, from 2006 in Manchester moving to London in 1995 as a Director.
In 1998, handson manager of investment activities for the last ten years division in February 2006.
He has led the Ladbrokes eGaming until August 2007, he was Chief Financial Officer of Thames Mr Nolan returned to Manchester as Managing Director of 3is and has served on the board of a number of Sputnik Groups Division since its establishment in 2000.
Mr OReilly has Water Utilities Limited.
From 1987 to 2000, he worked for business in the North West of England, subsequently assuming investments.
Prior to joining the Sputnik Group, he was an responsibility for Vernons in addition to Ladbrokes.
com and AMEC plc, initially as Deputy Group Finance Director and then, responsibility for the whole of the North, and then also for investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston in London and Ladbrokes Telephone Betting operations.
Since joining Ladbrokes, from 1992, as Group Finance Director.
Mr Batey has been a Scotland.
In 2004, Mr. Nolan moved back to London to take Moscow and at Renaissance Capital in Moscow.
He holds a degree he has held senior responsibility within the company for marketing, NonExecutive Director of Arriva plc since October 2003 and on a Europeanwide role within the buyout business, involved in Economics and Finance from the State Finance Academy in public relations, public affairs, property, business development has also served as a NonExecutive Director of THUS Group in transactions both within the UK and in Continental Europe.
He was a Director of Redbus Interhouse plc from and the Telephone Betting business.
Mr Batey has an MA in Geography from Oxford University the start of 2006, Mr Nolan took on responsibility for the UK part November 2003 until its acquisition by the Company.
He holds a First Class and is a qualified Chartered Accountant, having spent the first of the European buyout team.
Mr Nolan has an MA in Economics honours degree in Business.
Mr OReilly chairs the 12 years of his career at Armitage and Norton now part of from Cambridge University, and prior to joining 3i he qualified Remuneration Committee.
Mr Batey chairs the Audit Committee, and is the as a Chartered Accountant.
Companys Senior Independent nonexecutive Director.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 24 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 directors report The Directors present their report and the financial statements of the Company and the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007. Business review A review of the development of the Groups business during the year and future prospects is included in the Chairmans Statement and the Business Review which should be read in conjunction with this report.
The information which comprises the Business Review as required by Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 the Act may be found in these statements on pages 4 to 21 and in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 35 and forms part of the Directors Report.
Principal activity The Group is a panEuropean provider of network independent data centres offering a range of flexible, scalable data centre services, and value added services which include security, storage, messaging, disaster recovery, monitoring, application, and database management services Value Added Services.
Results and dividends The results for the year ended 31 December 2007 are set out in the Group income statement on page 37.
The Directors do not propose a dividend in respect of the year 2006: nil.
Share capital During the year, the share capital of the Company was restructured as described in note 20.
The Companys share capital at the year end comprised entirely Ordinary shares which rank equally in all respects.
The rights attached to the Ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Special Resolution of the shareholders.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FSAs listing rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers or iii as described in the prospectus dated 24 October 2007 issued by the Company.
Certain Directors and shareholders of the Company have undertaken, pursuant to the underwriting agreement dated 24 October 2007, to Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch and Citigroup Global Markets UK Equity Limited the Joint Bookrunners that, subject to certain exceptions, they will not prior to 27 April 2008, without the prior written consent of the Joint Bookrunners, offer, sell or contract to sell, or otherwise transfer, lend or dispose of, any Ordinary shares in the Company beneficially owned, held or otherwise controlled by them totalling 136,462,000 Ordinary shares in aggregate.
The Company operates employee shares plans under which an employee benefit trust EBT holds shares pending employees becoming entitled to them.
2,802,000 shares were so held as at 31 December 2007.
The EBT has an independent trustee which has full discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
In addition, the trustee held as at 31 December 2007 the legal interest in 1,848,000 shares on trust for certain senior executives of the Company including the executive Directors, who hold the beneficial interest in those shares.
The dividends on all shares held in the EBT have been waived.
Save as described above, shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company raised net proceeds of 66,923,000 through the issue of 37,979,000 shares as part of the Companys Initial Public Offering.
In addition, as part of a former employee share scheme, the Company raised a further 119,000 in the first half of the year through the issue of 475,000 F shares which thereafter converted into 1,488,000 Ordinary shares at the time of the Companys IPO.
Further details are contained in note 20.
Details of the Groups share schemes are set out in note 27 and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors The Directors of the Company who were in office as at 31 December 2007, together with their interests in the Ordinary share capital of the Company and any interests known to the Company of their connected persons are set out below.
The Directors interests in options over the Ordinary shares in the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 34.
1 January 31 December 1 2007 2007 2 John Hughes 54,545 3 5 6 Michael Tobin 1,309,083 1,309,083 3 5 6 Brian McArthur Muscroft 691,415 691,415 4 Simon Batey 22,727 2 John OReilly 9,091 Robert Morse Ian Nolan 2 Sergei Riabtsov 1 or date of appointment if later 2 appointed 5 October 2007 3 appointed 1 July 2007 4 appointed 16 October 2007 5 At their dates of appointment Michael Tobin had an interest in 320,000 E Ordinary shares and 98,159 F Ordinary shares, and Brian McArthur Muscroft had an interest in 220,858 F Ordinary shares.
These shares were converted into Ordinary shares at the time of the IPO of the Company as described in note 20.
The figures in the above table are the numbers of Ordinary shares which resulted from this conversion.
6 A proportion of these Ordinary shares are held by the EBT and are released to the individuals on a monthly basis subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions.
25 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors continued Bo Bendtsen, Oliver Grace, Boris Jordan, Jennifer Dunstan and Glenn August all resigned as Directors on 5 October 2007.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares nor, so far as the Company is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons between 31 December 2007 and the date of this report.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Simon Batey, who was appointed as a Director by the Board since the last general meeting of the Company, retires and is being proposed for reappointment.
The Chairman confirms that Mr Batey has the skills, knowledge and experience that enable him to properly discharge his duties and contribute to the effective operation of the Board.
The Board, on the advice of the Nominations Committee, therefore recommends his reelection.
No member of the Board had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, at any time during the year, except for their interests in shares disclosed above, and their interests under their terms of employment or appointment and in share options disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors of the Company are appointed either by the Board or by shareholders under the Companys Articles of Association.
The business of the Company is managed by its Directors who may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the Articles of Association and UK legislation.
Substantial shareholdings At 7 March 2008, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys Ordinary shares at the date: Number Total of shares voting rights 1 3i 44,719,998 22.6% 2 Oak Hill 44,719,997 22.6% 3 Sputnik 17,867,580 9.0% 4 Butterfield Trust 15,135,479 7.6% 5 UK2 12,018,298 6.1% Goldman, Sachs & Co. 8,130,791 4.1% 1 Ordinary shares are held by 3i Group plc and by a corporate nominee for 3i Pan European BuyOuts 200406 LP.
2 Ordinary shares are held by the following Oak Hill companies: Oak Hill Capital Partners II Cayman, L. P. OHSOF Offshore I L. P. OHSOF Offshore II L. P. Oak Hill Capital Partners II Cayman II, L. P. OHSOF Offshore III L. P. Oak Hill Capital Management Partners II Cayman, L. P. 3 Includes Ordinary shares beneficially owned by Pogan Invest Corp.
Ordinary shares are held by a corporate nominee for Sputnik Group Ltd and Pogan Invest Corp. 4 Ordinary shares are held by Butterfield Trust as a trustee of trusts for the benefit of Oliver R. Grace, Jr. and members of his family and are held by a corporate nominee.
5 Ordinary shares are held by a corporate nominee for UK2 Group Limited.
Payment of suppliers The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
The year end Group trade creditors balance represented 55 days of purchases 2006: 89.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at 31 December 2007 2006: nil.
Charitable donations During the year the Group made charitable donations in cash amounting to 41,000 2006: nil.
The principal charities supported by the Group during the year are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 35.
Employment The Group keeps employees informed of developments by which they are affected and the performance of the Group generally through regular briefing meetings, as well as more informal communications.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, taking into account the requirements of individual roles.
If an existing employee becomes disabled, it is the Groups policy to take such steps as are practical to provide continuing employment and to assist with suitable training and career development opportunities.
Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under IFRS IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
26 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 directors report continued Directors responsibilities continued International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, Directors are also required to: I properly select and apply accounting policies: I present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and I provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Group is to be proposed at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
2008 Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at the offices of Addleshaw Goddard LLP, 150 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4EJ at 2.00pm on Thursday 15 May 2008.
An explanation of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, and recommendation of Directors in relation to these, is included on pages 61 and 62.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each Director in office at the date of this report has confirmed that: 1. so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and 2. he has tak en all the reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given in accordance with Section 234ZA of the Act.
On behalf of the Board Tony Hunter Company Secretary 7 March 2008 27 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate governance report The Board of Directors is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction and management and control of the Groups activities and is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance in achieving these goals.
The Board confirms that the Group has complied throughout the period since admission to the London Stock Exchange on 29 October 2007 to the year end the Period with the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July 2006 the Combined Code in all respects other than as set out below in the Areas of noncompliance section.
The following summary of the Companys compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code relates to the period after 29 October 2007.
Composition of the Board In preparation for the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange, the Company altered the membership of its Board and in particular appointed a new nonexecutive Chairman, and two new, independent nonexecutive Directors.
Accordingly, during the Period, the Board comprised the nonexecutive Chairman, two executive Directors and five nonexecutive Directors.
The Board considers that two of the nonexecutive Directors, Simon Batey and John OReilly, are independent and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In addition, the Chairman was considered independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman, although for the purposes of the Combined Code he is excluded from the calculation of the Groups number of independent nonexecutive Directors.
The Board is satisfied with the balance between executive and nonexecutive Directors which allows it to exercise objectivity in decisionmaking and proper control of the Groups business.
The Board considers that its composition is appropriate at the Groups current stage of development in view of the size and requirements of the Groups business and the need to maintain a practical balance between executives and nonexecutive Directors.
The Group has a highly committed and experienced Board, which is supported by a senior management team, with the qualifications and experience for the running of the Group.
Each of the executive Directors is expected to act in accordance with ethical principles, including those of any professional body of which they are a member.
The nonexecutive Directors are of high calibre and contribute wideranging business and financial experience to the Boards decision making process.
Biographies of each member of the Board are set out on pages 22 and 23 and their terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
At every Annual General Meeting after the 2008 Annual General Meeting onethird, or the whole number nearest to but not exceeding one third, of the Directors shall retire from office and may be proposed for reelection.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall be, first, those who wish to retire and not be re appointed and, second, those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment.
Any Director appointed by the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting retires at that meeting.
All Directors will retire no later than the third AGM following their last appointment or reappointment at a general meeting.
Any term of a nonexecutive Director beyond six years will be subject to particularly rigorous review by the Board.
Any Director serving longer than nine years would be subject to annual reelection.
The Chairman, John Hughes, holds a number of other directorships as setout on page 22.
The Board considers that the time commitment required by his other roles does not impact on his Chairmanship of the Group.
Neither of the executive Directors has held any nonexecutive directorships of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are split.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for the management of the Groups daytoday operations.
A formal statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has been adopted by the Board.
The Board has a Senior Independent Director, Simon Batey, whose role includes being available to shareholders if required.
The Nominations Committee recognises that succession planning is important to the future continuing performance of the Group and it will consider succession planning for the Board on a regular basis.
Functioning of the Board The Boards role includes determination of strategy, consideration and approval of business plans, budgets and significant transactions, and monitoring operational and financial performance.
This is achieved in part through the regular reviews by the Board and its committees of operations, monthly financial reporting and forecast updates, and of risks and internal controls.
In addition to Board meetings, there is regular communication between executive and nonexecutive Directors to ensure that the nonexecutive Directors are fully aware of all significant aspects of the Groups operations.
The nonexecutive Directors will meet at least annually without executive Directors present and, separately, also without the Chairman present.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all the Directors continually update their skills and their knowledge and familiarity with the Group in order to fulfil their role on the Board and the Boards Committees.
Technical updates dealing with changes in legislation and regulation relevant to the Groups business are provided regularly to the Board by the Company Secretary and Group Finance Director.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for decision which includes, inter alia, approval of Group strategy, budgets and business plans, annual reports and interim statements, and significant financing and capital expenditure plans.
The daytoday operation of the Groups business is delegated to management, subject to defined authority limits.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are properly complied with, and that discussions and decisions are appropriately recorded.
The Company Secretary is also responsible under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good information flow within the Board and its committees, and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense in furtherance of their duties as Directors.
Training in matters relevant to their role on the Board is available to all Board Directors.
New Directors are provided with an induction in order to introduce them to the operations and management of the business.
Data centre visits are also arranged as appropriate so that Directors may familiarise themselves with the Groups operations.
