Directors report: Business review Chief Executives review Tullows strategy is based on having a long-term view and continually investing to increase the value of our business, a strategy which delivered again for us in 2007.
Remarkable exploration success The highlight of 2007 for Tullow was undoubtedly the remarkable success of the Groups exploration and appraisal programmes in Ghana and Uganda.
In Ghana, the discovery of the Jubilee field and subsequent success with the Odum exploration well provide a high degree of confidence that Tullow may have uncovered not just a world-class discovery but also a material new oil province in which we are the dominant acreage holder.
Our priority for 2008 will be to rapidly appraise the Jubilee field while also testing some of the more significant regional exploration prospects.
In parallel, the field partnership is working on plans for a phased development of the field targeting first oil for 2010.
A high-capability semi-submersible drilling rig has been contracted for a period of up to five years.
In Uganda, Tullow achieved continued success in the Lake Albert Rift Basin and in 2007 invested over US$100 million 50 million in exploration and appraisal activities.
The knowledge and confidence generated by our success to date has led to a plan to invest over US$200 million 100 million in 2008.
The programme, which will include onshore and offshore drilling, seismic surveys and the anticipated sanction of an EPS, has the potential to more than double Tullows worldwide reserve base and make a material long-term contribution to Ugandas economy.
Strong portfolio performance Tullow achieved record production levels during 2007, with average daily output of 73,100 boepd, 13% ahead of 2006 levels.
This production generated operating cashflow before working capital movements of 474 million, enabling the rapid progress of development, exploration and appraisal programmes across our core areas, particularly in Africa which accounted for 64% of capital investment during the year.
8 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
