06 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Strategy and Performance Results In 2007 UBM successfully continued its operational and strategic progress.
Revenues from continuing operations grew by 8.5% 3 to 801.6m 2006: 739.1m and adjusted operating profit from continuing operations rose by 11.5% to 166.1m 2006: 149.0m.
4 Adjusted profit before tax was 170.0m excluding profits on disposals 2006: 160.5m.
In 2007 continuing operating margins were 20.7% 2006: 20.3%.
4 Diluted earnings per share adjusted rose by 19.4% to 52.3p from 43.8p and by 17.4% to 53.4p from 45.5p on a headline basis.
On a constant currency basis, the increase in diluted earnings per share was 25.1%.
We ended the year with 157.5m of net debt 2006: net cash 130.9m.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 16.76p, taking the total dividend for 2007 to 21.6p, an increase of 20.0% from 18.0p in 2006.
Marketplace The common characteristic shared by all of UBMs businesses David Levin is their focus on facilitating indeed, mediating professional Chief Executive Officer commercial activity.
However each business serves different markets, in different geographies and provides a distinct set of products and services that connects buyers and sellers in different ways.
PR Newswire marketplace overview PR Newswire operates in the news and information distribution marketplace, a marketplace adjacent to those of UBMs other businesses.
Long term growth in this market is supported by the continued development of a globalised competitive environment in which businesses look to communicate their market propositions nationally, regionally and worldwide.
In 2007 the volume of industry wire traffic in the US rose by 4.1% on 2006 Statutory results with just over 500,000 messages being distributed.
The US wire 2007 2006 market is served by four main players, of which PR Newswire is Revenue 801.6m 739.1m one, with a marketshare in 2007 of around 40% in terms volume of messages distributed, as recorded by Factiva.
Group operating profit 126.1m 118.4m An important market, one in which PR Newswire has particular Profit before tax 129.5m 113.5m historic strength, is regulatory disclosure.
Regulatory disclosure is EPS 42.7p 50.7p the information that national and international financial regulators EPS diluted 41.8p 49.8p require publicly traded companies and financial institutions to 3 Adjusted continuing group operating profit is group operating profit before amortisation of distribute quickly and fairly in order to ensure the orderly intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items and share of taxation on profit in joint ventures operation of financial and other markets.
As financial markets and associates.
4 Adjusted profit before tax and earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets continue to globalise, the number of companies needing to fulfill arising on acquisitions, exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets and net financing the growing obligations for disclosure imposed by market costs other than interest.
EPS also excludes deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
Diluted EPS includes the impact of share options.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 regulators particularly via legislation such as the European The long term outlook for the worldwide B2B marketplace is Unions Transparency Obligations Directive implemented from positive.
Studies suggest that the US B2B market accounts for January 2007 is likely to continue to expand.
This trend is around half of the global market and is currently worth around further supported by rising standards of corporate transparency $25bn.
The US market is anticipated to grow at about 6.2% per and more extensive corporate news distribution beyond strict annum for the period 2006 to 2010.5 The rate of growth in the regulatory compliance.
As a result the size of the worldwide emerging economies such as India and China is expected to regulatory and related disclosure market seems set to grow over match their GNP growth rates of 11.8% and 10.6% respectively 6 the long term.
However the short to medium term impact of The different ways in which news can be distributed and the the credit crunch on the outlook for growth in the US and other means by which marketing propositions can be communicated developed economies is currently unclear although stock market are expanding, particularly as online technology develops and expectations are clearly negative.
This means the news and The changing shape of B2B media Despite the diverse nature of information distribution marketplace is expanding beyond simply the B2B marketplace and the business models operating within it, delivering news or marketing messages and instead is converging there are identifiable, long term, macro shifts which we believe are with markets for products and services used in marketing, public restructuring the global B2B marketplace, albeit in different ways, relations and investor relations, particularly for online products and at different speeds in different industries, in different places.
PR Newswire provides a range of services in the markets shifts include the rapid evolution of the online environment and adjacent to news distribution.
These include production of online the growing importance of face-to-face media, particularly as part multimedia content, online audience targeting services, marketing of an integrated media proposition.
effectiveness analytics and interactive services.
These long term structural shifts are changing the relationship The rise and rise of face-to-face media The desire for buyers and between businesses and their targeted audiences, whether sellers to meet face-to-face continues to strengthen, even as the investors, customers or employees.
The growth in use and capabilities of the online environment have grown see below.
access to the online environment means that the traditional The social importance and deeply nuanced nature of face-to-face media are no longer the sole gatekeepers of information and contact, as well as the highly efficient sales and marketing insight.
Companies can now reach beyond the media to opportunities, ensure exhibitions and tradeshow events continue communicate directly with their audiences, worldwide.
The to grow consistently across B2B markets and represent an experience, expertise and operational infrastructure used to reach increasingly important part of the media mix into the future.
the traditional media means news distribution businesses are Industry forecasts predict that even in the relatively mature US ideally placed to expand their proposition to help businesses reach events market, revenues from events will grow at a compound 5 average rate of almost 6% between 2006 and 2010. the new generation of citizen journalists, bloggers and participants in social networks especially those built around video.
Evidence from UBMs own experience demonstrates that when a tradeshow event serves the needs of a professional community Other UBM business marketplace overview successfully, it enjoys predictable, consistent growth over many UBMs other businesses CMP Technology which was separated years.
The graph below shows the year on year revenue generated into four distinct businesses in February 2008, CMPMedica, by the CPhI event franchise.
CMP Information, CMP Asia and Commonwealth Business Media operate in the Business to Business B2B media marketplace.
CPhI revenue 3m This marketplace is highly fragmented, reflecting the varied types of products and services, and the range of business models 01 11.1 operating and in the market.
B2B media businesses range from 02 14.2 direct marketing, to media platforms supported by lead 03 18.1 generation, display and classified advertising, to information suppliers directories, databases, through to providers of 05 20.8 enterprise workflow solutions.
06 25.7 29.4 07 5 Source: VSS Communications Industry Forecast, 20062010, Veronis Suhler Stephenson.
6 Source: World Bank figures, quoted in Global Entertainment and Media Outlook: 20072010 by .
08 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Strategy and Performance continued A strategic focus for UBM is the development of product continues to advance, the online environment will be able to offer propositions that integrate online and offline media to take new forms of engagement between businesses and their audiences, advantage of their different but complementary characteristics.
creating new opportunities for B2B media businesses.
An example In particular, UBM is integrating online and face-to-face media of this is UBMs TechInsights Studio formerly How Machines products to extend the interactions which attendees enjoy at Work which designs and develops bespoke immersive online events into a complementary, online social networking environments, such as games.
TechInsights Studio products are environment that will continue year round, an example being the most frequently used as a component within broader marketing MyGDC social networking developed for the Game Developer campaigns that use other, complementary, UBM media products.
UBM has developed products that take advantage of virtual The advent of online social media, often described as having online community environments such as Second Life, for example Web 2.0 characteristics, is giving rise to rich and diverse forms of to host conferences and seminars.
Virtual environment community-based interactive media models which are changing technologies are also enabling rapid innovation in areas ranging established relationships between the producers of content from recruitment fairs and online marketing to workplace training.
Social media not only potentially provide a UBM businesses operate more than 330 websites and online fundamental disruption of the traditional editorial model of media services, using varying business models.
In 2007 UBM revenues content creation, but also represent a major driver of change with derived from online businesses grew by 10.0% on an underlying respect to the practice of marketing, advertising and public basis to account for 5.6% of overall revenues.
UBMs Mass Events Labs, acquired in January 2008, Workflow and data-based products Workflow products that rely on produces innovative custom events often called unconferences subscription data are increasingly embedded in the working lives whose agenda is determined by the events participants, generally of professional communities which use them to support decisionday-by-day during the course of the event, rather than by the making and other day-to-day business activities.
Increasingly event's organizers in advance.
UBM businesses operate more than powerful and economically accessible business computing 250 events and exhibitions around the world, many of them is allowing more and more organisations to access, store, leaders in their respective markets.
Revenues from events and manipulate and analyse more commercial information as part exhibitions grew on a like-for-like basis by 11.8% in 2007, of normal business practice the workplace is becoming ever representing 30.2% of UBM revenues 2006: 28.5%.
Development of the online environment The rapid development The market for information offered both online and in the of the online environment is reshaping aggregate patterns of both form of print is likely to see continued growth.
Licensed and content creation and consumption, driven by the increasingly subscription-based products that are embedded into business widespread availability of low cost digital technology and practices offer a high quality and predictable revenue stream for broadband internet access.
Aggregate advertising and marketing media companies providing them.
Studies estimate the business expenditure has followed the audience towards the online information market will grow at a CAGR of 5.8% 20072011, 9 environment, resulting in global online advertising increasing at from $84bn in 2006 to $111bn in 2011. annual rates of in excess of 30% in each of the last three years and In 2007 UBM derived 19.0% of its revenues from data-based is projected to constitute 14% of global advertising by 2011, products including workflow products such as OAGs online travel 7 compared with less than 3% in 2005. information service and print data products such as the Vidal drug This long term shift creates new opportunities and challenges information directories.
in the B2B marketplace, as companies adapt to the new patterns The future of print It is clear that in developed economies with of media usage and content consumption by redirecting their high levels of broadband penetration there is a structural shift marketing and advertising expenditure, as well as exploring the away from printed media and towards more and more content new approaches and techniques of communicating with target being consumed via online media.
As a result aggregate audiences that the online environment offers.
In the US, online marketing and advertising spend in B2B media is expected to be B2B media revenues are predicted to grow at a compound redistributed away from print and towards online media, events average rate of just under 20% between 2006 and 2010 and data products.
While industry forecasts for the US market over three times the equivalent growth rate in the overall predict that print revenues will grow at a compound annual rate market rising to an estimated 16% of the markets total 8 of around 3% between 2006 and 2010, growth in the markets 8 revenues by 2010.
UBM businesses serve is likely to be lower.
The sophistication of products and services that can be offered in the online environment is growing rapidly and, as technology 7 Source: Global Internet Advertising Market in Global Entertainment and Media Outlook: 20072010 by .
8 Source: VSS Communications Industry Forecast, 20062010, Veronis Suhler Stephenson.
9 Source: Global Business Information Market in Global Entertainment and Media Outlook: 20072001 by .
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 Nonetheless print still has a significant role to play in B2B media.
2007 Performance The printed page is a unique media form that allows for browsing The following sections set out UBMs essential strategic priorities and association that has not yet been reproduced in online and review UBMs progress in meeting them during 2007: formats.
The reader of the printed page in the hands of a strong editor can allow themselves to be guided towards unexpected Strategic priority 1: content with confidence.
Delivering shareholder returns Creating long term value and Print has a set of unique characteristics that make it preferable generating returns for shareholders is a fundamental strategic for certain demographics.
For example print products are priority for UBM.
particularly useful for those who do not work in a fixed location with access to a PC with a broadband connection, such as 2007 achievements In 2007 UBM achieved a strong financial professionals in the building industry.
In economies where performance, delivering continued excellent growth in returns broadband infrastructure is less well developed and computer to shareholders.
technology is less pervasive, particularly in emerging economies UBM grew its adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share by 19.4% 10 such as India, print media remains an attractive growth market.
to 52.3p 2006: 43.8p and adjusted Earnings Per Share In 2007 UBM businesses published more than 200 magazine by 17.4% to 53.4p 2006: 45.5p.
titles which generated 27.5% of revenues, compared with 36.3% In 2007 UBMs Total Shareholder Returns were at the median of revenues in 2006. performance among UBMs group of peer companies.
In the longer term three year time horizon, UBMs Total Shareholder Strategy Returns performance for the period 20052007 ranks fourth against its peer group.
We aim to develop UBM as a set of focused, profitable and growing professional B2B media and service businesses that 2008 and beyond Achieving superior Total Shareholder Returns connect communities of buyers and sellers across the best possible remains the key strategic priority for UBM and the Board mix of complementary media integrating online, events, print continues to use it as one of the key performance indicators and news distribution by helping them to do business and their to assess the successful implementation of UBMs strategy.
markets to operate effectively and efficiently.
This is how UBM aims to create long-term value for its shareholders.
Strategic priority 2: UBMs strategy to achieve profitable growth explicitly Ensuring a balanced media portfolio To position UBMs businesses recognises the macro changes taking place in the marketplace, to take advantage of shifting patterns of market growth, media especially those driven by the digital revolution.
In particular, consumption and advertising spend, a key strategic priority of the UBM seeks to take advantage of the fragmentation of broad last several years has been to rebalance UBMs aggregate media media markets into many smaller markets that address narrower, portfolio towards events, workflow and data products and towards more specialist communities of interest.
Each of the businesses online media.
The aim is to direct UBMs businesses towards we are building aims to stand at the heart of a specific, businessmarkets which offer higher growth potential, more visible revenue to-business, professional community of interest, offering a streams, more predictable profitability and which will prove portfolio of media products that serves the needs of that sustainable into the future as the digital revolution advances.
As well as acquiring assets and businesses to accelerate the Each UBM business aims to drive its profitability by owning a rebalancing of UBMs media portfolio towards growth markets, portfolio of complementary premium media products the must UBM constantly reviews its existing businesses to assess their attend event, the must read publication or must use website, strategic fit.
the must have information resource or workflow product within each community of buyers and sellers we serve.
We look for opportunities to integrate our products and services across these different media.
Premium media products connect more buyers and sellers than other products, giving buyers the greatest choice and sellers the best prices.
These media products command a premium for advertising space, information and analysis, and for making face-to-face introductions at events.
10 Before amortisation of intangible assets on acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates, net financing costs other than interest and deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
10 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Strategy and Performance continued 2007 achievements In 2007 UBM continued to rebalance its Strategic priority 3: media portfolio, principally through acquisitions and by launching Making acquisitions to drive profitable growth in a restructured new businesses, as well as through asset and business disposals.
media portfolio UBM has developed industry-leading experience and expertise in selecting and completing acquisitions efficiently Revenues 2007 2006 and effectively.
UBM is also highly practised in managing the News distribution 141.1m 129.9m process of financial and operational integration, post acquisition.
Events 242.1m 220.4m To make sure that acquisitions contribute to UBMs continued Online 45.3m 42.5m profitable growth, UBM maintains strict financial discipline in Data 152.6m 90.5m assessing potential acquisitions.
UBM targets an 8% post-tax Print 220.5m 275.6m return on capital for acquired businesses or assets in their first full year of ownership.
2007 saw the proportion of both revenue and profits generated UBM carefully monitors the progress of acquisitions in terms from non-print sources continue to expand over the prior year.
of their contribution to UBMs profitability, using pre-tax return News distribution continued its revenue growth relative to on acquisitions as a key performance indicator.
other media types, growing to 17.6%, thanks to another excellent 2007 achievements Acquisitions and disposals are a key means performance by PR Newswire both in terms of revenue growth by which UBM has accelerated the rebalancing its business and in margin improvement.
The business also made a number 11 portfolio.
In 2007 UBM invested 93.7m in 17 acquisitions of acquisitions during the year.
2006: 163.0m in 18 acquisitions and in 2006 disposed of Events also continued to generate a relatively larger share businesses and assets for a total of 60.2m.
of revenue, growing to 30.2% during 2007, driven by the launch All of the acquisitions made in 2007 were bolt-on acquisitions of new events by UBMs existing businesses and also by the intended to complement existing market positions and to acquisition of events during the year.
provide enhanced growth opportunities for existing UBM The proportion of revenues derived from data-based products businesses.
The acquisitions were principally of event, online, including online workflow products and print data products such news distribution and data businesses.
as directories, grew 41.7%, reflecting the acquisition of Commonwealth Business Media in 2006.
Acquisition summary table: The proportion of revenues attributable to advertising-based % Country of Acquiring m 11 Business shareholding Type Operation business invested magazines fell from 36.3% in 2006 to 27.5% in 2007 with Vintage 100 News USPR Newswire26.3m revenues from continuing print titles declining.
Filings LLC distribution 2008 and beyond In the course of the last three years UBM has Semi Conductor 100 Data Canada CMP 16.9m Insights Technology made significant progress on this strategic objective and, taken in Ithaca 100 Events UK CMPi 14.2m aggregate, the distribution of UBMs activities across media types Physicians is now more appropriately balanced.
UBMs strategic objective Practice LLC 100 Print US CMPMedica 9.0m remains to rebalance its aggregate business portfolio towards Quest Media 100 Events UK CMPi 4.9m product and services that enable UBM to accelerate its rate of Portelligent 100 Data US CMP 4.8m revenue growth and to improve the quality and predictability of its Technology HispaniMark 100 News US PR Newswire 4.2m earnings.
In 2008 and beyond UBM will seek to continue to generate distribution a greater proportion of its revenues and profits from events and Intermodal 100 Events Brazil CMPi 3.4m from intellectual property-based data products and services.
Notilog 100 News Brazil PR Newswire 2.9m distribution Guangzhou Beauty Fair 27.5 Events China CMP Asia 1.8m Decorex 100 Events UK CMPi 1.3m eXalt Solutions 25 Online US CMP 1.0m Technology Energy Solutions 100 Events UK CMPi 0.9m How Machines Work 100 Online US CMP 0.9m Technology RISI partial acquisition 2 Data US UBM 0.5m APP Guide 100 Data Australia CMPMedica 0.4m EU Consulting 100 Data Germany UBM 0.3m 11 Amount invested includes estimate of potential earnout, but excludes deal costs.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 UBM maintains strict financial discipline in targeting an 8% 2007 achievements In 2007, UBM invested in the development of post-tax return on capital for acquired businesses or assets in new products, particularly online and event products, across each their first full year of ownership.
We anticipate that all of the of its businesses.
The majority of UBMs investment is made in acquisitions made in 2007 will meet or surpass our target small scale development projects that progressively evolve and return rate.
extend existing products into new markets.
However notable or We are proud of UBMs record of generating value for illustrative organic product developments were: shareholders from acquisitions.
In 2007 pre-tax returns on the PR Newswires MultiVu business a provider of broadcast and 47 acquisitions made over the period 2005 to 2007 a key multimedia production and distribution services grew its performance indicator was 13.1% on a pro forma basis revenues in 2007 by over 20% after sustained small scale 2006: 11.3%.
In 2007 we evaluated more than 100 potential investment over a number of years.
MultiVu is well placed acquisitions, although ultimately we decided not to proceed in to take advantage of the growing use of multimedia news transaction processes that ultimately realised in excess of 1bn.
releases as well as the use of video online for a widening range 2008 and beyond During the latter part of 2007, UBM announced of purposes.
its updated approach to acquisitions for the next two years.
UBM CMP Asia extended its development of an integrated, will seek to invest 150m to 250m per year in 2008 and 2009 cross-media product portfolio with the launch of two new on acquisitions which help us advance our business strategy.
UBM portal websites in 2007 to complement the Furniture show, is committed to maintaining its strict acquisition criteria, including held in Shangahi www.
com and the fine the requirement to exceed an 8% post-tax return in the first full jewellery shows www.
CMPi first invested in launching its innovative RESI conferences Strategic priority 4: for the professional residential property community in 2006: Driving UBMs profitable growth UBM aims to drive profitable an investment that has been worthwhile with the 2007 growth by: event going from strength to strength, as delegate number beat expectations.
Investing in new product development within UBMs businesses.
CMP Technologys Heavy Reading is a research and consulting Investing in UBM businesses to refresh and extend their existing business focusing on the telecoms sector that has been product portfolios in order to: developed from Light Reading acquired in 2005.
In 2007, enter a new geographical market, for example by launching the business grew 21%.
a new edition of an event that has been successful elsewhere in a fast-growing economy: CMPMedica launched extensions to its SearchMedica online grow into complementary media, for example by search product, adding France and Spanish versions in 2007 leveraging a strong print position to develop a leading www.
complementary event: In 2006 Commonwealth invested in the development of create a product for an adjacent market, for example, Profiles, a product that leverages its PIERS US import and export by creating a website to target a specialist interest group information to provide detailed information about a specific within the broader audience of an existing event, online company and its holdings, as well as a snapshot of what the or print property: company imports and exports, complemented with current making acquisitions to take a leading position in markets Dunn & Bradstreet information.
In its first full year in the market offering growth opportunities.
Reflecting the strategic importance the Board attaches to UBMs investment in new product development has achieved generating profitable growth from internally developed new some remarkable successes, a number of which are noted above.
products, UBM monitors the revenues earned by organic product However the success rate for new products developed by UBMs launches as a key performance indicator of the success of organic businesses has not always met expectations.
Raising the hit rate growth initiatives.
for new products is a key challenge for the management of each of UBMs businesses.
12 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Strategy and Performance continued Establishing businesses in the fast-growing emerging economies is invest in products and services which provide better quality a key facet of driving profitable growth in the future.
Each of earnings with greater visibility and predictability, particularly UBMs businesses has been tasked with taking their leading brands in intellectual property-based data workflow businesses, rather to these territories.
Key geographical expansion initiatives during than those reliant on advertising-based business models.
2007 have included the following: Strategic priority 5: The largest investment in emerging markets by PR Newswire People and management UBM recognises that a key element in was in Latin America with the acquisition of Notilog.
During accelerating its profitable growth is its ability to attract, develop 2007 PR Newswire also established a presence in a number of and retain the most talented people for its businesses at all levels.
other new territories, including Dubai and Russia, as well as UBM is investing in the development of its company culture opening a new office in Mumbai, India in February 2008. to support the evolution of a more entrepreneurial and CMP Asia leads UBMs business development in the region, innovative company.
supporting other UBM businesses as they develop their activities 2007 Achievements We have again placed a high priority on and taking responsibility for the management of UBMs India leadership and management development.
In January 2008, CMP Asia launched its first event at the Business Leaders programme aims to develop high calibre new Venetian Macau-Resort-Hotel venue in Macau.
With more business leaders and provides a valuable tool in the succession than 6,000 visitors and more than 500 exhibitors the event was planning process.
The 2007 Programme brought together 21 CMP Asias largest launch event ever in terms of revenue.
senior executive delegates from across the globe.
These delegates With its acquisition of the Intermodal South America trade show participated in three modules spanning the year and also led and the launched of the Food Ingredients event, both in Brazil, business projects pursuing UBMs agenda of strategic innovation.
CMPi continued to seek business opportunities in emerging Senior executives sponsored the projects and were closely economies.
CMPi also launched its first show at the Abu Dhabi involved throughout the programme, which culminates in project National Exhibition Centre in December.
presentations at the annual UBM Leadership Conference in March 2008.
UBMs individual businesses also run their own leadership CMP Technologys Game Developer Conference is the largest and management development programmes to help identify, game industry event in North America.
After three years of develop and accelerate the careers of our talented people.
groundwork, the inaugural ChinaGDC was held in Beijing in UBM works to develop a positive culture which is meritocratic, 2007.
Working with a local partner the event was very well entrepreneurial and innovative, which values respect and integrity, received in the Chinese game development community.
and which is agile and responsive to changes in the marketplace CMP Technology also launched its first Indian event in 2007, and workplace.
Staff engagement surveys already in place in the Embedded Systems conference held in Bangalore.
many UBM businesses were extended across the whole of UBM.
Commonwealths revenues are earned predominantly in the Information from the surveys was used to produce action plans US and the UK and accordingly the businesss management is to ensure that our talent is actively engaged within each of the seeking opportunities in new geographical markets.
For example, at CMPi, feedback from colleagues led Commonwealth is partnering with CMP Information in to an enhanced performance review process being introduced.
developing the Intermodal Latin America tradeshow in Brazil.
At PR Newswire more structured interview and appraisal processes In September Commonwealth held its first annual Transpacific were introduced, using innovative online systems.
Maritime Conference in Shenzhen, China.
Changes to the organisation of UBMs businesses also took place during the year in order to ensure customer-centricity and UBM businesses have been successful in geo-cloning a number of agility.
Towards the end of 2006, PR Newswire announced that flagship products, notably events, with CMP Asia and CMPi being it had selected Cleveland, Ohio, and Albuquerque, New Mexico, most successful.
CMP Asias long experience of running events in as the locations for two new Operations and Customer Service mainland China has proved key to its continued growth.
UBMs overall experience of international expansion has been These centres are responsible for processing news releases for more mixed with other markets and geographies proving thousands of organisations.
The new facilities are part of a larger challenging to enter and achieve profitable growth.
initiative to deploy technology and organisational strategies that 2008 and beyond In 2008 UBM continues to seek to drive its enable PR Newswire to provide enhanced sales, editorial and profitable growth by: support services to its customers.
Finally, the appointment of Jennifer Duvalier to the post of invest in the development of its businesses by making bolt-on UBMs People and Culture Director in 2007 ensures that talent acquisitions that strengthen existing UBM businesses and their management and positive cultural development is given a strong market positions: priority and that the Board is actively involved with our work build its businesses in fast-growing emerging economies, in this area.
particularly by exporting UBMs successful media brands: Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 2008 and beyond Our strategic priority for 2008 is to develop Outlook and weave robust succession planning processes into the fabric Overall we have made a good start to the year.
UBMs events of business management practices.
We believe this will have a portfolio which is our largest profit contributor is showing positive impact on our ability to identify strategic capability shifts, strong momentum.
Revenue bookings for our top twenty shows, and to engage and retain our high potential executive talent.
which generated close to 100m in revenue in 2007, are running more than 10% ahead of 2007.
Our recent launches Web 2.0 Key performance indicators Expo, the Macau Jewellery and Watch Show and P-MEC India The Board and executives monitor the performance of UBMs are performing strongly.
businesses continuously using a wide range of financial and We continue to invest in acquisitions and in the organic non-financial indicators.
The key performance indicators by which development of our businesses to position them for continued the Board assesses progress against our strategic objectives are profitable growth, particularly in the fast-growing emerging listed below: economies.
2007 2006 The substantial restructuring and development of UBM 12 over the last three years has provided us with much greater Adjusted Earnings Per Share 53.4p 45.5p 12 predictability and visibility of revenues and profitability.
Adjusted diluted Earnings Per Share 52.3p 43.8p We monitor the progress of each of our businesses extremely 13 12 month Total Shareholder Return 2.0% 11.2% carefully and we have demonstrated our willingness and ability 14 Cumulative pre-tax return on acquisitions 13.1% 11.3% to take rapid and decisive action in response to changing 12 Adjusted earnings per share is before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions, circumstances or performance.
UBMs businesses are distributed exceptional items, deferred tax on intangible assets and net financing costs other than interest.
across more than 30 countries worldwide less than 15% of UBMs 13 Total shareholder return includes ordinary and special dividends plus movements in the share price.
profits are generated in the UK and are active in a wide range 14 UBM has adopted a financial target that acquisitions should achieve an 8% post-tax return.
of markets and sectors, each experiencing different economic This would equate to a pre-tax return of 10% at an assumed effective tax rate of 20%.
The return is calculated by dividing operating profit by the cost of acquisitions for the total of the three conditions.
We anticipate we will generate more than 80% of prior years.
Current year acquisitions are included on a pro forma basis to ensure the full year our 2008 profits from events, news distribution and intellectual is recognised.
property or data-based embedded workflow information products.
The table above shows the numerical measures used by the Board As announced in November 2007, we aim to invest 150m to assess and monitor business performance.
These measures to 250m per year in acquisitions in both 2008 and 2009. analyse performance against the strategic objective of creating So far in 2008 we have completed five acquisitions for a total of shareholder value and they also reflect the success of UBMs approximately 25m including estimated earnouts.
We remain acquisition strategy in financial terms.
committed to maintaining our financial discipline in making The Board does not consider that financial indicators are the acquisitions.
We have seen early indicators that sellers pricing most effective way of monitoring and assessing performance expectations are becoming better aligned with the realities of against the following strategic priorities: the current economic climate.
During 2007 we returned capital totalling 276m to ensuring the correct balance of products in UBMs portfolio, shareholders by means of a 200m special dividend and through both in terms of quality and visibility of profits, and the mix buying back 10.7m shares.
In November we announced that, between media: subject to trading conditions, we expect to return 200m-300m growth in new markets and technologies, and in high-growth to shareholders by the end of 2009.
Since that announcement geographical territories: we have returned 30.8m through the purchase of 4.6m shares.
We ended the year with net debt of 157.5m.
UBM is well placed to deliver another strong performance In addition to its regular process for project reviews, the Board for our shareholders in 2008. reviews acquisitions, disposals, new markets, new technologies and new territories on a project-by-project basis.
In the Boards view, such an approach is more appropriate than high-level financial measures and facilitates a more efficient and incisive decision-making process.
The Board and executives view UBMs people as key to the success of the business and have a strategic objective to recruit and retain leading talent.
The Board considers that there is no suitable key performance indicator to track progress against these objectives effectively, beyond our overall results.
