14 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review Market Overview Resources, Skills and Capabilities energy Outlook As a fast-growing organisation in a highly competitive global market, Growing populations and improving living standards across the recruiting and retaining the right mix of skills and capabilities remains a world continue to drive demand for reliable, affordable energy for priority for Venture.
We continue to be successful at attracting staff with the power and transportation.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation requisite skill sets who can contribute immediately, as well as developing and Development OECD predicts that world energy demand will hit our own expertise.
300 MMboe per day by 2030 2008: 200 MMboe per day, primarily driven by demand from the fast growing, emerging economies led by China.
A good reputation in the market is as essential as offering competitive packages to secure scarce skills such as those of reservoir engineers, Market Dynamics Oil geologists and geophysicists.
To date, Venture has been successful in Whilst demand for oil in developed economies has stabilised over recruiting employees with the key focus on both technical subsurface recent years stagnating in the US since 2006 the upward trend in and commercial skills.
Project engineering expertise is equally important, consumption in the Middle East and China has accelerated.
and our project managers have proved to be both innovative and focused in overcoming any obstacles to delivering to plan.
The frac A tight supply demand balance resulting in a small surplus oil supply boat case study on page 29 is a prime example of the drive and lateral has reduced global inventories, as production by countries who are not thinking within the organisation.
members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC declines and OPEC membership increases are too small to meet the gap.
Venture not only is a highly technical organisation, but also operates in As the gap between demand and non-OPEC supplies is predicted to a distinctive, enterprising environment.
We have a flat organisational widen, the market will become more dependent on OPEC oil.
structure allowing us to make timely decisions to enable our people to be able to work with a great deal of autonomy and take responsibility The UK is already a net importer of oil to satisfy the demands of its home at every level.
We have high expectations of our employees but give market and this is likely to rise in the future.
them the support they need to meet the challenges we set.
Our recently introduced leadership programme, for example, focuses on raising Coupled with concern about the vulnerability of supply, oil fundamentals standards of performance and developing better working relationships.
are likely to keep prices high in the medium term with little spare capacity, tight supply demand balance, strong economic growth and We have now reached the size where we can nurture our own talent a weak US dollar.
and have implemented a targeted graduate recruitment programme.
We focus on the leading universities with a reputation in geology, Market Dynamics Gas geophysics and reservoir engineering and will recruit at MSc level.
Following a period of volatility in the first half of 2007, gas prices increased As a smaller player, we are able to offer our graduate recruits much strongly in the second half of the year.
This upward price pressure has broader exposure and greater responsibility early in their working career.
continued into 2008, reflecting the link with global oil prices and the emergence of a global market for gas.
Managing external relationships with our long term suppliers and contractors is a core capability for Venture.
Building relationships based Traditionally, gas demand was satisfied by indigenous sources but on partnership and delivering results using both internal and external this is rapidly changing.
The UK market is now directly linked to the resources have proved a powerful combination over the last few years, pan-European gas market through major pipelines to mainland Europe.
and we continue to invest in strengthening this important attribute Most notably, Norway has the ability to switch supply from the UK to through training.
mainland Europe, exposing the UK to the impact of European prices.
In addition, the increasing importance of liquid natural gas LNG is contributing to the growth of a truly global gas market.
As LNG can be transported safely and economically over long distances, suppliers can divert resources to higher priced markets in Asia, for example, thereby reducing supply into European markets.
This causes a tightening of the supply demand balance and has a subsequent positive effect on European gas prices.
These factors will tend to drive up gas prices in the UK over the medium term as demand for natural gas to fuel power generation remains high due to its lower C02 emissions compared with other fuels.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Key Suppliers and Contracts Corporate Development Excellence in supply chain management remains a critical success factor Positioned for Future Opportunities as continued momentum in the oil and gas industry has resulted in The North Sea is a dynamic environment and in 2007 we ensured widespread shortages of materials, services and personnel.
This scarcity that Venture is well positioned to take advantage of a range of exciting of resources has contributed to rising development costs and increased opportunities.
We secured access to significant additional capital to pave uncertainty due to the pressure on availability of key equipment.
the way for continued investment in the current inventory whilst at the same time leaving scope for material future acquisitions.
Ventures core competence in this area is already delivering benefits.
Our project execution costs are below industry norms and long term Given the relative scarcity of sensibly priced assets with current supply agreements mean we have access to substantial resources.
production and attractive development potential, only a small portion These include drilling rigs and offshore construction related vehicles, of those new capital resources were deployed during this calendar with significant forward contracts signed at substantially below current year.
However, as in previous years, a number of important acquisitions market rates.
were completed and looking forward to the next two to three years, we anticipate a number of major North Sea asset transfers taking place.
Building a Successful Supply Chain Venture has a stable assembly of high performance contractors, and New assets our strong reputation in the market was reinforced in February 2007 Barbarossa when we achieved the Best Purchaser Profile as assessed by First Point Early in the year, we announced a farm-in to the Barbarossa gas discovery Assessment Ltd, who run the industry supply benchmarking scheme.
This 30 to 40 Bcf field is located close to the Channon exploration well that was successfully drilled in July 2007.
We have a well developed strategy focused on four key areas: Barbarossa is a good example of an opportunity that has been given new life through the UK Governments Promote licence initiative and Tactical flexibility and pace it is typical of the kind of small, relatively simple tie-back opportunities Ensuring we can adapt to changing circumstances quickly and that exist across the southern North Sea.
As it lies close to the Channon intelligently, supported by the ability to make swift decisions.
discovery we have the opportunity to realise economies of scale by Active contract and relationship management developing the two accumulations together.
Building a dedicated, well trained team of contract and relationship managers whose purpose is to create value from the supply chain.
Bligh, Carna, Marram and F3-Fa Becoming a great customer Business development activity started strongly in the 2008 financial year Attracting high performing contractors by being a high performance with acquisitions of additional interests in Bligh and Carna within our purchaser combining fair pricing with fair treatment.
existing licences and a farm-in to the Marram discovery in the East Irish Far-sightedness Sea, a new area for Ventures business development activity.
Running an integrated advance project planning approach that includes materials and services.
We increased our working interest in block 21 20d which contains the Bligh gas condensate discovery, through an acquisition from Shell EP Managing Key Relationships Offshore Ventures Limited.
With estimated reserves of around 30 MMboe Sound, long term relationships with three critical suppliers have enabled gross, Bligh will become a natural follow-on project once the current us to deliver highly complex projects on time and on budget, in tight Kittiwake oil fields reach the end of their productive life.
If successful, it market conditions where competition for resources has been high.
will extend the life of the platform by several years.
Long term contracts with Noble supported our drilling activities in 2007 The completion of a farm-in agreement with Ithaca Energy UK Limited and will provide us with the drilling rig days we require going forward increases our equity in the Carna exploration prospect from 40% to 60%.
Our four year relationship with Subsea 7 has already secured Carna was one of the near term opportunities identified in the WHAM preferential access to scarce diving vessels, remote operated vehicles and portfolio, with an estimated 85 to 200 Bcf of gross recoverable reserves.
We reached agreement with Hannu Exploration Limited, a wholly owned Sevan Marine has provided an essential element of our innovative subsidiary of MPX Limited, to purchase 60% of its equity in blocks 110 4 solution to exploit the potential of the Chestnut field.
During 2007, and 110 9b in the East Irish Sea through the drilling of a farm-in well.
it completed the construction of the Hummingbird floating storage and Farming into these blocks gives us access to the Marram gas discovery, production vessel which will enable us to develop the field efficiently.
which is estimated to contain gross recoverable reserves of 50 to 90 Bcf.
In March 2008, Venture acquired an estimated 58% operated interest in the F3-FA gas discovery for a royalty based consideration.
Base case gross recoverable reserves are estimated to be around 60 Bcf.
16 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review continued Participation in Licensing Rounds Our business development strategy aims to position Venture as one In February 2007, we were awarded two blocks in the 24th Licensing of those larger operators that has the requisite scale and momentum Round, one containing Stamford, a discovery close to our Greater to capture the significant remaining value from North Sea oil and gas Markham Area production hub, and the other containing the reserves.
With a strong balance sheet, good cash flow generation and Whinchat and Wagtail appraisal prospects in the Greater Kittiwake Area.
an appetite for significant acquisitions, we entered 2008 ideally placed These awards add to Ventures development inventory around existing to continue our progress towards this medium term objective.
producing fields, in line with the hub-focused element of our strategy.
As one of the more significant and growing North Sea operators, we Business Development and Strategy intend to participate in future licensing rounds in a more active way than Ventures strategy is designed around extending field life and maximising in previous years.
To this end, we have put in place two new strategic recovery of hydrocarbons, with a focus on targeting the vast array of alliances, with MPX Oil and Gas Limited and Volantis Exploration Limited.
stranded reserves that remain to be developed.
Our strategy consists These alliances will provide us with access to a range of new drilling of a number of distinct elements, each tailored to the particular offshore opportunities and subsurface expertise complementary to that already business opportunities found in the North Sea, the fiscally stable and possessed in-house.
well resourced basin we have chosen to operate in.
WHaM acquisition Since the Company was founded in 1997, we have consistently delivered In November 2007, we made the second corporate acquisition in against each element of a carefully chosen strategic mix: Ventures history, purchasing WHAM Energy plc, a small publicly listed, SNS focused exploration company with a portfolio of gas prospects close Multiple acquisitions.
to existing Venture owned infrastructure.
This portfolio is an exciting Tight geographic hub focus.
addition to Ventures southern North Sea inventory and plans are being High working interests and control.
made to drill the first two opportunities during 2008.
Infill drilling and satellite developments.
Kittiwake to Forties Oil Pipeline Scale efficiency low costs.
Our first major foray into infrastructure development came to fruition Modern offshore technology operating practices.
towards the end of November with the start-up of production through Innovative commercial structures.
the new Kittiwake oil pipeline.
This project is an interesting investment Lower risk exploration.
opportunity in its own right, as well as an enabler of future growth.
The tariff income generated will not only service the debt but is also It is important to note that not all elements have equal importance expected to deliver an attractive low-risk return to Venture shareholders during any one fiscal period.
However, they are all linked together and through the Companys 49.9% interest in North Sea Infrastructure collectively over the medium term they will combine to deliver a strong, Partners, the owner of the new pipeline.
independent North Sea business, that we believe will become one of the relatively small set of important companies that will take over the mantle Securing a Strong Platform for Growth from the majors in developing the remaining potential in the North Sea.
Perhaps the most significant development in Ventures corporate growth during 2007 was the strategic investment made by 3i Group plc As we look back on 2007 and contemplate the exciting future ahead it and ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC.
The additional capital provided is clear that with the scale of the strategic platform we have built, we by these investors through the convertible bond and the purchase are ideally placed to emphasise the acquisitions and exploration drilling of additional shares gives each a fully diluted 9.9% stake in Venture.
elements of our strategy in the short to medium term.
We believe that This major financial commitment underlines the shared belief that these we can keep operating costs at reasonable levels, despite current tight two energy sector specialist investors have in the medium term prospects market conditions for services, and that the significant cash flows from for the North Sea and, in particular, in Ventures unique positioning.
our high working interests will deliver a strong balance sheet that is able Each investor has known the Company and its senior management for to absorb the occasional negative drilling result or project delay.
Smaller, several years and both see Venture as the ideal platform through which to less well established companies may struggle to do the same.
invest in the future of the North Sea and capitalise on major opportunities.
We will continue to be highly selective in our approach to acquiring Building Scale and Momentum assets, collections of assets or competitor businesses and we will WHAM was a relatively small corporate acquisition, and we are continue to filter new exploration drilling prospects very carefully, continually evaluating similar opportunities where the combination of using our in-house technical resources.
However, with the momentum Ventures scale and access to drilling and development resources will and shareholder backing we have established, we are also confident complement the technical and subsurface work done by smaller but in our ability to take major accretive steps forward to becoming one of less well established companies.
the most important operators in the North Sea.
It is likely that over the next two years significant consolidation acquisition opportunities will be We believe that the eventual recovery of hydrocarbons from the found and that fresh opportunity sets will emanate from such activity.
North Sea will be maximised through a small group of well funded The Companys proven, value creation led strategy should be effective independent operators with sufficient scale to explore for, develop in monetising these opportunities, and this should provide Venture and produce oil and gas fields through all commodity price and shareholders with an extremely attractive and profitable future.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Strategy Strategic Objectives Managing our long term supplier relationships will remain a critical Venture has an exciting strategic vision focused around the following success factor and we have already secured the access to drilling rigs key goals: we need to deliver our exploration and development plans out to 2011 at lower than current market rates.
Double our value per share.
We will continue to invest 1015% of our capital expenditure budget Become one of the Big Six UKCS independent operators as the in exploration.
This will largely be in mature areas of reservoir and industry consolidates.
geologies where we have specific expertise, such as the Tertiary and Deliver 90-125 Mboepd net production by 2010 11.
Jurassic sandstones of the CNS and the Permian and Carboniferous Build 2P reserves of around 500 MMboe, supported by an equal sandstones of the SNS.
Produce We start from a position of strength.
We have a high quality asset base, Access to infrastructure is key to maximising value from development a strong balance sheet and an experienced team working in a market and exploration, so we will focus primarily around existing production where there remain many attractive opportunities for growth.
hubs, with infill drilling and satellite developments.
We will continue to identify potential new hubs, and continually upgrade the portfolio as Ventures strong competitive position has been built through the new projects mature.
application of a three stage business model and continuing to apply this will enable us to achieve our longer term strategic goals: As the portfolio of on stream assets keeps growing, increased diversity of production continues to fide-risk the business.
In addition, as we are predominantly located in the North Sea, our production is relatively high margin with low political risk.
acquire Develop Produce acquire We will retain a tight geographic focus on the North Sea, where we can target our expertise on the undeveloped stranded reserves in an estimated 400 unexploited fields.
In 2008 we will be actively participating in the 25th UK Licensing Round, aiming to increase significantly the size of our oil and gas portfolios through strategic alliances formed with MPX Oil and Gas Limited regarding CNS assets and with Volantis Exploration Limited regarding SNS assets.
Acquisitions will be used to accelerate growth to achieve our medium and long term strategic goals and ensure that Venture remains a consolidator as the majors continue to dispose of legacy assets.
With a strong track record of almost 50 deals since we were founded and with substantial funding in place, we will be able to move quickly to secure acquisitions that match our criteria.
Develop We are a low cost, efficient operator with a history of delivering market beating development costs through the 30 major development projects we have undertaken as operator since 2002.
Our development programme is now substantial and able to deliver the economies of scale and standardisation that can be achieved by managing multiple projects.
In order to continue to tackle the cost challenge, we must maintain our obsession with eliminating inefficiencies and our back-to-basics approach that focuses attention on essentials, as well as carefully introducing appropriate new technologies.
18 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review continued Oil and Gas Reserves The following table shows estimates of proven and probable reserves prepared by the Companys engineers in accordance with the UK Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Oil Industry Accounting Committee July 2001.
For total reserves, natural gas is converted to barrels of oil equivalent using a conversion factor of six thousand cubic feet of natural gas per barrel.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Reserve Movements Reserves Assessment and Reporting On the basis of UK SORP, Ventures total net proved and probable The Companys technical staff are highly skilled, with average industry reserves at the end of year 2007 were 203.0 MMboe, a reduction of experience of over 17 years.
The Company relies primarily on its 8.4% compared to the end of year 2006. internal technical expertise, augmented by third party engineers, to ensure objective estimates of the Companys reserves.
The Company Ventures net reserves additions and revisions during 2007 included mitigates the risks associated with reserve estimation by adhering to a 6.9 MMboe related to the discovery of economic gas reserves at Company wide reserves policy and procedure that outlines the process Channon, and to improved performance from the Birch oil field and the transparently from technical staff to senior management.
One of the Annabel and Saturn gas fields.
The major downward revision during main constituents of the procedure is that 100% of the Companys total 2007 was the re-categorisation of Pilot reserves from probable reserves reserves are reviewed annually.
to contingent resource as a consequence of the heavier than anticipated crude recovered in the appraisal well drilled in 2007.
Venture continues In addition to the reserves estimation carried out by the Companys to report its equity-accounted reserves holding in Ten Degrees North engineers, an independent engineer DeGoyler and MacNaughton Energy Limited Trinidad which this year accounts for 4.7 MMboe of conducts a report on the proved and probable reserves annually.
Venture has separately engaged RPS Energy 20052007 to provide In 2007 Venture reacquired 75% of its interest in the Ensign field from an independent third party review of the Companys procedures and NSGP as a consequence of the conversion of ArcLights NSGP interest methods for reserves estimation.
The purpose of the review was to verify into Venture ordinary shares.
that the reserves estimates prepared by the Companys technical staff are in accordance with the guidelines and definitions of the 2007 SPE WPC Ventures total resource base, including possible, contingent and AAPG SPEE Petroleum Resources Management System SPE PRMS using prospective reserves, amounts to 609.0 MMboe.
A variety of assets in various stages of development were evaluated, and RPS Energy confirmed that the procedures and methods utilised by the Companys technical staff were appropriate and met the SPE PRMS guidelines.
20 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review continued Review of Assets Our area of production and exploration focus is the North Sea, The anticipated drop in pressure that would signal blow-down of the where we have a strong underlying reservoir performance underpinning reservoir did not materialise during the year: this could indicate higher our four production hubs.
In terms of hydrocarbon split, our SNS gas volumes of oil in place, with the potential for infill drilling opportunities.
fields contributed in the region of 60% of total 2007 production, with the balance coming from our CNS oil fields.
Larch Larch Venture 100% continued to produce in line with expectations during the year, with better compression uptime on Brae A providing Central North Sea Oil gas lift support.
Water injection into the Z7 well has been managed in Our oil activities are focused in the CNS at two main producing hubs order to provide pressure support to the producer while maximising Trees and Greater Kittiwake Area GKA.
Our CNS assets contain recovery from the field.
107 MMboe 2P reserves and 337 MMboe total resources exposure.
Sycamore Trees At Sycamore Venture 100%, through continuous water injection into the Central Sycamore SW2 well during 2006, the reservoir pressure Location Production Mboepd recovered to a sufficient level to bring the SP2 production well back on stream.
Production from SP2 was intermittent as a result of lower than 6.7 expected water injection rates from Brae.
However, the well continues to produce in line with expectations.
Hub contribution Preliminary results of a major seismic reprocessing and interpretation to group production study on the entire Trees production hub suggest that there is a limited re-investment opportunity in Central Sycamore.
This led to the Company 16.2% taking a non-cash impairment charge in 2007 of 24.5 million against the value of our historic investment in Sycamore.
Trees production averaged 6,674 boepd in 2007 2006: 9,595, The South Sycamore production well SP4, drilled and completed in late which represents 16% of total group production.
2005, continued to produce on natural depletion throughout 2007 in line with forecast.
The possibility of drilling a further well into South The current producing fields, Birch, Larch and Central Sycamore, are tied Sycamore is under investigation.
back to the Marathon operated Brae A platform located to the north of the fields, and the South Sycamore field is tied back to the CNR operated ash Tiffany platform to the south of 16 12a.
Production is exported via the Following successful commercial negotiation with CNR, agreement was Forties Pipeline System.
reached to drill an exploration well into Ash Venture 100% from the Tiffany platform.
The well was spudded in December 2006, and reached In 2007 Venture drilled the Ash exploration well which was dry.
TD in the first quarter of 2007.
It encountered good quality sands, however, they were found to be water-bearing and the well was suspended Exploration activity at Trees in 2008 is focused on the technical work pending possible re-use as a sidetrack candidate into South Sycamore.
needed to fide-risk the potentially massive Cedar field and evaluate the commercial options.
Cedar Technical work commenced on the Cedar prospect which has a very A seismic reprocessing project commenced across the entire Trees large hydrocarbon potential unrisked recoverable resources of 88 MMboe.
area in support of identifying further drilling opportunities.
This work will be completed in 2008, utilising the new seismic data to fide-risk and better define the opportunity.
Birch The Birch field Venture 100% continued to produce under natural depletion from the Z3 production well, with some intermittent production from the cycled well Z5.
During 2007 no water injection support was provided to Birch in order to allow the reservoir pressure to drop below bubble point.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 A seismic reprocessing project commenced across the entire Trees area in support of identifying further drilling opportunities.
22 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review continued Review of Assets continued Greater Kittiwake area Gadwall Gadwall Venture 50% was shut-in for most of 2007 as pipeline Location Production Mboepd capacity was allocated to Mallard which continued to produce strongly.
Periods of production in 2007 have confirmed that Gadwall continues to 9.1 have a well potential of over 4,000 boepd at low water cut.
Subsurface work is in progress to evaluate further reserves potential to the north of the existing production well.
Hub contribution to group production Goosander Since production start-up Goosander Venture 50% has delivered rates above initial expectations.
In addition, there appears to be strong 22.1% pressure support from the underlying aquifer and this will enable GKA performed strongly during the year, although production was Venture to deplete the reservoir efficiently without the need to drill a adversely affected by poor uptime availability of the tanker loading and water injection well.
This means a potential capital expenditure saving export system, prior to a newly installed pipeline coming on stream in of around 29 million.
Reservoir studies are ongoing to assess the the fourth quarter to replace it.
benefit of an additional production well.
Production averaged 9,115 boepd 2006: 7,756 representing 22% of Group production.
Fields currently in production are Kittiwake, Mallard, Gadwall and Goosander which performed particularly strongly during the year ahead of expectations.
Production from the various fields is tied back to the Kittiwake platform which processes and then exports the crude oil.
Export for most of the year was via the Single Anchor Loading system into a shuttle tanker to transport the crude onshore.
Adverse weather conditions in the early part of the year, combined with some accidental third party damage to the tanker loading base, resulted in temporary loss of productive capacity until the successful installation of the new 33km export pipeline between the Kittiwake platform and the Forties Pipeline System.
The new pipeline provides a more robust, long term solution for GKA production.
It was brought on stream in November 2007 and is expected to substantially improve operational uptime and allow GKA field life to be extended.
With reservoirs performing ahead of expectations overall, this is a major step forward.
During the 24th Licensing Round, we were awarded block 21 17 with our GKA partner, Dana Petroleum E&P Limited.
This contains two discoveries: Whinchat and Wagtail.
Kittiwake The Kittiwake field Venture 50% continued to produce in line with expectations.
The principal value of Kittiwake is the manned platform, which is the central processing and export hub for all our GKA production.
Mallard Production from the Mallard field Venture 50% continues to exceed expectations.
Water flood from both the north and south of the horizontal production well has been managed to maximise the recovery through 2007.
Further simulation work is being undertaken to identify whether an additional production well in the northern area of the field would recover additional reserves.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 Grouse Christian Venture 50% was discovered in 1990 by 21 20b-4st2 and tested Grouse Venture 50% is an undeveloped discovery, east of the at 6,364 boepd from the Fulmar reservoir.
The discovery lies 5km east of Kittiwake platform.
An appraisal well was successfully drilled and tested Mallard and it is planned to develop the field as a single HPHT well tied back in 2007 at rates of over 10,000 boepd on a restricted choke.
The well to Mallard and onwards to the Kittiwake platform.
A field development plan was completed and the tree installed.
Pipeline and umbilical have will be submitted in 2008 with a well scheduled for 2009. been ordered and a pipe lay slot booked for third quarter of 2008 in order to tie the well back to the Goosander riser base.
First production Bligh Venture 30.5% is a gas condensate discovery found in 1993 by is scheduled for the first half of 2009, ahead of original plan.
the 21 20a-5 well which tested at rates of 15.4 MMscfpd and 2,750 boepd from Fulmar sands.
Venture is currently assessing development options Christian and Bligh for Bligh as a tie-back to Kittiwake.
The Christian and Bligh discoveries lie to the east of Mallard in blocks 21 20b and 21 20a respectively and these stranded reserves provide mid term development opportunities within Ventures portfolio.
24 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review continued Review of Assets continued Other CNS Location Chestnut Field As a result of field development activity on the Chestnut field Venture 69.9%, we anticipate first oil production in the third quarter of 2008.
Installation of the production and support facilities on the new Sevan 300 floating production unit, the Hummingbird, was completed in December 2007 in Rotterdam.
The Hummingbird was installed in the Chestnut field at the end of the year and offshore hook-up and commissioning work is ongoing.
Ongoing subsurface studies using new data on the Chestnut reservoir have identified the potential to drill an additional production well in the field.
This is expected to significantly increase recoverable reserves from the field and it is anticipated that this project will be sanctioned during the first half of 2008 leading to the well being drilled towards the end of 2008.
Other Central North Sea assets The appraisal oil well results in the Pilot field Venture 70.4% produced heavy oil with higher viscosity than anticipated and further work is now being done to determine the extent of the commercially recoverable oil.
Based on the well result, the probable reserves associated with Pilot have been moved to the contingent resources category and an impairment charge of 9.0 million against the carrying value of the asset has been taken.
An appraisal well was drilled in the Narwhal field, to the south of Pilot, and this proved to be dry.
The appraisal well drilled on the Millburn discovery encountered 12 feet of oil-bearing sandstone which is considered sub-economic and the appraisal well was also plugged and abandoned.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, drilling continued on the Selkirk appraisal well Venture 31.5% but was suspended due to well control problems.
However, economic volumes were found and the operator has started development planning.
A provisional field development plan was submitted for West Wick Venture 28.46% based on a tie-back to the Captain platform.
2008 activity will focus on negotiations with Captain owners once Venture assumes operatorship.
Evaluation and appraisal work in 2008 will focus on Acorn and Beechnut Venture c. 80% and Appleton Venture 100% and Halley Venture 40% fields, where we have established significant opportunities.
A decision on the requirement for an Acorn appraisal well will be made in the first half of 2008.
An ongoing joint study with Talisman on the Appleton Halley area will be concluded in 2008, with commitment to a Halley appraisal well likely to be the first phase of activity.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 The Hummingbird was installed in the Chestnut field at the end of the year and offshore hook-up and commissioning work is ongoing.
26 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review continued Review of Assets continued Southern North Sea Gas Mimas The production well in the Mimas field Venture 15% was drilled and Our gas activities are situated in the SNS area where we have 42 blocks.
completed by ConocoPhillips, the field operator, in June 2006.
The well At the end of 2007, we had two production hubs A Fields and GMA.
was tied back to the Saturn LOGGS pipeline and came on stream in Our SNS assets contain 91 MMboe 2P reserves and 272 MMboe total June 2007 with performance in line with expectations.
amanda agatha a Fields The Amanda discovery well Venture 100%, originally drilled in 2003, Location Production Mboepd was sidetracked in the first half of 2007 and tested at rates uneconomic on a stand-alone basis.
However, there is the potential for a joint development with the Agatha prospect Venture 100%, to the north of Amanda, which 20.4 is due to be drilled in 2009.
Reservoir studies are also in progress to explore options to increase well deliverability.
Hub contribution to group production ensign The Ensign field Venture 100% straddles SNS blocks 48 14 and 48 15a.
Discovered in 1986, the gas-in-place volumes represent one of 49.4% the largest proven undeveloped gas fields in the area.
The Noble Julie Robertson drilled and completed a vertical appraisal well on Ensign and Ventures A Fields production hub comprises six producing gas fields confirmed gas-in-place volumes of approximately 300 Bcf with rates of Audrey, Ann, Alison, Annabel, Saturn and Mimas, which together 12-15 MMscfpd achieved during the production test.
produced 20,367 boepd 2006: 25,972, and represented 49% of total Group production.
A Fields will continue to be a core hub for A second appraisal well was drilled in the fourth quarter of 2007 and was at least the next decade.
hydraulically fractured using the boat and equipment developed for the Chiswick field.
It was tested at stabilised rates of over 42 MMscfpd, at the Production performance in 2007 reflects a natural decline, although high end of expectations, with field development due to commence in production from Annabel and Saturn continued to exceed expectations.
2008 targeting first gas in late 2009. annabel adele Since the start of production in 2005, the Annabel field Venture 100% The Adele prospect Venture 100% is located in block 49 11a has consistently outperformed expectations.
We anticipate continued north east of the Audrey field.
Subsurface mapping is ongoing to strong performance without the need for further capital expenditure, define the size c. 30 Bcf unrisked and risk of the prospect better but an ongoing remapping exercise may identify additional drilling prior to the commencement of well planning.
The well is currently opportunities.
planned for late 2009 early 2010. audrey 48 15b Audreys two unmanned platforms support production from the Audrey The 48 15b block Venture 100% was awarded in the 22nd Licensing field Venture 100% and provide a tie-back route for Annabel, as well as Round and, following an extensive seismic reprocessing effort, Venture a control for the Ann and Alison fields.
A two year asset integrity project has committed to drill an exploration well on the block.
Prospect commenced in 2007 to secure facility life to 2020. mapping is currently being finalised with a view to drilling commencing in late 2008. ann alison The Ann and Alison fields Venture 100% continue to perform in line easington Catchment area with expectations.
Evaluation of a potential workover of the Ann A4 well Channon is ongoing with a decision due in 2008.
Venture operates two blocks in the SNS area 47 3h Venture 47.1% and 47 8c Venture 55.8%.
These blocks contain the Channon prospect Saturn and Ventures average equity holding is 54%.
An exploration well was The Saturn development Venture 22% is operated by ConocoPhillips successfully drilled and tested in the third quarter of 2007 flowing at and includes the Atlas, Hyperion and Rhea accumulations.
The Saturn a rate of 55 MMscfpd of gas, limited by the throughput of the test field is continuing to exceed expectations, and a remapping exercise is equipment.
Estimated recoverable reserves are 3040 Bcf net with underway to identify drilling opportunities.
initial production rates of 35 MMscfpd net to Venture which is at the top end of expectations.
It is planned to develop Channon jointly with Barbarossa which is currently being drilled.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Following on from our acquisition of WHAM, completed in November 2007, Venture now has access to a number of additional exciting exploration prospects in the SNS.
Barbarossa alcyone Venture has farmed-in to the SNS block 47 9c Venture 90% to drill an Alcyone is an exploration prospect in block 53 3d to the south east of appraisal well on the Barbarossa field, which was discovered in 1982 by Leman and is 100% owned by Venture.
It is a commitment well which is well 47 9b-4.
A single well development is planned which targets initial planned to be drilled in the second third quarter of 2009.
A provisional reserves in the range of 3035 Bcf gross 2932 Bcf net to Venture, but well location has been identified and well design will commence in the with significant potential upside.
The appraisal well is scheduled to be third quarter of 2008.
The development is provisionally planned to be drilled in early 2008 with the Noble Julie Robertson rig and if successful a single subsea tie-back to Leman.
would be developed jointly with Channon.
Blocks 48 3 and 48 4 east Irish Sea Blocks 48 3 and 48 4 have a number of interesting opportunities, Marram although the most promising are the Morpheus and Hypnos prospects Blocks 100 4 and 100 9b Venture 60% contain the Marram discovery to the north of the blocks.
Seismic reprocessing work interpretation is in the Morecambe Bay area of the East Irish Sea, where an appraisal ongoing across the acreage to identify a suitable well to bring forward.
well is planned during 2008 9 as part of a multi-operator campaign.
There is a contingent well commitment for 2008 on this non-operated The discovery lies within 25km of four potential off-take routes and on Venture 16% licence.
Likely development is a subsea tie-back to trend with both the producing Hamilton and Lennox fields.
and 100 9b also have exploration prospectivity and contain up to six additional Sherwood sandstone exploration leads.
Blocks 43 11 and 43 12 These 100% Venture owned blocks are located to the west of the uK SNS exploration acreage Esmond Forbes area and north of Carna.
The main prospect on this Following on from our acquisition of WHAM, completed in November 2007, Promote licence is a Carboniferous target to the south east of the blocks Venture now has access to a number of additional exciting exploration called Andromeda.
A 3D seismic survey is planned for 2008 to better prospects in the SNS.
The area covers 18 blocks and includes 14 define closure to the north east for Andromeda and the geometry of a prospects two ready to drill plus numerous leads.
number of leads on the block.
A contingent well is planned for 2009.
Key near term opportunities include: Schooner South east This 100% Venture owned prospect is a possible extension of the Carna Schooner field into the Venture operated block.
Subsurface studies are Carna blocks 43 21b and 43 22c is planned to spud in September 2008, ongoing in 2008 with a potential well proposal in late 2008 for a well in with Venture as operator, and is a commitment well.
Tie-back is likely to be to Schooner.
There is the potential for a joint completed a farm-in on a modest promote on this well to increase our development with the Topaz and Garnet fields.
total equity to 56% across the two blocks.
Following a successful well, the field is likely to be developed via an NUI with one or two wells to the nearby Garrow field and then via Trent into the ETS Venture 25%.
28 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business and Operational Review continued Review of Assets continued Greater Markham area currently produces.
It is planned to insert two velocity strings into Location Production Mboepd these wells in 2008 to improve long term performance, following the improvements seen with the new compression facilities at Markham.
4.5 J3c The J3c field Venture 4.025% unitised interest was discovered in 1995 by well J6-A5 drilled from the Markham J6A platform.
The field straddles Hub contribution to group production the boundary between J 3a and J 6 and is unitised, with 23% of reserves deemed to lie within the J 6 block.
Venture has 17.5% of the J 6 block and hence holds a 4.025% unitised interest.
It is anticipated that the field will 10.9% continue to produce until 2025 without further capital investment.
Situated on the median line between the UK and Dutch sectors of the Kew North Sea, GMA contributed 4,506 boepd during 2007 2006: 1,393, The Kew field Venture 100% is located east of Chiswick in UK waters, representing 11% of total Group production.
and the discovery well 49 5-4 drilled in 1988 proved the existence of gas in the Carboniferous sandstone.
The highlight of 2007 was the start-up of production from the Chiswick field at the end of September and a second key project was the The development of Kew requires a single horizontal well with multiple commissioning of the Markham Compression Tower, which resulted in hydraulic fractures that can be tied back to the Chiswick platform.
increased operational and production performance.
Well planning is under-way and we expect to drill Kew in 2008.
Markham Stamford The Markham gas field Venture 37.5% unitised interest straddles the Located in the UKCS 24th Licensing Round, block 49 10c, the Stamford UK and Dutch sectors of the SNS and has been producing since 1992. discovery Venture 100% is ideally situated for a short subsea tie-back The facilities have been developed over several years and comprise to the Markham platform.
Drilling is due to commence in 2008, with first the manned central processing and production platform located in gas targeted for winter 2008 9.
Dutch block J 6a, an unmanned satellite well and production platform ST-1 and the installation of the compression tower which collectively F3-Fa re-enforce Markham as a major transportation hub for the area.
The F3-FA Venture 58% is located 230km north of Den Helder and Markham field itself continues to perform in line with expectations.
is estimated to contain gross recoverable reserves of 60 Bcf.
The development plan envisages a subsea completion and tie-back Chiswick to nearby host infrastructure.
Located in UK block 49 4a, the Chiswick field Venture 100% has been developed via an unmanned platform tied back to Markham.
Battersea After drilling and completion of the first development well Chiswick The Battersea exploration prospect Venture 100% is located north Alpha early in 2007, it had to be suspended due to the unavailability of of Markham and is a Rotliegend feature with unrisked reserves of a suitable stimulation vessel.
Venture was able to develop an innovative approximately 35 Bcf.
Subsurface evaluation is ongoing and we expect solution, utilising a pumping spread mounted on the deck of a large to be in a position to drill an exploration well in early 2009. supply boat, and successfully performed a multiple fracture stimulation resulting in a well capable of delivering over 50 MMscfpd.
The well Wandsworth was brought into production in September via the unmanned satellite The Wandsworth exploration prospect Venture 100% is a platform tied back to Markham.
Carboniferous play, located east of the Chiswick field, and is estimated to contain unrisked reserves of over 100 Bcf.
The initial evaluation has The second Chiswick development well Chiswick Gamma has now been completed and well design and planning is under-way prior to also been drilled, completed and hydraulically fractured.
In the event of a successful well, the development unconstrained production capability of the well was 75 MMscfpd, would be as a tie-back to the Chiswick or Markham platforms.
materially in excess of pre-drill expectations.
The well has recently been tied into the producing infrastructure and is on stream.
Outlook In March 2008, Venture acquired the remaining 5% interest in block 49 4a The pace and momentum will continue into 2008, and we will be that it did not already own.
actively participating in the 25th UK Licensing Round with our strategic partners, MPX Oil and Gas Limited and Volantis Exploration Limited.
Windermere The Windermere gas field Venture 20% lies in block 49 9b, about With an unrisked resource potential of 609 MMboe, we have entered 7km west of Markham, and has been in production since 1997.
The field 2008 with a strong, well-balanced portfolio and significant near term was developed via an unmanned production platform tied back to the opportunities.
Markham ST-1 platform with two production wells, one of which Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Frac Boat Case Study With an aggressive timetable to meet to bring the Chiswick Alpha field on stream, when Venture found that the vessel it had planned to use had been withdrawn from the North Sea it had to come up with an alternative solution.
These vessels are essential to fracture certain reservoirs to aid the flow of hydrocarbons.
An innovative application of existing technology produced the solution.
Working in partnership with Schlumberger, the team converted a traditional offshore supply vessel to a well stimulation vessel in less than two months.
Equipment and personnel from all over the world had to be brought together as pumping equipment was installed onto the Siem Mariner, 2 one of the biggest supply vessels at around 900m of deck space.
Drive and determination made sure these logistical and technical challenges were overcome and the newly commissioned frac boat successfully completed its first operations at Chiswick Alpha, before going on to undertake fracture work at the equally successful Chiswick Gamma and the Ensign appraisal wells.
