Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 02 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW ABOUT OUR BUSINESS With nearly 30 years of experience, Victrex is a global manufacturer of innovative, high performance materials, including VICTREX PEEK polymer.
VICTREX PEEK is one of the highest quality thermoplastic materials in the world, offering a unique combination of properties to help processors and end users reach new levels of cost savings, performance and product differentiation.
HOW WE WORK OUR PRODUCT Victrex works with end users and processors in a variety of markets VICTREX PEEK has a unique combination of chemical, wear, electrical, such as electronics, industrial and transport.
hydrolysis and temperature resistance, as well as excellent dimensional, mechanical and chemical stability combined with inherent purity and Invibio is Victrexs biomaterials business, providing specialised solutions low flammability.
As part of the Groups commitment to ongoing product development, End users specify VICTREX PEEK to reduce systems costs, improve Victrex is focused on bringing customers new material solutions.
part performance, exploit greater design freedom and create a Victrex has a wide range of products in its portfolio from high flow differentiated application.
and high purity grades to films and coatings.
OUR BRANDS Victrex is the worlds leading Invibio is the provider of biocompatible APTIV film is produced from VICTREX VICOTE Coatings, based on VICTREX manufacturer of VICTREX PEEK.
PEEK based polymers to medical device PEEK polymer and provides all of the PEEK, offer exceptional scratch and Victrex works with end users and manufacturers.
Invibio offers an properties of VICTREX PEEK in a flexible wear resistance, high temperature processors in a variety of markets such unparalleled combination of research format.
APTIV film is the most versatile performance, strength and durability.
as aerospace, automotive, electronics, and technology, technical support, and high performing thermoplastic film Eco-friendly VICOTE Coatings was food processing, industrial, medical medical device market expertise and a available and has a proven track record developed to fill the performance and semiconductor.
network of industry resources to help of success in demanding applications in gap found in many existing coating clients develop the best possible a broad range of industries and markets.
solutions, and to bring those solutions to market quickly.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 03 OUR OPERATIONS The Groups headquarters are in the UK where its manufacturing facilities are based.
This is complemented by a global network of sales, distribution and technical centres that serve more than 30 countries worldwide.
Our team of dedicated market-development, sales and technical support professionals work with customers around the world offering assistance in new application development, product performance data and processing support.
World Headquarters & Global Technology Centre Technology Centre Sales Offices Distributors Subsidiaries PRODUCT PROPERTIES PERFORMANCE SALES BY MARKET Inherent purity Chemical structure is pure with extremely low levels of organics, inorganics and ionics Hydrolysis performance At elevated temperatures and pressures when 26% TRANSPORT continually conditioned in steam or water ELECTRONICS 26% High strength to weight ratio INDUSTRIAL 35% Stronger and lighter than many metals and MEDICAL 9% alloys and performs in tough environments OTHER 4% Electrical performance Over a wide frequency and temperature range whether conductive or non-conductive Wear resistance Over wide ranges of pressure, velocity, temperature SALES BY REGION and counterfacial roughness Chemical resistance To most chemicals, solvents and sterilisation processes in aggressive environments 19% Fire, smoke and toxicity performance ASIA-PACIFIC No flame retardant additives and generates 31% USA extremely low smoke and toxic gas emissions EUROPE 50% Temperature performance Retains a high degree of mechanical properties in extremely high and low temperatures based on sales volume for year ended 30 September 2007 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 04 MARKET SEGMENT INDUSTRIAL Engineers are facing increased demands for materials with high temperature performance and chemical resistance while avoiding costly production downtime due to component failure.
VICTREX PEEK is an excellent choice for industrial applications due to its exceptional combination of physical properties and processability.
Components designed with VICTREX PEEK can deliver superior long-term reliability in the harshest of environments that require high strength and wear resistance over a wide range of temperatures.
Industrial applications include cable insulation, seals, back up rings and down-hole sub-sea connectors.
INTENSIVE Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05 INNOVATIVE MARKET SEGMENT ELECTRONICS VICTREX PEEK provides electronic components with an exceptional combination of benefits including wear resistance, strength, dimensional stability and high temperature resistance.
This means greater part functionality, reliability and cost savings for designers.
Higher performance, portability, wireless high frequency, longer life and more stringent environmental concerns are shaping the way electronic parts are designed.
In semiconductor fabrication, migration towards larger wafer sizes and smaller chips with narrow line widths and feature sizes requires higher performance from wafer handling and processing materials.
High purity and chemical resistance help VICTREX PEEK meet these needs.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 06 MARKET SEGMENT TRANSPORT VICTREX PEEK delivers an excellent combination of properties that make it the material of choice in a wide range of transportation applications.
VICTREX PEEK polymers have successfully displaced metals, traditional composites and other plastics in a growing number of applications.
Increased performance requirements such as resistance to the extremes of temperature, weight and size reduction and demands for lower production costs continue to drive increased usage of VICTREX PEEK.
INSPIRED Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 INCISIVE MARKET SEGMENT INVIBIO Invibio is an innovative global leader providing high performance biomaterials, advanced technical research and proven market expertise across a wide range of medical device applications.
Our biomaterials solutions enable customers to deliver innovative medical devices that enhance patient quality of life.
Invibios proprietary biomaterials, including implantable PEEK-OPTIMA polymer and ENDOLIGN composite, and medical grade PEEK-CLASSIX polymer, combine outstanding performance and biocompatibility, making them the material of choice for leading medical device manufacturers.
