BUsinEss REViEW nature, strategy and prospects Financial performance Business division operating review Resources, risks and relationships Business Review OUR CHOSEN STRATEGY OF FOCUSING ON kEY SUPPORT SERVICES SECTORS, USING OUR SkILLS TO DELIVER COMPLEx PROJECTS AND RELATED SERVICES IS DEMONSTRATING SUCCESS FOR THE GROUP.
Paul lester ChiefExecutive the groups businesses The group is organised into five business units: VT Communications: VT Education and Skills: Provision of critical communications services in the Provision of supporting services to schools, Local broadcast, defence, space, emergency services and Education Authorities and Central Government, security sectors worldwide.
including careers guidance and provision of vocational work based training.
VT Services Inc. : VT Support Services: Provision of base operations, facilities management Provision of technical services, logistics and training activities and IT and communications installation for commercial customers, all three Armed Services and integration services, primarily for the US in the UK and around the world.
include facilities management, operation and maintenance of assets, provision of specialist manpower and supply chain management.
VT Shipbuilding: Design and construction of advanced naval vessels for the Royal Navy and navies worldwide, including the design and manufacture of high quality smaller craft and equipment for the marine market.
Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 From left to right Simon Withey, Paul Lester, Chris Cundy, Doug Umbers, Jo Robbins, ken Smith, John Davies, Matthew Jowett strategy and prospects Harmonisation SAR H programme.
We are also keen Through solid growth and a focused acquisition policy, to transfer our critical asset availability and management we have grown our support services businesses model, for example the support we provide to British significantly.
Revenues have increased substantially and Airways and the Metropolitan Police, to other major the acquisitions made within the last year of the former customers in the Uk and overseas.
Lex businesses and Milcom Systems Corporation In VT Communications, following our success with provide a good strategic fit with our defence support Deutsche Welle, we expect to continue to take a lead services and strengthen our relationships with the in the development of the niche global short wave Ministry of Defence MoD and Department of Defense broadcasting market.
The investment we have made in DoD respectively.
Both acquisitions add further our new Media Management Centre, and our anticipated capabilities to offer existing customers and broaden involvement with digital infrastructure ensure we are well our customer base for future opportunities.
placed to keep pace with the changing demands of Our focus going forward is to secure the major defence customers.
VT Communications is providing information, projects for which we are Preferred Bidder, strengthen communications and technology services to the VT our position as a leading Uk defence support services consortia for both FSTA and Uk MFTS and there remains company, expand our involvement with other Uk a good pipeline of smaller systems engineering projects.
Government agencies and continue to develop our VT Education and Skills is well placed to capitalise on the US services business.
success achieved on BSF and will continue to consider We are pursuing major opportunities within each further opportunities within this programme.
We are also business, building on our substantial and developing analysing opportunities in the Further Education sector capability portfolio.
Within VT Support Services we and we aim to expand our school support capability, expect to achieve financial close on both the FSTA and developed within VT Four S, to areas outside Surrey.
Uk MFTS programmes in the second half of 2007, in addition to the contract to deliver maintenance support to Search and Rescue Sea kings.
This positions us well for the longer-term opportunity of the Search and Rescue BUsinEss REViEW nature, strategy and prospects continued Financial performance Business division operating review Resources, risks and relationships VT Services Inc. has a substantial pipeline of businesses, including Fleet Support Limited FSL.
Specific targets include The proposed consolidation is in line with the Defence large programmes in base operations, facilities operation Industrial Strategy and would create a world-class and management, vehicle equipment maintenance and provider and strategic partner for the Uk Government.
The primary customer base is NASA, US Navy, The transaction as a whole remains subject to final US Army and US Air Force and the targets include US agreement between the parties and the MoD and to VT domestic and overseas operating locations.
VT Milcom is shareholder approval.
Further details will be provided in pursuing large opportunities in the engineering services due course.
sector, including further extension of the Space and The planned JV would give improved stability and Naval Warfare Command SPAWAR systems contract.
visibility of workload in the Naval sector and allow greater This involves installing and servicing Command, Control, management focus on our developing support services Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Surveillance businesses.
Much progress has been made on this and Reconnaissance C4ISR systems on US Navy consolidation but the transaction can only be concluded ships, submarines and shore-based systems.
following the full go-ahead of the Aircraft Carrier We have made initial progress in the waste management CVF project.
market, a new area to which VTs capabilities are ideally suited.
During the year we were shortlisted for a requirement to build, operate and maintain a facility for Wakefield District Council.
We are also considering a number of other opportunities.
VT Shipbuilding has won two major export orders this year as well as continuing work on the Type 45 destroyers for the Royal Navy.
The business remains solid with good visibility of the order book.
Further medium-term prospects include follow-on ships for the Hellenic Navy and vessels for Libya, kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
We announced in December 2006 that we had entered into discussions with BAE Systems to combine our respective surface shipbuilding and naval support Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 HMS Clyde the first ship to be built in Portsmouth in nearly 40 years.
In the background, the bow section of HMS Dauntless is being prepared for its journey to BAE Systems, Glasgow.
