bUSiNESS rEviEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH WH Smith PLC, one of the UKs leading retail groups, is made up of two core businesses High Street and Travel.
High Street sells a wide range of Newspapers, Magazines, Stationery, Books and Entertainment products and Travel sells a tailored selection of Newspapers, Magazines, Books and Confectionery for people on the move.
WHSmiths outlets are frequently first choice for people on the high street and we are a trusted convenience retailer for customers at travel locations.
We have an extensive store portfolio operating from 544 High Street stores and 309 Travel units, with market-leading positions in Books, Magazines and Stationery.
Overall, WHSmith employs approximately 16,000 staff across the UK.
WHSmith also reaches customers via WHSmith Direct www.
co. uk serving customers on the internet 24 hours a day.
WH Smith PLC is listed on the London Stock Exchange SMWH and is part of the FTSE 250 Index.
More information about the business is available at www.
WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs most popular WH SmiTH PLC: COrPOraTE ObjECTivES WHSmith intends to build on its position as the UKs stationer, bookseller and newsagent most popular stationer, bookseller and newsagent by continuing to execute its High Street recovery plan by continuing to execute its High and grow its strongly performing Travel business.
Street recovery plan and grow its 1 We aim to improve the Companys profitability and cash flow generation, delivering sustainable returns strongly performing Travel business.
and increasing dividends to shareholders.
We believe that a concentration on these factors will be reflected kaTE SWaNN, grOUP CHiEf ExECUTivE in a total shareholder return that compares well with our peer group of equivalent listed companies.
We invest where we believe we will achieve a return on investment above our cost of capital.
While external economic and other factors might affect us in the short term, the markets we are focused on are growth sectors, which we believe will deliver sustainable returns.
In July 2004 we announced plans to improve the performance of our High Street business.
The High Street recovery plan concentrates on rebuilding authority in core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
High Street is now three years into the plan and we have made significant progress: in the year to 31 August 1 2006 trading profits grew by 14 per cent to 42m, having risen by 164 per cent the previous year to 37m, from 1 14m in the year to 31 August 2004.
This year profits increased further, by 5 per cent to 44m.
Travel is focused on delivering value to shareholders through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts and trialling new formats.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The division has been performing strongly, with trading In the year to 31 August 2007, High Street had revenues 1 1 profits growing by approximately 100 per cent since of 961m and trading profit of 44m.
In the year to 31 August 2006, Travel had revenues 1 1 of 319m and trading profit of 31m.
This year profits markets in which we operate rose by 16 per cent to 36m.
The British Retail Consortium BRC categorises our operations High Street and Travel in its Other Non-Food We aim to act responsibly towards all our stakeholders, sector.
While this list is not exhaustive, Other Non-Food including customers, suppliers, business partners, includes products such as books, newspapers and employees and the communities in which we operate.
magazines, stationery, PC consumables, entertainment Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is available products, toys and games, DIY, gardening supplies, at www.
com cr, with a summary of our electrical appliances and sports and leisure equipment.
approach on page 20 of this report.
growth drivers High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth in consumer spending, growth in the non-food, We aim to improve the Companys non-clothing sector and High Streets ability to take share in its product markets.
profitability and cash flow The management team believes that, following the generation, delivering sustainable current slowdown in consumer spending in our markets, we should see a return to more normal levels of growth returns and increasing dividends over the longer term.
Competitive position High Streets competition comes primarily from other high street specialists, supermarkets and internet retailers.
Online retailers offer customers access to WHSmiTH HigH STrEET our product categories conveniently via their computers, Nature of business while supermarkets give customers access to our product High Street operates 544 stores.
It is present in 85 per categories as they carry out their regular food shopping.
cent of the top 500 UK retailing locations and 95 per cent of its stores are in prime locations with high customer The growth of either retail format may take market share traffic.
With a presence on nearly every significant high away from High Street and have a negative effect on the street in the UK, the High Street store portfolio has sales and profit generated by our High Street stores.
extensive reach across the UK.
At 31 August 2007, High Street operated from a total of 3m square feet of selling Competitive strengths space, with stores ranging in size from 777 square feet High Street has significant competitive strengths.
The to more than 23,000 square feet.
Board believes it is well placed to deliver strong cash generation and long-term earnings growth to create High Street sells a wide range of products, which shareholder value through its: are divided into four categories: News and Impulse including newspapers, magazines, confectionery and Widely respected and recognised brand other impulse products, Stationery including greetings Prime sites in key UK high street retail locations cards, Books and Entertainment including music, video and multimedia games.
High Streets trading High customer footfall is relatively seasonal with peaks at Christmas, Easter Market-leading positions in its target categories, and in September for the Back to School range.
allowing it to operate with scale The online retail business is operated by High Street Purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value for and sells a range of Books, Magazines, Stationery, Gifts the customer and Entertainment products through its website at www.
The online business has access Experienced senior management team to two million book titles and is the UKs second largest Integrated multi-channel offering, allowing customers online book retailer with an average of approximately to shop in-store or online as well as having products 150,000 visits to the site per week.
delivered to home or store 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 5 bUSiNESS rEviEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH High Street: objectives and strategy WHSmith announced its plans for improving the performance of High Street in July 2004.
The plan centres on three areas: rebuilding authority in core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and retail basics.
1 Rebuilding authority in core categories Key changes include: Re-engineering ranges to concentrate on more profitable categories.
This has contributed to a reduction in sales, but has had a beneficial effect on overall margins Introducing more price points, new ranges, improved pricing and improved promotions across all categories Increasing choice and availability through higher density fixtures and changes to the supply chain Rebalancing space towards higher growth and more profitable product categories 2 Optimising margins For the full year we delivered Margin optimisation measures include: savings of 10m, from areas of A positive shift in product mix by switching sales from low-margin categories such as Entertainment to higher the business including logistics, margin categories such as Stationery and Books An improved promotions and buying strategy information systems and stores.
A lower cost of goods sold, through improving supplier terms and improved sourcing A focus on reducing shrinkage A reduction of the overall stock held and more effective management of stock markdowns 3 Controlling costs and retail basics Cost control measures include: Increased productivity across the business Improved flexibility of staff hours Rationalisation of logistics through increased efficiency in distribution centres and reduced returns Outsourcing and contract renegotiation in IT services to improve efficiency Better not-for-resale purchasing High Street: risks and uncertainties WHSmiths management team has identified the following factors as major potential risks to the successful performance of the business.
Some, such as IT failures require specific, identified actions to mitigate their effect.
Others, such as the impact of competition, are areas addressed through strategic planning and operational management processes.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6 1 Competition in the retail industry newsagent.
We are pleased to report that we are making 1 High Street operates in highly competitive markets and good progress.
Profits for High Street are up 5 per cent its failure to compete effectively may lower revenues year on year, delivered through maintaining focus on obtained through our stores.
rebuilding authority in our core categories, tightly controlling costs, optimising margins and delivering 2 Poor economic conditions or slowdown the retailing basics.
As a UK retailer, High Street is sensitive to the Sales for the year were down 6 per cent, but gross economic climate and can be affected by the general margins improved by around 280 basis points, both condition of the UK retail and travel markets.
An developments reflecting our strategy to rebalance outbreak of a pandemic disease such as avian flu, the mix of our business to concentrate on our core an act of terrorism or war could reduce the number categories of Stationery, Books and News and Impulse, of customers visiting WHSmith outlets, causing a decline and to reduce our reliance on Entertainment.
Cost control remains a core element of our plan.
3 Inability to predict accurately or fulfil customer In October 2006, we set a target of cutting cost by preference or demand 22m over three years.
For the full year we delivered The retail industry is subject to changing customer savings of 10m, from areas of the business including tastes.
High Streets performance is dependent upon logistics, information systems and stores.
We have effectively predicting and quickly responding to changing identified further savings of 11m to be made over consumer demands.
It must also translate market the next three years.
4 Seasonal fluctuations in sales High Street is exposed to seasonal demand for certain More efficient use of certain core categories.
Christmas and the Back to School period are critical trading periods and therefore may commodities, such as carrier be affected by depressed consumer footfall or spending, hitting sales and profit.
bags and energy, helped cut costs, while also helping to meet our 5 Failure or interruption in product supply High Street has agreements with key suppliers in the environmental objectives.
UK, Europe and the Far East.
The interruption or loss of supply of core category products from these suppliers to our stores may affect our ability to trade.
Some of these savings came from our ongoing 6 Failure or interruption of information programme to increase efficiency in key business technology systems functions, notably in information systems through In common with most retail businesses, High Street further outsourcing and renegotiation of contracts, and relies on a number of important IT systems.
Any system in distribution, through better efficiency and reduced performance problems could seriously affect our ability returns.
In stores, we have made further progress with to trade.
our staff flexibility programme, allowing us to flex labour with sales.
Our goods not-for-resale purchasing also 7 Lack of new store growth opportunities improved.
The review and renegotiation of contracts High Streets stores are already present in most of the enabled us to achieve savings in facilities management major high street locations across the UK.
Our ability to and cleaning.
More efficient use of certain commodities, grow through expansion of this portfolio may be limited.
such as carrier bags and energy, helped reduce costs, while also helping to meet our environmental objectives.
8 Reliance on the WHSmith brand The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure Margins rose significantly, largely due to the strategy to protect it, an event that materially damaged its mentioned above: to change the mix of products we reputation and or the failure to sustain its appeal to sell by reducing the amount of space dedicated to customers, could have an adverse impact on revenues.
low-margin products such as Entertainment, and rebalancing the mix of the business to focus on higher High Street: operational review 2006 0 margin categories such as Books and Stationery.
We The High Street business continues to focus on the expect further mix changes to be a key driver of overall implementation of our plan to rebuild our position profit growth in the years to come, without relying on as Britains most popular stationer, bookseller and top-line sales growth in the short or medium term.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC bUSiNESS rEviEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH The remaining improvement in gross margin came from went into stores for Christmas 2006, with positive results.
better management of promotions, markdowns and Further reviews carried out during the year in categories buying, and improved sourcing.
such as pens and PC consumables are also delivering improved performance.
This year also saw the completion Our Christmas promotional strategy sought to improve of a new category management system for magazines gross margins while remaining price competitive.
In which has allowed us to introduce magazine ranges Books, for example, we controlled margin well in the run tailored to the profile of the customers in a specific area, up to Christmas, balancing some very competitive offers for example, allowing us to offer a greater range of such as half price on all top 20 hardbacks with less yachting titles in an area like Southampton or more aggressive activity elsewhere.
We achieved excellent business titles in the City of London.
market shares in favourite Christmas titles such as Peter Kays The Sound of Laughter, demonstrating the success Operational improvements remain a priority.
In Books, of our initiatives and their relevance to our customers.
investment in IT systems enabled us to manage the returns process more efficiently, both for our standard range of titles and for promotional stock.
Our excellence programmes in Books and Stationery ensure the right In High Street, we continued to promotions are in place and key products and titles are available.
On-shelf availability checks for Stationery focus on rebuilding authority in our are now carried out for the top 600 lines.
Together, these initiatives have contributed to good mystery core categories, optimising margins, shopper scores.
keeping a tight control of costs and As part of our work to make better use of the space within our stores and improve our customer offer, we delivering the retail basics.
trialled the introduction of Post Offices into six High Street stores: at Altrincham, Ashton-under-Lyne, Hammersmith, Shrewsbury, Slough and Swansea.
The integration was complex but we managed to limit We lowered our cost of goods sold by improving buying disruption to the stores.
We also maintained our rigorous focus on product shrinkage and markdown Customers quickly saw the benefits of the move, management.
In Stationery, for example, a successful welcoming the pleasant new Post Office environment, markdown strategy for Christmas cards meant we wrote good levels of customer service, convenient locations off very little stock in January, leading to reduced like and additional services such as extended opening hours.
for like sales in January, but materially more profit.
Following the success of these pilots, we announced an We continued with our strategy to rebuild our authority agreement with Post Office Limited to open Post Offices as a popular book specialist and to compete more in a further 71 High Street stores.
The agreement effectively with other high street specialists.
We made secures the future of main Post Office services in these further progress in building our market share versus towns and means local people retain access to the full the general high street, continuing a track record of range of more than 170 Post Office services from a improving market share performance over the last two convenient and easily accessible location in the heart years.
We are particularly pleased to have maintained of their town.
this performance in the second half of the year in the There is a natural fit between these two well-known face of what were, as we had expected, very competitive and valued high street brands, with their complementary offers on Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Despite products and services providing an exciting opportunity the activity of our competitors, we achieved strong, to enhance the customer offering for both WHSmith profitable sales on Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
Moreover, the partnership Work to improve ranges continues to deliver encouraging supports our strategy to change the mix in our stores results across our core categories.
For example, we and make better use of our space.
successfully trialled key author bays for Kids books, By Autumn 2008 we anticipate most of the 71 Post Office helping to promote authors such as Jacqueline Wilson.
branches will have relocated to the local WHSmith store, The new displays were well received and are being rolled on average less than 250 metres from the site of the out to all stores.
In Stationery, we are using a programme original Post Office.
Twenty-three Post Offices are of category reviews to improve our ranges.
We began this already open in WHSmith stores and early customer time last year with Christmas seasonal ranges, which feedback is encouraging.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 8 High Street: financial review 2006 0 WHSmiTH TravEL Nature of business The Travel business trades under the same brand as Growth LFL Sales the High Street stores and operates 309 units in airports, m 2007 2006 % Growth % railway stations and motorway service areas across the Revenue 961 1,021 6% 6% UK.
Travels stores sell a more tailored range of products Profit from than High Street stores, to cater for people on the move.
1 trading operations 44 42 5% Travels typical customer has less time to browse than the High Street customer and is more interested in 1 Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central reading materials for a journey and quick purchases costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
of food, drink and confectionery.
Consequently, there is a limited demand for entertainment and stationery High Street sales were down 6 per cent and on a like products, and the stock and format of each Travel store for like basis, down 6 per cent, reflecting our strategy reflects this.
1 to rebalance the mix of our business.
Profits increased Due to their location and convenience nature, by 5 per cent to 44m 2006: 42m, in line with Travel stores are, on average, significantly smaller expectations.
Markets were as challenging as we than those in the High Street portfolio.
At 31 August anticipated in the first half of the year, but we benefited 2007, Travel operated from a total of 0.2m square in the second half from the publication of Harry Potter feet of selling space, with stores ranging in size from and the Deathly Hallows, the poor Summer weather and 90 square feet to more than 6,000 square feet.
Of the the absence of a major sporting event such as the 2006 309 Travel units, 85 are in London and regional airports, World Cup.
We continued to focus on rebuilding authority 33 are in London railway stations including eight in our core categories, optimising margins, keeping a Underground stations, 79 are in provincial railway tight control of costs and delivering the retail basics.
stations and 87 are in motorway service areas.
We Gross margin improved by around 280 basis points, driven also operate one non-UK Travel store, in Paris, and by rebalancing the mix of our business, low-cost sourcing, 24 units in locations such as hospitals, bus stations better buying and improved markdown management.
Like for like sales of Books were up 1 per cent, thanks Travel has a separate operating structure and to our efforts to rebuild our authority as a popular book management team from High Street, reflecting the specialist and maximise profitability.
Gross margin was distinct operational and strategic challenges of the down including Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows two businesses.
Travel stores are in higher footfall and up excluding Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.
locations than High Street stores, resulting in higher Stationery like for like sales fell 3 per cent, reflecting average rents.
They are less affected by the Christmas a stationery market that has been soft throughout the trading period, although increased passenger traffic year.
Gross margin was up, driven by intra-category mix, during the Summer holiday season, particularly in improved sourcing and better markdown management.
airports, contributes to a Summer peak in sales.
We continue to improve our ranges in this broad and diverse category through a programme of range reviews.
News and Impulse saw an improvement in gross margin Travel has significant competitive in the year.
The magazine market was challenging but our share in News and Magazines remained stable, supported strengths.
The Board believes it is by successful promotions with major newspapers.
In Entertainment, we continued with our strategy to reduce well placed to deliver strong cash steadily our reliance on this category and as we do this, we are optimising profitability.
Like for like Entertainment generation and long-term earnings sales declined 32 per cent in an extremely competitive market with continuing price deflation.
growth to create shareholder value.
High Street delivered 10m of cost savings during the period, 3m ahead of our target.
Cost savings came from a number of areas, such as better purchasing of goods markets in which Travel operates not-for-resale and a continued efficiency programme in IT.
Travel operates in airports, railways and motorway The High Street business now operates from 544 stores, service areas in the UK, selling a range of Newspapers, occupying 3m square feet 2006: 3m square feet.
We Magazines, Books, Food, Drink and Confectionery opened four new stores and closed three.
products for customers on the move.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 9 bUSiNESS rEviEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH growth drivers The Travel business offers opportunities for expansion in each of its three channels, and continues to win new contracts in airports and railway stations.
Long-term forecasts predict that airport passenger numbers will keep rising and so we expect to see further opportunities to grow our sales.
Following rapid progress to establish a presence in the motorway service area market, Travel plans to open further units with other motorway service area operators during the coming year.
The business is also developing other Travel store formats such as Stationery-only outlets and specialist Book stores.
Competitive position Travel operates stores in high footfall locations that are highly dependent on commuter and travelling customer Travel remains focused on traffic.
A trend of increasing passenger numbers in railway stations and airports has led to increased footfall increasing average transaction in Travel stores, contributing positively to financial results.
value, making improvements to That said, geopolitical events, war and acts of terrorism, such as the London bombings on 7 July 2005 have, from trading efficiency, securing new time to time, contributed to a reduction in commuter and travelling customer traffic and a heightened apprehension contracts and trialling new formats.
Closure of routes, both planned and unplanned, can also affect operating results.
Travel faces competition in its product categories primarily from other convenience retailers in rail and from category-specific stores in airports.
The growth of either retail format may take market share from Travel and have a negative impact on sales and profit.
Competitive strengths Travel has significant competitive strengths.
The Board believes it is well placed to deliver strong cash generation and long-term earnings growth to create shareholder value through its: Widely recognised and respected brand Prime locations within railway stations, airports and motorway service areas High levels of customer footfall Market-leading positions in its categories, allowing it to operate with scale Purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value for the customer Experienced senior management team Strong relationships with landlords at travel locations Wide reach across the travel retail sector Travel: objectives and strategy Travel remains focused on increasing average transaction value, making improvements to trading efficiency, securing new contracts and trialling new formats.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 0 Increasing average transaction value agreements contain change of control clauses, giving Average transaction value increased through: various rights to the grantor of the concession, such as termination of the contract, in the event of a successful Improved product ranges in higher margin categories takeover bid for WHSmith.
such as Confectionery, Snacking and Stationery Increased promotional activity and improvements 4 Poor economic conditions or slowdown in product mix As a UK retailer, Travel is sensitive to the economic climate and can be affected by the general condition More efficient use of space, due to improved queuing of the UK retail and travel markets.
An outbreak of a systems and increased fixture densities.
pandemic disease such as avian flu, an act of terrorism or war could reduce the number of customers visiting Making improvements to trading efficiency WHSmith outlets, causing a decline in revenue and profit.
Measures include the introduction of: Sales-based replenishment 5 Competition in the retail industry Travel operates in highly competitive markets and its Extended opening hours and increased flexibility failure to compete effectively, with convenience and of staff hours category-specific retailers, may affect revenues obtained Improved buying and supplier terms through our stores.
Securing new contracts and trialling new formats 6 Failure or interruption of information Initiatives include: technology systems In common with most retail businesses, Travel relies on a Negotiations for new contracts in both airports number of important IT systems.
Any system performance and railway stations problems could seriously affect our ability to trade.
Growth of specialist Stationery and Book stores in airports and railway stations 7 Reliance on the WHSmith brand The WHSmith brand is an important asset.
Failure Further development of opportunities in the to protect it, an event that materially damaged its motorway service area market reputation and or the failure to sustain its appeal to customers, could have an adverse effect on revenues.
Travel: risks and uncertainties WHSmiths management team has identified the following factors as major potential risks to the successful performance of the business.
Some, such In 2007, Travel delivered another as IT failures, require specific, identified actions to mitigate their effect.
Others, such as the impact of strong performance.
Profit was up competition, are addressed through strategic planning and operational management processes.
16 per cent and like for like sales increased 2 per cent.
1 Disruptions in travel Travel operates in high footfall locations, which are very dependent on commuter and travelling customer traffic.
In the past, geopolitical events, wars and acts of terrorism Travel: operational review 2006 0 such as the attacks of 11 September 2001 and 7 July 2005 Travel delivered another strong performance.
Profit was have contributed to decreased levels of customer traffic.
up 16 per cent and like for like sales increased 2 per cent, Closures in travel routes, both planned and unplanned, achieved as a result of increased sales combined with may have a material effect on the business if passengers improved gross margin and tight cost control.
Performance are diverted from key Travel stores.
in the second half of the year was impacted by the introduction of the UK smoking ban in public places, by the 2 Loss of tenancy contracts fact we did not have a hot Summer compared to the very hot Travel has a presence in most of the UKs major airports weather last year and, in Air, by the ban on onboard liquids.
There is no guarantee that licences will be renewed or that Travel will be able to bid Gross margin improved over the period as a result of good successfully for new licences in new locations.
category mix management and further buying efficiencies.
As in High Street, costs were rigorously controlled.
3 Change of control clauses Continuing its growth path, the Travel business The majority of Travels airport and railway concession made significant progress, with 20 contract renewals, Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC bUSiNESS rEviEW fOCUSEd ON PrOfiTabLE grOWTH 18 new units and one unit closure.
We successfully built especially in London, caused by the poor Summer a strong presence in the motorway service area market weather compared to the previous very hot Summer and now have 87 units open with leading motorway weather, the UK smoking ban in public places and the service operators.
continued impact of free London newspapers, which affected sales of evening newspapers and related items.
airport stores We responded to these conditions by looking at ways In our Airport stores we delivered robust sales growth to improve our ranges further, thereby increasing of 5 per cent like for like, however sales slowed in the customer choice and driving average transaction value.
second half of the year due to the impact of the onboard Trials of new ranges delivered positive results, for liquid restrictions and the smoking ban.
example, a new premium fashion stationery selection Following the new security measures on reduced hand is now being rolled out following a successful pilot.
baggage implemented last year, we saw a shift in sales Other developments include the introduction of a wider from landside to airside.
We responded swiftly to this, range of breakfast options to our chilled ranges and for example by adjusting staffing levels to match demand.
To increase fixture density and capacity airside, we made The Rail business also made improvements to a number of improvements, such as extra shelves on promotions and displays in core categories, similar to confectionery and book gondolas, and more mobile tills.
This saw the introduction of a We expect to see further changes as a result of this permanent Book of the Week feature and the extension airside shift, with landlords adjusting their space of our book chart offering from 30 to 50 titles in fiction balance as well.
and from 20 to 30 titles in non-fiction, all making it easier for time-pressed travellers to find what they need.
We completed the rollout of a new EPOS till system across both Rail and Airport stores.
The system provides We are seeing encouraging results faster transaction times and enables us to offer additional services, such as e-top up and e-gift cards, from the new motorway stores, enhancing our customer offering.
and motorists are clearly pleased to We made solid progress with contracts, renewing a total of 11 contracts at locations including Colchester, Hull have the opportunity to shop with and Bromley.
We opened two new units in Durham and a well-known high street brand.
Doncaster, and won five new contracts.
These new units, including three at the newly refurbished St Pancras Station and one in the new Eurostar terminal at that station, are due to open in 2008.
Enhancements to our product ranges are enabling us to serve customers better, both landside and airside.
motorway stores Extensions to our drinks offer, especially water, have Since our announcement in November 2006 of plans been delivered by providing more fridge space, primarily to open stores in motorway service areas, we have built in our airside stores.
We are now able to tailor our a strong presence in this new channel, bringing our ranges to specific stores dependent on destination and Confectioner, Tobacconist and Newsagent CTN offer location.
For example, we have introduced landside-only direct to the motorist.
ranges, such as miniature toiletries.
We completed a challenging rollout plan ahead of We also made good progress on airport contracts.
schedule and now have 50 Moto and 35 Welcome Break We renewed eight contracts for units at locations stores, all operated under a franchise agreement.
including Glasgow, Luton and Stansted.
We opened Although it is still early days, we are seeing encouraging 15 new units during the year, including Manchester results from the new stores, and motorists are clearly Terminal 2, Bournemouth and Luton, as well as three pleased to have the opportunity to shop with a wellspecialist Bookstores at Newcastle, Birmingham and known high street brand.
Liverpool, and two Stationery stores at Heathrow As part of the rollout of the WHSmith format, we have Terminal 3 and Birmingham.
introduced the key strengths of the Travel offer to broaden customer choice, for example, doubling the rail stores size of key product ranges like Books and Magazines Trading in our Rail stores continued to be challenging and adding new ranges like Stationery and Gifting.
Like for like sales were flat with tough trading conditions in the second half of the year, WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 2 We are developing other opportunities in this market, OUTLOOk specifically leasehold sites with other motorway service This year has seen further good progress from the area operators.
One of these stores, with Swayfield, Group.
We are on track with our plan to deliver value has already opened at Cullompton, near Exeter.
to shareholders, however there remains more to be done.
In High Street we saw further progress in the delivery Travel: financial review 2006 0 of our plan: margins were up, reflecting our strategy of rebalancing the mix of our business to focus on our core categories, together with successful cost control.
Growth LFL Sales In Travel, we achieved a good performance, with strong m 2007 2006 % Growth % sales and margin growth delivered through improved Revenue 338 319 6% 2% ranges and better use of space, as well as new business development.
None of this could have been achieved Profit from 1 without the dedication and hard work of our staff.
trading operations 36 31 16% 1 We will continue to implement more of these changes, Profit from trading operations is stated before allocation of central costs, exceptional items, interest and taxation and after directly in line with our plan, in the year ahead.
Looking forward attributable share-based payment and pension service charges.
to Christmas, we expect that consumer spending will remain subdued and that trading will be extremely Travel delivered another good performance with sales competitive, and have planned accordingly.
We will not growth of 2 per cent on a like for like basis.
This was chase sales at the expense of profit but will concentrate driven by the Airports business, which was up 5 per cent solely on profitable activity, while consistently delivering on a like for like basis.
This performance can be attributed a solid operational performance and the retail basics.
to improved ranges, innovative promotions and the successful rebalancing of sales from landside to airside.
kate Swann Total sales in Travel increased 6 per cent, driven by group Chief Executive, WH Smith PLC new business development gains and expansion into 11 October 2007 the motorway service area market, both reflecting our 1 strategy to grow the Travel business.
Profit increased by 16 per cent to 36m 2006: 31m, as a result of higher sales combined with improved gross margin and tight cost control.
Gross margin increased through effective category mix management and buying improvements, resulting in more sales in higher margin categories such as Confectionery and Books.
We will not chase sales at the expense of profit but will concentrate solely on profitable activity, while consistently delivering a solid operational performance and the retail basics.
The Travel business now operates from 309 units, including motorway service area franchise units.
At 31 August 2007 Travel operated from a total of 0.2m square feet excluding motorway service areas 2006: 0.2m square feet.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 3
