Report of the Directors 18% Completions Increased from 14,601 in 2006 to 17,168 in 2007 including 1,651 from Wilson Bowden.
Above: Design for Great West Quarter, Brentford: Barratt Middle: Elektron, Leamouth: Barratt Top left: Kings Meadow, Newmarket: David Wilson Homes Bottom left: Fifth Avenue, Harlow, Essex: Barratt Overall our housebuilding operation delivered Business review 17,168 completions 2006: 14,601 and profit from operations of 475.1m 2006: 413.5m.
The acquired commercial developments The Group has achieved another strong business, Wilson Bowden Developments excluding its own housebuilding completions, performance this year, both from the existing delivered a profit from operations of 5.9m.
Barratt operation and from the Wilson Bowden The key performance indicators of the businesses that we acquired on 26 April 2007. business are discussed in the table on page 15.
Housebuilding Barratt Homes completed 15,517 properties up 6.3% on the prior year total of 14,601, with total revenue for the year of 2,666.5m, an increase of 9.7% over the prior year.
The increase in completions has been driven by a 9% increase in the average rate of completions per operating site, although planning delays meant the average number of operating sites dropped from 461 to 449 during the year.
Average selling price in Barratt Homes increased to 169,600, up 2.3% on 9% the prior year, which was mainly due to price increases and changes in product mix.
Barratt average completions per site Barratt Homes average completions per operating site have increased from 31.7 in 2006 to 34.6 in 2007.
Barratt Developments PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Business review Key performance indicator 2007 2006 Movement Operational Residential completion numbers 17,168 14,601 17.6% Discussed in the section entitled Housebuilding on pages 14 and 15 Average sales price 172,800 165,800 4.2% Residential turnover divided by the number of completions Land bank plots 109,700 66,500 65.0% Discussed in the section entitled Number of residential plots owned and agreed subject to contract Land on page 15 Customer recommendation levels 89% 85% 4% Discussed in the section entitled Percentage of Barratt Homes customers who would recommend us to a friend Quality and service on pages 16 to 18 Reportable accidents 643 672 4.3% Discussed in the section entitled Number per 100,000 people employed in the housebuilding business Health and Safety on page 19 Financial Revenue 3,046.1m 2,431.4m 25.3% Discussed in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 22 to 25 profit from operations 481.0m 413.5m 16.3% profit before tax 427.8m 391.4m 9.3% Earnings per share 116.2p 115.3p 0.8% profit after tax divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Wilson Bowden completed 1,651 properties Commercial development permission.
We have detailed planning since acquisition, with revenue of 334.9m.
It Wilson Bowden Developments was acquired permission on 99.3% of plots for 2007 08 and operated from an average of 154 sites in the as part of the acquisition of Wilson Bowden, 60.8% of plots for 2008 09.
In addition we have period, up 3% from the equivalent period last and its trading performance during May and 12,200 acres 2006: 2,800 acres of strategic year.
Wilson Bowdens average selling price June was in line with our expectations.
The land, which has been considerably increased was 202,800 in the period since acquisition.
main highlights were: the handover of East by the acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
The higher average selling price than Barratt Midlands Fire Control Centre at Willow Farm, Homes reects the different mix of market Castle Donington, which will be used to Expenditure on land purchases during the year segments in which the David Wilson Homes coordinate the Fire Service for five counties in was 1,012.7m compared with 841m for the brand operates.
the East Midlands: and the completion of the previous year.
redevelopment and extension of the Jackson The integration of Wilson Bowden is Square shopping centre at Bishops Stortford.
The acquisition of Wilson Bowden, has further progressing ahead of schedule, with both the In addition we secured the letting to the Home strengthened the Groups land bank, bringing new operational structure of 35 divisions and Ofce of a 76,000 square foot ofce building with it not only the additional plots acquired but its supporting management structure in at our Riverside Exchange site in Shefeld also strengthening our expertise in strategic place.
The Group is focused on developing and made continued progress with lettings land.
The additional focus we shall now be able its core brands: Barratt Homes for traditional at the Eagles Meadow shopping centre in to bring to bear on the delivery of strategic land housing, apartments and urban regeneration: Wrexham which is due to open in the second will enable us to deliver enhanced shareholder and David Wilson Homes with a reputation half of 2008. value in future years.
for producing larger family homes, along with the Ward Homes brand based predominantly Land Core strengths in Kent.
However, we have decided to The Group land bank has been strengthened During the past year the Group continued to discontinue the use of our KingsOak brand.
during the year and now stands at 109,700 build upon its core strengths of geographic The rebranding of our sites and divisions plots with a book value of 3,296.6m, and product diversity, quality and service, is now complete.
Progress is also being representing approximately 5.1 years of land and people.
We have inherited strong skills made in reducing our head ofce and usage at the current rate of consumption.
The from Wilson Bowden that complemented administrative costs.
In our first full year land bank includes 23,300 plots which have those in Barratt.
we estimate our synergy savings will be at been purchased subject to contract.
Of our least 30m, rising to at least 60m in the land bank at 30 June 2007, 72.2% of plots second full year following acquisition.
have either detailed or outline planning Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Report of the Directors | Business review Geographic and product diversity Britain, our contribution to which will exceed The Group offers a wide product range from 1,200 new homes.
In addition, we are currently first time buyer homes to luxury apartments involved in a number of specialist urban and family homes with prices ranging from regeneration projects.
These include a 240m under 90,000 to 1.35 million and an development, the Great West Quarter in average selling price of 172,800.
We Brentford, which will create over 730 homes, operate throughout Great Britain and at 30 almost half of which will be available for rent June 2007 we were selling from 590 sites or shared ownership, and which will include a spread over 35 divisions.
The diversity of hotel and health centre.
We are continuing to product and places has been strengthened develop two agship town centre regeneration by our acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
projects in Feltham and Hounslow, creating 1,150 homes with commercial, retail and The provision of affordable homes continues community facilities.
The Feltham scheme, to be a key component of our activities with of over 800 homes, has been awarded 5m the Group completing 2,833 homes for in direct funding from English Partnerships to housing association partners during the year enable 58 homes to be made available to key at an average selling price of 92,800.
We are workers and first time buyers on a shared one of the leading providers in the industry of ownership basis.
We are also in partnership affordable homes for rent, shared ownership with the specialist regeneration company or low cost homes for sale.
We believe that Artisan, developing over 1,000 homes our strength in this area provides opportunities in Rochdale.
for the Groups further growth, especially in light of developing Government policy.
Quality and service We are pleased that overall customer We have continued to invest in our iPad satisfaction and the number of our range of homes which provides affordable customers who would recommend us to a housing for first time buyers.
During the year friend has continued to improve during the 120 2006: 30 homes were legally year.
In the year ended 30 June 2007, 89% completed, 330 were under construction, of Barratt Homes customers responded that and planning permission has been secured they would recommend us to a friend, for a further 634 homes.
Our product offering which represents an improvement over the in this area has been further enhanced by result of 85% in 2006 and 80% in 2005.
In the addition of the David Wilson Homes addition, our customer satisfaction rating range of iLife homes.
We are pleased to have has continued to improve from 70% in 2005 been awarded 30.5m of funding under the to 76% in 2006 and is now 81%.
English Partnerships First Time Buyers Initiative, to assist first time buyers who We are continually striving to improve our would otherwise have been unable to afford service to our customers and this is now a to buy their own home.
Under this initiative feature of senior management remuneration.
the Group will build 316 homes on During the year we also completed a training developments in Brighton, Bristol, Ely, programme for all customer facing staff Gravesend, Leeds, Liverpool, Romford, covering our Customer Charter and Southampton and Watford.
Customer Care Personal Code of Practice.
We also conducted full customer service During the last twelve months we have secured audits of a number of our divisions, and 219 sites, which will deliver 26,000 units in based upon the audit findings, we have future years.
A number of these sites are very implemented a range of development significant for our plans for future growth.
In programmes designed to improve our level Northampton, we have won 16 sites that will of customer care.
During the year, the Group provide 1,500 new homes and we shall also also introduced a code of practice for all help to fund new educational facilities in the Group suppliers, which emphasises the town.
We also recently announced schemes importance that the Group places on high for more than 1,200 new homes in standards of customer care.
In Telford, in consortium with two other developers, we are creating the largest single new community in Barratt Developments PLC 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Business review Core strength: Geographic and product diversity We build homes in every We completed 2,833 Far left: Melanie Latham bought her at with the help of English Partnerships region of Great Britain.
homes for housing First Time Buyers Initiative We also have products association partners Above: Brewery Wharf, Leeds: Barratt for every section of the during the year.
We also Middle: Meadow Grange, Barrow Upon Soar: David Wilson Homes market from traditional have a commercial Bottom: Plan of Wilson Bowden housing and regeneration developments business, Developments Ravenscraig project schemes to penthouses Wilson Bowden and upmarket family Developments, with the homes.
We are one of ability to bid for large, the largest builders of mixed-use projects.
affordable housing and our iPad is particularly suited to first time buyers.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Report of the Directors | Business review Core strength: Core strength: 89% Quality, service and design of Barratt Homes customers would Quality, service and design recommend us to a friend.
The quality of our product offerings has been recognised by the receipt of several major national industry awards.
Barratt Homes was named Housebuilder of the Year at the What House?
Awards and Homebuilder of the Year in the Your New Home Awards.
Furthermore, Barratt Homes also received Gold Awards for exterior design, landscaping and renovation at the What House?
Our people and expertise We recognise that one of our key strengths as a Group is our people.
We have appointed a new Group Human Resources Director and have strengthened our human resources team during the year.
We have also introduced a number of new initiatives to bene t our staff, including our Cornerstone induction plan, a new twice-yearly Performance and Development Review and the Barratt Leadership Development Programme, all of which will assist with the development of the Groups leaders of the future.
Barratt Homes During the year our work We are investing to ensure customers who We have launched a new Graduate to improve standards of that we continue to improve would recommend Recruitment and Development Programme.
quality, service and design the standard of customer us to a friend 54 successful graduates joined the business % was independently service we provide.
We have in September 2007, selected from 752 recognised.
also won a series of national applicants.
They will undertake a two-year awards including House multidisciplinary programme.
Builder of the Year and an unprecedented three At any one time we have over 500 apprentices regeneration projects won within our business.
Our intention is to ensure Housing Design Awards that that we continue to attract and retain the very celebrate housing of great best apprentices to provide a pipeline of skills ambition and distinction.
We are currently working with the Learning and Skills Council and the Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network to ensure we have an industry leading apprenticeship programme.
The Group has continued to make progress towards its target of a fully Construction Skills Certi cate Scheme CSCS carded and quali ed workforce, including our Barratt Developments PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Business review subcontractors, by 2010.
At present over 60% We continue to build the majority of our of our workforce has achieved this target.
developments on browneld sites, with 78% of Barratt developments in the year being built The strengths of the Group in terms of people upon browneld land, which signicantly and expertise have been recognised again this exceeds the Governments target of 60%.
year with the Group winning a number of national awards.
Our construction teams won The Group continues to make progress in 71 National House-Building Council NHBC certifying our divisions to ISO14001 standard Pride in the Job quality awards, a significant for Environmental Management.
In last years improvement on last years achievement of Annual Report we stated our target was that 53 awards.
This is more than any other all of our divisions would have achieved housebuilder and a new record for the Group.
This has been delivered and we are now beginning the The Groups innovative approach to process of certifying our newly acquired David housebuilding was recognised at both the Wilson Homes divisions, with a view to 2006 Housebuilder Innovation Awards, where achieving ISO14001.
Barratt Homes won Housebuilding Innovator of the Year, and at the British Home Awards Health and Safety where the Innovation Award for Building As previously reported, the Group is Technology was presented for the Groups saddened that a fatal accident occurred on a Elektron development in London Docklands.
The accident took place at our Battersea Environment Road development in London when a crane During the year the Government announced collapsed resulting in the tragic death of two the requirement for all new homes to be zero people.
The Group continues to cooperate carbon by 2016.
Whilst this requirement will with the ongoing Health and Safety Executive pose a challenge for all housebuilders, we inquiry into the incident.
are seeking to become industry leaders in this area and we will launch, later in the year, Notwithstanding this tragic event, we have an environmental charter that sets out how continued to make good progress in the eld we will reduce our own impact, improve the of Health and Safety with a reduction in the environmental quality of what we build and number of reportable accidents to 643 per help our customers to reduce their impact.
100,000 persons employed in the housebuilding business, a reduction of 4.3% Building upon the success of our seven home on the previous year.
In addition, the average EcoSmart Show Village in Chorley, Lancashire safety standard ratings achieved by the Group which included the latest energy efficient in the independent NHBC site surveys have technologies and as part of our commitment continued to be ahead of the other to zero carbon housing, we are to build the housebuilders using this service.
Green House a prototype home using an award winning design developed by architects The Group continues to make progress Gaunt Francis.
The zero carbon home will be with the process of certifying our operating built at the Building Research Establishments divisions under OHSAS18001 in Health Innovation Park and will combine outstanding and Safety.
At 30 June 2007, 19 divisions design, high standards of energy efficiency were certied to this level and we have and the use of innovative microgeneration.
It plans to certify another six divisions within Top: Andrew and Margaret Kairu and their family at also includes recycled slag foundations, lime the next year.
home in their five bedroom detached house at hemp render walls and pitched roofs Highwood, Kenley Park: Barratt incorporating photovoltaic panels.
The central Corporate responsibility Bottom: Headcorn in Highwood, Kenley Park which won the Bronze Award for best house at the heating will be controlled by a central As outlined in the sections above, the Group What House?
Awards: Barratt computer system with internet linked energy has continued to make good progress on efficiency appliances.
We now have carbon corporate responsibility throughout the year.
saving measures on over 35 of our sites and The Group has embedded its corporate have completed a review of how to improve responsibility strategy within Barratt the environmental impact of our existing operations and is now applying this in the housing designs.
newly acquired operations of the Group.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Report of the Directors | Business review Core strength: Our people and expertise The quality of our people is Top: On site at Great West Quarter, Brentford Middle: Site manager at Aspects in Slough, critical to our future success.
Mr Ramakrishnan, wins NHBC Award Through the integration with Bottom: Barratt sales advisor Wilson Bowden we have strengthened our top management team.
Our construction teams have won 71 NHBC Quality Awards more than any other builder.
We are one of the industry leaders in terms of recruiting and training apprentices and have restructured our graduate recruitment scheme to ensure that we have the key resources in place to meet the challenges of the future housing market.
Barratt Developments PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Business review Principal risks of the Group include, but are not limited to: The Group is proud to have gained entry to the FTSE4Good index during the year, which Risk Mitigation underpins our commitment to corporate Residential property market responsibility.
Response to changes in the macroeconomic climate The Executive Directors conduct a weekly including buyer con dence and interest rates meeting which reviews key trading indicators, including sales rates, visitor levels and levels Barratt is included in the Top 100 of incentives and cash ow projections.
Companies that Count list, which is part of Provision of high quality product to maintain brand The Group has a comprehensive approach the Corporate Responsibility Index and was quality and minimise remedial costs to quality enshrined in the Forward through judged by Business in the Community and Quality Initiative.
Land Securing suf cient land of appropriate size and Each division produces a monthly analysis of quality to provide pro table growth the amount of land currently controlled compared The Groups new corporate responsibility to their outline three year sales projections.
report will contain further details on our These are consolidated upwards for regular progress in corporate responsibility and will review at Board level.
be found on the Groups investor relations In addition each operating division holds weekly land meetings.
Every land acquisition is subject to a formal appraisal procedure and is required to achieve Group key risks an overall hurdle rate of return.
The Groups financial and operational Government regulation performance is subject to a number of risks.
Length of time taken to obtain required planning The Group has considerable in-house technical The Board seeks to ensure that appropriate and technical consents and planning expertise devoted to achieving implementable planning consents.
processes are put in place to manage, Consequence of changes in tax legislation Potential and actual changes in tax legislation are monitor and mitigate these risks which are monitored by both our industry experienced indetailed in the table on the left.
house finance teams and our external tax advisors.
The Group recognises that the management The Group has adopted a low risk strategy to tax planning.
of risk is fundamental to the achievement Construction of Group targets.
As such all tiers of Failure to identify and achieve key construction The Groups weekly reporting identi es the number management are involved in this process.
milestones of properties at key stages of construction.
Projected construction rates are evaluated as Outlook part of the monthly forecasting cycle.
We have already signalled that it would be Management reporting fails to identify cost overruns The total costs on every site in progress are leaving insuf cient time to take remedial action evaluated once a quarter and reviewed by the prudent to assume that the cumulative divisional board meeting.
impact of interest rate increases would result Innovative design and construction techniques The Group ensures that it is at the forefront of in the housing market tightening in 2007 8. are not employed design and construction techniques by a The recent credit squeeze has further combination of: in-house technical departments affected customer sentiment and pressure the employment of external consultants on lending institutions, has led to a tightening an ongoing commitment to building experimental of lending criteria and mortgage availability.
house types Health and Safety The Group has a dedicated Health and Safety audit department which is independent of the It is not yet clear how quickly the market will management of the operating divisions.
recover but we have to assume that there will Consideration of the impact of construction schemes The Group monitors a number of environmental be downward pressure on volumes and price upon the environment and social surroundings impact indicators.
The results of this appear in in ation in the short-term.
our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
People However, the market fundamentals remain Ability of the Group to attract and retain the The Group has a comprehensive Human best people Resources policy in place which includes: strong with demand continuing to exceed apprentice schemes Ensuring that the Group has a suf ciently skilled supply with the Government intent on an extensive Graduate Recruitment Programme and experienced workforce stimulating the sector by accelerating succession planning Adequate succession planning to ensure that training schemes tailored to each discipline land availability.
experience and knowledge of key management the Group has set itself the target of having a is retained within the business fully carded workforce by 2010, under the Construction Skills Certi cation Scheme fide ned bene t pension scheme to which the Group An actuarial valuation is conducted every three may be required to increase contributions to fund years.
The Group reviews this and considers an increase in costs of future bene ts and or any if additional contributions are necessary to make future shortfall good any shortfall.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
