Chairmans statement Oliver Whitehead 8 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 In this, my first year as Chairman, I am Operational performance pleased to report good progress across The Group has shown consistent progress the Groups operations.
We are on course over the last 12 months and we have to full our development objectives and our achieved a number of key milestones which management team has clearly demonstrated are set out in detail in the Business review.
its commitment to the task.
Most signicantly, the Group has successfully obtained a Compulsory Purchase Order in Financial results respect of our Park Place shopping centre development in Croydon, acquired and profit for the year before taxation, incorporating achieved consent for our high-end residential revaluation movements from our property scheme at Lancaster Gate and secured a portfolio, was 16.3 million 2006: loss of fresh planning permission for The Walbrook 6.9 million.
As is our normal practice, where we are now on site having completed the Groups property portfolio has been demolition.
We have also submitted independently valued by CB Richard Ellis a revised planning application for the Limited.
The results take no account of the Odeon Kensington development.
valuation surplus on our trading properties, which are stated at the lower of cost and net In addition to the purchase of Lancaster Gate realisable value in line with the accounting in July 2006, we have also acquired the Ram policy of the Group.
More recently, we have purchased an adjacent site to the Total shareholders equity increased to Ram Brewery which will enhance the proposed 528.5 million, equivalent to 327.9 pence scheme and extend the development to both per share, from 501.8 million or 311.5 pence sides of the River Wandle.
Overview 9 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 The Board and management We have demonstrated our ability to augment the strength of our senior management team Since the last Annual Report and Accounts, with the addition of further enthusiastic and a number of changes have been made to skilled individuals.
The Board and senior the Board.
Christopher Mackenzie retired in management alike are fully committed to October 2006 and I should like to thank him delivering the Groups strategy.
I would like for the contribution he made.
My predecessor, to thank all of our employees for their hard Andrew Rosenfeld, stepped down as work and dedication.
Chairman at the Annual General Meeting in November 2006 and, on behalf of the Board, I should like to thank him for his leadership, Outlook both as CEO and latterly Chairman, since the While share prices in the quoted real estate Company was oated in 1996. sector have experienced much volatility I am pleased to report the appointment in the past few months, the City of London of two new non-executive Directors to the ofce and high-end London residential Board: John McNeil who joined the Board markets remain robust.
We believe the in July 2007 and John Matthews who will quality and focus of our property portfolio be joining the Board later this month.
leaves the Group well positioned and with We welcome their broad business knowledge, our sound financial base and able people, including that gained in the property, we have in place the key components of construction and financial sectors.
Both Clive Richards and Christopher Sheridan Oliver Whitehead have, after many years service, decided to Chairman retire from the Board, but to ensure continuity they have agreed to stay on until the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
Until then, we will be able to continue to benefit from their considerable knowledge and experience.
Chief Executives strategy overview Salmaan Hasan 10 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Objective and strategy Our primary objective is to deliver superior, long-term returns to shareholders through the investment, development and management of UK real estate.
Overview 11 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 The key elements of our strategy are to: Progress focus on areas where Minerva has The financial year ended 30 June 2007 a competitive advantage for example represented a major step in the execution on projects where inherent planning of our strategy.
disciplines and site-assembly skills Activity on our City of London developments can be used to add value : is now gathering speed with demolition use limited non-recourse structured completed and site construction commencing.
finance to drive returns: and significant progress has been made deliver dividend returns to shareholders across our residential and retail portfolios: based upon the realisation of the key highlights being the acquisition development profits.
of, and subsequent planning consent for, our Lancaster Gate scheme, a successful We are implementing the strategy through: outcome to the Compulsory Purchase Inquiry at our Park Place project, and the significant the delivery of best value from our acquisition of the Ram Brewery site in existing development schemes: Wandsworth.
Most recently we have acquired the investment in new opportunities land adjacent to the Ram Brewery site to which primarily have development enhance the overall scale of this proposed credentials that have a turn around mixed-use development.
Funding for time within three to five years: and acquisitions and project developments the establishment of a portfolio of is in place.
projects, coupled with appropriate Salmaan Hasan structured finance and risk-adjusted Chief Executive return disciplines.
Business review 12 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 We have assembled a first class development pipeline including City ofces, retail and high-end residential.
We have achieved a number of key milestones during the last 12 months.
Tim Garnham Development Director Overview 13 Minerva plc Annual report and Operational review accounts 2007 City of London ofces The City of London market overview The Walbrook, London EC4 During the course of the last 12 months, The Walbrook represents a key opportunity to create a high the City Ofce Market has continued to see quality new ofce headquarters building in the heart of the City of falling supply, increased take up and strong London.
Demolition is completed and construction is underway.
Take up in Quarter 2 2007 Internationally renowned architects Foster & Partners have designed the new building which will stand on this was 2.8 million sq.
ft. equalling the level prime 1.6 acre freehold site.
seen in Quarter 3 2006, the highest since The scheme will provide some 445,000 sq.
Active demand from the financial ofces, retail and restaurant accommodation.
The retail sector is at its highest level in the last five accommodation will run along part of The Walbrook and the buildings frontage of Cannon Street opposite Cannon years, and 80 per cent of these requirements Street Station.
ft. of ofces suitable for a major occupier.
Availability continues to fall with a vacancy Prime landmark status.
rate of 6.6 per cent, the lowest level since 35,000 sq.
ft. of retail and restaurant accommodation 2001.
Of particular note is the Grade A directly opposite Cannon Street Station.
vacancy rate which is now below 2 per cent.
In the City of London core this gure is at The new building will occupy virtually the entire side of a city street and is one of the largest sites in the central city area.
1.2 per cent, below the levels seen at the peak of the last cycle.
co. uk Continued strong demand from financial sector occupiers and limited up-and-ready This is a speculative ofce development to new product has fuelled the increase in rental provide some 445,000 sq.
ft. of high quality levels which stood at 61.50 per sq.
ft. at the ofces and retail accommodation located end of Quarter 2 2007 for top normal rents in the heart of the City of London.
excluding landmark and tower buildings, a 5 per cent increase on the previous quarters Good progress has been made on site and level and 25 per cent over the last 12 months.
we have now completed the demolition of Since the end of June there are transactions the existing buildings and the majority of the proceeding at 64 per sq.
ft. in the central archaeological investigations.
Piling for the core of The City for comparable buildings.
perimeter walls to the development is now well underway.
We have also secured a revised planning consent having completed a Section 106 Agreement.
The new consent signicantly improves the internal layout of the building largely through the repositioning of the main lift core.
During this process, our architects, Foster & Partners, took the opportunity to refresh the cladding design.
The design also incorporates the generation of energy from renewable sources in accordance with the Greater London Authoritys guidelines.
Overall, the design performs very well in sustainability terms, and has achieved an Excellent rating under BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, the most widely used environmental assessment method for buildings.
Business review continued 14 Minerva plc Since the year end, we have entered into The building has been designed to maximise Annual report and a design and build contract with Skanska environmental benets including, for example, accounts 2007 for the new building to be completed by the generation of energy using photovoltaic the end of 2009. panels at roof level.
The design will also be subject to a BREEAM assessment in due We have now completed the marketing course.
In addition, the building is now able to suite for the building, initiated the marketing offer exible oor plates with as many as four campaign and we are encouraged by the tenancies per oor and the entrance hall has interest shown in the project to date.
Demolition of the existing buildings on the site has been completed and further excavation and perimeter piling under the direction of Skanska is now underway.
A marketing suite for the project has been established and numerous presentations have been made to agents and potential tenants with significant interest.
Construction works for the St Botolphs, London EC3 development will be triggered on a partial pre-letting of the new building.
The St Botolphs development stands on an island site of approximately 1.25 acres located on the eastern side Development finance is in place for this project of the City of London.
and this is set out later in the Financial review.
The St Botolphs development is to provide a prestigious air-conditioned ofce building suitable for major occupiers, in all amounting to some 550,000 sq.
Ofce oorplates are generally uniform and the Retail principal oors each provide in the order of 37,000 sq.
The building will also provide retail area at ground and lower Market overview ground oor levels.
The investment market for shopping centres A detailed design review of the building has been undertaken and demolition is now completed.
The first half of 2007 started The development will proceed once a partial pre-letting has robustly with approximately 2.3 billion of been achieved.
shopping centres sold, up 21 per cent on 1.9 billion for the corresponding period last year.
There continues to be a scarcity of large http: www.
co. uk scale shopping schemes which are centred on regeneration of existing town centres.
This project involves the construction of Consequently, yields have continued to ofces and retail accommodation on an hold up well with the prime yield indicator island site in the eastern district of the City of remaining at 4.75 per cent since the London.
The new building has been designed beginning of the year.
by Grimshaw and, during the course of the year, we have reviewed the scheme in detail Demand for prime assets continues to remain and identied improvements that can be strong for well located shopping centres that made to the building.
This has principally have deliverable asset management and or involved reconguring the lifting system rental growth potential.
and this, together with other renements, has increased the net lettable area by 20,000 sq.
ft.. Overview 15 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Park Place, Croydon This scheme has been granted detailed planning permission by The London Borough of Croydon and the Compulsory Purchase Order was confirmed by the Secretary of State during this year.
When completed, it will provide 900,000 sq.
ft. of accommodation, comprising principally of retail space and restaurants.
A key component of the retail space is the provision of a new full range department store.
This scheme will re-establish Croydon as a top retail destination within the UK.
Situated in the heart of the town it will offer excellent access by car, rail, tram and bus and also use and improve existing pedestrian routes for the high foot falls expected.
Park Place has been granted detailed planning permission by The London Borough of Croydon to provide 900,000 sq.
ft. of accommodation, comprising principally retail space and restaurants.
Designed by leading international architects RTKL, this scheme will comprise both the large retail units and the mall environment needed to re-establish Croydon as a top retail destination within the UK as well as the largest, most modern and contemporary centre within South London.
Following the positive decision by the Secretary of State and subsequent granting of the Compulsory Purchase Order CPO, the key activities over the past six months have been to address the preparatory work for the Development.
Together with Lend Lease, we have focused on pre-development activities.
This has centred on nalising the utility diversion designs with the relevant authorities, investigating ground conditions and agreeing methods of working within a large town.
Edward Moody Asset Management Peter Holroyd Construction Business review continued 16 Minerva plc In addition, we are moving forward with Annual report and our preparations to gain vacant possession accounts 2007 through the CPO.
We are in negotiation with John Lewis Partnership to conclude the Heads of Terms for the Anchor Department Store and will bring forward the required design changes to satisfy the size requirement of around 250,000 sq.
Under the new arrangements with Lend Lease, the agreement to sell 50 per cent of our interest in Park Place for 92.5 million is conditional on securing Heads of Terms with the anchor tenant.
This process is expected to be concluded by the end of this calendar year.
High-end residential Market overview Prime Central London residential property continues to represent one of the most valuable global urban residential markets and has demonstrated consistent value accretion in recent years.
Savills has reported in its Summer 2007 market bulletin, that prime residential property in Central London has grown in value in the previous 12 months by 29 per cent.
By using the skills at Minerva and the specic sector knowledge within residential developer Northacre, our development partner, we believe that our projects will generate favourable returns.
It is our intention to augment this partnership if further opportunities present themselves.
Overview 17 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Odeon Kensington, London W8 Lancaster Gate, London W2 Standing on Kensington High Street, this famous local This exciting opportunity involves the redevelopment landmark is set to be redeveloped to create luxury apartments of 15 grand town houses overlooking the north side betting the location of the site.
of Hyde Park adjacent to Londons West End.
Overlooking the Commonwealth Institute and with the low Planning consent was granted in July 2007 for 192,000 sq.
ft. rise period homes of Edwardes Square immediately to the of residential accommodation, comprising 81 private units west, the completed development will have superb local and 11 affordable residential units.
facilities nearby with the rest of London available through Construction is scheduled to commence in Autumn 2007, the excellent transport links.
with the first phase of completion due in 2010.
A planning application has been submitted for around Underground car parking, tness facilities and a swimming 100,000 sq.
ft. of high-end luxury residential apartments and pool are amongst the attributes that residents will enjoy.
houses together with a multi-screen cinema and off-site affordable residential accommodation.
Since acquiring this property in partnership with Northacre in July 2006 for 67.2 million, Minerva, in partnership with Northacre, we have achieved planning permission for acquired this property for 24 million towards 192,000 sq.
The property is held freehold This is arranged as 81 private apartments with a short-term lease to Odeon Cinema, with underground parking and an independent which contains break provisions in favour of the affordable residential building.
The immediate location is a prime residential area on the south side of Kensington The private apartments have been designed High Street, opposite the Commonwealth to cater for the most discerning buyer, at the Institute and just south of Holland Park.
There will be a wide range of units, all benefiting from the unique The scheme was submitted for planning features and setting of the building.
It will be approval in November 2006 after considerable a classic revival project which our partners, public consultation and design input.
Northacre, have considerable experience The application was for 82,500 sq.
ft. of private in delivering.
Construction will commence residential accommodation, a basement car in Autumn 2007 with first phase completion park, multiplex cinema and on-site affordable in 2010.
A new site loan and construction housing.
Further discussions were held with facility of 215 million has been arranged.
the planning authorities through the statutory consultation process and a revised planning application has been submitted and consultations have been held with the planners, local residents and local councillors.
The revised scheme is for an all-private residential scheme of around 100,000 sq.
ft. with a basement car park, multiplex cinema and off-site affordable homes.
A decision is expected in Autumn 2007 which, assuming a positive outcome, should allow construction to commence in mid-2008.
The market has strengthened during the planning process with continued strong demand for high quality residential real estate.
Business review continued 18 Minerva plc Leinster House Hotel, London W2 Shortly before the year end we exchanged Annual report and contracts to purchase the one acre Capital accounts 2007 Since the year end, this property was acquired Studio site located on the opposite side of for 20.25 million and the purchase is the River Wandle to the main Brewery site, scheduled to be completed in October 2007. for 14.5 million, of which 11.6 million is This property, which has been acquired in deferred.
There is a clear synergy between this partnership with Northacre who have a 5 per site and the main Brewery site and we envisage cent equity stake, has the benefit of a block that they will be linked by a footbridge.
booking agreement with Westminster City Council until 2010, is located to the rear of our The planned development will be a residentialLancaster Gate scheme and will benefit from led mixed-use scheme, using as its signature its development.
We will initiate discussions the heritage buildings forming part of the site.
with the planning authorities regarding the All the key heritage buildings will be retained redevelopment potential and will up date and adapted for contemporary use.
Important you with progress in due course.
aspects of this project will be to incorporate environmental sustainability considerations, together with an appropriate amount of affordable housing.
Mixed-use Over the last six months further progress has been made on this scheme and meetings have been held with senior members of Wandsworth Council, the Greater London Authority, the Commission for Architecture and the Built Environment, local interest groups and English Heritage: all of which have contributed to the development of our Ram Brewery, London SW18 design.
In addition, two public exhibitions The Ram Brewery development consists of three sites: have been held as part of our engagement Ram Brewery, Buckhold Road and Capital Studios.
It remains our The proposed development is to provide a 1 million sq.
ft. intention to submit the planning application residential led mixed-use scheme using as its signature in the final quarter of 2007. the heritage buildings forming part of the site.
A planning application is intended to be submitted towards Our current proposals for the development the end of 2007. provide for a combined total of 1 million sq.
ft. of accommodation, incorporating both Contracts were exchanged on this acquisition, residential and commercial uses.
comprising the Ram Brewery and Buckhold Road sites, in August 2006 for a price of 69 million, to be paid on a phased basis with 14 million paid on exchange of contracts.
The first completion payment of 8.5 million took place in July 2007, on Buckhold Road.
Wells & Youngs will remain in occupation of Buckhold Road until February 2008 on a short lease.
The second completion payment of 46.5 million is due in January 2008 when Youngs vacate the Ram Brewery site.
Overview 19 Minerva plc Joint ventures Annual report and accounts 2007 Skypark, Glasgow Skypark is held in a joint venture with Paradigm, Bank of Scotland and Kenmore, with Minerva holding a 25 per cent stake.
The property comprises around 550,000 sq.
ft. of mainly ofce accommodation, is located on the continually improving west side of Glasgow and is multi-let to over 60 occupiers, comprising a wide variety of tenants ranging from small local businesses to high-prole occupiers such as O.
In addition to the joint 2 ventures initial acquisition, two further small acquisitions have been made of adjoining sites, which afford further development opportunities and will benefit from the enhancement of Skypark.
Orchard Brae House, Edinburgh Orchard Brae House is held in a joint venture with Paradigm, Bank of Scotland and the Irvine Group, with Minerva holding a 25 per cent share.
The property is an eight storey, 105,000 sq.
ft. 1970s ofce building and was acquired by the joint venture in July 2006 for 24 million.
It occupies a prominent position on the north side of Queensbury Road, approximately one mile northwest of Edinburgh City Centre.
The immediate area is recognised as a prime residential area benefiting from close links to the City Centre.
Our investment in the Mark Cherry and Jonathan Huxley joint venture was 1.7 million and provides Investment the Group with a 25 per cent interest in the venture.
The strategy is to look at the added value opportunities available with the lease expiry programme along with development opportunities available on the car park areas.
Find out more about our developments at: Find out more about our principal investments at: http: www.
co. uk developments http: www.
co. uk investment Business review continued 20 Minerva plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Since last year we have put in place project loan facilities totalling in excess of 600 million in order to take our development programme forward.
Ivan Ezekiel Finance Director Overview 21 Minerva plc Income statement Annual report and Financial review In line with expectations, rental income accounts 2007 decreased in the year from 20.2 million to 12.4 million principally as a result of Measuring performance terminating leases on development projects at The Walbrook, St Botolphs and Park Place: Net asset value per share and property although part of the reduction is due valuations are the key financial performance to the comparative period including rental indicators for the Group, and the performance income from investment properties which of these measures and others for the year were disposed of during the first half of the under review is commented upon below.
For the same reason, As part of the strategy to achieve the net property outgoings reduced from required financial performance, the Group 5.1 million to 3.3 million during the year.
prioritises its use of capital in areas where we feel it will deliver strong and sustainable Net nancing costs, excluding charges shareholder returns whilst adhering to a relating to early loan repayments, decreased simple philosophy regarding capital discipline from 8.2 million to 2.7 million.
This reduction and financial leverage.
in part reects the move by the Group towards a more development focused business and hence finance costs associated Review of results with development projects of 10.5 million Headline results have been capitalised during the year Net asset value per share increased by 2006: nil.
The Group has also benefited 5.3 per cent in the year to 327.9 pence at from interest receivable on its cash balances 30 June 2007 2006: 311.5 pence.
This does which has contributed to an overall reduction not reect the valuation surplus on our trading in the net nancing costs of the Group.
portfolio which is stated at cost in the balance The Group continues to hedge account for sheet, and which at 30 June 2007 provides interest rate derivatives where applicable a valuation in excess of cost of 50.4 million, and, in these instances, the movement in fair before minority interest and tax.
values is shown through reserves.
During the profit for the year before taxation but year the Groups holdings in interest rate swap incorporating revaluation movements, and swaptions have benefited from the rise in increased to 16.3 million 2006: loss of medium-term interest rates and, allowing for 6.9 million.
profit after tax and minority disposals, contributed 11.0 million before tax interest for the year increased by 17.0 million to the net assets of the Group: 9.4 million to 18.7 million 2006: 1.7 million.
before tax has been credited through reserves and 1.6 million before tax has been credited to the income statement within net finance costs.
Administrative expenses for the year decreased to 7.8 million from 8.8 million.
This reduction of 1.0 million reects, in part, the focus on our development business and, where appropriate, costs directly attributable to these activities are included within the relevant project costs.
Business review continued 22 Minerva plc The valuation surplus on our investment After incorporating the tax credit, the Groups Annual report and property portfolio for the year was 17.4 million profit for the year was 18.7 million 2006: accounts 2007 2006: 11.1 million.
The majority of this 1.7 million.
relates to the revaluation movement on The dividend policy for the Group is designed The Walbrook development, our investment to repatriate special dividends to shareholders property in Wigmore Street and our new when profits are delivered through our investment, the Ram Brewery.
Consequently, a write down has been made principally in no dividend has been paid or declared relation to our historical investment in this financial year.
Bishopbriggs, Glasgow reecting the rise in yields on this long-term income bearing Balance sheet asset.
It is important to note that the results In respect of the second of our key financial do not incorporate revaluation movements performance indicators, the Groups property on our trading properties.
These comprise portfolio has been valued by CB Richard Ellis our high-end residential projects, which have at 30 June 2007.
The investment property seen significant gains in value over the year portfolio has been valued at 729.6 million as noted later in this report.
2006: 579.2 million and the trading property After including the items referred to above, portfolio at 158.0 million 2006: 26.9 million.
the Group recorded a profit before tax for In total, after adjusting for acquisitions and the year of 16.3 million 2006: loss of expenditure in the period, the portfolio has 6.9 million.
increased by 8.9 per cent overall in the year.
The investment portfolio has increased The corporation tax credit for the year is by 2.6 per cent and the trading portfolio by 2.4 million 2006: 8.6 million and consists 53.3 per cent, with only the former valuation entirely of deferred taxation.
This credit is uplift being reected in our results.
predominantly the result of the change in corporation tax rate from 30 per cent to Lancaster Gate and Odeon Kensington 28 per cent announced in the March 2007 have been treated as trading properties at Budget Statement and substantively enacted 30 June 2007.
As it is our current intention at the balance sheet date which has been to redevelop these properties into mainly applied to the Groups temporary differences high-end residential apartments for sale, expected to be settled or realised after the treatment of these assets as trading the change in legislation takes effect.
is considered to be the most appropriate.
The remaining deferred taxation movement These assets are therefore stated at their principally relates to the tax effect of the historical cost of 107.6 million in aggregate movement in valuation of the Groups in the Balance Sheet, in line with the investment portfolio, offset by indexation accounting policy of the Group and allowance where appropriate, as well as other therefore the valuation by CB Richard Ellis operating losses in the year.
The Group has of 158.0 million in total at 30 June 2007 no liability to corporation tax for the year has not been reected in our financial results.
The property additions during the year consist of acquisitions principally the Ram Brewery including the adjacent Capital Studios site and Lancaster Gate of 156.8 million, development expenditure in relation to The Walbrook and St Botolphs of 37.0 million and pre-development expenditure in relation to Park Place, The Ram Brewery, Lancaster Gate and Odeon Kensington of 20.1 million.
There were no disposals during the year 2006: 225.7 million.
Overview 23 Minerva plc Net debt at 30 June 2007 was 205.7 million Annual report and 2006: 100.4 million, comprising borrowings accounts 2007 at 30 June 2007 of 331.2 million 2006: 262.1 million and cash and short-term deposits of 125.5 million 2006: 161.6 million.
The increase in net debt during the year of around 105.3 million is principally in relation to the acquisition of Lancaster Gate, the deposit payments to secure the Ram Brewery site acquisitions, as well as, expenditure on our developments in the period.
If we were also to recognise the balance of the deferred consideration payable in respect of the Ram Brewery site acquisitions of 66.6 million, pro forma group net debt at 30 June 2007 would be 272.3 million.
The investment in joint ventures represents the Groups net investment in Skypark, Glasgow and Orchard Brae House, Edinburgh where we have a 25 per cent interest in both.
A small profit for the year of 0.1 million has been recorded in the income statement reecting the Groups net effective share of the results of the two joint ventures.
The balance sheet includes a minority interest of 2.1 million 2006: 0.5 million which represents Northacres interest in the high-end residential projects, Odeon Kensington and Lancaster Gate.
Northacre, who have a 5 per cent equity stake in both ventures, can earn, subject to the achievement of pre-determined financial targets, an enhanced return.
Steve Yewman Development David Wood Financial Control Business review continued 24 Minerva plc Financing Annual report and accounts 2007 The Group nances its activities through a mixture of equity, cash and bank borrowings.
The Group seeks selectively to gear property acquisitions and fund developments with appropriately structured bank debt, typically either non-recourse or limited recourse, whilst holding a certain level of cash in reserve.
The cash reserves provide the Group with security, liquidity and the exibility to invest in future opportunities.
The Group deposits its cash with selected financial institutions with high credit ratings.
During the year, we secured site and development nancing for St Botolphs which was arranged in two stages.
In July 2006, we completed the site renancing with HSH Nordbank with a Alexander Morris Construction new 52.2 million non-recourse facility.
Arthur Rixon Structured Finance This renancing not only repaid the existing site loan but also provided the Group with circa 14 million to fund the demolition and detailed design activities, which we have since begun.
In February 2007, we secured a commitment from HSH Nordbank and Landesbank Berlin for a new 315 million development facility which will renance the site loan referred to above as well as provide the Group with the development funding to complete the construction of the building.
In structuring the new facility we needed to pay regard to the Groups exposure to the City of London ofce market and we therefore agreed that we would only commit to the construction of the building once a minimum pre-let has been achieved.
Since the year end, the Group has completed two new nancings.
Overview 25 Minerva plc The first is in relation to the Ram Brewery Annual report and Other performance where we have secured a new 106.65 million accounts 2007 loan facility to finance the acquisition of the indicators Ram Brewery, Buckhold Road and Capital Studios sites in Wandsworth.
This facility, We have already set out the financial which is provided by Deutsche Postbank, performance indicators by which we assess allows the Group to almost entirely finance our business model.
The sustainability of the purchase price of the properties on these our strategy however, is equally underpinned sites with senior debt, whilst providing the by the attention we pay to wider, businessGroup with the ability to draw upon further critical, aspects of our activities.
All of our funds as and when planning is achieved.
developments have an impact on the communities in which we operate and we The second is a new 215 million site and are subject to a range of legal, regulatory development facility for Lancaster Gate.
and planning regimes: we strive to maintain The new loan, which leverages off the compliance in all these areas.
Consistent increased value of the scheme following with our commitment to be at the forefront receipt of enhanced planning consent in in this arena, we look to anticipate and where May of this year, permitted the Group, and possible, take commercial advantage of, its partner Northacre, to repatriate all of the issues which may affect the future value equity previously invested in the scheme to and earnings potential of the business.
date, and fully debt finance the development of the scheme to completion.
This nancing, which is provided by Deutsche Postbank Health and safety and HSH Nordbank, is structured around The health and safety of our employees achieving a small element of pre-sales over and contractors is a concern of paramount the coming months.
We can report that At 30 June 2007 the average interest cost of we have had no Reportable Accidents on debt for the Group, excluding joint ventures, our projects and we are committed to a was 6.8 per cent 2006: 6.4 per cent.
regime of safe working practices.
The increase in our average interest cost of debt is mainly a consequence of rising People interest rates on loans which are unhedged.
We have a small but strong team of In terms of interest rate management, commercially-focused and experienced we continue to use interest rate derivatives people, combining site-assembly, to manage the interest rate prole and as at development, management and nancing 30 June 2007, 55 per cent 2006: 83 per cent skills.
Their contribution delivers the of the Groups bank borrowings were hedged competitiveness which underpins the under interest rate swap agreements.
The Groups policy is to, where possible, match the revenue prole from the properties with certainty in relation to interest costs.
Where there is less certainty of revenue, for example as is the case where properties are being developed, we will endeavour to hedge interest costs with swaps, caps and other financial instruments where appropriate.
Net gearing, measured as Group net debt as a proportion of total equity, was 39 per cent at 30 June 2007 2006: 20 per cent.
Pro forma net gearing would be 51 per cent, measured in the same way as above but assuming the remaining consideration for the Ram Brewery site acquisitions was paid at 30 June 2007. Business review continued 26 Minerva plc Planning issues Annual report and accounts 2007 Planning considerations constitute one of the major value drivers of our business.
Maintaining excellent relationships with local planning authorities whilst leveraging and growing our reputation to secure planning outcomes consistent with our objectives, in terms of timing and content, are fundamentally important to our success in achieving our strategy.
Energy and carbon emissions reduction With  understanding of the challenges of climate change, the mounting demand from our clients for  building space and the possibility of increasing regulation in this area, we recognise our responsibility to ensure that our developments not only meet, but exceed the requirements for buildings to reduce their carbon dioxide emissions.
The extent to which the designs of our developments exceed the requirement in Part L of the Building Regulations 2006 to achieve reductions in carbon dioxide emissions is an effective indicator of our developments likely performance in this respect.
We are pleased to report that the preliminary assessments indicate that The Walbrook is predicted to exceed the Part L requirements by 23 per cent and St Botolphs is predicted to exceed the requirements by 16 per cent.
The current designs of our other developments have not yet been assessed, but their predicted performance against the Part L requirements will be included in our Business review in successive years.
Peter Francis Accounts Leigh Grant Company Secretarial Overview 27 Minerva plc retention of key people and skills: Annual report and Prospects accounts 2007 changes in legislation and regulation, particularly relating to planning and taxation: and Key risks and uncertainties economic cycles and conditions, The Groups primary objective is to deliver both in the UK and abroad.
superior long-term returns to shareholders The potential impact on the Group, were any through the investment, development and of these risks to materialise, depends on the management of UK real estate.
We actively monitor our We recognise that risk is attached to making risks, and our governance procedures and risk investment decisions in order to drive growth management policies seek to minimise our for shareholders.
This is amplied in the UK exposure, and attain the appropriate balance property sector by exposure in development whereby we also identify and exploit the and gearing, which the Group aims to associated opportunities.
In setting out the Companys main risks and Outlook uncertainties, the outlook, and in respect of Our principal developments are located in other content, the Annual Report contains supply-constrained sectors, namely, City of statements which, by their nature, cannot London ofces, high-end London residential be considered indications of likelihood or and town centre shopping.
The statements are based on the markets have performed well over the last knowledge and information at the date of 12 months: in addition, our Ram Brewery preparation of this Business review, and what site should, subject to planning, provide a are believed to be reasonable judgements.
significant mixed-use development in a key A wide range of factors may cause the actual London suburb where such opportunities outcome and results to differ materially are rare.
from those contained within, or implied by, these various forward-looking statements.
Each of these projects is well positioned to Nor should any of these statements be take advantage of the markets they are in and construed as a profit forecast.
we remain confident, subject to the property market remaining robust, that we will deliver Our main risks and uncertainties revolve good returns to our shareholders.
The last few around the following areas: months have witnessed a degree of volatility demand and supply of tenants and in real estate stock prices and it is our view investors: that sustainable value will accrue to portfolios alternative uses for buildings, site that have quality product situated in prime assembly and re-development: locations.
Accordingly, it is our contention planning and construction risks: that the Groups development portfolio is underpinned by the fundamentals of supply funding sources and the interest rate and demand and thus well placed to deliver environment: long-term value.
health and safety: environmental and wider sustainability issues, particularly relating to growing concern with the challenges posed by climate change:
