The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 06 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Business review Our markets Our five markets are: 1.
Sales and production Markets as a proportion of total group revenue Services k Managed supply of dedicated garments Workwear to the individual worker k Supply, tting, selection advice k Automated dispensing solutions Countries k Denmark Sweden k Norway k Our workwear business provides light and k Finland heavy duty workwear for the different k Germany k Holland industrial and service sectors, including safety Poland k clothing such as reflective high visibility wear.
Czech Republic k We also provide services to the public sector.
k UK and Ireland Increasing legislation in health and safety Drivers as well as upgrades to best manufacturing Outsourcing k practice are positive drivers in this important of non-core services Employment trends k sector of our business.
Our workwear Mature markets k products are specific to meet our customers in our largest countries needs and the service requirements k New market sectors New country opportunities are therefore greater.
k Services k Dust control mat supply: basic and logo mats Facilities k Washroom cabinet and roller towel supply Washroom supply k k Wiper supply Countries k Denmark k Sweden k Norway Finland k k Baltics Germany k k Holland Poland k Our facilities range of products and services k UK Ireland are designed to improve hygiene and remove k dampness and dirt from the workplace, Drivers hotels and restaurants.
This range includes k Our key markets are still relatively immature washroom services as well as industrial k Outsourcing wipers.
Mats is the largest segment of this non-core services part of the business.
Sales led growth k The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 07 Governance Financial statements Investors Services k Managed linen supply Product innovation k Hotels and restaurants Workwear supply k and chefwear k Restaurant textile services Countries k Denmark Sweden k Finland k In our hotel and restaurant division we provide k UK at linen including bed linen, tablecloths, k Ireland napkins as well as towels.
We also provide Drivers workwear for hotel and restaurant staff k Growth of hotel and leisure industry including chefwear.
We provide systems and Competition generally local k solutions for managing these textiles within k Competition exiting our customers facilities.
In most of our markets, UK markets this is the most established of the outsourced Seeking appropriate pricing k for our efforts textile maintenance services and we focus our services at the high volume end of the market.
However, we are also able to offer a high quality service to restaurant customers.
Services k Managed linen supply to hospital ward Healthcare k Sterile textiles supply to hospital operating theatre Supply of single use textiles k and dressing packs Supply of sterile consumables k Decontamination k of surgical instruments k Textile management for other care facilities For our healthcare customers, we provide Countries Denmark linen together with management systems for k Sweden k ward linen and other patient related products.
Finland k In addition, we have a comprehensive sterile Germany k consumables and textile service for use in the k Austria k UK operating theatre, which is serviced from k Ireland specialist clean room operations.
We continue Drivers to expand the range of products and services Country healthcare budgets k we offer to the sector adding Clinical Ageing populations k Solutions and decontamination of surgical Outsourcing of non-clinical services k instruments in the UK this year.
Contracts based on tenders k Services Product design and tting k k Production Sales and production k Product sourcing k Retail outlets Countries k Sweden k Finland Baltics k k Germany k Holland k UK Drivers k Securing lowest cost producers k Consolidating buying power k Product design We have direct sales businesses selling principally linens and workwear, including retail shops in Sweden.
We also have manufacturing for some of these products.
These businesses complement our core business.
