Business review - Managing Directors review A year of strong achievement and exciting future opportunities Tony Pidgley Managing Director Berkeley has once again benefited from with Berkeley in a consulting capacity for a Driving success having a very clear strategy that aligns the further 12 months.
Berkeleys entrepreneurial approach interests of management and shareholders to land acquisition and creating and brings a welcome simplicity of The housing market in London and the new sustainable communities, approach to a complex and cyclical South-East has been favourable for combined with its ability to deliver business.
As a consequence we have Berkeley over the last year.
Of course, produced another set of balanced results, there remain many challenges within our through a highly disciplined generating free cash flow and growing both industry not least those associated with construction and selling process our unrivalled land bank and forward sales the planning process and we welcome is what makes Berkeley different.
position, as opposed to concentrating the recent announcement that the Office The result is inspiring communities solely on the income statement.
of Fair Trading is to conduct a review into that we, our customers, and all of this complex area and, in parallel, that our stakeholders demand.
Corporately, 2006 07 has been an active of customer satisfaction.
Any initiative and exciting year.
It began with the aimed at improving the supply and quality creation of St Edward Homes, a joint of housing is one we fully support.
Unrivalled venture with Prudential plc, which was landbank followed by our acquisition of the 50% of During the year Berkeley has continued to Responsible Strong St James we did not already own from our acquire new sites on a very selective basis business brands original joint venture partner, RWE Thames in what remains a competitive market and culture Water plc.
The end of the year saw the we were delighted to exchange development Driving establishment of three new joint ventures agreements with the London Boroughs of success Creative Experienced with Saad Investments Company Limited.
Hackney and Greenwich for the regeneration partnerships management On their own, each one of these of their estates at Woodberry Down and transactions demonstrates our ability to Kidbrooke, respectively.
In addition we Astute Planning form innovative partnerships for the future.
secured a number of new or additional financial and design Taken together, they indicate the planning consents, notably at The Warren in management expertise confidence and pace with which we are Woolwich, Battersea Reach and St George facing that future.
Wharf in South London, Caspian Wharf in Tower Hamlets, Queen Marys Hospital The achievements of the year are a tribute in Roehampton, Fleet in Hampshire and to the commitment and passion of all our North Bersted in West Sussex.
people and in turn a source of great pride for the management of the business.
Trading Analysis Our people are what really keep Berkeley Revenue for the Group was 918.4 million ahead, and I thank each and every one 2006 917.9 million.
This comprises of them for their outstanding contribution 867.9 million 2006 890.5 million of this year.
residential revenue, of which 44.0 million was from land sales 2006 1.1 million, I must also mention Roger Lewis who, after along with 50.5 million 2006 27.4 16 years with Berkeley, the last eight as million of commercial revenue.
Chairman, has announced his retirement from the Board.
During this time, Roger During the period, the Group sold 2,852 has brought to Berkeley a unique blend units at an average selling price of of industry knowledge, balance and style.
This compares with 3,001 units No one person will be able to replace every at an average selling price of 293,000 in aspect of his contribution, and he will be the same period last year.
We are therefore delighted that he has agreed to continue working At 50.5 million 2006 27.4 million, the 6 www.
co. uk Tabard Square, London The development of Tabard Square involved the regeneration and transformation of one of the largest brownfield sites 1.2 acres within central London A striking mixed-use scheme consisting of 3 contemporary buildings and a 22-storey landmark tower set around a landscaped public square Tabard Square provides 572 homes and includes 29,000 sq ft of commercial space, with the capacity for a 17,000 sq ft supermarket and a wide range of other facilities for residents and the local community 2007 OVERALL WINNER, DEVELOPER BERKELEY HOMES FOR TABARD SQUARE Business review - Managing Directors review continued Paragon, London Situated on a brownfield site that had Constructed using Modern Methods previously lain dormant for 12 years, of Construction, the programme time Paragon was created in partnership was reduced by 14 months compared with Thames Valley University and the to an equivalent site being built using London Borough of Hounslow exclusively traditional methods for key workers and students The eight separate buildings within the 4.7 acre site house 221 key worker homes and over 800 student Building Awards 2007 study bedrooms Major Housing Project of the Year 8 www.
co. uk Brands that deliver Our brands form the building blocks that enable us to realise the full potential within the business, each contributing in its own unique way to Berkeleys overall success.
Groups revenue from commercial activities reflecting an opening net debt position represents the disposal of commercial units of 255.1 million at 1st May 2005 and on fourteen mixed-use sites.
The most closing net cash position of 220.6 million significant of these was the disposal of at the end of the year which had benefited 2 130,000ft of academic space at Brentford.
from the disposal of Crosby.
Excluding joint ventures and land sales, The Groups share of post-tax results from the house-building operating margin for the joint ventures was 6.8 million compared Group was 19.5% compared to 17.5% for to 11.6 million last year.
This arises from the year ended 30th April 2006.
This is at the sale of 441 residential units 2006 the top end of the 17.5% to 19.5% range 816 units at an average selling price depending on mix reported by the Group of 329,000 2005 372,000 by over recent reporting periods and this St James, our then joint venture with reflects the favourable market conditions RWE Thames Water plc Thames Water.
Operating margins are With the acquisition of the 50% of expected to remain at the top end of this St James not already owned during the range, or even exceed it, but clearly will year, Berkeleys share of post-tax results depend upon market conditions.
from joint ventures will be negligible in 2007 08.
Net operating expenses have increased by 20.9 million from 70.9 million in Housing Market 2005 06 to 91.8 million this year.
This Berkeley continues to was due to the inclusion of St James in the second half of the year 9.6 million, benefit from Londons increased costs associated with accounting unique standing as a for share based payments 7.2 million, a one-off pension charge of 1.6 million World City and and an increase of 2.5 million in the financial centre underlying business.
The pensions charge was the net cost to Berkeley of members The housing market in Berkeleys core accepting an offer to transfer their benefits regions of London and the South-East has out of the Groups defined benefit pension been favourable over the year, driven by scheme which, along with the normal the feel-good factor, although there are annual pension scheme movements, has distinctions to draw between the two resulted in the retirement benefit obligation regions.
The London market has been being reduced from 10.3 million at the particularly strong for product which is built start of the year to zero at 30th April 2007. to a high quality in the right location for the right price.
This is principally due to Net finance income of 4.2 million Londons unique standing as a World City reflected the positive cash position of the and financial centre, attracting investment, Group and cash generative nature of jobs and families.
Put simply, it is a place operating activities in the year which has where people want to be, and Berkeley is seen net cash increase from 220.6 million building the sustainable communities in to 322.6 million at the half year prior to which our customers want to live.
Outside shareholder payments of 241.6 million in London in the South East, the market has January 2007 reducing this to 81.0 million undoubtedly been tempered by the four at 30th April 2007.
Last year the Group quarter per cent increases in interest rates had net finance costs of 7.4 million, but remains very satisfactory.
co. uk 9 Business review - Managing Directors review continued Berkeleys concentration on the quality remained relatively stable due in part to of its product, the location of its the supply of labour from the European developments and its pricing strategy, Union.
This stability will come under rather than the pursuit of volume growth, pressure as construction activity in London has created a competitive advantage builds up towards the 2012 Olympics.
which enables the Group to match supply and demand effectively and fully optimise Perhaps most significantly, the time and returns.
As a result Berkeley has secured costs required to achieve planning sales reservations with a sales value 15% consents continue to rise due to increasing ahead of those achieved in the previous section 106 contributions, including year and this is reflected in the strong affordable housing requirements, and the forward sales position at 30th April 2007. complexities associated with meeting As always, the outlook must be balanced todays high standards of environmental with caution as concerns over the and sustainable development practices.
affordability of housing, further rises This is a concern, not only from a financial in interest rates, inflationary pressures perspective as margins on new planning and high global stock market valuations consents will be impacted, but also could introduce fragility to the prevailing because, in extreme examples, the feel-good factor.
There are also continuing conflicting demands of all stakeholders security threats and we must not ignore could result in schemes in which people the potential impact of these on the do not want to live.
worlds economic and political stability.
Forward Sales Investors remain an important segment Berkeley held forward sales of of Berkeleys customer profile and have 936.3 million at 30th April 2007.
This accounted for approximately 40% of is an 18% increase on 793.3 million, reservations in the period.
This is lower the sum of the 581.9 million reported than the 50% reported last time but last year by the existing Group and remains very much in our range which 211.4 million in St James at acquisition.
fluctuates due to market conditions, the It has always been Berkeleys strategy mix of product and the phasing of to sell homes at an early stage in the launches on our sites.
Investors are development cycle, often off-plan, to attracted by the fundamentals underpinning secure customers commitment and ensure the housing market in London and the the quality and certainty of future revenue South-East and the lack of alternative and cash flow.
This years increase is due investment opportunities.
Under the to Berkeley capitalising on favourable Groups definition, investors range from prevailing market conditions in London.
a large institution to a customer purchasing a second home.
Land Holdings Over 95% of Berkeleys Sales price increases have continued to cover cost increases but there are a holdings are on brownfield number of pressure points that could or recycled land impact margins adversely in the future should the sales environment become less At 30th April 2007, the Group including favourable.
While materials prices have joint ventures controlled some 30,128 increased over the year, labour prices have plots with an estimated gross margin of 10 www.
co. uk New River Village, London Acquired in 2003, New River Villlage, in north London, is a former water treatment works that is been transformed into a striking new development.
The scheme contains some 622 units, set 2 around 17,000m of landscaped space The development features a broad array of leisure and commercial space, including a gym for residents and the acclaimed Pumphouse restaurant.
Business review - Managing Directors review continued 2,234 million.
This compares with 23,819 Land bank plots and an estimated gross margin of Land bank strengthened to 30,128 1,672 million at 30th April 2006. plots through acquisition of St Of these holdings, 21,209 plots April 2006 James, new St Edward JV and local 19,860 are owned and included on the authority schemes balance sheet.
In addition, 8,848 plots April 2006 3,264 are contracted and 2007 2006 a further 71 plots April 2006 695 have Owned 21,209 19.860 terms agreed and solicitors instructed.
Over Contracted 8,848 3,264 Agreed 71 695 95% of our holdings are on brownfield or Plots 30,128 23,819 recycled land.
Sales value 7,709m 6,067m Average selling price 256k 255k Todays land market remains highly Average plot cost 33k 31k competitive, requiring a disciplined and Land cost percentage 13.1% 12.3% innovative approach to land acquisition.
Gross margin 2,234m 1,672m Of the 18 new sites agreed in the year, two Gross margin percentage 29.0% 27.6% are Prudential sites in St Edward and two are sites that we will develop in partnership with local authorities.
The local authority sites are Woodberry Down in the London Borough of Hackney, a site of over 1,200 units, and Kidbrooke in the London Borough of Greenwich, a site of over 3,600 units.
Working in partnership with land owners has always been a feature of Berkeleys strategy, proving successful both for Berkeley and its partners, and we are delighted that a number of local authorities are choosing Berkeley as their preferred regeneration partner.
The St Edward and local authority sites account for the majority of the contracted plots.
At the same time Berkeley has continued to maximise its existing land holdings, on many of which new applications have been submitted.
The Groups land holdings include 2 approximately 1.5 million ft of commercial space within our mixed-use schemes.
The Group is not undertaking any standalone commercial schemes.
St James Group On 7th November 2006 Berkeley completed the acquisition of the 50% of St James that it did not already own from Thames Water for 97.5 million, including goodwill of 17.2 million.
On completion, St James paid Thames Water a further 93.5 million to accelerate the settlement of outstanding land creditors and to acquire six previously identified and negotiated sites.
Including the six new sites, which contain approximately 700 plots, St James land bank at acquisition totalled some 5,000 plots on 23 sites.
In what was widely regarded as a visionary approach to land development, St James 12 www.
co. uk The Royal Arsenal, London A multi-phase scheme on a 76 acre site that exemplifies mixed-use urban development and forms part of an entire regeneration of an historic riverside location Once complete, over 3,750 new homes will have been built, while it is estimated that the development will create around 1,000 jobs in the offices, retail units, theatre, cinemas and museums that will occupy the site Many of the Royal Arsenals buildings have been sensitively restored, including 18 listed buildings, among which is the Grade I Royal Brass Foundry Business review - Managing Directors review continued St George Wharf, London Acquired in 1997, St George Wharf occupies over 7 acres of London riverside at Vauxhall, London The development will comprise some 1,400 residential units and in excess of 150,000 sq ft of commercial space, as well as a 275m waterside promenade for residents and public alike 14 www.
co. uk was established as a 50:50 joint venture company by Thames Water and Berkeley in May 1996 to develop residential Thames Water sites and sites acquired on the open market.
Completing some 5,000 unit sales since it was established, St James proved a highly successful joint venture for its shareholders and Berkeley is delighted to have been able to take the opportunity to acquire 100% control of a business to which it has always been fully committed and in which it has historically invested significant management time and expertise.
As a joint venture partner, Berkeley had an intimate knowledge of St James business and, in particular, its land bank which includes an increasing proportion of third party land.
St James is now an established business in its own right with its own distinct management team, a number of the members of which transferred from Berkeley, guided by the same philosophy and operating procedures as Berkeleys wholly owned divisions.
The full integration of St James has been successfully achieved in the second half of the year with St James contributing 23.7 million to the Groups operating profit since its acquisition.
At the point of acquisition, St James ceased to be a joint venture and became a fully consolidated subsidiary and this accounts for the reduction in Berkeleys investments accounted for using the equity method from 69.0 million at the start of the year to 1.7 million at 30th April 2007.
New joint ventures Creative partnerships are a key part of Berkeleys strategy While sad that the relationship with Thames Water ended, Berkeley was delighted to have announced new joint ventures during the year: one with Prudential plc and three with Saad Investments Company Limited Saad.
St Edward Homes Limited was established in the first half of the year as a joint venture with Prudential, bringing together Prudentials financial strength and commercial expertise and Berkeleys passion and talent for creating sustainable new communities.
St Edward has a potential land bank of 2,230 plots across its first three sites Green Park in Reading, an office building in Kensington and a site in Stanmore.
co. uk 15 Business review - Managing Directors review continued On 24th April 2007, shareholders Developments Limited and Saad Berkeley either to third parties or to Saad Berkeley approved the establishment of three Investments Limited.
Developments Limited, the second of the new joint venture companies with Saad new companies.
Saad Berkeley Regeneration Limited Berkeley will invest up to 175 million will invest in development opportunities Saad Berkeley Investments Limited will over an expected 10 year investment which are outside Berkeleys normal acquire commercial property as period and, together with Saads acquisition criteria due to the size of opportunities are identified by its board of investment and external bank debt at capital requirement and or length of directors with a view to achieving returns a target equity to debt ratio of 30:70, planning lead time utilising financial primarily through capital growth.
Berkeley a fund of approximately 1 billion will leverage to reflect the capital intensive has previously conducted such activities be available to take advantage of land nature and risk profile of the sites, whilst through Saad Berkeley Investment opportunities as they present themselves limiting the shareholders exposure.
Once Properties Limited and Berkeley Eastoak to the three companies: Saad Berkeley suitable planning permission is obtained, Investments Limited, both joint ventures Regeneration Limited, Saad Berkeley the sites will be sold for development, with Saad, and Saad Berkeley Investments Limited is a continuation of this.
patience, determination, and a relentless potential, some outstanding new joint Commercial property investment is attention to detail.
Thats why Berkeley is a ventures, and a commitment to continue commonly undertaken through leveraged business with a natural size there simply turning our vision of regeneration into joint ventures and special purpose vehicles are not enough of us to do what we do on a reality built on integrity and quality.
to maximise shareholder returns and for a larger scale.
If we tried to, we would Berkeley this also reflects the fact that such sacrifice quality and value.
investment is of an opportunistic nature.
mean compromising the interests of both Thats Berkeley.
our customers and our shareholders Looking forward neither of which we are going to do.
Berkeley is all about people.
We build communities for people, and our ability This has been a busy year for Berkeley.
to do that depends on the passion and As we look to the future, we do so with imagination of the people who work for confidence.
Regeneration is complex: it needs landbank, the skills to optimise its Tony Pidgley Managing Director Battersea Reach, London When complete, Battersea Reach, in south west London, will comprise over 1,300 homes The development will feature in excess of 2 390,000 ft of commercial space, including offices, shops, restaurants and bars, a business centre, health and fitness suite and a crche
