Business review - Environmental and social report As a pioneer of urban regeneration, Berkeley Each year Berkeley has evolved its company, and external consultants.
It is is committed to making significant, long approach to reporting on sustainability to responsible for disseminating sustainability term contributions to the environmental, ensure that it gives the clearest possible strategy across the Divisions, as well as social and economic fabric of the portrait of how its sustainability strategy reviewing progress against targets.
communities in which the Group works.
We and policies are put into practice recognise the scale of the responsibilities throughout the Group.
This year, in its sixth Berkeley Homes, St George and St James, that result from this commitment and we annual Sustainability Report, Berkeley has meanwhile, each have their own internal have the passion to meet the challenges concentrated upon providing practical Sustainability Working Groups which meet that are expected of us.
examples of the progress that it has made at least quarterly.
All reporting to the in relation to its key sustainability impacts Groups SWG, these groups further embed At Berkeley, the term Sustainability and therefore the report is structured the daily practice of sustainability within describes how it manages its corporate around our strategic sustainability the business.
They are supported at project environmental, social and economic objectives and includes case studies from level by meetings convened to implement responsibilities.
As such, Berkeley considers across all of our divisions and many of our sustainability priorities and procedures on sustainability to encompass its wideprojects.
The report also provides detailed individual sites.
ranging corporate responsibilities, reporting against Key Performance sometimes referred to by its peers as CSR.
Indicators and our targets for 2007 08.
There are also a number of other forums With this embedded in its business which are used to support the practices, Berkeley is able to respond to its Governance implementation of Berkeleys sustainability stakeholders aspirations and concerns, The board-level Sustainability Governance strategy, covering Technical, Procurement, allowing it to demonstrate how its business Committee SGC has the responsibility of Energy, Water and Human Resources activities achieve these objectives.
setting the Groups sustainability strategy practices.
Where appropriate, these forums and ensuring that it is aligned with take responsibility for completing Berkeleys sustainability performance has business objectives.
Meeting three times a sustainability targets and report back to been measured since 2002 against a year, and attended by external consultants, the SWG on progress.
number of key performance indicators, the SGCs establishment reflects the which are reviewed regularly to ensure their importance that Berkeley attaches to the Sustainable development continuing relevance and impact.
direct link between its business and Berkeleys strategy of focusing on complex, sustainability.
mixed-use urban regeneration schemes Further information on Berkeleys places sustainable development at the sustainability strategy, activities, objectives At the next level, Sustainability Working core of its business activities.
and performance can be found in its Group SWG meetings are held once a 2007 Sustainability Report on its website: quarter and are attended by Board Berkeleys focus on bringing redundant www.
co. uk directors, senior managers from across the land in the UK back to life means that it Main board HR forum Sustainability Governance Committee Water forum Health & safety Technical forum Sustainability Procurement Energy forum working group Working Group forum Divisional operating company sustainability working groups Project teams Temporary Permanent governance governance entity entity 22 www.
co. uk Holborough Valley, Kent bats, fish and many wild plant species will A rich mix of wetland, woodland and chalk be able to flourish in and around the down environments surround the properties development.
Located close to a lake and at Holborough.
An Ecological Mitigation native woodland, new habitats have been Strategy and Conservation Management created providing plenty of wildlife interest Plan was drawn up for the site to ensure to compliment existing Nature Conservation that populations of birds, newts, slowworms, Sites and Sites of Scientific Interest.
Business review - Environmental and social report continued Sustainable development continued industry experts to help us develop our Specifically, Berkeley continues to place has consistently exceeded the strategies.
Our Lets Talk Energy and Lets Talk emphasis on the importance of Governments target of 60% development Water Conferences have enabled us to create construction waste management and the of new housing on brownfield land.
Indeed, a clear and consistent approach to environmental impact of the materials it at least 95% of Berkeleys developments sustainability issues in the planning and uses on its developments.
have been on brownfield land over the last design process.
We have also been evolving five years.
our understanding of the forthcoming Code Climate change is the singular most for Sustainable Homes and considering the important environmental challenge that we The planning and design of our developments commercial implications of achieving different are currently facing.
We are continuously is critical in securing environmental, social levels of the Code.
developing our approaches to climate and economic benefits for our customers and change mitigation and adaptation in line local communities.
There are no standard As the construction process is the most with good practice in respect of the solutions: we continue to focus on ensuring disruptive part of its development developments we build and the way in that we have processes in place to find the activities, Berkeley views its management which we manage our business.
In addition optimum outcome for specific projects.
of construction as a point of key focus to our work for the Lets Talk Energy During the past year we have been raising along the journey to creating sustainable Conference, we have recently undertaken awareness of specific issues and bringing in communities.
an independent carbon foot printing Case study: The Envirohome, Wind turbine In addition to raising awareness of Kennet Island, Reading A rated appliances sustainable housing to our customers, The Envirohome is a showcase for Energy efficient lighting we have also been seeking their general innovative  Efficient controlled heating feedback on the Envirohome, as well as technologies and emits 70% less carbon specific information on the technologies dioxide than a normal terrace house.
The house also features a range of wateron display.
The feedback received has saving technologies including grey water allowed us to judge which technologies The energy savings have been achieved recycling and rainwater harvesting, as well would be welcomed by consumers.
81% through a range of measures including: as recycling and composting facilities, and of visitors said that the Envirohome had High insulation and air tightness sustainable materials and furniture.
Local taught them more about how to conserve standards schools are being shown the development energy and help save the environment in Solar photovoltaic roof tiles in order to educate children of the benefits their own homes.
85% of visitors said Solar thermal roof tiles of living more sustainably.
that they would encourage friends and family to visit the Envirohome.
exercise, which demonstrates that the customers and purchasers the Stakeholder engagement carbon footprint of an inner city sustainability of the developments we Berkeley is committed to engaging with its development is approximately one-third build.
In addition, Berkeley recognises that stakeholders.
At a Group level this includes lower than an out of town development.
the satisfaction of the customer is corporate stakeholders and at a Divisional Our focus on urban regeneration is fundamental to the on-going success of the level it addresses the concerns and therefore the most significant step towards business.
In addition to maintaining a 4 aspirations of development specific addressing climate change.
In addition, we star rating in the Home Builders Federation stakeholders.
are employing a wide range of techniques Survey, Berkeley continues to receive strong to further reduce the carbon emissions customer satisfaction and recommendation In Berkeleys view, a stakeholder is anyone associated with our developments feedback from its customers.
that either affects or is affected by our including improving the energy efficiency of activities.
We have identified a range of our homes, incorporating renewable energy Obtaining recognition for its work in this stakeholders at Group, Divisional and and Combined Heat and Power field is important and Berkeley is delighted project level.
technologies and in encouraging our to continue to receive awards and external customers to use renewable energy tariffs.
recognition for sustainability, including A key driver in many of Berkeleys being named Regeneration Housebuilder of stakeholder relationships is its concern to Berkeley understands that people want to the Year, Sustainable Housebuilder of the form partnerships at many stages of the live in homes that are both affordable and Year and our Ropetackle development was development process with individuals, accessible, but also of good quality, and granted the prestigious title of Sustainable communities and public agencies.
In that it is important to communicate to Development of the Year.
Berkeleys experience, this is essential to Customers the purchasers of our homes Employees they are paramount in Industry bodies and trade associations and commercial premises are, of course, achieving our business objectives and our we work with them to promote good critical to the success of our business aims are to support, develop, protect and practice in sustainability reward them for their contribution to the Investors they are interested in both the success of the business Government national, local and regional financial performance of the business and we aim to work with all levels of the factors that may affect this Contractors and Suppliers they are government to inform their approach to performance in the short and long term critical to the delivery of our projects and sustainability therefore we aim to treat them fairly and Local Communities we are committed to work with them to achieve our Non-Government and Research listening to the concerns and aspirations of sustainability objectives organisations we regularly work with them the communities in which we work, and to achieve sustainable communities and finding appropriate solutions in every Housing Associations we work with them further our knowledge of susbtainability development to help deliver mixed tenure developments www.
co. uk 25 Business review - Environmental and social report continued Stakeholder engagement continued housing associations, Berkeley has ensured updates to employees regarding key issues the success of the type of regeneration that its developments cater for a wide such as financial results and awards.
range of different housing needs.
St George have also held three Lets Talk Conferences has developed the Nominated Essential attended by directors across all of the The practical application of these Workers Scheme NEWS which enables businesses, covering Energy, Water and partnerships can be demonstrated by key workers to take an equity stake in Health & Safety.
We have sought feedback the following case studies: relatively high value properties and rent the from attendees to ensure outcomes can balance at a subsidised level from the be delivered.
This is underpinned Extensive pre-application public with flexible tenure so should their economic Berkeley continues to attract talented consultation has taken place in respect of circumstances change they can increase or young individuals into the company through the regeneration of Roehampton House and decrease the equity.
Over 330 homes have the Berkeley Graduate Training Programme.
proposed development on the former been agreed with local authorities using This programme aims to provide its Queen Marys Hospital site, Roehampton.
We were also one of only two graduates with the foundations for a developers selected for Starter Homes successful career with the Group.
In 2007, This included meetings with local residents, Initiative Funding from Government to Berkeley recruited a further nine graduates, the Roehampton Quadrant Residents generate 94 affordable homes for public seven men and two women, from a variety Association, local ward councillors, and sector workers in Newham and of academic disciplines.
Each of its the Putney Society, a presentation to the Hammersmith.
graduates has taken up placements within Roehampton Forum, leaflets and public the Groups divisions where they are given exhibitions to provide local residents, At Beaufort Park we were one of the first experience in all the major disciplines of residents groups and civic organisations, developers to pilot the Governments the business.
with the details of the proposed scheme First-Time Buyers Initiative FTBI, in including the proposed layout, heights association with English Partnerships, Health and Safety of buildings, landscaping and transport the national regeneration agency.
The As a responsible business, Berkeley not initiatives.
FTBI enables aspiring first time buyers who only demonstrates compliance with the cannot otherwise afford to buy a home law, but also sets universal standards of In response St James considered the outright to purchase, through an affordable individual and collective behaviour in all issues raised and refined the development mortgage, and with Government assistance, of its activities.
Nowhere is this more design where possible to address a new home.
important than in the area of occupational concerns, for example: health and safety, where Berkeleys Employee involvement and commitment to all of its employees is In response to concerns regarding communication absolute.
Implemented on every site, overlooking, a block of apartments on the Berkeleys management philosophy is health and safety management systems boundary of the site has been replaced demanding and centres on the devolution of ensure that these policies remain a with a terrace of mews houses.
operational responsibility and accountability foundation of Berkeleys business.
Their to autonomous management teams.
This success is reflected by, among other Provision has been made in the layout for a has created a unique sense of purpose for indicators, the number of site managers potential future pedestrian and cycle link the people in each business and who completed the five-day CITB Site through the retained hospital land subject to empowered them to succeed, so building a Managers training course 97% in the the approval of the Primary Care Trust.
highly talented and loyal workforce.
It is also reflected by the numerous industry awards that Berkeley St James Homes is committed to ongoing Berkeley is firmly committed to the has received over the past year, such consultation with local residents following continuation and strengthening of as St George winning the coveted the submission of the application.
A communication lines with all employees.
Housebuilding and Property Development consultation website will be established for Sector Award at the 2007 Royal Society the public giving details of the application In the past few years, Berkeley has for the Prevention of Accidents scheme and inviting further feedback from developed new systems to strengthen Occupational Health & Safety Awards.
A further public exhibition is communication lines with employees.
planned for local residents in mid A key aspect of this was the launch of the Achieving such high standards provides September at which architects and other intranet in 2005 with an emphasis on it as even further incentive to seek continuous members of the design team will be on a tool to enhance communication within improvement.
Performance is consistently hand to answer queries.
The intranet is accessible to all audited and reported back to the Group employees and is regularly updated.
Main Board, further cementing Affordable housing housing choice Occupational Health and Safetys strategic In partnership with local authorities and In addition to the intranet, we also provide importance to Berkeleys business.
co. uk Key sustainability performance indicators management we believe reduces the risk of Average customer satisfaction % us not meeting minimum legislative Would you recommend Berkeley to your Brownfield utilisation % standards.
Berkeley has never had an best friend?
90% 90% 100% 86% 95% 76% 74% Eco Homes Berkeley continues to measure the 60% percentage of completed dwellings certified using the EcoHomes methodology as a Government target general benchmark of the environmental Berkeley performance target performance of the dwellings we build, and 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 Berkeleys performance in the past year 43.2% of units were EcoHomes certified.
Having an extensive Berkeleys focus on regenerating redundant understanding of the EcoHomes Berkeley recognises that without customers land in the UK means that it has methodology has allowed us to prepare for it would not have a business.
Their response consistently exceeded the Government the introduction of the Code for to the product it builds and the service it target of 60% development of new housing Sustainable Homes.
provides is vital to Berkeleys on-going on brownfield land.
100% of the land it has success.
Berkeley has continued to perform developed in the past year is on brownfield The Code for Sustainable Homes was strongly in relation to customer service, and land.
However, the Group does not intend to introduced by the Government in December was pleased to maintain its four star rating maintain this performance, but aims last year as a single national standard for in the most recent annual Home Builders instead to ensure that at least 95% of its measuring the sustainability of new Federation Survey.
development is on brownfield land.
Certification to Level 3 of the Code is now required by the affordable Average RIDDOR incident rates per 1,000 Site management housing bodies, and it is expected that it employees on all sites In 2006 07 96% of sites commencing will be required on all new housing from Health and safety is an integral part of construction were implementing Site Waste 2008 onwards.
good site management and Berkeley Management Plans in line with the DTIs continues to demonstrate strong Code of Practice.
In order to ensure that we are fully aware performance in this area.
The average of the commercial implications of the RIDDOR incident rate per 1,000 employees Rising landfill taxes, changes in the waste Code we have set a target to trial the was 7.2, compared to the House Builder acceptance criteria and the environmental assessment of the Code for Sustainable Federation all-builder average of 10.7. impacts associated with waste means it is Homes on a range of dwelling types over This data includes sites where the company a critical issue for the Group to address.
is the principle contractor and those where Berkeley understands these business it does not have primary management imperatives and, following a waste review, Transport responsibility for health and safety.
Berkeley set a target to implement Site One important way in which we can Waste Management Plans on its sites.
reduce the carbon footprint of our The Group has set the requirement that developments is to provide accessible these SWMPs must comply with the nine environments which give the opportunity steps set out in the DTIs Code of Practice, for residents to reduce their car use.
which enables it to manage and reduce We seek to reduce car dependency on the waste it produces.
all sites, and do this through a number of means, including designing the site to The Group has set a target that, as a encourage the use of public transport, minimum, 90% of sites commencing locating homes and places of work close construction must implement SWMPs in together to reduce the need to travel, and line with the DTIs Code of Practice.
This will providing facilities and incentives that enable the Group to adequately prepare for reduce car use.
any future legislation which may require SWMPs to be implemented on all sites.
Over 90% of our current sites are within 500m of a transport node.
Over the coming In 2006 07 98% of sites were signed up year we intend to review the work being to the Considerate Construction Scheme, undertaken at The Hamptons in relation to providing an external verification of our innovative transport initiatives and share strong commitment to the good site the outcomes within the Group.
