Business review 2007 has been another excellent year for the group.
We have continued to grow the business searching out strategic openings, pursuing vigorously the most profitable opportunities as well as building on long-term client relationships.
Andrew Beazley Chief executive US business Strategy The US is by far the largest non-life insurance market Our vision is to build a premium risk-taking business in the world and has one of the highest levels of measured by results and reputation.
Underpinning this penetration by brokers through whom we deal.
The US vision are the following four principles: business is fully integrated with our London business We are a specialist insurance and reinsurance and our underwriting is managed on a product line basis.
business focusing on underwriting and claims We regard our US operations as a natural extension of handling the Lloyds business we target markets we know well.
The portfolio will comprise both large and small risks, Having a presence on the ground enables us to insure with a geographical spread, and a balance between middle-market and small scale risks which we would not short and long tail businesses normally insure through London.
Products will be distributed through brokers During 2007 the business grew with premiums We will provide an excellent service to brokers increasing to $175.2m for the year 2006: $68.9m.
The enablers that will help us achieve this are: Of the $175.2m, $110.9m 2006: $35.9m was written through BICI, with the remainder being written directly to Access to business worldwide our two syndicates.
Figure 9 illustrates both the growth Developing new ways of providing customers with in the business overall and the growing importance of access to insurance products will help us grow the the insurance company in generating these premiums.
Claims management During 2007 we extended the branch network in the US, An exceptional claims management capability can expanding both specialty lines and property businesses.
be a source of competitive advantage for the group.
Our head ofce is in Farmington, Connecticut and we Consequently, we are making a significant investment have ofces in eight other US states.
Informed underwriting decisions Of this, $90.4m was written on behalf of BICI and a The knowledge and expertise of underwriters are further $44.2m for the Lloyds syndicates.
The specialty central to our ability to develop the classes of lines team in the US targets small to mid-sized business we write.
customers offering a variety of professional indemnity Access to our business worldwide insurance the current biggest segment being architects The Lloyds broker network provides us with access to and engineers, and management liability insurances large complex specialist insurance risks from throughout principally directors and ofcers liability, and the world and Lloyds and London continue to be the employment practices liability.
In February 2007, we hub for this type of business.
We have also established acquired Sapphire Blue, a Chicago-based MGA, which ofces in a number of overseas locations to access writes professional and general liability insurance for business that would not normally come to London.
We knew the organisation 8 www.
com Fig 9: US premiums written since 2005 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Q105 Q205 Q305 Q405 Q106 Q206 Q306 Q406 Q107 Q207 Q307 Q407 Surplus business Admitted business well, having supported the agencys business for a Accessing markets worldwide number of years.
In 2007 we wrote $16.1m through We continued to search out new geographical Sapphire Blue.
opportunities in 2007, writing business for the first time through our new branch ofces in Paris and Singapore, The property group, which writes both commercial complementing those ofces already established in Hong property insurance and high-value homeowners business Kong and the US.
The France and Singapore ofces both in the US, wrote premiums of $39.3m in 2007 2006: operate on the same basis, sourcing business locally on $10.3m.
We write US commercial property business on behalf of the Lloyds syndicates.
Building these branch both an admitted basis through BICI, and on a surplus operations enables us to access business we would not lines basis for the account of our Lloyds syndicates.
normally see, diversifying the risk portfolio geographically.
The admitted market business, which underwrites midIn France we write professional indemnity insurance, sized commercial risks, was launched in February 2007 within our specialty lines team, mainly focusing on and is supported by our internally developed Beazley protection for insurance brokers and agents.
In Singapore, Trade underwriting system and offers brokers and a team within the property group writes specialist clients service standards rarely matched in the domestic engineering risks and is managed through the UK.
The high value homeowners business, based in Florida, continues to develop a reputation as a high quality local insurer, writing business on a surplus lines basis.
Fig 10: Beazley USA office locations US offices number of staff 1.
Boston, MA 7 5 3 6 Beazley Annual Report 2007 9 US $m Business review continued Fig 11: Cumulative rate changes since 2001 % 200 180 160 140 120 100 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 Underwriting year Specialty lines Marine Property Reinsurance Last year, we decided to set up claims operations in the Claims management US to manage US professional and management liability Unlocking the value in claims claims emanating from both Lloyds business and BICI.
We continued investing in the claims service during This has enabled us to tap into new talent pools for 2007.
The results to date have been positive, delivering claims managers, to develop closer relationships improved underwriting and pricing capabilities, high client with clients, and to achieve better results on claims retention rates, lower cost of the claims, and improved by supporting clients in person at mediations and confidence in results and reserving.
As a consequence, we have continued insureds and brokers along with competitors recognise to grow these operations.
the benets of this investment.
In a poll of over 3,000 risk managers, insurers, reinsurers and brokers conducted We remain confident that the energy invested in this by Reactions magazine, Beazley was awarded Best important area will continue to benefit both clients and Insurance Company for Claims Handling.
We believe that there is potential to add the specialty lines claims team won Insurance Days more value in this core area.
Claims Team of the Year award where the team was Informed underwriting decisions described by Insurance Day as having demonstrated Rating environment an enviable track record in handling complex claims and Overall the rates charged for business we renewed a clear structure highlighting the relationship between fell by 4% in 2007 2006: an increase of 6%.
This underwriting and claims professionals.
reduction should be viewed in the context of the We have chosen to differentiate our approach to claims historically high rates seen in the market at the end of service from competitors.
We do not have a separate 2006, as demonstrated by Figure 11.
Since 2001, rates claims department claims managers and underwriters across all our lines of business have increased by 49%.
are integrated by product line.
We pride ourselves on In the property division, rates reduced by 2%.
The high quality, appropriately sized teams, with specialist reductions are a reection of a relatively benign claims skills.
For example, in specialty lines many of our claims environment, particularly on the catastrophe-exposed managers are sourced from partner and senior associate parts of this account.
Similar rating pressure was also roles in top law rms.
Most have over 10 years experience experienced by our reinsurance team in the later stages and expertise in specialist areas, such as the insurance of 2007.
Despite this, overall, this business saw rates of architects and engineers, professional and general increase by 5%.
In 2006 the catastrophe parts of these liability and employment practices.
In the property division, insurance accounts saw significant rate increases as a claims managers each have at least 14 years experience.
result of the high level of claims following the devastating In the marine division, we employ a chief engineer of ships hurricane season in 2005. to evaluate the claims, nding alternative solutions to clients exposures and our own.
Similarly the marine business has faced increasing competition across all lines, particularly in marine cargo We adopt a team-based approach to claims, particularly and energy, where rates have fallen by 7% and 9% in specialty lines where third party claims can generate respectively.
These are insurance risks we know well, significant complexity, and have developed analytical and their pricing reects this knowledge.
tools to support our efforts.
We have also rened our approach in the selection of counsel and adjusters and are working closely with them to improve their practices.
com The largest line of business, specialty lines, saw a 5% a significant part of our portfolio and represent one of rate reduction.
The overall specialty lines account has our core competencies.
We expect this decline to be been trading at historically high levels for a number of counterbalanced by the growth of the US operations.
Premiums achieved in 2007 were 58% higher than We continue to constantly monitor the cycle across lines that for comparable risks in 2001.
We are confident of of business as eternal vigilance is the key to success the level of profitability in specialty lines supported by the and market conditions may alter rapidly.
pricing methods employed, risk management approaches The US strategy is to source business that is not subject adopted, and claims handling techniques applied.
to the same competitive pressures as the Lloyds market Growth and balance business.
The US operations are now well established In 2007 gross premiums written increased by 5% to and we expect this business to continue to grow 780.5m.
This is only partly explained by the increase in substantially in 2008.
We have set a target for premiums ownership of the managed premium capacity at Lloyds, underwritten locally in the US of $250m.
The main reason Our people are closely aligned to the interests of our for the increase is the growth of our premiums written shareholders.
Management and staff own 15.6 million through our operations in the US.
shares 4% of the company, and underwrite 10m of The balance between our locally underwritten US capacity through our Lloyds syndicate.
business and our Lloyds business of which US risks are Managing the insurance cycle remains our key objective also a major component is a key part of our strategy to and with more than 21 years experience of market cycles, manage the insurance cycle.
By marketing insurance the challenges are not unfamiliar to us.
We look forward products through these separate, but complementary, to 2008 based on our current market position, strategic distribution channels we can achieve a less volatile focus and experienced team of underwriters, claims and business mix than a Lloyds only strategy.
No one likes to see a market soften, but we Outlook expect the cycle to create opportunities for established, 2008 will be a more challenging year for the insurance well diversied, underwriting focused businesses like ours industry and will give us the opportunity to distinguish to create substantial long-term profits.
We have built a platform that is differentiated from peers in the products we offer Andrew Beazley we are the largest insurer of US professional liability Chief executive business at Lloyds : the way we access business through our US operations: and our approach to claims management.
Over the past two years, strong market conditions and an absence of significant catastrophe losses have contributed to excellent results across the sector.
The area of most competition is the large catastropheexposed syndicated property business where there are few barriers to entry.
Although our income in this area is expected to fall in 2008, these lines will still form Beazley Annual Report 2007 11
