Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 26 2 08 10:44 Page 6 06 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Directors report Business review information that will allow us to stay at the The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report cutting edge of product development in our on the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007. chosen markets.
Specialists in mortgage distribution The majority of our new business is distributed through mortgage intermediaries under our Mortgage Express brand.
We have a long established record of driving mortgage origination growth through this channel.
Our strategy Throughout 2007, we have made significant improvements in our intermediary service proposition which will further enhance our Bradford & Bingleys strategy is to establish sources of income.
We have continued position as one of the industrys leading leading positions in sectors of the UK to improve customer choice in this area, intermediary lenders.
mortgage market that offer superior longcreating better value products available term potential for growth and profitability, to a wider range of people.
Whilst we In addition to organic mortgage origination, enabling the Group to provide attractive remain comfortable with our participation in during 2007 we continued to acquire prime returns to shareholders.
this market, during 2007 we have tightened mortgage portfolios under agreements with lending criteria and increased pricing in GMAC-RFC and Kensington Mortgages.
While order to contain volumes.
this activity slowed during the second half of We are competing in the year, it remains a valuable alternative We also selectively compete in other areas attractive markets distribution channel for us.
of the mortgage market that meet our We have chosen to compete in markets requirements for risk-adjusted returns, that have attractive fundamentals.
Our Strong, diversified offering products that satisfy specific core markets buy-to-let, self-cert and customer requirements.
funding base other niche products each offer good risk-adjusted returns.
These products are Diversified funding, including a strong retail As one example, lifetime mortgage lending is more complex than mainstream mortgages savings business, has been a key component currently a small market, but has the potential and the additional expertise required of Bradford & Bingleys strategy for many for significant growth.
Housing equity is a very to manufacture and distribute these years.
The second half of 2007 demonstrated significant, and currently under-utilised, asset loans provides the basis for our the importance of this approach: we remained in retirement.
Our lifetime mortgage products competitive advantage.
able to fund the business in what have been make it possible for customers to make use of very challenging market conditions.
this asset without the need to sell their home.
Our chosen markets continue to grow, underpinned by long-term shifts in UK Unlike many lenders active in our chosen consumer demographics.
We are experts in specialist markets, a large proportion of our funding comes from customer deposits, which we mortgage lending The buy-to-let market has two key drivers: distribute through our branch network and via the continued growth of the private rental In each of our markets we are creating lasting our online, telephone and offshore channels.
sector: and sources of competitive advantage that will These deposits provide access to safe and the relatively low penetration of buy-to-let make us the leading provider of specialist stable funding at an average cost that is loans within this market.
These sources of below wholesale rates.
advantage extend across our whole business.
Several factors support the continued strong A particular highlight for 2007 has been our demand for rental properties, including Understanding and meeting joint-venture with ASDA which enables us to increased participation in further education, customer needs reach some 11 million ASDA customers with greater labour force mobility, relatively high Changing customer needs are driving growth competitive products, providing significant UK immigration levels, and continuing in our core lending markets.
We have been further growth opportunities for our savings reductions in average household size.
As offering specialist lending products for many business.
Indeed, savings market a result, the private rental sector is forecast years and our understanding of customers, development will continue to be a key to experience growth for at least the next together with our skills and experience in strategic theme for Bradford & Bingley for decade, creating a significant opportunity product design and underwriting, are core 2008 and beyond as we explore further new for buy-to-let lending.
product segments and distribution channels.
Our funding platform received a significant Self-cert lending is lending to prime During 2007, we continued to make test during the second half of 2007 and our customers with non-standard employment.
significant investments in our product ability to raise 2.5bn from private Growth in this market is supported by capabilities by further investing in people, transactions in a six week period when the strong demographics: steady levels of systems and infrastructure.
This includes wholesale markets were effectively closed is self-employment,  extending the product design teams, credit testament to the skill and expertise of our earnings and borrowers with multiple analysis and modelling and customer wholesale market operations.
Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 26 2 08 10:44 Page 7 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 07 Diversified funding, including a strong retail savings business, has been a key component of Bradford & Bingleys strategy for many years.
These risks are managed by approach is to maintain a diverse range of Managing the principal risks a comprehensive framework of management sources of funding so as not to become to our strategy committees and risk management specialists dependent on any single market or route of with clear roles and responsibilities.
Furthermore, we adopt a policy of The Group is exposed to a number of risks putting funding in place prior to committing to arising from the nature of its business and the Credit risk is the possibility that loans made by new lending obligations.
Our funding and environment in which we operate.
The most the Group, to individual customers in the form of cashflow management activities are significant risk faced by the Group, and any mortgages and to other corporate institutions, governed by a liquidity and funding policy that organisation, is ensuring the strategy adopted will not be repaid when they fall due.
Prudent establishes minimum levels of available cash, is appropriate to the circumstances in which underwriting policies and analytical reviews are or assets that can be converted into cash, we operate.
In order to manage this risk, one applied to credit decision making to assess the in a short time period, in the event of the executive director has specific responsibility for likelihood that the Group could suffer loss as a need to repay loans or provide funds to matters of medium term strategic direction, function of its lending.
Pricing levels are our depositors.
including the forecast for our economic and established to take this into account.
The Group considers the limits are applied to differing types and classes The Group is exposed to a number of key environmental factors affecting its strategy of loan to ensure that risk is not too operational risks that may arise in the event to be the strength and prospects for the UK concentrated in any one area.
that processes fail to function as intended.
economy including housing and mortgage The possibility of these risks resulting in loss markets, unemployment levels and interest Financial risk, such as that arising from is managed by the adoption of detailed rates.
The Board devotes at least two changes to interest and foreign currency rates, controls across all functions of the business.
meetings per annum to the consideration of are managed by our Treasury function.
They These controls are set out in a series of Board strategic matters.
operate under a series of policies and limits policy documents and are implemented by For more information on to ensure the overall exposure is managed the executive management of the Group.
25-27 corporate governance see pages within agreed tolerance levels.
For more information on 18-21 risk management see pages The risk that the Group cannot raise sufficient The implementation of the Groups strategy funds in order to repay its obligations as they exposes the business to credit risk, financial fall due is known as liquidity risk.
The Groups risk including market and liquidity and Buy-to-let Product overview Buy-to-let loans are no different from other residential mortgages in the sense that they are fully secured on residential property.
However, the income required to cover mortgage payments is derived from the rent generated by the property rather than the borrowers salary or private income.
Buy-to-let offers customers an opportunity to make a leveraged investment in property.
Typically the mortgage can be up to 85% of the value of the property and rental income is required to exceed mortgage payments usually by 25%.
For lenders, buy-to-let offers superior risk-adjusted returns.
There is a margin premium over standard residential mortgages: arrears rates and losses are broadly comparable.
Drivers of demand There is considerable room for further growth with increasing demand for rented accommodation and the attractiveness of buy-to-let as an effective means of financing investment in rental property.
We conduct regular surveys of buy-to-let landlords and in October 2007 a high proportion 86% intended to increase or maintain their investment in rental property.
Market and competition Mortgage Express, our intermediary lending business, was a pioneer of the buy-to-let product in the UK and now, over a decade later, we are still the leading buy-to-let lender in the UK.
There has been substantial growth in the UKs buy-to-let market, particularly over the last five years.
At the end of 2007, there were over 1 million buy-to-let loans outstanding, worth around 120bn, representing just over 10% of the total mortgages in the UK.
Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 26 2 08 10:44 Page 8 08 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Directors report Business review Our strategy continued Self-cert Product overview Self-cert mortgages are designed to meet the needs of customers who do not have a conventional, single source of income required on a standard mortgage application.
This may be because they are self-employed, have irregular, commission-based income or multiple sources of income.
Although we still require self-cert applicants to state their income and carry out a standard affordability assessment, our underwriting relies more heavily on the credit search and other forms of automated checking.
As part of this process a sense check is carried out in order to ensure that the stated income is consistent with the applicants age, occupation, location and time in employment or self-employment.
Self-cert lending is higher risk than standard lending, however the combination of rigorous underwriting and premium pricing ensures that risk-adjusted returns are better than those available in the standard market.
Drivers of demand The foundations remain strong.
Growth in the self-cert market in the UK has been driven by changing working patterns with increasing numbers of people going into business for themselves there are now four million self-employed in the UK.
We have also seen considerable growth amongst employed applicants who have additional income from a second job or investment and want to include this income in their main mortgage application.
This type of mortgage is becoming more commonplace due to changes in working patterns and earnings.
Market and competition The self-cert market has become increasingly sophisticated in the last two years and there are now broad ranges of products catering for the specific needs of these customers.
In particular, the advent of regulation has increased confidence in the processes surrounding the sale of self-cert mortgages which has led to growth both in terms of lenders offering self-cert and intermediaries distributing the product.
As the product becomes more mainstream, we expect to see increasingly innovative solutions designed to address the specific needs of these customers.
Although a number of new lenders have entered the self-cert market over the last two years, their impact on the market has been limited.
Other specialist markets The UK residential mortgage market is becoming increasingly diverse.
Consumers have a growing range of specialist needs, which are not satisfied by the traditional mortgage offering.
Previously accepted views of house purchasers, and what they need from their mortgages, are changing.
Young people and first-time buyers are turning to a variety of new options to establish themselves in a home, such as, seeking help from family or pooling their financial resources with friends.
Equally, sectors of the market such as remortgagers and home movers can no longer be viewed as homogeneous groups served by one size fits all solutions, meaning that advice and innovative product solutions are becoming more important.
Changes in society are generating opportunities to develop unique product propositions.
There is a continuing trend towards one-person households and a large number of house transactions result from some form of relationship breakdown.
In addition, an increasing number of people are coming to the UK to work or study.
Many want to buy a property here, as a permanent base or as an investment.
Many people also see the equity in their property as part of their retirement provision.
Furthermore Bradford & Bingley research suggests that 58% of retired people would prefer to stay in their home, which is leading to an increased focus on equity release mortgages.
With our existing skills and infrastructure, Bradford & Bingley is well placed to take advantage of these trends.
We have mortgages for niche markets including our Lifetime equity release mortgage range.
