REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW Introduction satisfaction see Improving customer satisfaction and service on British Telecommunications plc is a wholly owned subsidiary of BT page 4.
Group plc and is BT Group plcs principal trading subsidiary.
From the 2008 financial year, customer service replaces BT Group plc is the listed holding company for an integrated customer satisfaction as a KPI.
group of businesses that provide communications solutions and services in the UK and elsewhere in Europe, the Americas and the Pursue profitable growth in new wave markets Asia Pacic Region.
British Telecommunications plc holds virtually In the 2007 financial year, 36% of our revenue was from new wave all businesses and assets of the BT group.
activities primarily networked IT services, broadband and mobility Our vision is for BT to be dedicated to helping customers thrive up from 32% in the 2006 financial year.
Our mission is to be the leader in delivering converged networked services.
Develop our networked IT services capability We are committed to increasing shareholder value by transforming Our networked IT services strategy is to reinforce BTs position as a the customer experience through service excellence, by the effective global player competing alongside the worlds best in selected management of our strong brand, and by exploiting our large scale markets.
We continue to develop broader and deeper capabilities networks and by delivering exciting new services to our existing around the world.
Our portfolio of services includes managed customer base.
We aim to nd new and mutually rewarding ways of network services, systems integration, IP infrastructure, CRM engaging with around 18 million customers to capitalise on the customer relationship management, security applications, possibilities of convergence, to offer global reach combined with the managed mobility, hosting and outsourcing.
service values associated with local delivery, and to continue to provide innovative services and solutions.
Broadband at the heart of BT Our principal activities include networked IT services: local, In the 2007 financial year, we continued our drive to enhance the national and international telecommunications services: broadband awareness, availability and attractiveness of broadband.
At and internet products and services: and converged xed mobile 31 March 2007, we had 10.7 million broadband lines including LLU products and services.
In the highly competitive retail market, our market share of consumer and business DSL digital subscriber line Our operational structure and LLU broadband connections in the UK was 34%.
With BT has four customer-focused lines of business: BT Global Services, 3.7 million broadband connections including PlusNet, we are now BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
the UKs most popular broadband retailer including cable.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly within the UK, where BT is the largest communications services provider to Create convergent mobility solutions the residential and business markets, supplying a wide range of In a convergent world, individuals and businesses increasingly need communications products and services, including voice, data, to connect and communicate wherever they happen to be, using internet and multimedia services, and offering a comprehensive whatever devices they choose, and we offer a range of mobility range of managed and packaged communications solutions.
services in both the consumer and business markets.
BT Global Services provides a range of products and services, In the 2007 financial year, group mobility revenues were 294 including communications, networked IT and consultancy services million.
The emphasis was increasingly on new services that give to address the needs of major corporations, governments and customers the best of xed and the best of mobile communications, multi-site organisations.
either combined in a single handset or bundled together in a In April 2007, we announced a new structure which includes compelling offer.
At 31 March 2007, we had a total of 314,000 two new business units and is designed to enable us to deliver mobile connections in the UK both GSM and our new intelligent faster, more resilient and cost effective services to customers xed mobile service BT Fusion.
In addition, we manage around wherever they are.
With effect from 1 July 2007, BT Design will be 100,000 connections on behalf of large enterprise customers, the responsible for the design and development of the platforms, majority of which are outside the UK.
systems and processes which will support our services: BT Operate The number of customer minutes on BT Openzone our public will be responsible for their deployment and operation.
Around wireless broadband service grew by 60% in the 2007 financial year 20,000 BT employees from design, operations, IT and networks compared with the previous year.
will move into these new units.
We believe that these changes will keep BT ahead of the game.
Defend our traditional business Although we continue to face challenges in our traditional markets Our strategy as a result of competition, a shift in our customers buying patterns Our strategy is to: and a tough regulatory regime, we aim to defend our traditional business mainly calls and lines while offering customers new, s pursue profitable growth in new wave markets next-generation services.
s defend our traditional business Active voice customer customers who generate voice revenue s transform our networks, systems and services for the twentylosses in the 2007 financial year were the lowest for more than first century three years in spite of intense competition from other providers s create long-term partnerships with our customers.
This reduced rate of loss was driven by a range of price reductions and by encouraging customers The successful delivery of this strategy depends on the to sign up for our innovative pricing packages.
commitment of all BT people and our continued ability to manage their development and reward them.
Transform our networks, systems and services for the twenty-first For the 2007 financial year, the KPIs key performance century indicators against which we measured the success of our strategy Our strategy is to build innovative and versatile networks that will were free cash ow see Financing on page 20 and customer be a platform for rapid delivery of new services and simultaneously transform the customer experience and enable us to operate ever 2 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Report of the Directors Business review more cost effectively.
Our 21CN twenty-first century network, for operate their networks and applications efficiently and transform example, is helping to define communications networks for the their business to gain advantage in the digital networked economy.
future and we are investing in an innovative exible systems infrastructure throughout BT.
Openreach Openreach is a new line of business created within BT following Our UK network Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications.
It was launched BT has the most comprehensive xed-line communications network operationally on 21 January 2006 and was separately reported in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, more than 700 local and within BTs results for the first time in the 2007 financial year.
100 trunk processor units, more than 120 million kilometres of Openreach manages the first mile of the UK access network on copper wire and more than 9 million kilometres of optical bre, and behalf of the telecommunications industry.
It operates and delivers the most extensive IP backbone network in the UK.
The network ubiquitous services on an open and even-handed basis, to any and services we provide include frame relay, ATM asynchronous all communications providers, including to BTs own downstream transfer mode and IPVPN internet protocol virtual private divisions.
It also strives not just to provide, maintain and repair the network.
access infrastructure, but to continually improve both service and reliability.
Our global reach We have one of the broadest IP-enabled networks in Europe and BT Wholesale our network-based services extend to and across North and South BT Wholesale is the line of business within BT that provides network America and the Asia Pacic region.
services and solutions within the UK.
Its customers include As at 31 March 2007, our agship MPLS multi-protocol label communications companies, xed and mobile network operators, switching network service provided coverage and support to over internet and other service providers interconnecting with BTs UK 100 countries from more than 1,300 points of presence.
Our MPLS xed line network.
The customer base also includes BTs other lines revenue grew by 31% during the 2007 financial year to of business, BT Retail, BT Global Services and Openreach.
Global customer service is provided via service and network BT Retail management centres around the world, 24 hours a day, seven days BT Retail is the line of business within BT that provides xed line a week.
telephony services, equipment sales, rentals and other business voice products.
BT Retail also provides new wave products and Create long-term partnerships with our customers services such as networked IT services, broadband products, We believe that our relationships with our customers are key, mobility products and BT Vision.
In the small and medium size particularly in a market experiencing major transformation.
SME UK business market BT Business has developed packages and Understanding customers needs and responding to them exibly, services that offer a simple and complete solution.
The portfolio comprehensively and with insight is critical in helping to includes IP infrastructure WAN LAN and IP telephony and also differentiate us from our competitors.
That is why we aim to put Data Centre Services, Security, Applications and outsourcing.
Other the customer at the heart of everything we do strengthening that BT Retail businesses include BT Ireland, dabs.
com, Directories and relationship and building trust and delivering what we promise.
is encouraging customers to move from short-term contracts based on individual transactions, to longer-term arrangements under Transforming our costs which they sign up for packages of services.
We remain focused on financial discipline and on delivering efficiency programmes to generate sustainable cost savings.
Outlook We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in the Our performance underpins our confidence that we can continue to industry.
In the 2007 financial year, efficiency programmes grow revenue and EBITDA before specic items over the coming delivered savings of over 500 million, enabling us to invest in growing our new wave activities and increase our profits.
We are confident in our ability to accelerate the strategic A key area of focus has been enhancing the ways in which transformation of the business.
We seek to maintain a solid customers can deal with BT, simultaneously saving costs and investment grade credit rating and will continue to invest for the improving customer service.
Programmes have targeted the cost of future.
failure by, for example, minimising the number of times a customer call is transferred before resolution and reducing the amount of call Lines of business waiting time through better call routing.
BT Global Services The number of transactions completed via bt.
com rose by more BT Global Services supplies managed services and solutions to than 90% in the 2007 financial year.
And at 31 March 2007, we multi-site organisations worldwide our core target market is had over 2.8 million customers receiving e-bills up 22% in the 10,000 multi-site organisations including major companies with financial year over 900,000 of whom do not receive a paper bill significant global requirements, together with large organisations in a 90% increase on 31 March 2006. target local markets.
We aim to provide them with networked IT We have also been reducing the complexity of our systems and services and a complete range of managed solutions.
As well as processes see IT Support on page 8. local, national and international communications services together Other programmes relate to innovative procurement and with higher-value broadband and internet products and services, BT sourcing and we continue to look at ways of streamlining our Global Services also offer customers a comprehensive portfolio of organisation and eliminating duplication.
networked IT services, focused around messaging and conferencing, We also continued to reduce overheads such as accommodation, Customer Relationship Management CRM, convergence, using buildings more efficiently and introducing exible working outsourcing and security services.
Consultancy services are also practices.
In the 2007 financial year, we vacated around 40 provided to help organisations understand network performance, buildings and installed an additional 1,300 exible workstations which can be shared by multiple users.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 3 Improving customer satisfaction and service Our policy is to comply fully with the regulatory framework in Improving customer satisfaction remains a significant challenge which we operate, while competing fairly and vigorously within the one that we need to rise to if we are to maintain long-term, rules.
mutually rewarding relationships with our customers.
This is why our aim in the 2007 financial year was to increase the number of Ofcom customers who are very or extremely satisfied with BT by 5%, at The Ofce of Communications Ofcom was set up under the Ofce the same time as maintaining the improvements in customer of Communications Act 2002 to provide a single, seamless dissatisfaction levels we had achieved in previous years.
approach to regulating the entire communications market.
Its In the 2007 financial year, the average score for customers who principal duties are to further the interests of citizens in relation to were very or extremely satisfied was around 3% higher than in communications matters and to further the interests of consumers the 2006 financial year: levels of dissatisfaction remained the same.
in relevant markets, where appropriate by promoting competition.
Understanding what drives satisfaction is crucial to delivering Regulation takes the form of sets of conditions, mostly laid improvements that will sustain loyal relationships with our down by Ofcom under the Communications Act 2003 customers.
During the 2007 financial year, for example, we Communications Act, and directions under these conditions.
Some recruited additional call centre staff and improved our repair and conditions apply to all providers of electronic communications call handling performances.
In addition, we launched a number of networks and services: others apply to individual providers which new services, products and pricing changes designed to improve are designated as having a USO universal service obligation or, customer perception of the value for money we offer and how we following a review of relevant markets, are found to have SMP account manage our relationships with them.
significant market power which is aligned with the competition law concept of dominance.
Much of our training and development activity remains focused on removing any barriers to the delivery of excellent customer Other more general types of obligations are set out in the service.
Our core people engagement initiative, the my customer Communications Act.
programme, aims to enable all BT people to deliver great customer service through teamwork.
Conditions applying to all providers of electronic communications Looking forward, we aim to drive further improvements through networks or services a relentless focus on customer service measures including right first General conditions time keeping our promises and cycle time the speed at which The general conditions made by Ofcom under the Communications we deliver service.
Act apply to all providers of electronic communications networks or services.
Although these conditions are concerned primarily with Regulation, competition and prices consumer protection, they also address issues such as general BT operates in an increasingly competitive and dynamic commercial access and interconnection obligations, standards, emergency environment, both in the UK and around the world.
A separate condition regulates the The 2006 financial year saw the most significant change to the provision of premium rate services.
UK regulatory regime since BT was privatised when, in response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, we proposed a Electronic Communications Code conditions number of legally-binding Undertakings under the Enterprise Act The Electronic Communications Code applies to communications 2002 the Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings were accepted by providers authorised to carry out streetworks and similar activities Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
See BTs for network provision.
Its application is subject to conditions made Undertakings under the Enterprise Act on page 5 by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty to the UK telecommunications industry, with regulation focused on Other general obligations the bottleneck parts of the network, and over time rolled back Other general types of obligations contained in the elsewhere, to the benefit of consumers and others in the Communications Act include: marketplace.
This is mainly being achieved through Openreachs operations s the payment of administrative charges broadly the equivalent offering certain products and services to all communications of licence fees under the old framework providers in the same way and through other widespread s the provision of information to Ofcom when required.
Since the Undertakings came into force, we have made good progress in delivering our Conditions applying to BT specically obligations.
Other regulatory highlights in the 2007 financial year Universal service obligation conditions included achieving deregulation in wholesale international services BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, markets, the ending of retail price controls and the ending of our excluding the Hull area where Kingston Communications is the pricing commitments on wholesale calls.
Ofcom is currently carrying designated provider.
out a market review of the wholesale broadband access market and The services covered by the USO are dened in an order issued is expected to carry out three further market reviews in the 2008 by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
See significant market power conditions.
obligation is to provide a single narrowband connection to the xed telephone network which, in addition to voice services, must Regulation in the UK support functional internet access dial-up to anyone who UK regulation is conducted within a framework determined by reasonably requests it.
various EU European Union directives, regulations, and recommendations.
This framework is currently under review by the significant market power conditions European Commission and proposals for revised EU directives are Ofcom is required by EU directives regularly to review relevant expected towards the end of the 2007 calendar year, although they markets and to determine whether any communications provider are unlikely to take effect in the UK before 2010. has SMP in those markets.
Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP in a market, it must impose such additional conditions as it 4 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Report of the Directors Business review considers appropriate, as specified in the Communications Act.
BT had 38% of the market for business xed-voice calls including These may include obligations to meet reasonable requests to local, national and international for the quarter ended supply certain services to other communications providers, not to 30 September 2006, compared with 39% for the quarter ended discriminate unduly and to notify price changes and obligations 30 September 2005.
We supplied around 71% of exchange lines in relating to regulatory accounting.
In some cases, extra obligations the UK for the quarter ended 30 September 2006, compared with such as price controls have also been imposed.
78% for the quarter ended 30 September 2005, with cable Following a number of market reviews by Ofcom, BT has been operators being the primary alternative providers.
deemed to have SMP in certain xed telecommunications markets, including all or parts of the markets for: xed narrowband retail Competition law services, xed narrowband wholesale exchange lines, call In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is origination and conveyance, wholesale broadband access and subject to the competition law provisions of the Competition Act wholesale local access.
1998 the Competition Act in the UK and of the European During the 2007 financial year, Ofcom determined that we no Community Treaty.
Breach of UK or EU rules could lead to fines of longer have SMP in any of the wholesale international services up to 10% of a companys worldwide revenue in its previous markets, and our pricing commitment on wholesale calls ended.
financial year and or claims for damages in national courts.
A Ofcom is currently conducting a market review of wholesale company may also be ordered to cease an infringing activity.
We broadband access markets and is also planning to carry out market are also subject to national competition rules in Europe and reviews of the leased lines market, and xed narrowband wholesale elsewhere.
services and xed narrowband retail services, in the 2008 financial In 2004, Ofcom launched an investigation into allegations that year.
BT had abused a dominant position in relation to its pricing of consumer broadband products.
Ofcom sent BT three statements of BTs Undertakings under the Enterprise Act objection to which we responded, arguing that our pricing does not The key Undertakings given by BT are to: amount to an abuse of dominance.
Ofcom is expected to issue a decision in 2007. s establish Openreach s deliver equivalence of input for key wholesale products, and Pricing regulation increased transparency for others Following a review in 2006 of retail price controls covering publics introduce new rules on access to, and sharing of, certain switched telephony services, Ofcom concluded that the retail price restricted information control which ended on 31 March 2006 would not be replaced.
BT s restrict the exercise of inuence by other parts of BT on the is therefore no longer subject to retail price controls on these commercial policy of both Openreach and parts of BT Wholesale services.
Other services continue to be subject to price controls: s ensure fair access and migration to our 21CN for other communications providers s Network charge control: We operate under interconnection s publish and make available to all BT people a code of practice agreements with most other operators.
Our charges for a range explaining what they must do to comply with the Undertakings of interconnect services are controlled by Ofcom, under the NCC s create an Equality of Access Board to monitor, report and advise network charge control regime.
These controls are designed to on BTs compliance with the Undertakings and the code of ensure that our charges are reasonably derived from costs, plus practice.
The EAB was established on 1 November 2005.
The an appropriate return on capital employed.
Depending on the EAB Annual Report 2007 which does not form part of this degree of competition, charges are cap-controlled each year by report is available online at www.
RPI minus X for services Ofcom considers unlikely to become competitive in the near future, and safeguard cap-controlled ie The Undertakings include a number of requirements some no increases above RPI for services likely to become have specic dates for delivery and others are ongoing.
X is a number specic to a particular market, March 2007, we had met most of the relevant requirements with a indicating the permitted change in controlled prices relative to few exceptions, two of which the EAB reported as non-trivial.
The current NCC period began on 1 October 2005 and will last until 30 September 2009.
Competition BT must notify Ofcom and other operators if it intends to amend Competition and the UK economy existing charges or offer new services.
The growth of mobile telephony over the past decade has been a s Partial private circuit charge control: PPCs partial private major factor in shaping the UKs telecommunications landscape and circuits are leased lines that BT sells to other network operators.
VoIP has also taken off in the past two years.
Mobile now accounts On 1 October 2004, Ofcom introduced a PPC charge control to for around 41% of total UK voice minutes.
The mobile and xedreplace the annual determinations previously carried out by line markets are currently treated as separate and regulated Oftel.
The control is a four-year, three-part RPI-X formula differently.
covering low and high bandwidth services and equipment.
Market share was previously modelled using data from internal and external sources.
For consistency with the external market and Ofcom is planning to carry out a review of the financial compliance with our equivalence obligations, we are reporting framework of Openreach, which will include looking at pricing market shares based on the latest available information reported by and costs.
The review will start during 2007.
Ofcom, which is for the period ended 30 September 2006.
On this basis, BTs share of the residential xed-voice calls Non-UK regulation market dened as including local, national and international BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in minutes declined to 53% for the quarter ended 30 September which we operate and this can have a material impact on our 2006, compared with 58% for the quarter ended 30 September business.
CPS carrier pre-selection has been the main contributor to the loss of share in the xed-voice market.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 5 European Union We can, however, be required by law to do certain things and Regulation in each country within the EU is conducted within the provide certain services for the UK Government.
General conditions regulatory framework determined by EU directives, regulations and made under the Communications Act require all providers of public recommendations.
The manner and speed with which directives telephone networks and or publicly available telephone services, have been implemented vary from country to country and national including BT, at the request of and in consultation with the regulators are working together in the European Regulators Group authorities, to make, and if necessary implement, plans for the to introduce greater harmonisation in their approach to the provision or restoration of services in connection with disasters.
The assessment of SMP and the imposition of appropriate remedies.
Civil Contingencies Act 2004 contains provisions enabling BT does not have universal service obligations outside the UK, obligations to be imposed on providers of public electronic although in certain member states we may be required to communications networks, including BT, in connection with civil contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of meeting contingency planning.
In addition, the Secretary of State has universal service obligations in those countries.
statutory powers to require us to take certain actions in the interest Following the European Commissions formal investigation into of national security and international relations.
the way the UK Government set BTs property rates and those paid by Kingston Communications, and whether the Government Legal proceedings complied with European Community Treaty rules on state aid, the BT does not believe that there are any pending legal proceedings Commission concluded that no such state aid had been granted.
which would have a material adverse effect on the financial The Commissions decision has now been appealed, but we position or operations of the group.
continue to believe that any allegation of state aid is groundless, There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 and that the appeal will not succeed.
defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunications system Rest of the world auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in The vast majority of the markets in which we operate around the that auction process.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee world are regulated, and in most of these we have to meet certain was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the Rome conditions and obtain licences or other authorisations.
All the other defendants were also acquitted.
The to which these markets are liberalised varies widely.
Our ability to Public Prosecutor is in the process of appealing the courts decision.
compete fully in some countries is therefore constrained.
If the appeal is successful, BT could be held liable, with others, for We continue to press incumbent operators and their national any damages.
We have concluded that it would not be appropriate regulatory authorities around the world including the EU for costto make a provision in respect of any such claim.
related wholesale access to their networks where appropriate.
Resources Other significant changes and issues Corporate reputation and brand strength Wholesale broadband pricing BT has a strong, integrated brand that is widely recognised both in We have had discussions with Ofcom about how we might ensure the UK and around the world.
According to global branding th price-related protection for broadband consumers in parts of the organisation, Superbrands, BT has the 4 strongest brand in the UK where wholesale broadband competition is less likely to develop UK, up from 21st a year ago.
Superbrands, which publishes a list of in the next few years.
The aim is to balance our need to be the leading 500 brands in the UK, judges companies on quality, competitive in the wholesale broadband market while recognising reliability and distinction.
that emerging LLU operators require a period of stability in order to Our brand helps to shape our relationships with all our establish a sustainable business.
As a result, we have agreed a series stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers and of detailed ceiling and oor pricing commitments for certain mass employees.
It is vital that they all have a clear understanding of market wholesale broadband products BT IPStream and the what BT stands for, and that all their interactions with us contribute proposed Wholesale Broadband Connect service.
The commitment to a consistently positive image of BT.
on price oors expires on 1 July 2009, and on 31 December 2010 As a vital asset, the BT brand needs to be developed, protected for price ceilings.
and managed with the same rigour that we bring to other assets, both tangible and intangible.
And as the world and the markets in Funds for liabilities which we operate change, so our brand needs to reect this, Under the terms of the Electronic Communications Code, an becoming more confident, dynamic and forward looking.
electronic communications provider with apparatus on or in the Our vision for BT is to be dedicated to helping customers thrive public highway is required to make financial provision to cover any in a changing world.
damage caused by work it carries out, and for the removal of its Our mission is to be the leader in delivering converged network in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy.
The conditions require the company to provide Ofcom annually By ensuring that the services we offer customers are consistently with a certicate that, in the opinion of its board of directors, it has focused on meeting their needs, straightforward and easy to use, fullled its obligations to ensure the availability of the required we will help those customers succeed in their business and personal funds.
Our brand values are: trustworthy, helpful, inspiring, Relationship with HM Government straightforward and heart.
These values are implicit in our new The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but the advertising strap line Bringing it all together which captures provision of services to any one of its departments or agencies does both what we can do for customers helping them make the most not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as of the possibilities of converged communications and our described below, the commercial relationship between BT as a commitment to acting as a single BT team.
supplier and the UK Government as customer has been on a normal customer and supplier basis.
6 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Report of the Directors Business review Motivating our people and living the BT values Employees can also buy shares at a discount under our At 31 March 2007, BT employed 106,204 people worldwide savings-related share option plan.
101,701 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: 3,688 in the More than 93% of eligible employees participate in one or more Americas: and 815 in the Asia Pacic region.
Our commitment to of these plans.
meeting our customers needs means that every one of these employees has opportunities to develop innovative solutions, Learning now and in the future generate new business, drive efficiencies and experience personal We believe that people, particularly at the start of their careers, will growth.
increasingly want to work for companies that commit to the longOur aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged and term development of their employees.
motivated people who can make a difference for customers, Our successful company-wide re-accreditation to Investors in shareholders, the company and themselves.
Only by living our People in February 2005, first achieved in 1998, demonstrates our values will we deliver our strategy, keep our promises to our continuing commitment to the effective alignment of our customers, seize new opportunities in new markets and maximise communications, training and development with our business the return from our traditional business.
We have created a learning governance model to ensure our Motivating leaders learning and development objectives and practice align with the The quality of leadership in BT is key to the successful delivery of key strategic objectives of the business.
Senior learning and our strategy for transformation and growth.
We are focused on development representatives form the Learning Council, a body ensuring that leaders at all levels understand what is expected of which provides strategic and operational guidance for the whole of BT to ensure that all learning and development activity is cothem, have access to appropriate development opportunities and are able to benchmark their performance against that of their ordinated across all lines of business.
R2L Route2Learn, our web-based, group-wide learning portal, We have, for example, rigorously dened the capabilities we is evidence of our continuing investment in lifelong learning and expect our leaders to exhibit and have introduced a 360 degree education for all BT people.
Providing all BT employees with an feedback tool to help them measure their performance.
In the extensive range of learning programmes and facilities, it is one of 2007 financial year, we conducted extensive research into the the largest corporate learning management systems in Europe.
capabilities of our leaders to support focused investment in their In the 2007 financial year, R2L delivered over 310,000 online development.
Engaging and motivating our people Embedding exibility and diversity Our annual employee attitude survey was conducted most recently The changing nature of the markets in which we operate, our focus in February 2007 and attracted a 74% response rate over 78,000 on cost leadership and our investment in new services all shape our responses.
The survey generates around 5,000 feedback reports for permanent workforce.
managers and their teams across the business, helping to promote In the UK during the 2007 financial year, 6,391 people joined effective team working.
BT 2006: more than 6,600, natural attrition was running at 4% Employees are kept informed about our business through a wide 2006: 3% and 2,151 people left BT under our voluntary leaver range of communications channels, including our online news package 2006: 2,169. service, bi-monthly newspaper, regular e-mail bulletins and senior The ability to support exibility and agile working practices is a management webchats and webcast briengs.
key benefit of many of the products and services we offer We have a record of stable industrial relations and enjoy customers and is fundamental to our own employment practices.
generally constructive relationships with recognised unions in the Agile working is well established in our UK operations where UK and works councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we around 10,400 employees work from home and is increasingly recognise two main trade unions the Communication Workers important in our global operations.
In Budapest, for example, the introduction of exible working arrangements eliminated the need Union and Connect.
We hold regular meetings between management, employee trade union representatives and other to acquire additional ofce space.
groups of employees in order to ensure that their views are taken We continue to work to create an inclusive working environment into account in any decisions affecting employees interests.
We in which employees can thrive regardless of their race, sex, religion also operate a pan-European works council the BTECC.
Our Chief beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnerships status, age, sexual Executive and other senior executives have regular meetings with orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring the BTECC and other employee representatives.
Rewarding and recognising achievement Pensions We continued to provide our employees with opportunities to Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension Scheme acquire a stake in the company.
Under the BT Employee Share a dened benefit scheme or the BT Retirement Plan a money Investment Plan ESIP, BT can provide free shares to employees purchase scheme, both of which are controlled by independent and employees can buy shares in BT from their pre-tax salaries.
The BT Pension Scheme was closed to new members on In the 2007 financial year, 25 million was allocated to provide 31 March 2001.
The majority of new employees are eligible to join free shares to employees under the ESIP.
Employees outside the UK the BT Retirement Plan.
See Pensions in the Financial review on received the same award of shares where practicable: otherwise, page 22 they will receive cash equivalent to the value of the shares.
This allocation of profits was linked to the achievement of corporate Health and safety performance measures determined by the Board.
From the 2008 The health and safety of our people is of paramount importance financial year, the award of free shares under the ESIP will be and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on behavioural replaced by free BT Total Broadband Option 3 for all BT employees change.
In the 2007 financial year, we concentrated our health in the UK.
promotion activities on mental well-being impaired mental health Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 7 is our single greatest cause of lost time and productivity.
Our their skills in order to maximise organisational effectiveness and sickness absence rate rose slightly in the year, in line with the CBI contribute to individual development.
average 2.43% of calendar days were lost but is 22% lower than four years ago.
During the 2007 financial year, we reduced Property our accident rate by 10% to 2.4 lost time incidents per million At 31 March 2007, we occupied approximately 6,500 properties in working hours at 31 March 2007. the UK and approximately 1,500 properties in the rest of the world.
The majority of these UK properties are owned by and leased Research and development back from the Telereal Group, which is part of the William Pears The GCTO Group Chief Technology Ofce sets and drives the open Group.
innovation and technology strategy for BT.
GCTO includes a global These properties mainly house exchange equipment and are technology intelligence scouting unit, teams focused on innovative needed as part of our continuing activities.
Other, general purpose, new wave service opportunities, an innovation strategy and media properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and computer centres.
team, strategic technology analysis units, a network and systems We anticipate that our changing working patterns will continue architecture team and leading research and venturing facilities in to reduce property costs.
Adastral Park England, Malaysia and the USA.
In the 2007 financial year, we invested 1,119 million in R&D Our commitment to society research and development to support our drive for innovation.
Corporate social responsibility This investment comprised capitalised software development costs Managing social, ethical and environmental issues in a way that of 741 million and R&D operating costs of 378 million.
This grows shareholder value, builds our brand and helps us and our compares with 870 million in the 2006 financial year, which customers become more sustainable is very important to us.
comprised 544 million of capitalised software development costs More detailed information about our social, ethical and and 326 million of R&D operating costs.
environmental performance is available in our independently We continue to focus our innovation work on key areas which veried 2007 Sustainability Report at www.
support our business and technology strategies, ling patent We invest significant resources in our CSR programmes and it is applications for 162 new inventions in the 2007 financial year and vital that we continue to be forward looking and responsible in our maintaining a total worldwide portfolio of 8,150 patents and everyday operations and maintain our reputation for excellence.
a number of years we have measured the link between customer We have successfully launched eight innovative, independent satisfaction and CSR performance.
Customers who believe that BT start-up companies through the corporate venturing partnership takes its responsibility to society seriously are 49% more likely to be unit New Venture Partners, in which we are a limited partner.
Two very or extremely satisfied with BT.
further propositions are currently in incubation.
These start-ups During the 2007 financial year, BT was ranked as the top generate value by launching innovative solutions as  company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index technology businesses in the global marketplace.
for the sixth year in a row.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank companies for their success in managing social, ethical and IT support environmental issues for competitive advantage.
We also hold the Our dedicated IT professionals have a strong track record in the Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of our contribution to development and delivery of systems and solutions and in sustainable development, and in the 2006 07 Business in the managing a secure and resilient infrastructure.
In addition to the Community Corporate Responsibility, Environment and Community work for 21CN, significant systems development effort in the 2007 indexes, BT is one of only four companies out of 100 to score over financial year was focused on providing support for Openreachs 95% on all six dimensions.
We were also named for the first time as operations.
Specically, our IT teams delivered the EMP the leading corporate organisation for sustainability reporting in a equivalence management platform that is helping Openreach to survey published by SustainAbility, in association with UNEP United serve its customers.
Nations Environment Programme and Standard & Poors.
During the financial year, we continued the radical rationalisation of the BT systems estate through our One IT CSR Strategy programme, which aims to deliver year-on-year reductions in base During the 2007 financial year, the implementation of our revised costs at the same time as improving speed to market and CSR strategy, which was discussed and agreed by the Board, was a enhancing the customer experience.
In particular, the resources of top priority.
There are four key strands to this strategy: maintaining the One IT programme people, processes and technology are current momentum, tackling climate change, enabling sustainable focused on ensuring that customers have rapid access to the economic growth and enabling a more inclusive society all issues products and services they want.
to which we believe we can make a positive contribution.
By eliminating duplication and outmoded systems, we have closed down around 700 IT systems in BT in the past two financial CSR Risks years, just over 500 of them in the 2007 financial year alone.
For a number of years we have maintained a CSR risk register.
We have invested in a three-year plan to develop an innovative During the 2007 financial year, we continued to develop our and exible systems architecture for BT, based on re-usable knowledge and understanding of our CSR risks.
Our most significant capabilities, and able to support a wide range of applications.
In CSR risks continue to be: the first year of the programme, we launched around 60 core components of this new architecture.
s breach of the code of business ethics During the 2007 financial year, around 3,000 of our IT s climate change professionals moved to customer-facing roles working with BT s diversity Global Services, 2,500 people received a range of skills training to s health and safety help meet future demand, bringing the two-year total to 7,500.
In s outsourcing addition, we set up nine professional communities an industrys privacy wide, best practice way of organising professionals according to s supply chain working conditions.
8 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Report of the Directors Business review Each of these risks has an owner and a mitigation strategy in place.
Competition in UK xed-network services These risks are not regarded as material in relation to the group and We face strong competition in UK xed-network services.
Ofcom consequently are not included in Group risk factors.
considers that we have significant market power in various parts of the UK xed telecommunications market.
In these areas Ofcom can CSR opportunities enforce obligations to meet reasonable requests to supply services The increasing importance of sustainability issues both inside and to other communications providers, not to discriminate unduly, to outside BT is leading to a much greater focus on the opportunities notify price changes and in some cases it can also impose extra that CSR provides as well as the risks that need to be managed.
This obligations such as price controls.
is not only in relation to building competitive advantage by growing Ofcom has promoted competition in the xed-network area by our brand and reputation for CSR, but also in terms of commercial measures including local loop unbundling, carrier pre-selection marketplace opportunities.
making it easier for BT customers to route some or all of their calls We believe that ICT has a positive role to play as part of the over our competitors networks and the introduction of wholesale solution as individuals and organisations look for more sustainable access products.
ways of communicating, working, and living.
Reduction in our share of the xed-network market may lead to We are planning to offer our business customers a carbon audit a fall in our revenue and an adverse effect on profitability.
Unlike which will measure their carbon footprint and explore ways in our competitors, we continue to be obliged by the current which the use of ICT can reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
regulatory regime to provide certain services to customers in the Products such as remote working and teleconferencing, for UK, whether or not such provision of service is economic.
example, play an important part in creating sustainable businesses.
There is also competition for voice and data trafc volumes between xed-network operators and those operators offering VoIP Group risk factors and mobile services.
In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of risk The impact of all these factors may be to accelerate the factors, not all of which are wholly within our control.
Although diversion of our more profitable customers without being able to many of the risk factors inuencing our performance are reduce our costs commensurately, which may cause adverse effects macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of businesses on our business, results of operations, financial condition and generally, others are particular to our operations.
This section highlights some of those particular risks but it is not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks affecting the Technological advances business.
Some risks may be unknown to us and other risks, Our continued success depends on our ability to exploit new currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
of them have the potential to impact our business, revenue, profits, We operate in an industry with a recent history of rapid assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
technological changes and we expect this to continue new They should also be considered in connection with the technologies and products will emerge, and existing technologies Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on and products will develop further.
We need continually to exploit next-generation technologies in order to develop our existing and future services and products.
Regulatory controls However, we cannot predict the actual impact of these future If our activities are subject to significant price and other regulatory technological changes on our business or our ability to provide controls, our market share, competitive position and future competitive services.
For example, there is evidence of substitution by customers Most of BTs wholesale xed network activities in the UK are using mobile phones for day-to-day voice calls in place of making subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, such calls over the xed network and of calls being routed over the among other things, the prices we may charge for many of our internet in place of the traditional switched network.
If these trends accelerate, our xed-network assets may be used services and the extent to which we have to provide services to our competitors.
In recent years, the effect of these controls has been uneconomically and our investment in these assets may not be to cause us to reduce our prices.
We cannot assure our shareholders recovered through profits on xed-network calls and line rentals.
that the regulatory authorities will not increase the severity of the The complexity of the 21CN programme, and the risk that our price controls, nor extend the services to which controls apply major suppliers fail to meet their obligations, may result in delays to including any new services that we may offer in the future, nor the delivery of expected benets.
Impairment write-downs may be extend the services which we have to provide to our competitors.
incurred and margins may decline if xed costs cannot be reduced These controls may adversely affect our market share, the severity in line with falling revenue.
of competition and our future profitability.
In response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, we proposed a number of Transformation strategy legally binding Undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These Our strategy for transformation includes the targeting of significant Undertakings were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in growth in new wave business areas.
This may result in changes to September 2005.
In the case of a breach of the Undertakings, our products, services, markets and culture.
If this transformation Ofcom has the right to seek an injunction through the courts or strategy is unsuccessful there is a risk that future revenue and issue a direction.
Third parties who suffer losses as a result of the profitability will decline.
breach may also take action against BT in the courts for damages.
In particular, we have targeted significant growth in new The timescales for achievement of a number of the milestones in business areas, such as networked IT services, broadband and the Undertakings are very challenging.
Further details on the mobility.
In view of the likely level of competition and uncertainties regulatory framework in which BT operates can be found in regarding the level of economic activity, there can be no certainty Regulation, competition and prices on page 4. that we will meet our growth targets in these areas, with a consequential impact on future revenue and profitability.
Report of the Directors Business review British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 9 We have announced a new organisational structure to help deliver faster, more resilient and more cost-effective services to all our customers wherever they are.
Failure to complete this programme of organisational change may reduce our competitiveness, with a consequential impact on our future revenues and profitability.
Major contracts Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on major contracts.
We have entered into a number of complex and high-value networked IT services contracts with customers.
Our pricing, cost and profitability estimates for major contracts generally include anticipated long-term cost savings that we expect to achieve over the life of the contract.
These estimates are based on our best judgement of the efficiencies we plan to deploy.
Any increased costs, delays or failures to achieve the anticipated savings could make these contracts less profitable or loss making, adversely impacting our profit margins.
In some cases, our products and services incorporate software or system requirements from other suppliers or service providers.
Our ability to meet our commitments in a timely manner may depend on the ability of these suppliers and service providers to meet their obligations.
Failure to manage and meet our commitments under these contracts may lead to a reduction in our future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
Networks and systems failures Our business depends on our ability to transfer substantial volumes of data speedily and without interruption.
Any significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as a result of factors outside our control could have a material adverse effect on the business and our results from operations, including the deployment of 21CN.
We have a business continuity strategy in place, designed to deal with such catastrophic events including, for example, major terrorist action, industrial action, extreme computer virus attack, hurricane or ooding.
A failure to deliver that strategy may result in a material loss and there can be no assurance that material adverse events will not occur.
Pensions Declining investment returns and longer life expectancy may result in the cost of funding BTs dened benefit pension scheme becoming a significant burden on our financial resources.
As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2005, BT agreed to make annual deficiency payments of 280 million over ten years.
The first three instalments have been paid up front with 520 million paid in the 2007 financial year and a further 320 million was paid in April 2007.
The results of future scheme valuations will be impacted by the future performance of investment markets, interest and ination rates and the general trend towards longer life expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, all of which are outside our control.
10 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Report of the Directors Business review
