Directors Report the five business days immediately preceding the date Special Business of purchase.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised Authority to purchase shares only if to do so would enhance the net asset value per Resolution 9 will be proposed to renew the Companys share and is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
The maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of the By order of the Board passing of the resolution.
The minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p.
The maximum price for an ordinary share exclusive of expenses shall be Fidelity Investments International an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Secretary market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for 25 May 2007 Business Review Fidelitys Investment Team Rita Grewal John Stavis Sam Morse Investment Director Portfolio Manager Portfolio Manager INTRODUCTION The Board has required the Manager to prepare this US economic growth weighed down equities to an Business Review in accordance with the requirements of extent.
At the end of the review period to 31 March Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 and it forms 2007 the FTSE-All Share Index returned 11.1% on a part of the Directors Report.
Its function is to provide a total return basis.
balanced and comprehensive review of the Companys At the sector level, food & drug retailers were the best performance and development during the year and its performing sectors during the year.
Key companies such position at the year end.
The review also covers the as Sainsbury, Alliance Boots and Morrison gained amid principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company persistent bid speculation.
In the industrial metals sector, and sets out key performance indicators used to shares of steel manufacturer Corus advanced as Indias measure, monitor and manage the Companys business.
Tata Steel won a bidding war for the company with a The law requires the Companys Auditors to report on 6.2 billion offer.
Conversely, technology hardware whether the information given in the Directors Report equipment companies lagged.
Stocks declined as and Business Review is consistent with the financial lower demand prompted investors to curtail earnings statements.
The Auditors opinion is included in their expectations for leading firms.
Oil & gas stocks also report on page 27. suffered due to lower profit growth forecasts for major companies, such as BP and Royal Dutch Shell, due in MARKET BACKGROUND part to a reduction in their production targets.
The UK stock market rose over much of the twelve-month period, despite sporadic setbacks, most notably in May Overall, economic activity remained upbeat.
A high level of takeovers and as a whole, UK GDP grew by 2.8% versus 1.9% in 2005. mergers and strong corporate earnings helped shares Unemployment figures do not present any immediate reach a six year high towards the end of the period.
worries, and growth in retail sales remains robust.
However, concerns about high inflation and slower Page 10 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review More recently RPI rose to 4.6% in February, from 4.2% At 31 March 2007 in the previous month and reached 4.8% in March.
This Portfolio Index persistently high level of inflation, coupled with robust % % economic growth, persuaded the Bank of England BoE FTSE 100 78.7 81.4 to increase the cost of borrowing.
The BoE raised interest FTSE 250 19.6 15.1 rates three times during the period, by a quarter of a FTSE Small Cap 1.1 3.5 percentage point each.
After reaching 5.25% in January, Other 0.6 0.0 the highest level in five years, the BoE chose to keep rates unchanged for the rest of the review period.
100.0 100.0 There are signs that the increases in interest rates during Size analysis of the UK equity portfolio Index is the FTSE All-Share Index the period are starting to cool the housing market, although there are signs of inflationary pressure in other parts of the economy.
The balance between corporate profits growth and pressure on interest rates is likely to dominate the market in coming months.
portfolio returns, with National Grid, the biggest individual overweight position, delivering very strong A high level of merger & acquisition M&A activity performance as it announced an acquisition in the US has been one of the key factors behind the appreciation and plans to spin off its wireless telecoms business.
in stock prices in the UK over the past twelve months.
The Company also benefited from holdings in Scottish According to figures released by the Office for National & Southern Energy and Centrica.
The tobacco sector Statistics, the value of takeovers of UK firms by foreign was again a major contributor to returns, driven by companies rose to a record in 2006.
Foreign firms spent M&A activity, with Gallaher agreeing to a bid from 75.5 billion on UK acquisitions last year, up by 50% Japan Tobacco and Imperial Tobacco rising on a from a year earlier.
Bid activity has been underpinned potential deal with Altadis of France.
by low borrowing costs and rising equity prices, which has given companies greater room to make purchases, Support services companies provided good returns, and these have fuelled a boom in private equity deals with Capita benefiting from the ongoing increase in taking public companies out of the market at a premium outsourcing and Amec restructuring its diversified to their list price.
Stock selection in the key pharmaceutical companies Astrazeneca and PORTFOLIO REVIEW GlaxoSmithKline also contributed to performance.
For the twelve months to the end of March 2007, on a The portfolios exposure to the travel and leisure sector total return basis the net asset value per share rose by was the largest detractor, with Partygaming the internet 12.0%, exceeding the 11.1% return on the FTSE All-Share gaming company being the worst individual performer.
Over a three year period the Company has also The stock fell sharply in October after the US Congress performed well, rising by 66.6% against a benchmark passed a bill banning the processing of payments for return of 64.4% on a total return basis.
online gaming, leading to an immediate ceasing of The portfolio is managed using a multi-manager approach, business in the US and subsequent related costs.
with the Companys assets currently split between two The overweight position in the oil & gas producers individual Fidelity portfolio managers.
By adopting this sector also detracted from returns, with BP, the largest multi-manager structure the risk-return profile of the fund holding in the portfolio, suffering after an explosion is enhanced as compared to a typical single manager at its Texas refinery and a leak in its Alaskan pipeline.
The two current managers have been This led to downgrades in earnings forecasts and an selected because of their complementary investment increase in its future capital expenditure requirements.
Fidelity is a stock-picking investment house and each portfolio manager constructs his portfolio using a Holdings in general retailers also suffered as companies bottom-up approach, where attractive companies are such as Jessops, HMV and Blacks Leisure produced identified first and the portfolio is constructed to reflect disappointing sales figures.
Conversely, a lack of exposure these choices.
to food & drug retailers such as Sainsbury, Morrison and Alliance Boots detracted from performance as the market As at 31 March 2007, the Companys key overweight focussed on potential M&A activity, largely as a result of sector positions resulting from stock selection were the property backing in these companies.
in multi-utilities, support services and aerospace.
The Companys key underweight positions were Relatively low exposure to the mining sector was also in mining, real estate and pharmaceuticals.
detrimental, as stocks such as Xstrata and Anglo American benefited from the rise in metal prices, due to strong The overweight position in the gas, water and multidemand in Asia and ongoing consolidation in the industry.
utilities sector was the most significant contributor to The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 11 Business Review PURCHASES Gearing risk New holdings included Home Retail Group, the new The Company has the ability to invest up to 200 million company that emerged after GUS demerged its Experian of Debenture Stocks in the equity market.
During periods business through a market listing, staffing company Hays of equity market price appreciation this can have a and Northern Rock.
Existing holdings that were increased beneficial impact on performance compared to significantly during the period included National Grid benchmark, whereas during falling equity markets and Wolseley.
this may have an adverse impact on performance.
Information related to gearing is provided to the Board SALES on a monthly basis as part of the Investment Review Key holdings sold during the twelve-month period report.
In order to manage the level of gearing the included the utility Scottish Power, following the bid from Board regularly considers this item and sets gearing Iberdrola, tobacco company Gallaher, which received a parameters or limits from time to time.
The Manager bid from Japan Tobacco and Amec, after a period of strong follows these and can invest part of the debenture funds performance.
The entire position in Partygaming was in short-term cash based instruments to control the level liquidated.
In addition, the managers decreased holdings of net gearing.
Additionally, the Board regularly reviews in Astrazeneca, HSBC Holdings and Aviva among others.
the cost of buying back debt against the outlook for equity markets.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Market risk Income dividend risk The uncertainty over future equity market price The Company is subject to the risk that income movements is an inherent part of the rationale for the generation from its investments fails to meet the Companys existence.
The Companys portfolio consists level of income required to meet its objectives.
of a mix of assets and securities that may display high levels of volatility from time to time in response to The Board monitors this risk through the receipt of economic and other market forces.
detailed monthly income forecasts and comparison of receipts against forecast.
These are contained within The Board reviews the Managers performance at the Financial Information report.
The Board considers protecting and increasing the Companys assets against the level of income at each meeting.
this background at each Board meeting.
The Manager provides information to the Board on a monthly basis Share price risk as part of the Investment Review report.
A review of There is a risk that the Companys prospects and NAV the Companys objectives is undertaken annually.
may not be fully reflected in the share price from time to time.
Performance risk The Board sets risk parameters and performance The share price is monitored on a daily basis.
objectives and it delegates the day to day investment The Board is empowered to repurchase shares within management process to the Manager.
The discount at which the shares of the Companys performance objectives relative to trade to NAV can be influenced by share repurchases.
the market requires active management of the portfolio The Company has in the last year repurchased shares of assets and securities.
Strategy, asset allocation and within parameters set by the Board.
stock selection decisions by the Manager might lead Control environment risk to underperformance of the benchmark Index and The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Companys income targets.
The Board regularly considers the asset allocation of the The Company delegates a number of specific activities portfolio and the risks associated with particular industry to the Manager including: sectors within the parameters of the investment objective.
Performance information is provided to the Board on a Custody and security of the Companys assets monthly basis as part of the Investment Review report.
Financial controls Specific information provided includes benchmark and Best practice standards in fund management operations performance objective, performance attribution, rolling Meeting regulatory requirements three year performance, contributors and detractors, major overweights and underweights, largest holdings, Consequently in respect of these activities the Company size and sector analysis, active money and active holdings.
is dependent on the Managers control systems and The Manager is responsible for actively monitoring the those of its Custodian and Registrars, both of which portfolio selected in accordance with the asset allocation are monitored and managed by the Manager in the parameters and seeks to ensure that individual stocks context of safeguarding the Companys assets and meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
There is a risk that the Manager fails to ensure performance risk and how it relates to the Companys that these controls are performed in a satisfactory manner.
Page 12 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review A risk based programme of internal audits is carried out Attribution Analysis by the Manager regularly to test the controls environment.
The attribution analysis below enables the contributions An Internal Controls report is prepared by the Manager from various sources of income and cost to be determined.
and considered by the Audit Committee, and is formally reported and considered by the Board.
Year to 31 March 2007 % Other risks The Company may be exposed to other business and Change in NAV 12.0 strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or Change in FTSE All-Share Index 11.1 regulatory changes.
Relative Return 0.9 There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider Contribution to Relative Return Year to 31 March 2007 these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the UK Equities -0.9 Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership Debenture Borrowings: offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess Net gearing 1.9 and anticipate these risks, as far as possible.
Debenture interest -1.1 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Share Buybacks 1.4 The key performance indicators KPIs used to Charges -0.4 determine the progress and performance of the Total 0.9 Company over time and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
All figures are calculated on a Total Return Basis Year to 31 March 2007 2006 SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT 1 Net asset value debt at par 12.0% 27.9% The Managers primary objective is to produce superior 1 Net asset value debt at market 13.8% 28.2% financial returns to investors.
It believes that high 2 standards of corporate social responsibility CSR Share price 17.4% 35.3% make good business sense and have the potential to 3 FTSE All-Share Index 11.1% 28.0% protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, 1 Discount to NAV debt at par 13.7% 17.0% its investment process takes social, environmental and 1 ethical issues into account when, in its view, these have Discount to NAV debt at market 9.4% 11.7% a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Revenue return per share 18.13p 15.28p Actual gearing ratio 14.3% 11.4% The Manager recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should Total expense ratio 0.42% 0.41% be encouraged as long as the potential for financial All figures are calculated on a total return basis return is not reduced.
It favours companies committed 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines 2 Calculated on a mid to mid basis to high standards of CSR and to the principles of 3 Source Datastream sustainable development.
Notwithstanding that some KPIs are beyond its control The Manager does not set out to manage an they are measures of the Companys absolute and ethical investment portfolio and does not screen relative performance and the Board monitors them out companies from its investment universe purely on at each meeting.
Indices and ratios as referred to above the grounds of poor social, environmental or subjective which assist in managing performance and compliance ethical performance.
Instead it adopts a positive are regularly reviewed.
Expenses are reviewed at each engagement approach whereby it discusses social, Board meeting enabling the Board, amongst other environmental and ethical matters with the management things, to review costs and consider any expenditure with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
outside that of its normal operations.
Apart from the The Manager believes that this is the most effective KPIs set out above the Board also regularly reviews the way to improve the attitude of business towards CSR performance of the Company against its peer group and the Board endorses this approach.
of eleven investment trusts with investment objectives, policies and benchmarks similar to the Companys.
The principal risks and uncertainties section above includes descriptions of performance indicators and their monitoring and management which are key to the business of the Company.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 13
