Business Review The Board has prepared this report on pages 10 to 21 in accordance with the requirements Underlying earnings per ordinary of Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 and it forms part of the Directors Report.
The share see pages 18 and 19 law requires the Companys auditors to report on whether the information given in the 2007 10.4p Directors Report and Business Review is consistent with the financial statements.
The 2006 12.8p auditors opinion is included in their report on page 51.
2005 15.9p The purpose of this review is to provide shareholders with a snapshot summary setting out the business objectives of the Company, the Boards strategy to achieve those Basic earnings loss per ordinary objectives, the risks faced, the regulatory environment and the key performance indictors share KPIs used to measure performance.
2007 3.5p 2006 4.9p 2005 16.4p The Groups sole activity is asset Uncertainty and distraction arising management.
We are an active from Friends Providents strategic international investor but with a client announcement that it is considering focus on the UK and Continental Europe.
Our clients comprise a wide range of Risk of poor historic investment insurance, institutional and retail investors, performance leading to loss of key across multiple jurisdictions, for whom we investment mandates.
manage a diverse range of investments including equities, fixed income and Development of front office control property.
The asset management industry processes.
is highly competitive and we have a range Market trends towards polarisation of competitors, who differ by geography, and fiduciary management.
While we Alain Grisay operate across multiple locations, with a Development of operational platforms.
Chief Executive physical presence in nine countries, our Executive Directors, Executive organisational philosophy has two key Committee and Management parameters to seek to avoid duplication, Committee by, for example, managing each asset class from only one location, and to place Messrs Grisay and Logan are the client service functions where appropriate Executive Directors of the Company.
in order to meet client requirements.
David Logan These Executive Directors, together with Chief Financial Messrs Criticos, Mendez fide Vigo and Our objective Officer Ribeiro form the Executive Committee To deliver shareholder value.
EXECOM is accountable and management is a service industry, so responsible for implementing Board seeking to excel in everything that clients strategy, proposing development of new expect from us is the key to building elements of strategy and, together with shareholder value.
the Management Committee ManCom, Nick Criticos for the day-to-day running of the Our strategy Head of UK business.
In addition to overseeing the Focus on investment performance to Retail and implementation of the strategy, EXECOM deliver client satisfaction Marketing and ManCom regularly review business issues and matters not reserved for the Seek and develop distribution Board as a whole.
The Committees have opportunities in key markets to deliver reserved lists to assist them in carrying organic growth out their functions.
Examples of matters Fernando Ribeiro Focus on higher margin and specialist reserved for EXECOM and ManCom as Head of areas for new business delegated authorities from the Board are: Investments The approval of day-to-day business Maintain diversity of revenues while issues linked to the strategy or the annual leveraging our scale budget and including the launch of new products: approval of contractual Key risks see page 16 commitments: approval of expenditure: In addition to the normal risks facing the and the management of any issue that business relating to the market, interest Cristobal could have a potential legal or rates, foreign currency and personnel, the Mendez fide Vigo reputational impact on the Group.
Board has identified the following as the Head of Distribution key risks facing the business in 2008: and Business Development 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 UK Equity Market Performance Our view of the market FTSE 100 Index After a buoyant start to the year, 2007 will be remembered as one of the most challenging 6457 years on record for financial markets.
Problems emanating from the US housing market, and the sub-prime mortgage sector in particular, sent shockwaves through the financial 6221 system with a freezing up of credit that notably resulted in the first run on a UK bank in 5619 over a century.
4814 4477 We see the fall-out from the credit crisis continuing to unfold for some time as banks announce write-offs and consumers and corporate borrowers no longer have access to the easy credit which has helped fuel growth in recent years.
The risk of a US recession driven by a slowdown in the housing market has increased and signs of an economic slowdown have spread to other markets.
Against this backdrop of slowing economic growth, inflationary pressures continue to cause concerns and present a real dilemma for central bankers, particularly the Bank of 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 England, which has a specific remit to control inflation.
Rising oil prices, household energy bills, council tax and food prices are strong inflationary factors in the UK which may therefore curtail the Bank of Englands willingness to cut interest rates as aggressively as US authorities are able to.
Given these macro economic headwinds we anticipate continued levels of significant volatility in equity markets and continued lack of liquidity in the credit markets.
These UK Government Bond Market create challenging conditions for managers of both equity and bond portfolios.
and acquisitions activity, particularly from private equity leveraged buy-out LBO funds, Fixed All Stocks Total Return had been a significant feature of markets in recent years but as a result of tougher credit 2052 conditions we anticipate much more subdued levels of M&A activity going forward and 1949 trade deals to be a bigger feature of the market as LBOs subside.
1935 1793 The financial sector has been at the sharp edge of the deteriorating economic outlook, to 1682 the extent that we believe the market has priced in recession in its rating of some banks.
Asset managers, along with other market participants, have experienced a fide-rating of their stock prices, particularly those with a heavy focus on retail investors, commercial property and equities.
We believe that our strategic commitment to remaining a well balanced business by client type, asset class and geography means we are relatively well positioned.
Developments in distribution continue to be a key driver of the asset management industry with banks and insurers gradually shifting away from the manufacturing and distribution of in-house product towards open architecture models, where they provide their clients 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 with access to products from multiple providers through wrap accounts and other platforms.
In the UK, firms of Independent Financial Advisers IFAs continue to seek to scale up All graphs at 31 December.
through consolidation and re-engineer their service propositions.
In particular, we believe that the Financial Services Authoritys Treating Customers Fairly initiative is accelerating the pace at which some firms withdraw from in-house fund selection and migrate client assets into multi-manager products.
Service support and operational effectiveness are therefore becoming key factors alongside investment performance.
A further key regulatory development during 2007 was the introduction of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
The impacts of MiFID are wide ranging and we anticipate it will create further impetus for change.
In the institutional market place we believe that the shift away from balanced management has largely played out in the UK but remains a trend on the Continent, particularly in markets such as The Netherlands where fiduciary management has made strong inroads.
In this environment the ability of an asset manager to demonstrate the delivery of alpha in specific products is more important than its perceived overall capabilities.
11 Business Review Assets under management Our view of the market continued 2007 103.6bn 2006 104.1bn At the product level there is a clear separation between the provision of alpha, 2005 131.0bn through specialist mandates and portable alpha products, including Global Tactical Asset Allocation funds, and low-cost beta exposure achieved through Exchange Traded Funds, index funds and derivative instruments.
Alternative investments Assets under Management by continue to grow in acceptance and enhanced alpha products, such as 130 30 client category funds, are attracting closer scrutiny following rapid growth in the US.
As a result of these various developments, performance fees are becoming ever more commonplace on actively managed investment mandates.
In turn, this may lead to greater revenue volatility for asset managers.
Strong equity market performance in recent years has helped many company pension schemes close their funding gaps.
However, as markets move into more uncertain territory, we expect funding gaps once more to become a concern.
This should also bn 2007 2006 bn refocus the attention of trustees once again on the need to hedge inflation and interest Insurance Funds 58.9 Insurance Funds 59.0 rate risk and renew interest in Liability Driven Investment LDI and Asset Liability Institutional Funds 27.3 Institutional Funds 28.1 Management ALM.
Sub-Advisory 6.5 Sub-Advisory 7.0 Many of these product trends require asset managers to deepen their derivatives Investment Trusts 6.6 Investment Trusts 6.5 expertise and ensure that decision, risk and dealing systems are sufficiently robust.
UK Retail UK Retail Mutual Funds 3.3 Mutual Funds 3.0 Increasingly asset managers are therefore recruiting staff from the same pool as International International investment banks which is further adding to competitive pressures.
Wholesale Wholesale Mutual Funds 1.0 Mutual Funds 0.5 Assets under Management by asset class bn bn 2007 2006 Fixed Interest 53.5 Fixed Interest 54.0 Equities 37.0 Equities 38.2 Property 5.3 Property 5.2 Other Alternative Other Alternative Investments 1.9 Investments 1.3 Money Market 5.9 Money Market 5.4 All graphs at 31 December.
12 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Focus on performance to deliver client satisfaction We seek to define and deliver top quartile performance in everything we do.
Our strategy is grounded in our belief in a virtuous circle: delivering excellent performance will be validated by organic growth which will, in turn, translate into earnings growth and stock price performance.
2007 Key points Key Performance Indicators 2007 Investment Performance awards included: We launched a three-year plan to Corporate Health accelerate revenue growth by focusing The Board has identified sixteen Category winner F&C Far East on new business opportunities in higher corporate health indicators providing an Equity, Standard & Poors European margin areas and specialist mandates overview of the Groups corporate Fund Awards strategy, management, IT infrastructure To support the three-year plan, 2007 Category winner Best overall group, and control environment.
These indicators saw increased investment in people, Lipper Fund Awards are assessed by the Board on a quarterly products and infrastructure, financed basis and coded as follows: Category winners F&C Global by a rebasing of our full-year dividend Convertible Bond Fund and F&C HVB from historic levels RED At risk, Stiftungsfonds, Lipper Fund Awards AMBER Need for improvement, Further strengthening of investment and GREEN Competitive Category runner ups F&C European distribution teams with additional hires High Yield Bond Fund 2nd place and Number of green indicators out of sixteen Implemented new Decision, Risk and F&C Global Convertible Bond Fund 2007 9 Dealing systems to support the 3rd place, Finanzen Euro Awards 2006 6 delivery of investment performance 2005 1 Category winner F&C Global Smaller and the new product suite Companies, Money Observer Number of red indicators out of sixteen A portfolio of eight growth initiatives was Investment Trust Awards 2007 0 identified for 2007 2006 2 Best Asset Manager investing in 2005 7 Environmental, Social & Governance, TBLI IPE Awards Investment Performance 2007 Key points 2008 Priorities 20.8 million performance fees earned Sixteen UK retail funds achieved Accelerate new inflows into recent an increase of over 100% from 2006 Standard & Poors Fund Research product launches ratings Out-performance in core UK equities, Deliver top quartile performance UK high alpha, UK smaller companies, Fourteen mutual funds delivered top against a more challenging economic pan-European equities, Asia ex Japan, quartile performance environment emerging equities, global equities, UK Socially Responsible Investment funds Retain key investment personnel credit, high yield bonds, emerging posted relative underperformance during period of corporate change debt and convertibles against unscreened sectors because Continue momentum in Performance Underperformance in US equities, ethical restrictions limited oil, gas and First initiative Japanese equities, Continental mining exposure European equities, UK government bonds and global credit 13 Business Review Seek and develop distribution opportunities in key markets to deliver organic growth Our business model is based on intermediaries and partnerships.
We are focused primarily on the UK and Continental Europe, however, we will increasingly seek to expand distribution into other geographies.
Our priority is organic growth, however, we will take an opportunistic approach towards further acquisitions.
2007 Key points 2008 Key priorities: Key Performance Indicators Record year for our UK retail business Further expand European presence Percentage of Retail funds above median with 703 million gross sales during a into Spain, Italy and Russia 1 year period when industry net retail sales 2007 41% Seek distribution opportunities in declined by 38 per cent.
2006 64% South America, Canada, Asia and the 2005 54% Institutional new business increased Middle East 11 per cent.
: outflows reflected the Support strong momentum in the UK Percentage of key institutional accounts pipeline identified 12 months ago retail market through broadening and exceeding client objective 3 years Signed new UK retail distribution deals deepening client relationships 2007 64% on our Lifestyle fund range with 2006 46% Sign additional Lifestyle fund Lighthouse, Paradigm and Thinc 2005 40% distribution deals with UK IFA firms Appointed a new Head of Distribution Add links to additional life company & Business Development and platforms re-organised wholesale and institutional distribution Further expanded our European footprint with the opening of a new office in Sweden and registration of funds in Austria, Switzerland and the Nordic region Strengthened sales and client servicing teams in Germany, The Netherlands and the UK Enhanced brand building activities through sponsorship of Birmingham City Football Club 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Focus on higher margin and specialist areas We are targeting net new business in higher margin and specialist areas.
These include retail, alternatives and specialist institutional mandates yielding performance fees.
2007 Key points: 2008 Key priorities: Significantly upgraded product Product priorities in the UK institutional Average fee rate improved from suite including the launch of: market include LDI and Diversified 21.6 basis points to 22.5 basis points Growth Four Lifestyle multi-manager funds Performance fees increased from 9.5 million to 20.8 million In Continental Europe and the US the A European private equity fund of focus will vary from market to market funds but will include emerging equities A multi-asset Diversified Growth Fund Indian equities, Asian equities, SRI products and convertibles A UK equities 130 30 fund UK retail sales priorities are multiA Global Tactical Asset Allocation fund manager, F&C UK Growth & Income, Stewardship, Asia ex Japan and An enhanced cash fund emerging equities Climate Change and Ethical Bond Key Performance Indicators Funds Two new hedge funds and a listed Average basis points earned on Assets fund of hedge funds Under Management A fiduciary management service 2007 22.5 2006 21.6 2005 20.8 Maintain diversity of earnings while leveraging scale We are a diversified business by client type, asset mix and geography.
This provides us with a robust business model across market cycles.
We benefit from scale in terms of research, infrastructure, distribution and access to the market.
2007 Key points: 2008 Priorities Over 45 per cent.
of revenues are Increase strategic focus on distribution Continued to embed our multiearned from non UK clients boutique investment model Seek presence in additional markets Continued to diversify distribution both within and beyond Europe Delivered 31 per cent.
Operating across Europe with the registration of Margin in line with indications given to Continue to consider bolt-on funds in Austria, Switzerland and the the market acquisitions, particularly those which Nordic region bring added distribution Consolidated our operations in to a Key Performance Indicators single in-house function following the termination of our contracts with Operating Margin Mellon 2007 30.9% 2006 36.5% 2005 44.1% 15 Business Review Key risks Uncertainty and distraction arising Development of operational Development of front office control from Friends Providents strategic platforms processes announcement that it is considering During 2007, investment administration During 2007 significant progress has divesting from the Company services previously outsourced to been made in relation to the Friends Providents January 2008 Mellon were brought back in-house and development and implementation of the announcement creates a risk of merged into one Investment Operations new front office systems.
An integrated disruption to asset gathering and the function.
This has allowed for greater systems platform is now in place for stability of the Companys human management oversight and dealing and order management and capital.
The Board of F&C is working enhancement of the control decision support for equity fund with the board of FP to find a solution environment.
Equivalent systems for fixed that is in the best interests of all programme is underway to consolidate income and pre and post-trade shareholders and are proposing the systems and processes on to a compliance will be implemented in the amendments to the Companys single platform and operating model.
In addition, a core risk remuneration plans to enhance platform was implemented for use by retention.
both the front office and Investment Risk functions replacing multiple legacy risk services.
Market trends towards polarisation and fiduciary management The trend, particularly in The Netherlands, towards Fiduciary Management presents a business risk for the balanced institutional mandates managed by F&C but has also opened up some new opportunities.
F&Cs own Fiduciary Services offering has already been launched for clients in The Netherlands.
Risk of poor historic investment performance leading to loss of key investment mandates Despite difficult market conditions in the second half of 2007, investment performance remained resilient throughout the year with some notable areas of out-performance.
In 2008 there will be continued focus on performance and the retention of key talent.
16 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Our trading performance and outlook Overall, funds under management at 31 December 2007 were 103.6 billion, compared with 104.1 billion at the end of 2006.
During 2007 F&C experienced net outflows of 9.0 billion.
Insurance Share buyback activity: Net outflows of 5.0 billion from insurance clients represented Reductions in gearing levels: 56 per cent.
of all net outflows during the year.
These included The natural wind-up of Investors Capital Trust of which 61 per 1.6 billion resulting from the reinsurance of Friends Providents cent.
was rolled-over into a successor vehicle.
annuity book with Swiss Re.
Our investment trusts savings products continued to account for Institutional approximately a third of all industry inflows, with more than Institutional net outflows of 2.9 billion reflected the following: 51,000 Child Trust Fund accounts now having been opened.
Inflows during the year of 3.3 billion: UK Retail In January 2007 we highlighted a pipeline of 5.2 billion 2007 was a record year for us with net retail sales up 28 per cent.
This included some Dutch balanced and gross inflows of 703 million.
Flows were spread across a mandates moving to fiduciary managers: range of key products including our multi-manager, ethical, corporate bond, UK and Asian equities funds.
New distribution Cambridge University, a longstanding client, withdrew an deals have been signed with key partners including Lighthouse, 800 million equity portfolio as it established its own Paradigm and Thinc on our Lifestyle multi-manager range with investment office along the lines of many US universities.
further deals in the pipeline for 2008.
New institutional business inflows were at higher fee rates than outflows with mandate wins in convertibles, emerging market International Wholesale debt, global equities and LDI.
Net sales of mutual funds increased 109 per cent.
to 111 million, primarily reflecting a very significant reduction in the level of Good progress has been made with consultants in newer product historic outflows.
Strengthened distribution, registrations into new areas such as LDI and UK high alpha equities.
countries and good investment performance will see significantly Sub Advisory increased focus on this currently small part of our business in 2008.
In particular we are concentrating activity around the Continuing the trend reported last year, 2007 saw further net F&C Asia Dynamic, F&C HVB Stiftungsfonds, F&C Global outflows 1.3 billion which substantially represented Portuguese Convertibles, F&C Stewardship International, and F&C Indian retail investors moving out of money market funds and into Investment Company funds.
Fee margins on these assets are substantially below our average fee rate.
Investment Trusts 2007 was an active year for our investment trust business with a successful roll-over of an existing trust and the launch of F&C Event Driven a 75 million fund of hedge funds.
There were no investment trust mandate losses.
A 346 million net outflow of investment trust assets related to the following factors: 17 Business Review Our financial performance Total return In addition another important indicator is the level of performance fees earned from clients.
In 2007 performance fees were Our focus is the creation of shareholder value and an indicator of 20.8 million, an increase of more than 100 per cent.
from 2006. our success is total shareholder return, measured as percentage change in share price plus dividends.
In the year ended Revenue margins 31 December 2007, our total shareholder return was -4.31 per Our revenue margin, measured as management fee income cent.
In the same period, the average total shareholder return on divided by average assets under management, has increased the FTSE 250 index was -2.46 per cent.
and the FTSE100 was from 21.6 basis points in 2006 to 22.5 basis points in 2007.
However, financial stocks, including asset Although in part this reflects the loss of low fee mandates, it is managers, which are often seen as generating returns correlated also a measure of our progress against our objective of to stock markets, were particularly volatile in the second half of generating net new business in higher margin products.
2007 and our return was impacted accordingly.
Operating expenses Overview Operating expenses excluding the Re-Investment Plan costs, We set out in last years review an outline of our three-year plan, amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, restructuring which, as reported elsewhere, was successfully launched in the costs and Investment Trust VAT expense were 183.8 million first quarter of the year.
Integral to the plan was a need for 2006: 159.4 million.
The largest component of this is staff investment, to accelerate our future organic growth, and related costs.
Accordingly, managing our headcount and our accordingly 2007 saw additional investment in people, distribution remuneration policies is critical to effective cost control.
As an asset management business, we 2007 our headcount rose by some 138, 81 relating to the require limited capital expenditure and much of our investment transfer of staff on the termination of the Mellon outsourcing took the form of revenue expenditure, to assist us to grow future agreement.
The remaining headcount increase represents part of revenues.
We indicated on the launch of the plan that this our investment in the business and reflects the need for additional expenditure was likely to reduce our operating margin additional personnel to support our distribution plans and for 2007 and our margin has fallen to 30.9 per cent.
in line with manage and support our enhanced product range.
During 2007, indications we gave at the start of the year.
our IT and operations costs also increased as a result of the Presentation of financial results significant project costs associated with changes made to our operating platform, both through the reintegration of the Mellon IFRS requires our financial statements to consolidate the results of back office and the introduction of new front office Decision, Risk our Managed Pension Fund business on a line-by-line basis, and Dealing systems.
impacting both our Income Statement and Balance Sheet presentation.
Our Income Statement also includes Re-Investment Operating margin Plan costs of 6.4 million.
These costs relate to the share scheme As a consequence of the changes in our net revenue and expense established at the time of the merger in 2004 to lock-in and base, discussed above, our operating margin for the year to incentivise senior staff.
This scheme matured during 2007 and 31 December 2007 was 30.9 per cent 2006: 36.5 per cent.
that year is the last period in which such costs will be incurred.
During 2006 our Income Statement also included impairment Investment Trust VAT expense charges on intangible assets of 58.5 million, principally arising During the year, litigation between an investment trust and from the fact that our client loss rate on investment management Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC concluded in the contracts acquired in corporate acquisitions was greater than that European Court of Justice.
That litigation determined that assessed at the time of those acquisitions.
In 2007, we incurred investment trust management fees should not be subject to VAT.
This judgement is retrospective and accordingly we have created a provision for amounts of VAT and interest which may be payable Net revenue to investment trust clients beyond that recoverable from HMRC.
Net revenue for the year was 264.5 million 2006: 248.2 million excluding the 2.6 million compensation received for the loss of Underlying earnings funds in 2005.
Whilst new business of 6.5 billion was won The Board utilises underlying earnings per share as one of its key during the year and rising markets and positive exchange metrics in assessing financial performance.
The table opposite variances added approximately 8.5 billion to our funds under sets out the reconciliation between underlying earnings and management, our management fees were impacted by net statutory earnings.
Underlying earnings per share for the year business outflows totalling 9.0 billion, together with the full year ended 31 December 2007 was 10.4 pence 2006: 12.8 pence.
revenue effect of business outflows which arose in 2006.
Net fund The reduction principally reflects the investment costs flows are a key performance measure for us and are indicative of discussed earlier.
the growth of our business.
In that respect, our net UK retail funds inflows were approximately 28 per cent.
higher than 2006 and our institutional net outflows fell by some 64 per cent.
18 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Example of promotional activity for our This advertisement is intended for Financial Advisers only.
08457 99 22 99 high margin UK Retail business.
Ted Scotts turning in the numbers.
Reconciliation of Earnings per share pence 2007 2006 Earnings loss per Ordinary Share 3.54 4.91 BCP compensation receipt 0.38 Amortisation of intangibles, net of tax 5.25 6.29 Impairment of intangibles 8.54 Cost of the Re-Investment Plan, net of tax 0.98 1.81 The F&C UK Growth & Income Fund Restructuring costs post acquisition of F&CGH Group 1.45 Ted Scotts F&C Growth & Income Fund has returned 15.6% per year since he started managing the fund.
Ted, supported by Investment Manager Hilary Aldridge, takes a relatively Investment Trust VAT expense, net of tax 0.60 aggressive approach to delivering outperformance.
In the two years that Ted has managed the fund it has comfortably beaten the sector average and remained 1st quartile.
Underlying earnings per share 10.37 12.80 To find out more call 08457 99 22 99 or visit www.
com Expect excellence Defined as earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangibles, BCP This advertisement is for financial advisers only.
Annualised performance since appointment of Ted Scott 1 July 2005.
Prospective investors should consult the Simplified Prospectus and will find the past performance record of the Fund as prescribed by the FSA at www.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
As a result of market fluctuations, investments and the income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount originally invested.
Issued and approved by F&C Fund Management Limited.
F&C Fund Management Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services compensation receipt, restructuring costs, Investment Trust VAT expense and the Authority FSA FRN:119230.
Registered in England and Wales, No.
Registered address and Head Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
F&C Asset Management plc is the listed holding company of the F&C Group.
F&C Fund Management Limited is a member of the F&C Group of companies and a subsidiary of F&C Asset Management plc.
cost of the Re-Investment Plan.
Dividends Cash resources At the start of the year, and as announced at that time, the Board While we have debt on our balance sheet, we also have cash determined it was appropriate to rebase the 2007 dividends in resources of 216.2 million.
However, a significant part of that light of the need to fund the investment in the business to launch cash is held in our regulated subsidiaries against their capital the three-year plan.
Accordingly, we indicated that the 2007 requirements and is accordingly not available for corporate dividend would be rebased to achieve at least 150 per cent.
As asset management should generally be a cash on underlying earnings.
In line with this policy, the Board has generative business, we should not require significant cash for declared a final dividend of 4.0 pence per share, which, subject to working capital purposes beyond our regulatory capital approval by shareholders, will be paid on 16 May 2008 to requirement.
shareholders on the register at 11 April 2008.
This dividend, when Pension funds taken with the interim dividend of 2.0 pence per share, results in a total dividend for the year of 6.0 pence per share.
Our pension fund deficits have fallen from 45.4 million at 31 December 2006 to 26.8 million at 31 December 2007, partly Intangible assets through additional contributions of 8.0 milion made during 2007 Under IFRS when an acquisition is made, there is a requirement to facilitate the merger of the two UK defined benefit schemes.
to recognise separately the fair value attributed to intangible assets, in our case, management contracts.
The excess of consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired represents the business value and infrastructure and is recognised as goodwill.
Management contracts are separated by client type and are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Where an indicator of impairment occurs, such as greater than anticipated fund losses, we are required to review the carrying value of these contracts.
No such indicators of impairment arose during 2007 and accordingly no impairment charges were recognised.
We are also required to conduct an annual impairment review of the carrying value of goodwill.
This review demonstrated that there was no impairment and hence no requirement to write down goodwill.
19 Business Review Our strategic approach and commitment to Corporate Responsibility CR CR strategy Marketplace The Company has two overarching strategic ambitions: F&C will use the influence of its customers assets to engage with companies on all relevant To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing CR matters where this will improve business dynamics in the world economy through our products and performance.
F&C will increase the number of through influencing companies to improve business milestones achieved being an instance in which performance.
a company improves its policies, procedures or To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of practices following engagement and where F&Cs participation corporate responsibility in our own operations.
has been a major factor to 250 in 2007 and to 300 by 2010.
F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate The Company is committed to meeting these ambitions over a Governance Operational Guidelines on 100% of global resolutions three year time horizon in line with the broader goals of the that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and will publish its business articulated in the groups three-year plans.
F&C will contact 100% of companies following an We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic abstention or vote against mangement.
ambitions, Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
Environment We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and against the targets set within each category, both internally on a is committed to helping our clients and suppliers quarterly basis and externally at least annually.
F&Cs Corporate cut carbon emissions.
Over the next three years Responsibility policies are guided by a number of broadly F&C will obtain 100 per cent.
of its energy usage accepted international standards and benchmarks.
Wherever from renewable sources, where such markets practicable, we will seek external validation of our progress and exist.
of its paper used from chlorine free F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our recycled supplies, reduce like for like waste to landfill by 20 per relative Corporate Responsibility performance.
and increase its own recycling by 20 per cent.
External Validation Existing Position 3 Year Target F&C will actively embark on an internal education programme on BITC Corporate the effect that water and other waste management has on the Responsibility Index Silver status Platinum status environment.
EIRIS FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its influence to the companies in which it invests.
UN Global Compact CCP Member Member Carbon Disclosure Project Member Member Principles for Responsible Founding Founding Investment Signatory Signatory F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients, employees, suppliers, government and non-government organisations, the wider community, other asset management companies and companies in which we invest.
We engage widely with stakeholder groups through regular dialogue that is tailored to meet the requirements of each stakeholder group.
As the market leader in sustainable investment, F&C seeks CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions F&C has established key performance indicators KPIs for each of to embed corporate responsibility the CR categories detailed below, details of which can be found throughout its own business, on the Corporate Responsibility section of the Companys website.
including an active community programme.
Early in 2008, as part of the Community programme, the Company organised a tree planting day at Hanworth Park in London.
20 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Workplace CR commitment F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of managing its own workplace issues.
We recognise that in addition to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders we also F&C will undertake an annual Employee Survey have responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the and will, by 2009, target top decile employee companies in which we invest and the wider community in which participation levels.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and How is Corporate Responsibility implemented by F&C?
does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
religion, sexual orientation, age or physical disability.
F&C will Development of F&Cs policies on CR and their implementation educate 100 per cent.
of employees on the importance of throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee recognising and embracing diversity in the workplace and the chaired by David Logan.
F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate all-employee share schemes.
Community Alain Grisay F&C will, over the next three years, introduce 20 March 2008 financial support and wherever practicable offer time off work to support employees involved in Charitable Activities.
F&C will, over the next three years, target 75 per cent.
of all employees dedicating at least one working day per year to a Charitable or community programme.
David Logan 20 March 2008 F&C will target 15 per cent.
of employees, participating in the Give as You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set monthly level.
21 Headquartered in the heart of the City of London and operating across nine countries, F&C manages assets for a diverse range of insurance, institutional and retail clients.
