Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report in equities is a long term process and that the Companys together with the audited financial statements of the returns to shareholders will vary from year to year.
The Company for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The impact of this on dividend payment may be found on Company was incorporated in England and Wales as a page 3 in the Chairmans Statement.
Unlike equivalent public limited company on 16 August 1991 under the open-ended investment vehicles, the investment trust name of Legistshelfco No.
112 PLC with the registered structure offers investors a portfolio which may be number 2638812.
The name was changed to Fidelity geared.
The Board takes the view that long term capital European Values PLC in September 2001. gains can be enhanced by the use of gearing.
BUSINESS REVIEW Investment policy This section of the Directors Report provides a review of The Company invests principally in continental European the Companys business and describes the principal risks securities with a view to achieving long term capital and uncertainties it faces.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the Business of the Company fundamental value available in individual situations.
The Company carries on business as an investment trust Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual and was approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs countries and industry sectors is monitored, the portfolio under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes is not structured primarily on a country or industrial Act 1988 ICTA for the accounting period ended 31 weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions December 2005.
HM Revenue & Customs has granted apply in an attempt to diversify risk.
provisional approval for the accounting period ended 31 December 2006, although this approval may be subject A maximum of 20% of gross assets may be invested to review should there be any subsequent enquiry under in companies of countries which are not included in Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Directors are of the benchmark Index the FTSE World Europe ex UK the opinion that, since that date, the Company has Index of which a maximum of 5% of gross assets conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the may be invested in other companies of non-European conditions for continued approval as an investment trust countries which have some European exposure or under that Section.
The geographical and sector breakdown of the portfolio compared with the Index may be found The Company is registered as an investment company as at pages 9 and 10.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys defined in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and gross assets may be invested in the aggregate of: operates as such.
It is not a close company and has no a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange employees.
b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to 20% or more of the equity capital of any one listed company.
Objective, strategy and principal activity The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets may growth from the stockmarkets of Continental Europe.
be held in unquoted securities in aggregate at any one The Company aims to achieve this with an actively time.
Details of unlisted and unquoted securities held managed portfolio of investments, consisting primarily of may be found in Note 9 to the financial statements and continental European securities.
As part of this strategy in the full portfolio listing on pages 41 and 51 to 53. the Board has delegated the management of the portfolio and other services.
The principal activity is to The maximum level of gross gearing is 50% pursuant pursue the objective through operating as an investment to the Companys articles of association.
Both the objective and principal activity circumstances a gearing level of below 20 per cent have remained unchanged throughout the year ended of net assets will be maintained.
Details of the levels 31 December 2007. of gearing at the year end and at the time of writing may be found on page 3.
A review of the years activities and an indication of likely future developments are given in the Chairmans The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets Statement on pages 3 to 5 and in the Managers of up to 10% of the Companys assets.
The Board also Review on pages 6 and 7. reserves the right to hedge the portfolio.
The Board has not used this right during the life of the Company.
The Board believes that individuals and institutions choose to invest in the Company because the stock A maximum of 15% of the Companys total assets selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager may be invested in the securities of other investment is considered to be well suited to achieving its objective.
As at 31 December 2007 there was one such Although there has been income received by way of holding in the Companys portfolio comprising 0.2% of dividend payments the emphasis is placed on capital the Companys total assets 2006: nil.
The Board of Directors recognises that investing Page 16 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Directors Report The current investment approach is detailed in the benchmark Index of 15.1% on a total return basis.
Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
KPIs The full portfolio as at 31 December 2007 is detailed The key performance indicators KPIs used to on pages 51 to 53. determine the progress and performance of the Company over time and which are comparable to those Fidelitys investment management philosophy, reported by other investment trusts are set out below.
style and process The first three KPIs, namely NAV, share price and The portfolio is primarily built on a stock by stock basis benchmark, are concerned with change, whereas the following the Portfolio Managers assessment of the remaining KPIs deal with absolute amounts.
fundamental value available in individual securities, with geographical weightings largely the result of stock Year ended Three years 31 Dec ended 31 selection, rather than macro-economic considerations.
2007 2006 Dec 2007 The charts and graphs provided in this annual report %% % should therefore be read with this in mind.
The portfolios geographical weightings may vary significantly from the 1 NAV 13.4 17.5 79.5 weightings within its benchmark Index and the 2 Share price 12.0 8.6 77.6 concentration on the identification of fundamental value FTSE World Europe in individual stocks within continental Europe may result ex UK Index 15.1 19.5 69.6 in investments made against prevalent trends and local Discount to NAV 6.9 5.7 n a conventions.
The value investor seeks to be amongst the Borrowings less cash as first of his peers to recognise the potential in individual % of shareholders funds 1.0 12.4 n a stocks and hence returns are only properly assessed on Total expense ratio 1.06 1.47 n a the basis of long term results.
The Portfolio Manager invests in securities of companies which are considered All figures are calculated on a total return basis ie, cum income by the Portfolio Manager to have fundamental value.
1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines Securities of interest may fall under the following 2 Calculated on a bid to bid basis with income reinvested categories: Source: Fidelity, Datastream and fundamental data as at 31 an industry anomaly: December 2007 Past performance is not a guide to future returns a turnaround or recovery situation within a certain company: unrecognised growth relative to the price of the shares: The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 12 and an undervalued asset situation: 13 indicate the relative historical performance of the the potential for some merger and acquisition activity.
Company against its benchmark Index since launch and the discount to NAV over that period.
Some of Corporate activism the Companys KPIs are considered to be beyond the The Board believes that the Company should, where Boards control, however they are measures of the appropriate, take an active interest in the affairs of the Companys absolute and relative performance and companies in which it invests and that it should exercise the Board monitors them regularly.
Indices and ratios its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there which assist in managing performance and compliance are any particularly controversial issues which are then are also reviewed, including the total expense ratio.
referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for Expenses are considered regularly at Board meetings corporate activism and shareholder voting to Fidelity.
and this enables the Board, amongst other things, to These activities are reviewed annually.
review costs and consider any expenditure outside that of its normal operations.
In addition to the KPIs set out Premium discount management: enhancing above the Board regularly reviews the Companys shareholder value performance against its peer group of five investment The Board seeks authority from shareholders each year trusts: Foreign & Colonial Eurotrust PLC, JPMorgan to issue new shares at a premium or repurchase shares European Investment Trust plc, JPMorgan European for cancellation at a discount to the net asset value.
It will Fledgeling Investment Trust plc, Gartmore European only use these authorities to enhance the net asset value Investment Trust PLC and TR European Growth Trust PLC.
and to protect or improve the premium discount rating of the shares.
Details of share repurchases may be found The principal risks and uncertainties section below on page 19. includes descriptions of other performance indicators, their monitoring and management which are key to Performance the business of the Company.
Long term performance Over the period the net asset value of the Company increased is also monitored and the Summary of Performance by 13.4% compared with the return by the Companys charts on pages 12 and 13 show this information.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 17 Directors Report Attribution analysis 2.
Performance risk The attribution analysis table which follows enables The achievement of the Companys performance contributions from various sources of income and costs objective relative to the market requires the application to be determined.
Strategy, asset allocation and stock selection might lead to under-performance of the benchmark Analysis of change in NAV Index and target.
Management of the risks set out above in the year pence per share is carried out by the Board which, at each Board Starting NAV 1 January 2007 1,283.77 meeting, considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk associated with particular countries and Impact of: industry sectors within the parameters of the investment Index 71.50 objective.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for actively Stock selection -19.87 monitoring the portfolio selected in accordance with the Gearing 0.22 asset allocation parameters and seeks to ensure that Currency movement 122.14 individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward profile.
Investment management Charges -15.57 and income risks dividends Buybacks 11.82 In addition to the risk of the mis-management of funds Other 7.84 by poor investment decisions, there is also a risk involved Closing NAV 31 December 2007 1,449.76 in income.
The Companys objective of long term capital growth relies less on income to support dividends than Sources: Fidelity and Datastream investment trust companies with a more income oriented Past performance is not a guide to future returns target.
Nevertheless, generating income to meet Investments were valued at 848,119,000 as at 31 expenses and provide adequate reserves is subject to December 2007.
Shareholders funds amounted to the risk that income generation from its investments fails 854,645,000 resulting in a net asset value per share to meet the level required.
The Board monitors this risk of 1,449.76p.
Changes to investments are shown through the receipt of detailed income reports and in Note 9 to the financial statements on page 41. forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
Share price, NAV and discount volatility risk The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for The price of the Companys shares relative to the identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks benchmark Index and in absolute terms, as well as which fall under the general headings of strategic, its discount to net asset value, are not factors the operational and management.
With the assistance of Company is able to control.
Some short term influence Fidelitys internal audit team the Board has constructed a over the discount may be exercised by the use of share risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details of under these broad headings.
The Board reviews and repurchases during the year are given on page 19. agrees policies, which have remained unchanged since The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility the beginning of the accounting period, for managing are monitored daily by the Manager and considered risks and summaries of these are set out below.
by the Board at each of its meetings.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in 5.
Gearing risk accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised The Company has the option to invest up to the total Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Risks of its loan facilities in equities.
In a rising market the are identified, introduced and graded and this process, Company will benefit but in a falling market the impact together with the policies and procedures for the would be detrimental.
In order to manage the level of mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed twice a year gearing the Board regularly considers gearing and in the form of a comprehensive internal controls report gearing risk and sets limits accordingly.
The Portfolio considered by the Audit Committee.
Manager follows these and may hold short term cash deposits to control the level of net gearing appropriate 1.
Market risks to the circumstances as viewed at the time.
The inevitable uncertainty about prices and the Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase the 6.
Control systems, regulation, governance Companys assets against this background are core to including shareholder relations risks the Companys continued justification.
Other factors The Company is dependent on the Managers control affected by market forces, such as exchange and bond systems and those of its Custodian and Registrars, rates, contribute to risks which have to be taken as part both of which are monitored and managed by the of the Companys normal business.
Manager in the context of the Companys assets and Page 18 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007
