Directors Report and Business Review The Directors submit their Report, Business Review Income Statement on page 38.
Performance fees and Accounts of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust increased significantly following the achievement PLC the Company or FCIT for the year ended of F&C Management Limited F&C or the 31 December 2007.
The Accounts are set out on Manager in exceeding its performance objectives.
Nevertheless, the total expense ratio, including the performance fee accrual but excluding recoverable Results and dividends VAT, was only 0.71% 2006: 0.53% 0.48% excluding The net assets of the Company as at 31 December the performance fee accrual.
Net revenue decreased 2007 were 2.5 billion 2006: 2.4 billion or 363.47 by 4.7%, while revenue earnings per share increased pence per share when deducting debt at its par by 3.9%, enhanced by the reduction in the number value 2006: 321.10 pence.
When deducting debt at of shares in issue as a result of buy-backs.
its market value, the net asset value per share was 358.63 pence 2006: 315.48 pence.
Attributable to equity shareholders 000s Summary of results for 2007 Revenue return attributable to equity 45,909 Net asset value per share 13.6% to 358.6p shareholders Dividends paid on ordinary shares: Net asset value total return per share 15.4% Final of 2.85p paid on 9 May 2007 21,081 Share price 12.0% to 318.75p Interim of 2.70p paid on Share price total return 14.1% 19,141 11 September 2007 Annual dividend per share 10.4% to 5.85p Amount transferred to revenue reserve 5,687 Total expense ratio including In respect of prior year profits 0.71% # performance fee In respect of current year profits Total expense ratio excluding The interim dividend of 2.70 pence per share, 0.48% # performance fee together with the final dividend now recommended for Share capital repurchased 8.6% payment on 8 May 2008 of 3.15 pence per share, will bring the total dividend for the year to 5.85 pence per Discount From 9.8% to 11.1% share.
This represents an increase of 10.4% over the With debt at market value # Excludes recoverable VAT on management fees comparative 5.30 pence per share paid in the previous Adding 3.2p to net asset value per share year.
Resolution 3 at the forthcoming Annual General The Fund Managers Review on pages 6 to 13, Meeting relates to the approval of the final dividend.
which forms part of this Business Review, describes more fully how the Companys assets were invested Principal activity and status during the year, how they performed and the outlook The Company falls within the definition of an investment for 2008.
The Companys full list of its investments company under the Companies Act 1985, Section can be viewed on the website.
As such, it analyses its profits between income holdings can be found on page 14, and the ten largest profits available for distribution by way of dividends and investments in each of the regional sub-portfolios are capital profits, which it is prohibited from distributing disclosed in the Fund Managers Review.
other than by way of share buy-backs.
The Company is Whilst dividend growth remained strong, income subject primarily to the United Kingdom Listing Rules, was slightly lower in 2007, reflecting a reduction in UK Company Law, Financial Reporting Standards, the listed portfolio towards financing the targeted Taxation Law and its own Articles of Association.
additional investment in private equity and buybacks.
Following the rulings in the JPMorgan Investment trust taxation status Claverhouse and Cond Nast cases, an accrual The Company is liable to corporation tax on its net in respect of past VAT has been recognised in the revenue profits but is exempt from corporation tax on Report and Accounts 2007 15 Directors Report and Business Review continued capital gains, subject to compliance at all times with any such investment requires specific Board approval.
Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes In addition, a target exposure of 10% has been set for Act 1988 section 842.
Such compliance, which the private equity portfolio which is subject to periodic includes investing no more than 15% of the total review: shareholder approval would be sought in the portfolio in any one investment, deriving its income event that the Board considers that the Companys wholly or mainly from shares and securities and exposure should ever exceed a figure of 20%.
retaining no more than 15% of such income, qualifies Under the Companys Articles of Association, with the Company as an investment trust.
This status limited exceptions, no single investment may be is granted annually in retrospect by HM Revenue made by the Company which exceeds 10% of the and Customs, subject to there being no subsequent value of the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The Under the Listing Rules, no more than 10% of Company has qualified in respect of all relevant years the total assets may be invested in other listed up to and including the year ended 31 December closed-ended investment companies, unless such 2006, and continues to conduct its affairs in investment companies have themselves published compliance with section 842. investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other closed-ended investment Accounting and going concern companies, in which case the limit is 15%.
The The Financial Statements, starting on page 38, Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the comply with current UK Financial Reporting total portfolio on investment funds managed by the Standards, supplemented by the Revised Statement Manager at the time of acquisition, and any such of Recommended Practice for Investment Trust investment requires specific Board approval.
The principal accounting Borrowings, which can be taken out either in policies of the Company are set out in note 2 on the sterling or foreign currency, would normally accounts, whilst the unqualified auditors opinion on be expected to fall within a range of 0 20% of the Financial Statements appears on page 36.
The shareholders funds based on valuing the Companys Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue debenture at market value.
No change to this range to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the will be made without prior announcement.
accounts as the assets of the Company consist mainly The Company will typically remain fully invested of securities which are readily realisable.
Shareholders in equities, but is not prohibited from investing in will be asked to approve the adoption of the Annual other types of securities or assets.
Derivatives may Report and Accounts at the Annual General Meeting be used to control risk and enhance returns for the Resolution 1. overall portfolio including, if appropriate, protection against currency risks.
Objective and policy An explanation of how the Company has invested The Companys investment objective is to secure longits assets in accordance with its investment policy term growth in capital and income through a policy is contained in the Fund Managers Review.
An of investing primarily in an internationally diversified analysis of the portfolio is contained on page 53 and portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well as unlisted a list of all the Companys investments is published securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
Risk diversification is achieved through geographic asset allocation and industry sector and stock selection Strategy across a wide range of markets.
Within the general The Board believes that the optimum basis for policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, there are achieving its stated objective and implementing the no specific geographic or industry sector exposure investment policy is a strong working relationship with limits for the publicly listed equities.
The Board has its Manager, F&C, the more detailed arrangements placed a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio for which are explained later in this review.
F&C has on unlisted securities, at the time of acquisition, and overall responsibility for the management of the 16 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Companys assets, and for asset allocation, gearing, relating to the capital structure can be found in stock selection and risk.
Furthermore, F&Cs interests note 18 on the accounts.
Upon a winding-up, after are closely aligned with those of shareholders under meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus a performance fee arrangement that encourages assets would be paid to the holders of ordinary the highest quality stock selection, either from F&C shares and distributed among such holders rateably.
directly or by outsourcing to external third party submanagers.
The performance objectives set for the Borrowings Manager and measurement against the Companys The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture Key Performance Indicators can be found on pages stock, which matures in December 2014, and 20 to 22. a 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
Information in relation to the debentures can be found Capital structure and buy-back policy in note 17 on the accounts.
The Company also has As at 31 December 2007 there were 685,318,592 short-term borrowings, the management of which is ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue.
Subject to referred to on page 7 and in relation to which further annual shareholder approval, the Company may buy reference is made in note 14 on the accounts.
back its own shares for cancellation at a discount to net asset value per share.
This forms part of its wider Principal risks and their control strategy under which the Board has the objective The Companys assets consist mainly of listed of achieving a less volatile discount with a ceiling, in equities and its principal risks are therefore market normal market conditions, of 10% with debt at market related.
A full Corporate Governance statement, value, as well as enhancing net asset value per share which includes a summary of the risk management for continuing shareholders.
As at 31 December 2007 arrangements, is set out on pages 31 to 35.
By the discount stood at 11.1% with debt at market value.
means of the procedures set out in the summary, and At the Annual General Meeting held on 4 May 2007, in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance shareholders renewed the Boards authority to buy for Directors on the Combined Code published by back the Companys ordinary shares for cancellation.
the Working Party for the Institute for Chartered During the year, the Company bought back and Accountants in England and Wales, the Board has cancelled a total of 64,658,023 shares, representing established an ongoing process for identifying, 8.6% of the number of shares in issue at 31 December evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 2006 and enhancing the net asset value per share by the Company, and has regularly reviewed the by 3.15 pence.
The purchases were made at prices effectiveness of the internal control systems for the ranging between 275 pence and 325 pence and the period.
This process has been in place throughout aggregate consideration paid for the shares, excluding the year under review, and to the date hereof, and stamp duty and commissions, was 196,422,000. will continue to be regularly reviewed by the Board on Between the year-end and 7 March 2008, an ongoing basis.
The specific key risks faced by the a further 1,767,649 shares have been purchased Company, together with our mitigation approach, are which represents approximately 0.25% of the share as follows: capital at prices ranging between 283 pence and i Objective and strategy inappropriate objective and 317 pence, enhancing net asset value per share by strategy in relation to investor demands in a rapidly 0.1 pence.
changing financial services and savings market.
As at 7 March 2008, the number of ordinary The Board regularly reviews the Companys shares in issue stood at 683,550,943.
A resolution to position as a leading savings vehicle.
renew the authority to buy back up to 102,464,000 Certain strategic issues, including its role shares will be put to shareholders at the Annual as a global growth investment trust, General Meeting Resolution 10.
A resolution to acquisition opportunities and the rationale authorise the Directors to allot up to 34,176,000 for not introducing a continuation vote, are shares will also be proposed Resolution 9.
Details considered at various meetings of the Board.
Report and Accounts 2007 17 Directors Report and Business Review continued ii Investment policy, liquidity, gearing and currency Private equity risks are mitigated by investing inappropriate asset allocation, and sector and in a spread of direct, secondary, venture stock selection, leading to under-performance capital, buy-out and mezzanine fund of funds relative to the Companys benchmark index and and by the wide spread of underlying private peer group.
Furthermore, borrowing money to equity firms, which in turn have diversified invest in markets has a negative impact on asset investment portfolios and vintage years.
value if those markets subsequently fall.
Foreign iv Discount volatility investment trust shares tend currency exposures will impact on performance to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset when those currencies weaken against sterling.
values, which can fluctuate considerably.
In the management and mitigation of these The Company has introduced a discount risks, the Board continues to maintain a control mechanism with the objective of diversified spread of international publicly maintaining a less volatile discount with a listed equities and exposure to their ceiling, in normal market conditions, of 10% underlying currencies, and at each Board with debt at market value.
meeting reviews investment policy and v Operational and regulatory breach of section investment performance with the Fund 842 could lead to the Company being subject to Manager.
The ability of the Company to gear capital gains tax on the sale of its investments, up via long-term and short-term borrowings, whilst serious breach of other regulatory rules may in currencies matching those to which the lead to its shares being suspended from the Stock portfolio is exposed, enables it to take a Exchange or to a qualified audit report.
Other long-term view of the countries, markets and control failures, either by the Manager or any of currencies in which it is invested, without the service providers, may result in operational having to be concerned about short-term problems, incorrect disclosures or loss of assets volatility.
Thus far, the Company has not through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
hedged its foreign currency exposures All investment movements and forecasts of through derivatives.
income and expenditure are reported to the The Fund Manager works within asset Board as part of the process of monitoring allocation and gearing ranges and other compliance within the Section 842 criteria.
investment limits that have been set, and are The Managers control policies and procedures monitored, by the Board.
The investment management process vi Reputational damage any significant failing includes the use of risk measurements aimed, could damage the reputation of the Company, not only as a means of control, but also at leading to further adverse consequences.
adding value with an acceptable level of risk.
The actions and controls relating to each of the iii Private equity the majority of the underlying principal risks highlighted above serve to mitigate private equity investments are in unlisted against the risk of reputational damage.
companies, some of which will be in the early stages of their development, may be loss-making, The Boards responsibilities highly geared and with no certainty of survival.
The Companys Board of Directors is wholly nonUnlisted investments may prove difficult or executive and is responsible for corporate strategy, impossible to realise.
The concept of fair value corporate governance, risk and control assessment, of unlisted companies is an imprecise science, the overall investment policy of the Company, setting and the ultimate realisation of such investments limits on gearing and asset allocation, monitoring may be at a valuation significantly different from investment performance and for approving marketing the valuation used in the accounts.
In addition, the policy budgets.
Further information in relation to the timing of any such realisation is uncertain.
Board can be found on page 31.
18 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC Directors himself from that part of the meeting that dealt with Information in relation to the individual Directors, all his re-election.
of whom are resident in the United Kingdom, can be found on page 27.
Director indemnification and insurance Each Director has signed a terms of appointment On 26 July 2006, the Company entered into a deed letter with the Company, in each case including poll providing the Directors with indemnities against one months notice of termination by either party.
liability to third parties arising in connection with any These are available for inspection at the Companys negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust registered office during normal business hours by the Directors such indemnities being qualifying and are also available at annual general meetings.
third party indemnities, as permitted under the There were no contracts of significance to which the Companies Act 1985.
This deed poll is also available Company was a party and in which a Director is, or for inspection at the Companys registered office was, materially interested during the year.
during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company has insurance in Directors remuneration and shareholdings place which indemnifies the Directors against certain The Directors Remuneration Report, which can be liabilities arising in carrying out their duties.
found on pages 29 and 30, together with note 6 on the accounts, provides detailed information on Investment management the remuneration arrangements for Directors of the Most investment trusts, including your Company, have Company.
Shareholders will be asked to approve no employees and instead appoint fund management the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual companies to manage their investment portfolios and General Meeting Resolution 2. deliver investment performance, as well as to carry Details of Directors shareholdings in the Company out the ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, are contained in note 6 on the accounts.
The Company has appointed F&C as manager, a company with which it Directors re-election and election has a long association, having originally established Other than Stephen Burley and Sir Roger Bone, and developed it for the purpose of managing its who joined the Board on 1 January 2008 and 6 assets as far back as 1953.
It is now owned by March 2008 respectively and stand for election at F&C Asset Management plc FCAM, a leading the Annual General Meeting Resolutions 5 and European investment group with over 100 billion 6, all the Directors held office throughout the year under management.
Friends Provident plc, which owns under review.
Mr Macpherson and Mr Rennocks 52% of FCAM, announced on 31 January 2008 that, retire by rotation at the Meeting but will not be as wealth management no longer forms part of its seeking re-election.
Sir Michael Bunbury stands for revised strategy, it would work with FCAMs board and re-election having served over nine years Resolution management team to review its shareholding.
The Company has announced the appointment of The Companys relationship with F&C is fully Sir David Clementi with effect from 23 May 2008: he arms-length with no cross-directorships or common will stand for election in 2009. share interests.
Part of the legacy is that the names The Nomination Committee considered the Foreign & Colonial and F&C are often used re-election of Sir Michael Bunbury at a meeting synonymously in the public arena, although the held in January 2008, appraising his performance companies each own their respective names and and reviewing his status and commitment as an are two distinct and completely independent entities.
independent and long serving non-executive Director.
Jeremy Tigue acts as Fund Manager to the Company The Board has concurred with the Nomination the Fund Manager, on behalf of F&C, and is Committees assessment that he continues to make responsible and accountable for the entire portfolio a valuable and effective contribution and remains including private equity, and other key areas such as committed to his role.
Sir Michael Bunbury absented marketing and investor relations.
His responsibilities Report and Accounts 2007 19 Directors Report and Business Review continued extend to asset allocation, gearing and risk management it also manages.
The fixed fee is subject to annual within limits set and regularly monitored by the Board review and for 2008 increases to 6.7 million.
including the private equity fund of funds investments The Manager is also entitled to two separate managed by Pantheon Ventures Limited Pantheon performance-related fees: and HarbourVest Partners LLC HarbourVest.
5% of any net asset value total return per share Recommendations for further private equity and out-performance of the benchmark of 40% FTSE unlisted investments remain subject to approval by All-Share and 60% FTSE WI World ex UK indices the Board.
In the case of the regional equity portfolios, the composite benchmark plus 0.5%: and the Fund Manager has the flexibility to recommend 5% of any net asset value total return per share outto the Board their delegation to external third party performance of the weighted average of those of investment managers when this seems likely to result in the Companys five closest peers within the Global better investment performance.
There are currently three Growth Investment Trust sector Alliance Trust, such managers for the North America large and midThe Bankers Investment Trust, Scottish Investment cap equity portfolios, namely Loomis Sayles, Barrow Trust, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust and Hanley and T Rowe Price, and one manager for the Witan Investment Trust the close peer group.
Japan portfolio, Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
The performance-related fees are calculated An independent specialist multi-manager, Investment on a cumulative basis, carrying forward any underManagement Selection Limited IMS, advises the performance, or any over-performance beyond a 3% Manager in relation to the appointment of third party cap, in any period.
The performance-related fees are investment managers for the North America portfolios.
based on adjusted net assets with debentures at market value.
The condition under which payment is deferred, if Responsible ownership the share price has fallen over the year, applies to the The Managers stated belief is that good governance composite benchmark element of the arrangement only, creates value and therefore it takes a particular as does deduction for the effect of share buy-backs and interest in corporate governance and sustainable the 0.5% hurdle.
For 2007, the Manager was paid a 6.2 business practices.
This includes the integration of million performance-related fee: 3.8 million relating to environmental, social and governance issues into its the composite benchmark and 2.4 million relating to the investment decisions.
It votes all of its shares across close peer group.
Outperformance of 2.8% in respect of all global markets whenever possible, and engages the composite benchmark has been carried forward.
with companies on corporate governance matters to Note 4 on the accounts provides detailed information in encourage good practice.
This includes engagement relation to the respective management fees incurred by on significant social and environmental issues, where the Company.
these may impact shareholder value.
With effect from 1 January 2007, the Fund The Managers current policy, which is available Managers own remuneration from the Manager on its website, has been reviewed and endorsed was aligned more closely with the interests of by the Board, which encourages and supports the shareholders.
A proportion of the Fund Managers Manager on its voting policy and its stance towards annual bonus payment is represented by shares in environmental, social and governance issues.
the Company held on trust by FCAM for three years, All contested takeovers affecting the Companys with vesting only at the end of such period.
investments are referred to the Board.
Sub-managers fees The Managers fees The Manager incurs fees in respect of advice from The Manager was paid a fixed fee of 6.4 million IMS in relation to its delegation of the management 2006: 5.7 million for investment management, of the North America portfolio, and also incurs secretarial, accounting and marketing-related services investment management fees from the subin 2007, less amounts equal to the fees already managers that it has appointed to manage both that received in respect of holdings in the portfolio that and the Japan portfolio.
The Company reimburses 20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC the Manager for these fees, which in 2007 amounted The Companys outstanding trade creditors were to 2.5 million 2006: 2.5 million.
equivalent to seven days payments to suppliers as at 31 December 2007 2006: two days.
Private equity managers fees The fees incurred by the Company in respect of the Performance measurement private equity funds of funds managed by Pantheon The Board recognises that it is share price performance and HarbourVest amounted to 4.8 million for 2007 that is most important to the Companys shareholders, 2006: 1.7 million, having increased mainly as a coupled with a steadily rising dividend.
Underlying share result of large commitments and investment calls price performance is net asset value performance, for during the year.
Some of the funds have arrangements which the Board looks to its Manager, which has been whereby Pantheon and HarbourVest share in the set the performance-related fee targets set out above.
profits once certain hurdle rates of return to investors have been achieved.
These arrangements are varied Key performance indicators and complex, but are on normal commercial terms The Board assesses its performance in meeting within the private equity funds of funds industry.
Fees the Companys objective against the following Key payable by the underlying funds are negotiated by Performance Indicators: Pantheon and HarbourVest.
These arrangements Net asset value total return also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of Share price total return 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an Performance attribution agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been Annual dividend growth achieved, would be quite normal.
Discount to net asset value Total expense ratio Creditor payment policy Savings plans investment flows The Companys principal supplier is the Manager, The Board also reviews statistical measurements the payment terms for which are set out above.
Absolute and relative Other suppliers to the Company are paid in assessments are made to understand the risk return accordance with individually agreed payment terms.
Net asset value total return and share price total return performance 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years % % % % FCIT net asset value with debt at market value 15.4 63.1 120.2 105.4 Benchmark 7.9 46.9 94.8 81.6 Close Peer Group weighted average net asset value 13.4 63.6 119.6 99.4 AIC Global Growth Sector weighted average net asset value 12.0 63.3 125.1 112.4 FTSE All-Share 5.3 50.1 104.6 82.4 FTSE WI World ex UK 9.7 44.8 88.3 81.1 FCIT share price 14.1 73.9 117.8 116.0 Close Peer Group weighted average share price 12.7 71.0 124.7 107.9 AIC Global Growth sector weighted average share price 8.6 64.2 132.5 112.0 Retail Prices Index 4.3 10.7 17.3 31.2 Source: Fundamental Data Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Alliance Trust, The Bankers Investment Trust, Scottish Investment Trust, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust and Witan Investment Trust.
Report and Accounts 2007 21 Directors Report and Business Review continued Net asset value total return performance Asset allocation, stock selection ranking of FCIT vs Close Peer Group and gearing attribution 2007 2 6 Over 3 years 3 6 % 1 year 3 years 5 years 2006 4 6 Over 5 years 3 6 Asset allocation 2.54 5.53 8.26 2005 4 6 Over 10 years 3 6 Stock selection 3.02 1.53 0.13 2004 5 6 Gearing 1.52 2.27 3.90 2003 2 6 Source: Fundamental Data Based on debt at market value The table shows the contributions to total return versus the Companys benchmark from asset allocation, stock selection and gearing decisions over one, three and five years Source: F&C Management Limited Regional portfolio attribution in sterling 1 year 3 years 5 years % FCIT Index FCIT Index FCIT Index UK 7.59 5.32 47.97 43.55 102.33 95.79 North America 10.24 5.59 2.30 9.05 13.47 32.09 Europe ex UK 13.12 15.73 51.26 66.99 110.59 146.60 Japan 10.04 6.36 19.44 19.65 0.84 8.66 Emerging Markets Developed Asia 41.03 36.51 97.74 87.58 222.27 190.21 Emerging Markets 38.32 37.44 89.94 85.86 n a n a Developed Asia 50.09 34.64 125.18 91.24 n a n a Source: F&C Management Limited and Fundamental Data.
The Emerging Markets and Developed Asia portfolios were managed as one combined portfolio until 31 December 2005 since when they have been managed separately.
Discount Compound annual dividend growth Total expense ratio with debt at market value 31 December % % 5 years 10 years % A B 2007 11.1 2007 0.48 0.71 FCIT 10.8 8.8 2006 9.8 2006 0.46 0.53 Close Peer Group ex FCIT 5.3 4.6 2005 9.5 2005 0.46 0.53 FTSE All-Share 8.1 1.6 2004 14.8 2004 0.50 0.50 Inflation RPI 3.2 2.8 2003 10.3 2003 0.58 0.58 Source: F&C Management Limited A excluding performance fee Source: F&C Management Limited: Fundamental Data B including performance fee Excludes an accrual for recoverable VAT on management fees Source: F&C Management Limited Further detailed performance statistics can be found in the Ten Year Record on pages 62 and 63.
F&C Savings Plans investment flows in FCIT m 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Purchases 49.5 48.1 36.7 54.6 55.6 Withdrawals 78.5 73.5 61.9 47.8 20.0 Net flow 29.0 25.4 25.2 6.8 35.6 The above figures cover all of the F&C Savings Plans in FCIT, including the Personal Pension Plan and Child Trust Fund.
Source: F&C Management Limited 22 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC MANAGER EVALUATION AND RE-APPOINTMENT pence with debt at par.
The Board considered The process that the relative net asset value total return The review of the Managers performance is an performance of the Company in 2007 was on-going duty and responsibility of the Board, highly satisfactory against the objectives set for which is carried out at every Board meeting during the Manager.
The Manager beat the composite the year, with a formal annual evaluation being benchmark by 7.5 percentage points and the undertaken in January each year.
In order to carry weighted average of the net asset value total this out, the Board receives monthly detailed reports returns of the close peer group by 2.0 percentage and views from the Fund Manager on investment points, thus exceeding both targets.
It also policy, asset allocation, gearing and risk, together outperformed the weighted average of the net with quarterly presentations from F&C in respect asset value total returns of the AIC Global Growth of the UK, Europe ex UK, Emerging Markets, sector.
There was further out-performance against Developed Asia and US Small Cap portfolios.
the weighted average share price total returns These are mirrored in quarterly presentations from of both the close peer group and the AIC Global IMS in respect of the portfolios managed by the Growth sector.
The Company had comfortably US sub-managers and from Goldman Sachs Asset outperformed the weighted averages of the close Management in respect of the Japan portfolio.
The peer group over 10 years, and had improved to Board also receives comprehensive performance come into line over three and five years.
measurement schedules, provided by Fundamental ii Performance attribution Asset allocation, Data Limited and F&C, at each meeting.
These stock selection and gearing all added value.
In enable it to assess the success or failure of the terms of asset allocation, the under-weighting management of the total portfolio against the in the US and Japan and over-weighting in the performance objectives set by the Board, to assess Developed Asia and Emerging Markets were the sources of positive and negative contribution significant contributors.
The UK, Developed to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation Asia and Emerging Markets regional portfolios and stock selection and to assess the performance managed directly by F&C all performed well in of each region against its local index and the risk terms of stock selection beating their respective return characteristics of the portfolio.
benchmarks, but Europe ex UK continued The annual review and evaluation of the Managers to disappoint and the US Smaller Companies performance over the past year was carried out at portfolio underperformed.
F&C has appointed a the Board meeting held in January 2008.
The process new regional fund manager with responsibility involved a formal presentation to the Board by F&Cs for the Europe ex UK portfolio and the Board Chief Executive Officer, the Fund Manager and will continue to monitor this regional portfolio.
Deputy Fund Manager and the Head of Investment The sub-managed North America portfolio Trusts, which covered recent developments at F&C, underwent a turnaround out-performing ongoing investment process measures to achieve significantly in 2007, whereas the outsourced top quartile performance, the Companys investment Japan portfolio underperformed in a torrid year performance in 2007, as well as the provision of for active managers in that market.
resources and services during the year.
This was iii Resources, services and advice provided The followed by a closed session of the Board to assess Manager had significant resources, a wide and the Managers overall performance and consider its developing product range and substantial assets re-appointment for the ensuing year.
A three year plan had been put in place in January 2007, as part of which a Matters considered strategy of accelerated investment in people and i Overall investment performance The Companys infrastructure was introduced to support the delivery net asset value per share rose 13.6% to 358.6 of enhanced investment performance and a number pence with debt at market value, and to 363.5 of new product initiatives.
In addition to its investment Report and Accounts 2007 23 Directors Report and Business Review continued management capabilities, F&C had the necessary plc regarding its 52% shareholding in FCAM, the resources and experienced people to provide the Board will carefully monitor developments and full range of investment trust services required by progress at F&C, and its ability to attract and the Company, including provision of secretarial, retain talented managers and to continue with the accounting, administration, marketing, stock lending, improvements made in stock selection and overall performance and risk measurement, internal audit investment performance from internal and external and risk control functions, as well as advice on buymanagement.
The overall challenge for F&C remains backs, discount control mechanisms, corporate that of achieving a sustainable improvement in structuring and industry issues.
The marketing of F&Cs savings schemes continued to be successful with another increase The Boards priorities for 2008 in market share over 2007, albeit in a declining The Board considers its priorities and sets its market and with further net outflows.
objectives for the year ahead as part of its annual The Child Trust Fund continued to show appraisal process.
The overriding priority remains considerable long-term promise, and planned consistent achievement of relative out-performance, initiatives following a marketing review confirmed adding value for shareholders through a virtuous that F&C possessed the capability to attract circle of net asset value and share price total return, new investors to the Company in an increasingly discount management, dividend growth, a low competitive marketplace.
Investor relations and competitive total expense ratio and effective and press communication had once again marketing.
Investment performance will continue to been well conducted, with the Fund Manager be monitored closely, particularly with regard to the carrying out an extensive programme of regional relative under-performance in Europe and Japan.
The presentations to private client investment Board will continue to test the Managers marketing managers, which had been very well received.
strategy to ensure that the Company is receiving value for money and is continuing to be promoted Decision to re-appoint effectively, in order to generate demand by attracting Following this review and evaluation, it was the new investors whilst retaining existing shareholders.
opinion of the Board that the continuing appointment of F&C as Manager on the terms agreed was in Future prospects the interests of shareholders as a whole.
F&Cs The outlook for the Company is reported in the achievement in comfortably beating both of Chairmans Statement on page 5 and in the Fund its performance-related targets demonstrated Managers Review on page 12.
Continuing the the significant improvements made.
The Board Companys record of increases in dividend well recognised F&Cs ongoing commitment to the ahead of inflation, the Board is forecasting a total Company and to its investment trust business in dividend of 6.45 pence per share, representing an general, and also the resources, people and increase of 10.3% for the year 2008. experience available and the quality of advice offered on a wide range of subjects.
All the services GENERAL INFORMATION provided to the Company, including secretarial, Voting rights accounting and marketing, had been professionally At 6 March 2008 the Company had 683,550,943 and efficiently delivered.
ordinary shares in issue with a total of 683,550,943 The future of F&C and its ability to deliver the voting rights.
As at that date the Company received benefits envisaged under its reinvestment notification of the following holdings of voting rights programme announced in January 2007 and under the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules : achieve its stated ambition of reaching top quartile Legal & General Group plc 4.1% in all areas of its business will be very important.
The above percentage is calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified to Following the announcement by Friends Provident the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at 6 March 2008.
24 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC The Manager holds 36.5% of the Companys share January 2008 the Company sent a letter to capital on behalf of non-discretionary clients through shareholders who hold their shares on the main its savings plans.
It is intended that the nominee register with Computershare Investor Services company holding these shares will vote the shares PLC, giving shareholders the option of registering held on behalf of plan holders who have not returned for electronic communication with the Company or their voting directions in proportion to the directions continuing to communicate with the Company in of those who have.
Plan holders have the right to paper form.
In accordance with the Companies Act exclude their shares from the proportional voting 2006, shareholders who did not respond to the letter arrangement.
Implementation of this arrangement is have been deemed to have consented to access subject to a 5% threshold of the shares held in the Company documents electronically via the Companys savings plans being voted.
website and will no longer receive the Annual Report and Accounts in paper form, unless a specific request Charitable donations to the contrary is made to the Company.
It is the Boards policy not to make charitable donations, as the role of an investment trust Articles of Association is somewhat different from most other types of It is proposed to amend the articles of association companies and as taxation incentives towards of the Company in order to reflect certain changes charitable donations are balanced in favour of direct made or to be made to the law by the Companies contributions by individuals rather than companies.
As the CA 2006 is being Therefore, no such contributions were made during implemented in phases and various related the year.
regulations are yet to be finalised and or brought However, a sponsorship contribution of 60,000 into force, shareholder approval will be required 2006: 60,000 was made to IfsProshares Student in due course for further changes to the articles Investor Challenge competition which is run for the of association.
It is anticipated that the remaining purpose of helping schoolchildren develop financial provisions of the CA 2006 will come into force on capability.
Accordingly, the Company will thereafter be undertaking a detailed review of its Independent auditors articles of association, in order to reflect the entirety So far as each of the Directors is aware, of the CA 2006 and associated legislation.
there is no relevant audit information of which Resolution 11 will be put to the shareholders  LLP the Auditors at the Annual General Meeting to enable the are unaware.
The Directors believe that they have Company to implement the following changes to taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as its articles of association: Directors in order to make themselves aware of any a the insertion of amendments to reflect the relevant audit information and to establish that the change in the law under the CA 2006 that a Auditors are aware of the information.
company is now required, if it refuses to register The Auditors have indicated their willingness to a transfer of shares, to give the transferee continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at reasons for the refusal: the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them and b various changes are to be made to reflect determine their remuneration Resolutions 7 and 8. the fact that the CA 2006 does not use the term extraordinary general meeting.
Instead, Electronic communication meetings are either annual general meetings or Resolutions were passed by shareholders at the general meetings: and annual general meeting in May 2007 enabling c various amendments are to be made to reflect the Company to facilitate communications with the change in the law relating to directors shareholders in electronic form and by means of conflicts of interests and declarations of such a website, and to offer electronic proxy voting.
Report and Accounts 2007 25 Directors Report and Business Review continued The changes to the directors conflicts of interest regime under the CA 2006 will come into force on 1 October 2008.
It is therefore proposed that the amendments to be made to the articles of association to reflect these changes will only have effect from 1 October 2008, the date when the new provisions come into force.
Annual General Meeting Shareholders will have received a separate enclosure containing explanatory information and the Notice of the Annual General Meeting the Meeting to be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2 on 1 May 2008 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the Meeting, resolutions 9 to 11 will be proposed as special business.
By order of the Board, H. N. Potter, for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, Secretary 7 March 2008 26 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
