Business review ICAP plc 14 Annual Report 2007 Business review Results for 2007 commoditisation of flow markets and the increasing focus on electronic trading and increasing commitment of capital to proprietary After a very active and successful year, the Group and algorithmic trading strategies by dealers and their customers: reports a record profit of 251.6 million before rapid growth in equity derivatives driven by rising stock markets and taxation, amortisation and impairment of intangibles the search for yield: arising on consolidation and exceptional items: this continuing liberalisation of emerging markets and the growth in represents a 23% increase over the prior year.
onshore and local currency fixed income, derivatives and credit markets: and On a statutory basis profit before taxation was 213.8 million for the year ended 31 March 2007 increasing regulatory pressure for best execution and price transparency, which favours electronic trading venues.
We continue to believe We estimate that total global revenues in the interdealer market that profit before taxation, amortisation and excluding cash equities grew by approximately 16% over the year impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation to reach $6.9 billion.
This reflects periods of very high volatility in and exceptional items better reflects the Groups May 2006 and March 2007 but the overall market activity grew at a steadier pace.
A year ago we highlighted that notwithstanding underlying year-on-year performance.
This measure commission compression the very high levels of innovation and product is reconciled to profit before taxation on the face of development occurring in the wholesale financial markets would result in higher industry revenue growth rates than in the past.
We currently the consolidated income statement.
estimate that the underlying annual rate of growth of industry revenues, which may be expected in the medium term, could be between 7% The majority of ICAPs revenue is US dollar and 9%.
denominated and therefore the weakening of the The principal areas in which we are seeing faster growth are FX, energy, dollar against sterling had a significant impact on credit derivatives, equity derivatives and financing, emerging markets ICAPs reported results.
Year-on-year profit before and structured products generally.
As we have noted previously, the expansion of electronic broking in the more liquid and commoditised taxation would have been approximately 9 million markets itself feeds additional growth through: higher without the dollar depreciation.
In addition, driving lower transaction costs which increase trading volumes by the EBS contribution to profit before taxation would encouraging the development of algorithmic and other highly price have been approximately 2 million higher if prior sensitive trading strategies: year average exchange rates had prevailed.
concentrating volumes among fewer, electronic, venues: enabling lower post-trade transaction costs through automated Business drivers confirmation and STP, thereby increasing customer efficiency and ICAP is a growth business in a growing market.
Many factors continue attracting extra marginal volumes.
to support this growth including: Our very broad spread of businesses, both geographically and in the macro-economic imbalances in currencies, interest rate and credit individual markets, means that we are not exposed to changes in market markets leading to continuing price volatility and the basis for further volumes in any single market.
growth in interest rate and credit derivatives, FX, energy and listed futures markets: the search for yield among global investors underpinning the growth in structured credit and equity products and reinforcing the attractions of efficient electronic execution: Business review ICAP plc 15 Annual Report 2007 p Europe Geographic performance Year ended 31 March 2007 ICAPs businesses are broadly distributed across 29 countries worldwide: in terms of revenue and profit Headline Underlying 1 growth growth Europe and the Americas are the two largest regions.
m%% Revenue 502.4 27 20 2 Operating profit 124.4 46 38 Europe was the most profitable division with the highest profit margin.
The region delivered a very good performance during the year with both voice and electronic revenue growing rapidly.
The fastest growth was in FX, as a result of the EBS acquisition.
Demand for corporate bonds in the first half remained subdued but activity returned in 2007 and credit derivatives continued to grow with a significant portion traded electronically.
The energy businesses produced another very strong performance with our freight derivatives joint venture developing rapidly.
The emerging markets businesses had a successful year and we have expanded our operations into Russia and Turkey together with several east European centres.
Structured equities and equity derivatives also performed particularly well.
Our interest rate derivative business faced tougher conditions with spreads remaining tight for much of the year.
The flight to quality in late February early March 2007 benefited some businesses including euro interest rate swaps and spot FX volumes.
The Americas Year ended 31 March 2007 Headline Underlying 1 growth growth m % % Revenue 458.3 7 3 2 Operating profit 104.2 2 While revenue and profit increased on a headline basis in the Americas, growth in underlying revenue was more subdued and there was a small reduction in the the overall profit margin of the region.
Emerging markets, mainly driven by our expansion in Latin American products, our structured credit and equity products have performed very well.
Growth in activity in the repo market slowed and brokerage compression came under pressure in the electronic US treasuries market.
During the second half of the year the rate of commission compression in US treasuries, as a result of competitor activity, slowed.
In part this was due to the renegotiation of pricing arrangements with our customers.
The acquisition of EBS substantially boosted foreign exchange revenue and profit.
1 Excludes the impact of foreign exchange and net acquisitions.
2 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Business review ICAP plc 16 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued p Asia Pacific Divisional performance Year ended 31 March 2007 ICAP segments its Group revenue and operating profit Headline Underlying into three divisions, voice, electronic and information.
1 growth growth m%% Revenue 145.6 52 12 2 Operating profit 19.1 169 24 Both revenue and profit margin increased significantly in Asia Pacific principally as a result of EBS in the foreign exchange market and Reset in the interest rate market with their attractive margins.
Following last years staff upheavals, this year the voice broking business has seen a rebuilding phase.
The market has become highly competitive and while staff turnover has slowed, it has not stopped completely.
Our competitors are still seeking to build their presence.
There has been strong revenue growth in Korean products, Japanese equity derivatives, interest rates swaps and energy.
ICAP acquired the remaining 45% of our Korean subsidiary in November 2006.
We received approval from the Chinese authorities for the China Foreign Exchange Trade System and ICAP to prepare to form a joint venture in Shanghai and expect to begin operations in mid 2007.
Business review ICAP plc 17 Annual Report 2007 Voice division In late February 2007, ICAPs daily electronic broking volumes exceeded The voice division operates both in the faster growing products where $1 trillion $1,000 billion for the first time on two successive days.
innovation in the financial markets is creating many new opportunities The very active conditions in global financial markets, including the and also in the more mature, slower growing group where volumes are foreign exchange and fixed income markets, led to a significant increase much higher and products are moving towards more commoditisation in volumes on ICAPs electronic broking platforms EBS and BrokerTec.
These more mature businesses are the This $1 trillion of trading activity comprised more than 175,000 ones that we expect to move to electronic broking in the future.
transactions on each day by various counterparties in more than 40 countries.
Average daily volumes on our expanded electronic Many of the newer businesses in the voice division have had a very platform exceeded $670 billion during the second half of the year.
good year with significant overall revenue growth and increased profit margin.
We have continued to see the trend of robust growth in the The EBS business has continued to perform well.
Revenue and profit more structured and complex products as our clients leverage both margin growth has continued in electronic broking in several of the their financial and intellectual capital to enhance yield.
Emerging market interest rate markets including European repo, credit derivative products, products have grown in all centres as these markets develop and forward FX, US agencies, mortgage-backed securities and interest rate derivatives in both interest rates and currency evolve.
For much of the products in Asia.
year the energy markets have been very active, with volatility in the oil We have maintained our market share in US treasury products and, markets continuing.
In addition, other products such as freight derivatives although there has been significant brokerage compression, since have been an important contributor to growth.
However, growth in November the rate of brokerage compression has levelled off.
activity levels in interest rate products such as government and Algorithmic trading in both the fixed income and FX markets has corporate bonds was not as strong.
There was a significant slowdown in continued to grow quickly and now makes a significant contribution voice-broked volumes in the dollar repo market, which is primarily the to liquidity on the two trading platforms.
longer-dated trades, due to low levels of volatility.
There have been a number of new product launches including, Electronic division on the EBS platform, US dollar rouble, US dollar New Zealand dollar The most important event in the electronic division was the acquisition and Australian dollar New Zealand dollar together with platinum and in June 2006 of EBS for $534 million in cash and 36.1 million shares.
palladium, building on the existing precious metals business in gold This significantly increased our foreign exchange revenue.
is going well having delivered its pre-acquisition targets.
Now that More recently, electronic broking in forward FX, which had already we have had the opportunity to examine more deeply the potential attracted a large number of counterparties in Europe, was extended technology savings, we have identified further synergies and the to the other major financial markets, including Asia and the Americas, anticipated annual cost savings by 2008 09 are now expected to be to build a global operation and provide further growth.
The total associated exceptional costs of achieving these synergies are now estimated to be $48 million.
Our electronic broking margins will continue to improve as we complete the integration of EBS and ICAPs electronic broking business.
The electronic broking margin in the second half of the year increased from 26% in the first half to 29%.
The temporary effect of the double running costs associated with the upgrading of our fixed income platform is reflected in these margins.
These costs are expected to end in 2009.
2 The percentage of ICAPs total profit arising from electronic broking was 22%, a rise from 15% in the previous year.
ICAP has a long-term target to increase the share of profit coming from electronic broking to 50%.
Business review ICAP plc 18 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued p In April 2007 ICAP launched i-Sec, a new electronic trading Markets platform for securities lending.
i-Sec facilitates screen-based access To explain the drivers of ICAPs performance to the securities lending markets.
Initially, equities from France, more clearly, ICAP will disclose revenue by product Germany, Italy, Spain, the UK and Japan will be available for lending and borrowing on the platform, with a view to expanding this group.
These groups are aligned with the way in which product offering.
our customers manage their businesses.
We believe there are significant opportunities to expand our business in post-trade services where our customers are looking for improved operational and balance sheet efficiencies.
This year we substantially increased our position in this market by combining an existing business with an external team to form Reset which has performed very successfully.
TriOptima, the web-based early termination and portfolio reconciliation service where we have increased our minority share, has maintained its momentum.
In the spot FX market we have launched an automated ticket netting service with foreign exchange post-trade specialist Traiana, to create a netting system called NetLink.
This enables prime broking banks using the EBS system to net their customers foreign exchange trades by currency pair at pre-defined points throughout the day.
In addition we have acquired a minority interest in The Clearing Corporation, one of the worlds oldest, independent clearing houses for derivative instruments.
ICAP plc and GFI Group Inc plan to develop jointly new clearing services for OTC derivative products with The Clearing Corporation.
Information division ICAP is also the source of global market information and commentary for professionals in the international financial markets.
Our market data offers real-time, end-of-day and historical market data sourced from our global interdealer trading platforms, providing authoritative and comprehensive information on global markets across a broad range of asset classes.
A significant part of the revenue of ICAPs information division is drawn from the electronic broking businesses and grew strongly this year on the back of the acquisition of EBS.
Business review ICAP plc 19 Annual Report 2007 To give our investors a greater understanding of the growth drivers Energy to the Groups business, ICAP is providing an additional analysis of its For much of the year the oil markets were particularly volatile and we business.
In future, ICAP will disclose revenue by product group.
benefited from these active markets.
Coal, gas and electricity were These are interest rates, credit, energy, FX, equities, emerging markets also busy and we became the largest OTC broker of European emissions and information.
These groups are aligned with the way our customers credits.
Freight derivatives were the latest market to see significant manage their businesses and as a result ICAP is able to explain the drivers growth and the joint venture we established with Hyde Holdings two of performance more clearly.
The revenue and proportion of ICAPs years ago has been very successful.
ICAP acquired the shipbroking revenue for these product groups are set out below: business of J. E. Hyde on 1 May 2007.
In addition to our joint venture, J. E. Hydes activities cover a range of shipbroking and related services Revenue to the shipping industry.
The acquired business has gross assets of m % of total 1 million and employs 54 staff.
Its core business of dry cargo ship Interest rates 468.4 42 broking and the sale and purchase of ships is complemented by Credit 124.9 11 shipping market research, yacht broking and shipping website design.
Energy 101.1 9 The new company will be known as ICAP Hyde & Company Ltd. FX 159.2 15 Equities 98.3 9 Foreign exchange Emerging markets 114.6 10 The foreign exchange markets have seen significant volume growth Information 39.8 4 aided by several periods of high volatility during the year.
On the EBS platform we have seen increasing business completed through the prime 1,106.3 100 broking arms of our customers, including algorithmic trading.
Several new products have been launched during the year on the EBS platform Interest rates including US dollar rouble, US dollar New Zealand dollar and Australian For much of the year yield curves in the major markets have been flat dollar New Zealand dollar.
In forward FX we are extending our electronic or inverted and volatility has been low.
Notional amounts of interest broking platform from a sound European base across our electronic rate derivatives outstanding, which include interest rate swaps and network to cover Asia Pacific and the Americas.
options and cross-currency interest rate swaps, grew almost 14% to $285.7 trillion in the second half of 2006.
For the year as a whole, Equities interest rate derivatives notionals rose 34% over 2005, which is above The vast majority of ICAPs business in the equity markets is in the annual growth rate of recent years.
These notional amounts derivatives and more complex structures in the UK, US and Japan.
outstanding would have been much higher if TriOptimas multi-lateral There has been significant growth helped by equity market volatility.
termination service had not been so successful.
In the second half of 2006, according to ISDA, the notional amounts of equity derivatives outstanding, consisting of equity swaps, options Credit and forwards, grew 12% from $6.4 trillion to $7.2 trillion and annual This is a story of contrasting fortunes.
Volumes in the credit derivatives growth was 29%.
markets have continued to grow very rapidly, secondary trading in the corporate bond markets however has been slowing.
Credit derivatives Emerging markets are being used much more for hedging purposes.
ISDAs survey indicates Given the very broad range of products and markets covered by ICAPs that the notional principal outstanding volume of credit default swaps emerging market teams, it is not possible to provide market volumes CDS grew 33% in the second half of 2006, rising from $26.0 trillion to illustrate the very significant growth that the market is experiencing.
This compares The range includes FX, interest rate products, government and corporate with a 52% growth during the first half of 2006.
We have a very strong position in Latin America where the for the whole of 2006 was 102%, compared with 103% during 2005. markets have been very active.
We have found and expect to find many Our electronic broking platform in Europe has been particularly successful more opportunities in the eastern European markets, Russia, Turkey combining both the bond and derivatives on a single platform.
Over half and into Africa.
In Asia Pacific we have a well developed network of of the volume traded is completed electronically.
12 offices with more than 650 staff covering the markets.
Business review ICAP plc 20 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued p Competitive environment Competitive environment ICAP leads the sector with an overall market share of interdealer broker The interdealer broking market continues to global revenue estimated at 30%31%, slightly higher than a year ago.
consolidate: the largest five groups now account In the voice broking markets, the major interdealer broker firms continue to consolidate market share as banks seek to rationalise their broking for an estimated 85% of global revenue.
relationships and achieve economies of scale.
The largest five groups now account for an estimated 85% of global revenue.
While this process of consolidation has already run a long way in certain products, it is still in the early stages in others such as equity derivatives and energy.
We believe this trend will continue for some time.
The acquisition of EBS was a significant step forward in the process of market consolidation.
It has transformed the electronic competitive landscape, more than doubling ICAPs share of OTC electronic broking where ICAP is now the largest electronic interdealer broker with a 44% share of this market.
There is a growing appreciation that one of the key features of an electronic broking business is not only the breadth of the connected customer base but also the depth of connectivity with our customers and their internal systems.
This applies to pre-trade connectivity as well as post-trade integration with position keeping, risk management and back office systems.
In our markets, the combination of ICAP Electronic Broking and EBS creates a key strategic advantage a global network which will require significant time and expenditure by our competitors to replicate.
This connectivity, together with the opportunities for functional enhancement and delivery of additional products and services over that network, places ICAP in a strong position as the inevitable evolution towards electronic trading takes place.
The financial and commodity derivatives exchanges have shown rapid volume growth, particularly in North America, as they benefit from the uplift from taking their markets electronic.
The launch of new futures or options contracts is a risky and often disappointing business.
In contrast we have found that innovation in OTC markets is much more frequent and has a much greater chance of success.
Recent examples include structured credit derivatives, freight derivatives and carbon emissions.
Liquid futures contracts are natural hedging tools in many of our markets and each type of instrument helps the development of the other.
As the exchanges seek to expand their businesses there is the potential for more competition between the institutional or wholesale financial markets serviced by ICAP and the exchanges which are open to a much wider variety of users.
Business review ICAP plc 21 Annual Report 2007 p Technology Technology ICAP uses a number of different technology platforms to deliver A significant investment in technology is essential electronic broking to the different markets we serve.
We continue to to keep both the electronic and voice broking invest so that in the future the majority of ICAPs services, apart from a few very illiquid or structured products, will be available electronically businesses competitive.
as well as through voice brokers.
This is a significant investment but it is essential to keep both the electronic and voice broking businesses competitive.
During this year ICAP spent 10% of revenue on technology.
This included investing in upgrading our technology platforms and extending our data networks.
We now have 550 staff committed to the development and support of these systems.
As with any forward looking business the emphasis of our technology development costs is on systems that change the business rather than just running the business better.
The financial services industry has voted the three-year technology global upgrade of the EBS Spot system, which was completed in February 2006, as the Best Global Deployment in the American Financial Services Technology Awards.
The work to upgrade the live system covered more than 40 countries, 110 cities, 2,500 workstations and nearly 900 trading floors with core broker hubs and back-up servers in London, Tokyo and New York.
The majority of the costs and inefficiencies in the OTC market usually occur post trade, where transactions need to be manually confirmed and input into the banks systems for both settlement of the trade and position management.
For ICAP a fundamental business objective is the integration of our networks and systems with those of our customers post trade systems.
Establishing these links can be difficult and slow, involving the banks in investing time and money to complete this integration, but once established they provide a significant competitive advantage.
Electronic broking, together with post-trade feeds, provides STP, which allows the trade to be confirmed, cleared where the market has clearing and settled upon the execution of the trade.
Voice-brokered trades are also confirmed electronically through the same process.
This streamlined process reduces costs significantly but also enables many more trades to be executed and processed within a day, thereby increasing the velocity of trading in these markets.
Business review ICAP plc 22 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued p Risk Risk As with all businesses, risk is inherent in the Groups activities.
The Significant progress has been made in enhancing effective identification, monitoring and management of each risk the Groups risk framework and upgrading risk is an essential factor in the Groups overall performance and, during the past year, significant progress has been made in enhancing the Groups control standards.
risk framework and upgrading risk control standards.
Risk management The main risks that confront the Group fall into five categories: operational, regulatory, financial, credit and market risk.
The board is responsible for setting its strategy and appetite for each of these categories and for ensuring that the Groups risk management framework and processes are appropriate and operating effectively with clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
It performs these tasks through the group risk committee and the finance committee.
These committees are also responsible for establishing and continually reviewing risk policies, delegated authorities and limits.
The committees also adopt ongoing risk and control assessment programmes.
These involve senior business and support management in identifying and measuring the various risks that they are accountable for and the systems and controls in place to manage, monitor and mitigate those risks.
At the end of the year the assessment programmes were supplemented by the completion of a comprehensive review of the top 25 significant risks faced by the Groups businesses.
This included the review of the key controls in place and the action plans required to further reduce risk exposure.
Business review ICAP plc 23 Annual Report 2007 Operational risk Regulatory risk Operational risk is the most important risk that the Group faces and Regulatory risk is the risk of a financial loss or opportunity cost arising is the risk that the Group suffers a loss directly or indirectly from from either the failure to meet the requirements set by the Groups inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external regulators or the impact that legislation has on the markets in which events.
It is intrinsic in all of the Groups activities and is comprised the Group carries out its business.
of a wide and diverse range of risk types.
During 2007, wide ranging financial regulatory developments are being The two key operational risks faced by the Group are technology introduced.
The impact of these, including the Capital Requirements and people risk.
In particular losses can result from: Directive CRD referred to later, has considerably raised the profile of regulatory risk within the Group.
significant and extended failure of IT systems and applications: The Group is required to meet the systems and controls requirements breakdown of information security, including corrupt data due of the CRD and has, during the past year, reviewed these and where to network intrusion, breach of network gateways or security necessary has taken action to ensure compliance.
systems failure: In November 2007 further regulatory developments in the shape project risk in relation to critical IT development: of the new Markets in Financial Investments Directive MiFiD the loss of key members from a broking desk: will be introduced.
Although these new rules will assist in improving transparency in our businesses, they may damage the development broker errors: of and possibly reduce liquidity within some of the Groups markets.
external events including failure of external settlement clearing The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to supervision and does this systems: in various ways including the review of prudential returns, visits to the introduction of new products and markets and the related tax, Group and meetings with senior management.
In the US, the Groups legal, accounting, regulatory, settlement and technology issues.
activities are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Group operates in other countries and its operations are subject to It is a policy of the Group to ensure that the important and significant relevant local regulatory requirements.
Adherence to these regulations operational risks and their controls are continually reviewed and assessed.
is monitored, where applicable, by local compliance officers who report As a consequence of this process corrective action plans are continually regularly to the board.
introduced to mitigate the impact of a risk when it occurs and reduce the probability of it occurring.
Financial risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to a variety of Key risk indicators are produced on a regular basis and are discussed at financial risks including liquidity, interest rate and currency.
The Groups the group risk committee together with reports on key risk events or overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability developments that may impact the Groups business activities.
In addition of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects the committee also oversees other processes that supplement and on the Groups financial performance by using derivative instruments validate the risk identification and measurement programmes, including to lower funding costs, alter interest rate exposures arising as a result of the collection of loss data, internal audit findings and process mapping.
mismatches between assets and liabilities or to achieve greater certainty of future costs.
The use of derivatives forms part of the Groups overall risk management framework as determined by the board through the group risk and finance committees.
Business review ICAP plc 24 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued The Groups funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and FX rate Interest rate risk The Group has an exposure to fluctuations in interest risk are managed by the Groups treasury function in accordance with a rates on both its borrowings and cash positions which, from time to policy framework approved by the finance committee.
The framework time, it manages with derivative instruments.
The Groups objective lays out the Groups appetite for risk and the steps to be taken to is to minimise interest cost and the impact of interest volatility on the manage these risks.
The finance committee receives a bi-monthly Groups income statement.
As a result of the EBS acquisition being part report on the activities of the treasury function and is also responsible for financed with debt, the Group had net finance expense as opposed approving significant transactions such as new financing arrangements or to the historic finance income position.
However, if no significant debt changes to the Groups hedging strategy.
The Group risk committee sets financed acquisitions are made, the Group would remain cash positive and monitors treasurys counterparty limits.
throughout the year and return to having finance income for the financial year ending 31 March 2008.
As a result the Groups income will be Liquidity risk The Group seeks to ensure that it has constant access, exposed to interest rate movements, but not so significantly as to be even in periods of corporate or market turmoil, to an appropriate level material in the context of ICAPs total profit before taxation.
of cash, other forms of marketable securities and funding to enable it to finance its on-going operations, proposed acquisitions and other Currency risk The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements reasonable unanticipated events on cost effective and attractive terms.
in sterling and conducts business in a number of other currencies, principally the US dollar and the euro.
As a result the Group is exposed Cash balances are invested with the objective of optimising return, to foreign exchange risk due to exchange rate movements which affect while having regard to security, liquidity and counterparty risk.
Where the the Groups transactional revenues, and the translation of the earnings Group has cash surplus ie non-trading related balances it is invested and net assets of its overseas operations.
only with institutions which have the equivalent of an A credit rating or better and is in accordance with limits imposed and monitored by the During the financial year, the US dollar depreciated in value against Groups finance and risk committees.
sterling the average dollar sterling rate in the financial year was $1.89 1 compared with $1.79 1 in the previous financial year To finance the acquisition of EBS, the Group entered into a five-year which had a net 9 million negative impact on the Groups operating 300 million multi-currency credit facility of which 125 million was profit in the financial year to 31 March 2007 when compared with represented by a revolving credit facility and the balance by a US dollar the prior financial year.
Subsequently the revolving credit facility was increased by 50 million.
The term loan was fully drawn and the revolving credit element undrawn at the year end resulting in the Group having access to 175 million of committed headroom.
At the end of the year gross borrowings stood at 304 million of which 114 million was in the form of Subordinated Loan Notes due 2015: 167 million in respect of the EBS term loan and the balance in short-term borrowings, including bank overdrafts used to finance the businesses clearing and settlement activities.
Business review ICAP plc 25 Annual Report 2007 The table below shows the anticipated impact on operating profit of Credit risk a 10 cent movement in the US dollar and the euro on ICAP in terms The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by of translational and transactional exposure.
The impact of the US dollar counterparties in respect of its agency, matched principal and treasury has increased by 3 million against the prior year following the operations.
Credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments acquisition of EBS.
is limited by the Groups policy of requiring its treasury transactions to be undertaken with financial institutions which have been approved by Post EBS acquisition impact of 10 cent movement the group risk committee and which are investment grade rated.
US dollar Euro Total The Groups agency and matched principal business involves doing business Operating profit m m m with a variety of clients in multiple jurisdictions.
All counterparties are Translational 7 7 subject to regular review and assessment by regional credit management who then propose for approval, by the group risk committee, Transactional 5 9 14 appropriate limits taking into account the creditworthiness of the commercial counterparty and the nature of the business they transact The Groups policy is for subsidiaries with a sterling functional currency with the Group.
Allocated global limits are based on Group set to hedge their two main transactional exposures, which are the US dollar parameters determining the maximum loss that the Group can suffer and the euro, using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts as a result of a counterparty default.
Where appropriate, country limits and options for up to two years forward.
A maximum of 100% of the are applied to limit the exposure of the Group to that country.
forecast exposures is hedged for the first 12 months, 75% for the following six months and 25% thereafter.
The Groups other transactional Limits and their utilisation are monitored on a global basis.
In some cases exposures are continually monitored and, where deemed appropriate, exceptions do occur but these are approved prior to the transaction hedged for a period of 12 months forward.
taking place and are reported to the group risk committee.
As at the date of this report, the Group had hedging contracts in place Market risk covering approximately 90% of its forecast US dollar transactional Market risk can arise in those instances where one or both counterparties exposure for the period to 31 March 2008 at $1.84 and 20% of in a matched principal transaction fail to fulfil their obligations e. g. an its forecast exposure for the year ended 31 March 2009 at $1.98.
unsettled transaction or through trade mismatches or other errors.
Approximately 90% of the Groups euro transactional exposure has been The risk the Group faces in these situations is restricted to short-term hedged for the period to 31 March 2008 at a rate of 11.47 and 25% price movements in the underlying stock temporarily held by the Group of its exposure for the year to 31 March 2009 at 11.45.
A number of and movements in foreign exchange rates.
Any such market risk arising is the hedge contracts allow ICAP to participate in any strengthening of identified, monitored and reported to senior group management on a the US dollar and the euro.
daily basis and to the Group risk committee.
Policies and procedures have been improved during the past year to reduce the likelihood of such trade The Groups only significant balance sheet translational foreign exchange mismatches and, in the event that they arise, the Groups policy is to exposure is to the US dollar.
The Group does not normally hedge this close out such situations immediately.
exposure, other than through foreign currency debt, as it views it as short term and hedging could expose the Group to significant net cash In some parts of its business, the Group, acting in its interdealer flows.
As at March 2007, this exposure was $1.3 billion including broker capacity, engages in complex and sometimes very substantial intangible assets arising on consolidation, but before hedging of structured transactions developed by its highly-rated counterparties.
The Group undertakes substantial tax, legal and regulatory due diligence before entering these transactions.
These transactions are fully matched The Group does not hedge the translation of profits and losses earned by and do not involve the Group taking principal positions.
During the year, the Group disposed of all of its position taking businesses in order to comply with the CRD waiver requirements.
The Group no longer participates in position taking activities.
Business review ICAP plc 26 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued Internal control regular internal audit visits to Group operating companies to carry The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control out reviews of systems and procedures and compliance with and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system of internal control Group policies: is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve senior management within each region have responsibility for business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute the establishment of appropriate control frameworks within their assurance against material misstatement or loss.
operations to ensure compliance with Group policies, procedures There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing and standards.
They are also responsible for ensuring that risks within the significant risks faced by the Group.
This has been in place their businesses are identified, assessed, controlled and monitored throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval on an ongoing basis: and of these financial statements.
regular reports from both the external and internal auditors on the The key elements of the internal control system are: internal control systems operating within the Group.
the establishment of an organisational structure with clearly defined The board, through the audit committee, has conducted an annual levels of authority and division of responsibility: review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls a comprehensive budgetary process, with both annual and regular and risk management systems.
forecasts being considered and approved by the board: The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associates.
the formulation of policies and of approval procedures in key areas: Where the Group is not directly involved in the management of the monthly monitoring of trading results and periodic review of balance investment it can influence, through board representation, but not sheet and cash flow against budget and prior periods with significant control the internal control systems present in those entities.
The boards variances being investigated and appropriate action taken: review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly-owned formulation and review of specific policy covering credit, market, subsidiaries.
operational and treasury risks faced by the business: regular visits to Group operating companies by board members and senior management: all transactions authorised in accordance with delegated authority limits approved by the board: Business review ICAP plc 27 Annual Report 2007 p Staff Corporate and social responsibility ICAP has more than 3,500 staff worldwide, with more than 1,900 As an international business operating in 29 countries, broking staff, including trainees.
More than 550 are involved in the ICAP aims to conduct its business in a socially development and delivery of our electronic systems.
1,400 of our staff are based in Europe with a further 1,400 in the Americas and more than responsible manner.
650 operate in the Asia Pacific region.
In a competitive employment market an important aspect of managing our business is the retention of our staff.
It is essential that we invest in a regular flow of quality staff into our growing business, both those with experience and knowledge and those at the start of their careers.
A key goal for ICAP is to be the employer of choice for graduates entering our industry.
ICAP monitors the voice revenue per voice broker as the most relevant efficiency measure of our voice broking business.
This year it grew by 10%, from 413,000 in the previous financial year to 454,000.
The variable component of voice broker remuneration increased to 60% in this year from 58% in the previous year.
Employee involvement and employment practices The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards in its workplace.
The policies and practices in place within the Group to deter acts of harassment and discrimination are regularly monitored.
The Group maintains a zero tolerance policy concerning sexual harassment, discrimination and retaliation against individuals who report problems in the Groups workplace.
The Group recognises the value of communication with employees at all levels and incentive schemes and share ownership schemes are run for the benefit of employees.
Information on these schemes is set out in the note 25 to the financial statements.
Intranet sites are available in both the UK and the US allowing employees easy access to the Groups website for information on current developments.
The intranet brings together information on employment opportunities, the staff handbook, including policies and procedures, and compliance procedures and manuals.
The Group expects to complete the development of a global intranet accessible by all staff by March 2008. Business review ICAP plc 28 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued Equal opportunity and diversity policy Charity Day and charitable donations The Group is committed to employment policies that provide and During the year the Group donated 7.1 million 2006 5.2 million promote equal employment opportunities for all employees and to charitable organisations globally, of which 3.4 million 2006 applicants and to maintaining a workplace that ensures tolerance, 2.6 million was donated to charitable organisations based in the UK.
respect and dignity for all its employees.
No employee, contract For the past 14 years ICAP has held an annual Charity Day and the or temporary worker or job applicant will be treated less favourably, Groups offices around the world have raised over 33 million.
Many victimised or harassed on the grounds of their disability, sex, marital or charities have received significant donations enabling them to continue civil partnership status, race, nationality, colour, ethnic or national origins, their valuable work without incurring the costs of fundraising.
ICAPs religious or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, age or any other offices around the world choose their own charities and those that class protected by applicable law.
have benefited include medical research, third world countries, cancer Health and safety and childrens charities.
Among these were the Worldwide Orphans The Group has a health and safety policy approved by the board and a Foundation, the Mirabel Foundation, The Tusk Trust and the Laureus health and safety committee, chaired by the Group Company Secretary, Sport for Good Foundation.
Further information can be found on which meets quarterly.
The board is committed to providing for the the Groups website.
health, safety and welfare of all its employees and to maintaining high Environment standards.
The nature of ICAPs business activities means that the most significant impact on the environment is the emission of greenhouse gases Corporate and social responsibility as a result of running the Groups offices and the associated travel.
As an international business operating in 29 countries, ICAP aims to ICAP seeks to reduce emissions by purchasing electricity from renewable conduct its business in a socially responsible manner, to contribute to the sources where possible, minimising the amount of air travel that its communities in which it operates and to respect the needs of employees, employees undertake and recycling much of the Groups waste.
investors, customers, suppliers, regulators and other stakeholders.
ICAP has worked with Carbon Neutral Ltd, an environmental impact ICAP endeavours to comply with the laws, regulations and rules consultancy, to estimate the residual emissions of the Group in terms applicable to its business and to conduct its business in accordance of carbon dioxide equivalents.
Worldwide, the Group is estimated to emit with established best practice in each of the countries in which it the equivalent of approximately 14 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide operates.
The Group aims to be a responsible employer and adopt or 4.1 tonnes per employee per annum.
ICAP will monitor its emissions values and standards designed to help guide our staff in their conduct going forward and is working to reduce this footprint further.
To the and business relationships.
extent ICAP cannot eliminate emissions we purchase Certificates of Emission Reduction under the United Nations sponsored Clean The Group recognises its responsibility and integrity in meeting best Development Mechanism Programme.
practice benchmarks when interacting with its employees, investors, customers, suppliers, regulators and other stakeholders.
ICAP expects to deal with these stakeholders in an open and co-operative way, ensuring full, transparent, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure public communication to encourage sustained and long-term mutually rewarding relationships.
ICAP operates a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct policy.
Based on World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute Protocols, relevant Scope 3 activities mainly business travel and commuting have been included as recommended by these organisations.
Using only Scope 1 and 2 emissions minimum recommended reporting level would reduce ICAPs reported emissions by over 55%.
Business review ICAP plc 29 Annual Report 2007 p Cost management Financial review The effective and efficient management of the Groups cost base ICAP has demonstrated very strong financial remains a key component of operational strategy.
With a robust balance During the financial year the Group continued to invest for the future sheet and control environment, ICAP is in a strong in terms of people and technology.
Employment markets remained highly competitive in a number of areas of the Groups operations.
However, by position to continue to grow.
actively managing all cost areas the overall impact has been reduced see margins below.
Net operating expenses have gone up by 19%.
Acquisitions and investment in new business areas and information technology account for the majority of this.
Broker bonuses, which vary with revenue, account for approximately one third of the increase.
Excluding these items, costs increased by less than inflation reflecting the Groups focus on cost management and reallocation of resources to higher margin businesses.
Staff costs represent the largest single expense of the Group.
This year staff costs as a percentage of revenue decreased from 60% to 57%.
This decrease reflects the higher proportion of ICAPs revenues from electronic broking.
Overall we would not expect the drivers of the cost base to change and continued focus on this area will be required.
Operating profit margins The Group maintained its industry leading market position, with operating profit margins increasing by a percentage point to 22% in the financial year ended 31 March 2007.
Following the acquisition of EBS a greater proportion of ICAPs business comes from electronic broking which has higher margins.
The improvement in margins reflects this shift and ICAPs electronic broking margin is now 28%.
Consequently, with the EBS acquisition increasing the Groups electronic broking capabilities, this should be a positive dynamic for the Groups overall margins going forward, provided the Group maintains its vigilance over cost management in its voice broking operations.
Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Business review ICAP plc 30 Annual Report 2007 Business review continued The integration of EBS continues to go well.
As a result, the estimate of Earnings and earnings per share EPS the synergies arising from this acquisition has been increased.
It is now We continue to believe that the most appropriate EPS measurement estimated that the total annual benefit will be $58 million from the year ratio for the Group is adjusted EPS, which better reflects the businesss ending 31 March 2009 onwards.
The total associated exceptional costs underlying cash earnings.
Adjusted EPS excludes amortisation and are now estimated to be $48 million of which approximately half has impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Clearly this will have a materially positive impact The calculation of EPS is set out in note 12 to the financial statements.
on the Groups margins and those of the electronic division in particular.
Adjusted EPS increased by 14% to 24.6p.
The Groups basic EPS The voice business has also seen an improvement in margins due to the decreased from 19.6p to 19.3p.
substantial growth in revenue exceeding the cost growth.
Cost and competitive pressures mean that we would not expect voice margins Dividend to improve substantially from this level.
Subject to shareholder approval, a final dividend of 9.3p is proposed.
This compares with 7.5p in the prior year and would result in a full-year Taxation dividend of 12.3p, which represents a 23% increase over the prior year, The overall objective continues to be to plan and manage the tax in line with the growth in profit before taxation.
This is the seventh affairs of the Group efficiently within the various local tax jurisdictions consecutive year that we have been able to increase the dividend.
of the world so as to achieve the lowest tax cash cost consistent with The dividend is exactly twice covered by adjusted EPS.
This cover compliance with the local tax regulations.
is slightly lower than the prior year and we consider this appropriate given the very strong cash flow performance.
The Groups effective tax rate, excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items, has increased ICAP is keeping its dividend policy under review.
Interim dividends are to 37% 2006 35%, reflecting in part the discontinuance of the tax calculated as 30% of the previous years full-year dividend.
This approach deductibility of certain costs.
will continue in the 2007 08 financial year.
Generally the charge for taxation is affected by the varying tax rates in different jurisdictions applied to taxable profits and the mix of those profits, by the rules impacting deductibility of certain costs, such as finance costs, and by the rules relating to double taxation relief.
ICAP has proactively reviewed opportunities to reduce the tax burden and has restructured the Groups financing arrangements.
As a result the Groups effective tax rate is expected to fall to approximately 35% in the financial year to 31 March 2008.
The Group takes a prudent approach to the management of its tax affairs and provisions are set to cover any tax exposures the Group may have.
Business review ICAP plc 31 Annual Report 2007 Operating profit cash conversion All amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of matched The Groups consolidated cash flow is set out on page 58 of the principal business are shown gross, except where a legally enforceable financial statements.
netting agreement exists and the asset and liability are either settled net or simultaneously.
At 31 March 2007 matched principal business The Group again demonstrated its strong cash generative characteristics.
resulted in the balance sheet being grossed up by 83,512.7 million.
ICAPs free cash flow grew to 190.1 million 2006 74.2 million.
Before tax and interest payments, cash from operations benefited from The Group had a net cash balance net cash and cash equivalents a year-on-year impact of 88.6 million from initially unsettled trades less long-term debt as at 31 March 2007 of 19.5 million and exceptional items.
Excluding these impacts, cash from operations 2006 211 million.
The reduction is due to the acquisition increased to 260.9 million, an increase of 64.6 million.
Offsetting this, of EBS, the consideration of which included $534 million cash tax and interest payments increased by 28.9 million and capital 286.6 million in cash.
This has, however, been offset by expenditure rose by 11.5 million to 31.1 million.
the strong free cash flow described above.
The very strong cash flow has meant that despite investing 290.2 The Group is required to maintain significant cash balances within its million in acquisitions in 2006 07, ICAP ended the year with a net cash operating entities for regulatory, clearing house deposits and commercial position of 19.5 million 2006 211.1 million.
It is estimated that 260 million of the total cash balance of 323.3 million is required for these purposes.
Calculation of free cash flow 12 months to 12 months to Capital structure and regulatory capital changes 31 March 31 March In January 2007 the Group became subject to the new Capital 2007 2006 Requirements Directive CRD.
Under the CRD the circumstances in m m which a group may avoid deducting goodwill from regulatory capital are Cash generated by operations 303.5 150.3 more restrictively defined.
However, those businesses which do not take on principal risk are entitled to apply for a waiver from the consolidated Interest and taxation 86.2 57.3 capital adequacy tests and in so doing significantly reduce their Cash flow from operating activities 217.3 93.0 regulatory capital requirement.
To enable ICAP to qualify for this waiver, Capital expenditure 31.1 19.6 the Group was required to reduce its investment in a number of its smaller businesses, such as Exotix, which had position taking activities.
Dividends from associates 3.9 0.8 These disposals were completed by the end of March 2007 following Free cash flow 190.1 74.2 which the waiver was granted.
Currently the Group has regulatory capital that exceeds the requirement by approximately 300 million.
This figure includes the impact of initially unsettled matched transactions.
Usually, in a matched principal transaction, both sides settle on the same day.
Occasionally, for various Going forward the most important impact of this waiver is that ICAP reasons, only one side of the transaction may settle giving rise to a temporary cash position which reverses on the completion of the other side of the transaction, normally within is able to make acquisitions using debt without reducing this headroom.
ICAP has demonstrated very strong financial performance and The table demonstrates that ICAP is able to fund significant investments cash flows.
With a robust balance sheet and control environment, in new businesses from free cash flow.
This is before raising additional ICAP is in a strong position to continue to grow.
Matthew Lester Balance sheet and capital Group Finance Director Net assets increased by 173.9 million during the year and, as at 31 March 2007, were 793.7 million, primarily as a result of the acquisition of EBS.
Certain Group companies are involved as principal in the purchase and simultaneous commitment to sell securities between third parties.
Such trades are complete only when both sides of the deal are settled and so the Group is exposed to risk in the event that one side of the transaction remains unsettled.
Substantially all the transactions settle within a short period of time and the settlement risk is considered to be minimal.
Governance Governance Governance 34 Directors profiles 36 Directors report 39 Corporate governance statement 43 Remuneration report 51 Independent auditors report to the members of ICAP plc
