Managing Directors business and market review Our business is a simple one.
During the same period, invest money in companies managed the value of transactions was by teams that are able to build value 165.5bn, creating a large surplus for over the medium term and that future years.
This level of fund raising operate in stable markets.
Over the has driven the record volumes of past 18 years, the companies in leveraged buyout activity, with deals in which we have placed our trust have 2006 including RWE Thames Water collectively generated annual returns 12bn, Pages Jaunes Group of over 20% for ICG.
This is a 6bn, AWG plc 8bn and this year remarkable achievement by these a 10bn bid for Boots PLC.
management teams and the staff of ICG involved.
Not surprisingly, the mezzanine and leveraged loan markets have also ICG had another record year, with expanded.
We enjoyed an exceptional level of gains on European mezzanine market bn 13 investment and strong growth in core 12.2 12 income.
Our Direct Investment 11 activities benefited from high levels of 10 8.9 deal flow and our Fund Management 9 8 business also performed very well.
7 The loan book continued to grow 6 5.2 5.1 5.1 despite a high level of repayments.
4.6 5 3.6 4 We believe the current year will be a 3 good one but, with lower gains on 2 1 investments, unlikely to be another 0 record.
While we expect our core income to keep growing, we would Source: S&P be comfortable maintaining a flat or European levered loan market bn even contracting portfolio if we cannot 140 find suitable investment opportunities.
120 In the following sections we describe 100 how we perceive market conditions, how we are responding to them, and 80 we provide you with an overview of 60 our businesss performance last year.
40 Market review 20 The Private Equity market remains 0 the principal driver of developments in the mezzanine and leveraged loan Source: S&P markets.
In 2006 we continued to see record levels of new cash injected into As the markets have expanded private equity funds.
During 2006, investment vehicles like CDOs Tom Attwood, Managing Director 108bn was raised by European Collateralised Debt Obligations, sponsors which, when combined with CLOs Collateralised Loan the leverage available, was enough Obligations and hedge funds now to finance around 450bn of account for well over 50% of the Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 7 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 Managing Directors business and market review continued market, up from 6% in 1999.
These markets, transactions often need ICG continues to enjoy substantially vehicles use asset-backed structuring more bespoke structures and we more warrants on its transactions than technology to gain leveraged have the experience and resources the market as a whole and, as shown exposure to their chosen asset class.
on the table below, we have increased These investors are putting pressure our direct equity co-investment in deals on pricing and leverage levels due to ensure we share in the equity upside ICGs position in the market to their huge demand for assets.
In many larger deals senior debt is Although the markets are buoyant and As a result our equity portfolio has being stretched to levels that replace liquid, we believe that there is a increased during the year from 221m mezzanine, which could even scarcity of high quality transactions to 260m in 64 companies.
We expect contract as an asset class during the and too much money chasing them.
Unlike ICG, few of these There is real pressure on pricing for Warranted mezzanine by number new investors have managed a new transactions, and leverage levels of new investments % portfolio through a difficult economic continue to rise.
So our current 100 cycle, and many are not structured strategy is to invest in the highest to take and hold long term debt in quality companies, run by great anything other than a benign management teams where we believe environment.
When there is a these companies will still be healthy in downturn, we believe we will benefit five to ten years time.
Most of our 50 by being in a position to acquire investments are in regional mid-market high quality assets at attractive companies and not in the highly levels of return in the secondary commoditised London based LBOs.
and the primary market by This plays to the strength of our long employing the permanent capital standing local network.
Our selective 0 on our balance sheet.
strategy means that we currently turn 07 01 02 03 04 05 06 down many of the deals that we are Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Mar Primary market by investor type S&P offered, a number of which are geared S&P Market Sample ICG 75% up with little or no margin for safety.
ICG Equity Co-Invest Including finance deals Source: ICG Data Investments in warrants and equity 50% As illustrated by the graph below, In addition, as the market matures, the use of warrants as part of the we are seeing greater opportunities in mezzanine pricing mix is decreasing.
A number of European L 400 and US private equity firms have 364.2 383.9 378.6 370.1 358.4 339.4 324.4 boosted their presence alongside 316.7 L 0 local players.
Australia and Japan are Mar-00 Mar-01 Mar-02 Mar-03 Mar-04 Mar-05 Mar-06 Mar-07 the most active markets and benefit Rolled Up Interest Cash Invested Warrants from robust legal and government structures.
In these relatively new Source: ICG Data L LIBOR Our Strategy is to invest in the highest quality companies 8 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 67% 100% 38% 88% 45% 82% 9% 41% 77% 10% 18% 47% 18% 11% 52% 45% 10% 33% 50% Our French team ICG has been a valued partner for the Group since 2002, both as a mezzanine provider and minority shareholder.
Over the period, the Group grew substantially and experienced significant changes in organisation and management.
The 2002 Astorg-led LBO to which ICG contributed came to a highly successful conclusion with Industri Kapital taking over majority ownership of the Group in July 2006.
ICG once again arranged the subordinated financings including senior and junior mezzanine and took the opportunity to increase its equity stake.
The Cerba Group is in a very good position to benefit from the accelerating consolidation of the industry in Europe.
ICG's financial strength and clear support of our resolutely ambitious build-up strategy are undoubtedly important assets for our Group.
Catherine Courboillet, Chief Executive Officer, Cerba Group Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 9 Managing Directors business and market review continued investments: this is where the second Default rates in the market remain Business review generation of family companies, or very low at 1% to 2%.
Historically The past year has seen outstanding LBO management teams, wish to own successive increases in interest rates, growth in our business.
We would the majority of the business.
These such as we are currently experiencing, now like to comment on international opportunities are an extension of ICGs have almost always led to higher expansion, Direct Investment activity, existing business using our local defaults.
While our portfolio Fund Management and the network and our flexible approach.
companies would undoubtedly be investment we are making in key They may also require ICG to make negatively affected by a downturn resources to support future growth.
larger equity investments, where we in the economic environment, the way believe there is an appropriate balance we manage and monitor deals should International expansion of risk and reward.
help protect us from rising defaults.
ICG is growing, and in 2006 we Our Investment Executives are not opened offices in Tokyo and Sydney, With 47 Investment Executives on rewarded for bringing in new deals.
staffed by experienced and dedicated the ground in local markets, we have They are rewarded at the end of a investment professionals.
We are one of the largest dedicated and deal when we get our money back already seeing more deals coming experienced teams in the market.
and secure our principal and gains on from these regions.
These moves Our unique business model enables investments.
If a transaction does follow a pattern of identifying markets us to source attractive assets that encounter difficulties, and inevitably where our clients are investing, where meet our rigorous credit tests.
some will, the same Investment we trust the legal and corporate Executives will work it through.
This frameworks and where we have approach has meant that we have an identified outstanding individuals or unusually high average recovery rate teams.
In fact over the years we have from defaulted loans.
found that there is no substitute for having local offices staffed by high The mezzanine market is polarising, quality teams making local with larger London-based investments.
commodity transactions, often with tight spreads and unattractive terms, Direct investment contrasting with local, mid-market Direct Investment is where ICG takes transactions where we have always investments to our own balance sheet.
focused and where partnership with Our activities are very often in midsponsor investors and management market companies.
We aim to invest teams is more important.
This is not in businesses that are respected in all about price and structure.
We their markets and sufficiently resilient avoid large unmanageable syndicate to withstand market challenges.
When deals because we think that if considering a transaction, we vet the anything goes wrong investors management, conduct in-depth due would struggle to make any kind diligence with the assistance of of decent recovery.
specialist professional advisors, and work with other investors to tailor a In our Fund Management activities we have applied the same credit financial structure which we believe will discipline.
Consequently Intermediate help the company grow earnings.
Capital Managers Limited ICML, Usually ICG is an investor in the our Fund Management subsidiary, mezzanine layer of debt, but we also regularly make equity investments is one of a small handful of portfolio alongside or independently of these managers who have a history of mezzanine investments.
We have successfully managing these portfolios through challenging found that by sticking to our clearly market environments.
defined processes and disciplined 47 Investment Executives on the ground in local markets 10 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts ICG were extremely supportive as mezzanine lenders.
Sitting between the senior debt and the equity, they were in a unique position to provide advice on our evolving financial structure during our first period under private equity ownership and we were delighted when they remained a lender after our 2005 buyout.
Robin Bidwell, Chairman, Environmental Resource Management Limited Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 11 Our Asia Pacific team We have been using ICG as a funding partner for 3i lead buyouts for many years.
The ICG regional network throughout Europe and Asia provides access to respected professionals in local markets who are imbued with the ICG attributes of high standards, tailored solutions and a partnership approach to investments.
Jonathan Russell, Managing Partner Buyouts, 3i 12 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Managing Directors business and market review continued investment procedures we have In the current market it can be The new ICG European Fund been successful.
challenging to find the same quality 2006 was closed with 1.25bn of of replacement assets.
We are equity and 1bn of debt arranged ICG is not a short-term investor, and prepared for limited loan book and committed.
This fund has nothing would please us more than growth or even a decline during the already invested a total of 133m in keeping an investment in one of our new financial year.
We will carry on six new loans and investments: best portfolio companies for the longer focusing on our core markets and term.
However, the pressures of the maintaining our investment discipline.
ICG Mezzanine Fund 2003 became other investors and management often fully invested and is now closed to result in earlier repayment, as they seek Fund Management new investment.
In excess of 25% a profitable exit.
In many cases though ICGs Fund Management business, of the portfolio has now exited or we are able to remain invested through operating through our subsidiary repaid and, at 31 March, the fund second, third and even fourth buyouts, ICML, has grown fee income by 37% remained invested in 63 assets: continuing to support the companies to 27m for the financial year.
Fund we have grown to know so well.
Management has naturally evolved for ICG Mezzanine Fund 2000 has ICG in that our funds benefit from already returned over 130% of New lending and repayments ICGs expertise in the sub-investment investor commitments and the fund New investment growth was strong in grade credit markets, while remains invested in 14 assets: the year with loan and equity shareholders benefit from the steady investments growing by 17%.
In total increase in Fund Management fees.
ICG Mezzanine Fund 1998 we provided or underwrote 1,221m Most importantly this aligns our benefited from further exits: in 31 transactions of which 727m interests with those of our investors was held by ICG, 426m was taken and shareholders.
We plan to Our US$500m Intermediate Capital by our mezzanine funds and 68m continue growing the Fund Asia Pacific Fund, including was held by third parties.
The liquidity Management business over the US$200m committed by ICG, is and activity in the market has led to a coming years, markets permitting.
now 39% invested: number of our investee companies achieving exits.
This provides us with Mezzanine funds The amount invested on behalf of gains on these investments but also ICG launched its first mezzanine all our third party mezzanine funds means our loans get repaid.
fund in 1998 with what now seems increased during the year from a small amount of equity, just 1.12bn to 1.43bn and total The graph below highlights one of our 76m.
We have since launched a funds under management increased key performance indicators, tracking further three European funds, the from 1.7bn to 3.9bn.
new lending against repayments, and latest of which closed at the end demonstrates strong recent growth of March 2007 with 1.25bn of Collateralised debt obligation funds with new investments exceeding equity commitments and 1.0bn and Institutional Mandates repayments.
This new fund We were amongst the first European provides increased contractual managers of CDOs, and continue to New lending vs. repayment six month moving average management fee income, as well expand into related alternative asset 1,200 as helping us to arrange larger classes, providing steady fee income tranches of mezzanine.
and diversification for our shareholders.
1,000 800 We were particularly pleased that In many situations the CDO team is 78% of commitments in the new provided with the opportunity to invest 600 fund came from existing investors, alongside the ICG balance sheet in 400 an endorsement of their faith in our Direct Investment opportunities, but 200 continuing ability to meet their they also invest in transactions where investment performance expectations.
ICG has no Direct Investment 0 involvement.
With buckets to invest  SepMarSepMarSepMar 00 00 01 01 02 02 03 03 04 04 05 05 06 06 07 Our Mezzanine Funds made good across a spectrum of debt layers, from New lending Repayments progress in the year: senior secured to mezzanine, the CDO Source: S&P Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 13 Managing Directors business and market review continued team has the ability to finance LBO Opportunities Fund was reopened wish to retain our strong reputation in transactions in all elements of the and attracted 610m of new the marketplace, which derives from capital structure.
funds, from a mix of new and our rigorous credit culture and from existing investors, bringing its total the commitment and consistency with The CDO and Institutional Mandate funds under management to which we select our investments.
funds under management grew by 1.10bn.
Eurocredit Opportunities Sitting on an investors cash, or worse 80% from 2.5bn at the end of is a less leveraged and more flexible choosing uneconomic investments, 2006 financial year to 4.5bn at the fund structure with underlying is simply not in the interests of the end of the 2007 financial year.
collateral comprising leveraged Company or the investors.
These Funds generated fee income loans and high yield bonds as well of 14.9m, up from 10m in the as mezzanine, stressed and Over the next few years we plan to previous year: distressed loans: expand this important part of the business into related areas where we Promus I, an early CDO vehicle, was ICML also manages a growing already have clear demand from replaced with Eurocredit V, a more portfolio of Institutional Funds, existing and new investors and where financially efficient vehicle investing mainly on behalf of UK pension we can take advantage of our global primarily in leveraged loans.
With funds and these were also added network.
We will continue to recruit existing and new investors, the Fund to over the year.
experienced portfolio managers and size was increased to 600m: credit analysts to aid the expansion of Fees earned from new Fund our Fund Management business.
Eurocredit VI, a new CDO, closed in Management mandates will materially December 2006 with commitments impact core earnings starting in our Corporate social of 500m.
This Fund is almost fully 2008 financial year.
responsibility invested and its portfolio characteristics are similar to other ICMLs excellent record in managing With an expanding global network of ICML CDOs: CDO and Institutional Mandates business activities and offices in 8 attracted a significant number of new countries, contributing to society is In addition ICML has refinanced investors in 2006.
We are experiencing important to us.
ICG Group employees Promus II into a new, enhanced and high investor demand to tap existing dedicated their efforts in our local enlarged CDO called Eurocredit VII: funds and open up new funds but are communities and on social projects only doing so as and when we feel where our expertise can best be Following good investment there is a sufficient volume of attractive utilised.
The Company believes that it is performance the Eurocredit deals in which to invest.
Above all we important for staff to not only give Spitalfields City Farm Project Fees Earned from new Fund Management mandates will materially impact core earnings starting in our 2008 financial year 14 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Our Benelux German team As a leading pan-European mezzanine investor, ICG is a valued long term partner for GIC.
With a proven investment strategy and team, the firm is well positioned to continue generating attractive risk-adjusted returns going forward.
Eng Seng Ang, Head of European Private Equity, GIC Special Investments Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 15 CDO and Institutional Mandate team In a highly competitive leveraged loan market with increasing numbers of new entrants, ICG is one of the longest established mezzanine lenders and CLO managers in Europe with a demonstrable track record and amongst the top with respect to access to collateral.
I believe that ICG has the core competencies and resources in local markets to cope with changing credit cycles and will continue to outperform the market.
Mirja Wenski, Managing Director, ZAIS Group 16 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Managing Directors business and market review continued financial support but also their time to spreads may mean that our net To support these initiatives, ICG will these projects, and to that end allows interest income will grow more slowly invest in the necessary infrastructure, each employee to dedicate 2 days a next year and we will have to increase including new staff, training initiatives, year to work on charitable projects.
We the size of the loan book just to IT and premises.
We will remain will invest more of our time and money compensate for the lower returns on focused on our strategy and true to into this area in the coming years.
our culture, continuing to be partnership-focused, ethical, Over the next year, we will continue innovative and dedicated to serving People to explore the less mature and mid-market companies and their ICG continues to invest in people, and growing markets for direct investors.
Ours is a people business to build the long term scalable investments, in particular Asia Pacific and our future success will depend infrastructure for the Group.
We have where, six years after sending our on employing and motivating great been successful in our retention of first Investment Director, we are people as we have in the past.
investment staff, and have made a now reaping the rewards of our number of new hires throughout the long term commitment.
Our focus is on finding great we have just opened our first office people to do a great job.
year weve made some notable hires in our UK and Asian Direct Investment Another area of opportunity is Minority business.
We have also invested in Partner investing, where we can Tom Attwood finance and support operations both in leverage our existing portfolio as well Managing Director terms of people and systems.
as our relationships in the wider 12 June 2007 market to access opportunities.
This is something we have been doing for Outlook: maintaining many years but as markets mature our momentum the opportunities for these types of ICGs strategic objective is to become investments increase.
This business amongst the worlds most innovative model particularly suits ICG because and successful investors, doubling in it requires local presence, permanent size every five years by employing and capital, minority equity investing and a motivating great people.
In order to long term approach.
achieve this we will leverage our unique advantages, which are: the We will also invest in activities where quality of the team: an innovative, we can grow organically, including long term approach: local networks secondary mezzanine markets and and relationships: our existing fund management.
We plan to launch portfolio and permanent capital.
new funds which leverage our broad experience in the sub-investment We believe there will be further growth grade credit markets in Europe and in the LBO markets, leading to strong further afield in Asia and other regions.
deal flow in our European and Asian mid-market business.
Rising liquidity With our permanent capital, we and competition are likely to continue believe ICG has the flexibility to take affecting leverage, pricing and advantage of market volatility and, repayment levels.
We are confident more importantly, to take long term that we can maintain the quality of our decisions in support of the companies portfolio by continuing to focus on our in which we invest and provide us rigorous investment process.
Lower with a satisfactory long term return.
Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 17
