Business Review Group Chief Executives Review Gavin Slark Group Chief Executive Substantial progress with both the Domestic and Industrial Divisions increasing market share, sales and profitability.
Operational highlights Revenue growth Group Domestic Industrial 17.2% 18.7% 13.8% THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 06 The Group has delivered good growth in Domestic Division an active and successful year, with strong Our Domestic Division continues to grow operational performance and a number market share, increase underlying operating of acquisitions completed.
There has been margin and improve profitability.
Revenue substantial progress with both the Domestic increased by 18.7% in 2006 with like for like and Industrial Divisions increasing market growth of 6.1%, new branches contributing share, sales and profitability.
Our profit growth 5.3% of growth and acquisitions 8.4%.
has exceeded expectations with revenue above the 1bn threshold for the first time.
This Year Ending 31 March 2007 growth has been supplemented with bolt on m 2007 2006 Increase acquisitions that have provided complementary Revenue 713.5 601.3 18.7% product ranges and sales channels.
Our continued strategy of driving profitable, cash Operating profit 35.7 29.9 19.4% generative organic growth in the existing Margin % 5.00 4.97 businesses through superior service underpins the Groups operations and has delivered Excluding the impact of the acquisition of increased shareholder value.
AHED Limited AHED, which will dilute operating margin in the first six months post To ensure we are building value for shareholders, acquisition, underlying operating margin for we concentrate on a number of key measures the Division increased from 5.0% to 5.1%.
alongside profitability: New branches have contributed with the 32 opened during the year performing ahead of Like for like sales 7.1% 2006: 11.8% expectations.
It is encouraging that the core Productivity improvement of 5% branch network continues to build organic 2006: 8% sales and profit.
Cost to sales ratio reduced to 17.4% 2006: 17.9% Two new businesses have been acquired during Operating margin increased to 5.07% the year that have enhanced the Division.
We 2006: 4.80% continue to sell more to existing customers and Working capital to sales ratio reduced to have enhanced our product offer to broaden 15.5% 2006: 15.8% appeal.
We see further opportunity to make our branches a one stop shop for our customers.
The sales and profit success is built on keeping close to our customers, the local markets we Spendlove C. Jebb Jebbs, a plumbing and serve and ensuring that service and product heating merchant, with three branches and a availability match their needs.
Productivity, distribution facility in Northern Ireland was control of costs and strong cash performance, acquired for 12.9m net on 1 September 2006. we believe, are delivered by effective branch This will be our platform for growth in Ireland.
Collectively, The acquisition of AHED in January 2007 this approach forms an integral part of for 11.9m net has strengthened the offering building value and applied on a consistent to second tier merchants complementing the basis will, we believe, generate long-term activities of F & P Wholesale.
been fully integrated within the PTS branch network and has performed in line with Over the five years to 31 March 2007, the market expectations.
AHED, which was loss capitalisation of the Group has increased from making on acquisition, has been returned 128m to 588m.
Total shareholder return to profitability and is strongly cash positive.
in this period has been four fold.
Further growth opportunities are being pursued.
The builders merchant market recovered during the year and was up by approximately After a successful trial, a replacement spares Our strategy focuses on three core elements 1% and, whilst exposed to the construction business has now been launched in 24 branches trading cycle, continues to offer scope for with encouraging early signs.
This provides Maintaining performance across our Divisions profitable growth in 2008.
The repair and our customers with a replacement service by consistently delivering excellent service maintenance market has shown steady growth for key parts and was launched in response and is underpinned increasingly by regeneration to customer demand.
We are planning to Generating profitable growth organically and renewal in the private sector, with the drive the development of this initiative and through bolt on acquisitions commercial segment being particularly active.
The public sector continues to offer a stream Managing growth well through strong of work through health, education and leadership and sensible business practices social housing initiatives.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 07 PTS has opened a Green Energy Room in New product initiatives, such as res, have Business Review Nottingham to meet the needs of the renewable underpinned solid growth.
Own branded Continued energy market demonstrating solar energy, products continue to see strong growth helped ground source heat pumps, biomass boilers by the introduction of a range of High efficiency and rainwater harvesting.
In the first year Procombi boilers.
Likewise in a at radiator over 500 solar system packages have been market double digit growth has been achieved.
sold through the branch network and there is considerable growth potential in this A new F & P branch was opened in July segment of the market.
in Tottenham, North London, giving the wholesale business more capacity in the Following enhancements to our Key Accounts capital.
Trading has been encouraging and Team, PTS is meeting with considerable success customer service standards improved.
and is growing its share of supplying the new build housing market.
A segment where we The former AHED branch at Wakeeld has were under represented.
been rebranded as the tenth F & P branch and has been fully integrated on to F & Ps systems.
Seven out of the 32 branches opened during Former AHED customers are now being the year were opened in London and the serviced from their local F & P branch.
F & P Olympics, and associated development work is now the clear market leader in servicing the in the South East is an area of considerable independent sector.
opportunity for the Domestic Division.
Price Tool Sales Limited Price Tools A further contract success was achieved with has had a strong first year under Group GM Procure, a single source supply of heating ownership in the Domestic Division.
and sanitaryware for refurbished homes over A capable management team, that came with the next five years in Greater Manchester.
The the business, has delivered double digit growth social housing market remains strong and the in sales and profit.
The business has provided market for commercial sanitaryware offers a an important insight into the tools and growth opportunity.
Major new projects such personal protective equipment market for the as the Royal Alexander Childrens Hospital Group.
With effect from 10 April 2007, Price upgrade in Brighton have already commenced.
Tools became part of the Specialist Division providing knowledge and expertise that F & P Wholesale managed the transition from will support the turnaround of Buck & Standard efficiency boilers to High efficiency Hickman Limited.
models during the year without loss of value.
Domestic Division 35.7m Operating profit Further growth opportunities are 713.5m being pursued Revenue Other key activities 32 New branches SERVICE PEOPLE PRACTICES We have dedicated teams Our branch staff is key to Flexibility in our working looking after our major delivering effective service.
practices and the way we customers.
Their experience and organise ourselves is an knowledge is critical to essential feature of meeting the success of the Group.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 08 Industrial Division ofce.
We have also further developed our own The Industrial Division has maintained sales brand product offering by the inclusion of a momentum and has outperformed the market tools range using Price Tools product.
driven by increased volumes and a higher level of involvement in major contract work, The industrial contract market remains a key capitalising on expenditure in health, education area of focus with the launch of AMS pumps and infrastructure projects.
Revenue increased service and repair, and Havelock Controls.
We by 13.8% in 2006 with like for like growth of continue to broaden our customer base and have 9.2%.
The Division has had a strong final strengthened our relationship with a number of quarter and continues to build on the growing key food, pharmaceutical and utility businesses reputation for service, reliability and technical through specialist service support.
expertise that underpins the trade.
Forty two branches have been refurbished and Year Ending 31 March 2007 remerchandised in the year ending 31 March 2007 resulting in significant growth in trade m 2007 2006 Increase counter business and own brand sales.
The Revenue 298.6 262.3 13.8% BOSS brand, which had just celebrated its Operating profit 19.8 16.6 19.3% one hundredth anniversary, has had a strong Margin % 6.63 6.33 year.
The market outlook in the commercial sector continues to look good, albeit with a Over the last 12 months the commercial market reduction in the forecasted Government has remained buoyant with strong Government expenditure on health.
This, we believe, will investment in education, continued expenditure be more than offset by a number of large in the health sector and a number of large PFI commercial infrastructure projects, continued projects being released.
spend in the education sector and by further opportunities in the maintenance market.
The relationship with the Ministry of Defence MoD has been successfully developed, and A. Warren & Sons Limited Warrens work has commenced on the Aspire project acquired in December 2005 has had a refurbishing military accommodation.
We successful first year under Group ownership, continue to support the Heathrow Terminal trading in line with plan.
has been successfully relocated in East London and is well positioned to support the Olympics This year we have continued to see a move from development.
Warrens offers further growth the supply of traditional products towards more opportunities with a focus in 2008 on labour saving, easier to install products, such as developing the existing branch network and Industrial plastics and push t. In order to fully support improving the share of the value end of Division this we have introduced our own brand plastic the market.
piping system and set up a technical support 19.8m Operating profit Aspire contract 298.6m Revenue Other key activities 42 62 Branches Refurbished SERVICE PEOPLE PRACTICES The on site branch established Dedicated contract, sales We have partnered with at Bulford, Salisbury Plain, and purchase staff support other companies on the supports the upgrade the project on site.
Aspire contract to broaden of Ministry of Defence the service offered to service accommodation.
THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 09 Specialist Division Market Outlook Business Review The formation of the Specialist Division with Our extensive infrastructure, expertise and Continued effect from 10 April 2007 forms an important turnaround capability provide the Group step in the further development of the Group.
with a competitive edge across our markets The Specialist Division comprises Price Tools, and enable us to present strong trading acquired in March 2006, and the trade propositions to our customers.
We aim to and assets of BuckHickman InOne generate profitable and sustainable growth renamed Buck & Hickman Limited both organically and through complementary Buck & Hickman.
We have over 45,000 customers across the Group and our businesses have Tools, personal protective equipment and developed well and grown across the year industrial supplies offer considerable growth securing new and repeat business.
We have potential and the acquisition of Buck & also continued our strategy of expanding Hickman ts with the Groups strategic aim existing offerings and entering new of developing a major presence in the market segments.
We remain positive as to the outlook, have The formation of the Specialist Division is a identied opportunities to grow and develop further important step in strengthening the the Group and will continue to build long term Groups product offering.
The Group will value for our customers and shareholders.
give Buck & Hickman access to the growing construction sector through the PTS and BSS branch network, complementing Buck & Hickmans strengths in the industrial maintenance, repair and overhaul sectors.
Gavin Slark We are excited by the growth opportunity that Group Chief Executive Buck & Hickman presents and are focused on turning the business back into profit.
29 May 2007 Executive Committee 2007 08 Top Six Objectives 1.
Financial Targets Growth in revenue, profitability and cash ow 2.
Customer Focus Raise customer service standards throughout the Group 3.
Buck & Hickman Successfully implement the Buck & Hickman business plan 4.
Partnering Demonstrate a commitment to partnering across the business to maximise business winning opportunities 5.
Develop New and Existing Growth Opportunities Maximise development and growth of new opportunities 6.
Leadership Demonstrate leadership at all levels towards achieving a high performance culture THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 10
