PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 14 14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INCORPORATING THE BUSINESS REVIEW FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2007 Introduction and Content The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together with the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Directors Report incorporates the Business Review and expands on the following main areas: page 14 Nature, Objective and Strategy of the Business: page 14 Share Capital Details: page 15 Key Performance Indicators: page 16 Current and Future Developments: page 16 Resources and Relationships: page 17 Principal Risks and Uncertainties: page 18 Financial Position: page 18 Environmental and Social Policies: page 19 Substantial Shareholdings: page 19 Directors Details: page 20 Manager Details and Assessment: and page 21 Report of the Audit Committee.
Nature, Objective and Strategy of the Business Nature The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 under the Companies Act 1985, registered number 3156676.
The Company is an Investment Company as defined by section 266 of the Act and operates as an Investment Trust within section 842 of the Income and Taxes Act 1988.
The Inland Revenue has approved the Companys status as an investment trust, subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under corporation tax self assessment, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2006 and this status is expected to continue.
Objective and Strategy The Companys objective is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment in the UK equity market.
Performance is measured against the FTSE All-Share Index.
It is intended that the Company will provide real dividend growth over the medium term.
During the financial year under review the Company has not changed its investment objective.
The Company invests mainly in above average yielding UK equities.
However, a portion of the portfolio may be invested in equities with a lower initial yield which are considered to have good potential for income growth.
In addition up to 10% of the portfolio may be invested in bonds and up to 10% may be invested in non-UK equities.
Share Capital Ordinary Shares At the year end the Companys share capital included 206,860,637 ordinary shares.
During the year 13,620,201 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of all the Companys remaining warrants for 100p.
In addition 758,866 ordinary shares were issued following an exercise of subscription shares.
Subscription Shares At the year end the Companys share capital included 18,136,367 subscription shares.
Each subscription share carries the right to subscribe for one ordinary share at a price of 218.94p on 31 August in each of the years 2006 to 2013.
During the year 758,866 subscription shares were exercised.
Warrants During the year under review, holders of warrants had a final opportunity to exercise the right to convert their warrants into ordinary shares at 100p.
The subscription period in which conversion was possible closed on 31 August 2006 the final subscription date.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 15 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 Following the final subscription date, the Company appointed a Trustee to act on behalf of those warrantholders who had not exercised their right to convert.
The Trustee undertook a review of the remaining warrants and concluded that it was within warrantholders interests to convert them into ordinary shares.
The Trustee then sold the ordinary shares in the market and distributed the funds less costs to those warrantholders to whom they were due.
On 14 September 2006, as a result of this, all the Companys 13,620,201 outstanding warrants were exercised.
Share Valuations On 31 March 2007, the mid-market price and the diluted NAV per ordinary share were 251.0p 2006: 234.3p and 274.0p 2006: 249.4p respectively.
Revenue and Dividends The results for the year are shown in the Income Statement and Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds on pages 33 and 34.
The first interim dividend of 2.75p 2006: 2.40p per ordinary share was paid on 29 December 2006.
For the year ended 31 March 2007, the second interim declared for the year is 3.85p 31 March 2006: 3.6p and will be payable on 29 June 2007 to shareholders on the register on 8 June 2007.
The Company will only pay dividends on the ordinary shares to the extent that it has the profits available for the purpose, which will largely depend on the amount of income which the Company receives on its investments.
Key Performance Indicators The Board reviews performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators which include the following: l Relative asset performance l Dividend policy l Peer group performance l Discount l Total Expense Ratio Relative Asset Performance In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Companys portfolio the Board monitors the diluted net asset value in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active fund management approach.
It is not the fund management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from that index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of the Companys benchmark.
During the course of the year the diluted capital net asset value of the Company rose by 9.8% compared with a rise of 7.7% by the FTSE All-Share Index capital.
Dividend Policy It remains the Directors intention to distribute by way of dividend substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
The portfolio will typically command a yield premium to the market.
However, the pursuit of income is not a prime objective and dividend yields are not permitted to constrain investment decisions.
The second interim dividend declared for the year is 3.85p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year to 6.6p per ordinary share, an increase of 10%.
This increase exceeds the RPI inflation of 4.8% by a comfortable margin.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 16 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Peer Group Performance There are currently over 400 investment companies in the UK of which about 20 form the UK Growth and Income category.
This group is quite diverse in its objectives and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both the sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be the peer group that most closely match its objectives and structure.
Discount The Board monitors the diluted premium discount at which the Companys shares trade in relation to the assets.
During the year the shares traded at a diluted discount to net asset value in the range of 4% to 8% and at the year end the diluted discount was 7.2% 2006: 4.9%.
The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys share price and of dealings in the Companys shares.
In order to avoid significant overhang or shortage of shares in the market the Board ask shareholders to approve resolutions every year which allow for the buy-back of shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This may assist in the management of the diluted discount.
Total Expense Ratio TER The expenses of managing the Company are reviewed by the Board at every meeting.
It is the intention of the Board to minimise the TER which provides a guide to the effect on performance of all annual operating costs of the Company.
For the year the TER, excluding performance fee, was 1.2% compared to 1.2% the previous year.
With performance fee included, the TER for the year was 1.6% 2006: 2.0%.
Current and Future Development As part of the Companys overall strategy, the Company will seek to manage its affairs so as to maximise returns for shareholders.
One of the Boards longer term objectives is to increase the size of the assets of the Company in a manner consistent with seeking to maximise returns for shareholders.
Resources The Company is an investment trust which outsources its management and administrative functions.
As a result the Company has no employees.
Through the contractual arrangements in place, a full range of services are available to it.
The most significant contract is with the Manager, INVESCO Asset Management Limited, to whom responsibility for the management of the portfolio is delegated.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager formally at every Board Meeting and when market conditions dictate.
The day-to-day responsibility for the management of the portfolio rests with the Investment Manager.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the Manager is permitted wide discretion: decisions made outside these parameters are referred to the Board.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the contract formally every year.
The outcome of this review is commented on on page 20.
Other contractual arrangements govern relationships with the Company Secretary and Administrator, Broker, Registrar and Custodian.
These contracts are also reviewed by the Board on a regular basis and more formally on an annual basis.
Relationships Through the annual and interim reports, monthly fact sheets, the AGM, the Companys website at www.
co. uk investmenttrusts the publication of a daily net asset value and other methods, the Board endeavours to ensure that shareholders understand the Companys investment objectives and policies and that the Board, both independently and through the Manager, reviews its objectives and policies in the light of feedback from shareholders.
The Board monitors and reviews shareholder communications on a regular basis.
The Companys main supplier of services is the Manager who provides both investment management services: company secretarial and administrative support.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 17 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 Advisers and Principal Service Providers The Company has the following advisers: l Winterflood Investment Trusts as Corporate Broker: l Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors: l Citibank as Custodian: and l Capita Registrars as Registrar Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risk factors relating to the Company can be dividend into various areas: Investment Objective and Policy There is no guarantee that the investment policy adopted by the Company will provide the returns sought by the Company.
There can be no guarantee, therefore, that the Company will achieve its investment objective.
Ordinary Shares The market value of an ordinary share, as well as being affected by its net asset value, also takes into account its dividend yield and prevailing interest rates.
As such, the market value of an ordinary share can fluctuate and may not always reflect its underlying net asset value.
The market price of an ordinary share may therefore trade at a discount to its net asset value.
As at 31 March 2007, an ordinary share of the Company traded at a discount of 7.2%.
During the year, the Company traded at an average discount of 5.8%.
There can be no guarantee that any appreciation in the value of the Companys investments will occur and investors may not get back the full value of their investment.
Due to the potential difference between the mid-market price of the ordinary shares and the prices at which they are sold, there is no guarantee that their realisable value will reflect their market price.
While it is the intention of the Directors to pay dividends to ordinary shareholders twice a year, the ability to do so will depend upon the level of income received from securities and the timing of receipt of such income by the Company.
Accordingly, the amount of the bi-annual dividends paid to ordinary shareholders may fluctuate.
Any change in the tax or accounting treatment of dividends or other investment income received by the Company may also affect the level of dividend paid on the ordinary shares in future years.
Gearing Whilst the use of borrowings by the Company should enhance the total return on the ordinary shares where the return on the Companys underlying securities is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the underlying return is falling, further reducing the total return on the ordinary shares.
Market Movements and Portfolio Performance Portfolio performance is substantially dependent on the performance of equities and equity related securities in the UK.
The prices of these securities are influenced by many factors including the general health of the economy in the UK: interest rates: inflation: government policies: industry conditions: political and diplomatic events: tax laws: environmental laws: and by the demand from investors for income.
The Manager strives to maximise the total return from the stocks in which it invests, but these securities are influenced by market conditions and the Board acknowledges the external influences on portfolio performance.
While the Board obviously cannot influence market movements, it is vigilant in monitoring and taking steps to mitigate the effects of falls in markets should they occur.
The performance of the Manager is carefully monitored by the Board, and the continuation of the Managers mandate is reviewed each year.
The Board has established guidelines to ensure that the investment policy that it has approved is pursued by the Manager.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue with the aim of ensuring that the market rating of the Companys shares reflects the underlying net asset value: and that buy back and issuance facilities help the management of this process.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 18 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Past performance of the Company, and all of the securities managed by the Manager, are not necessarily indicative of future performance.
For a fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio of the Company, please see both the Chairmans Statement and Managers Report.
Regulatory The Company is subject to various laws and regulations by virtue of its status as Company registered under the Companies Act 1985 as and when updated by the Companies Act 2006, an investment trust, and its listing on the London Stock Exchange.
A breach of s. 842 ICTA could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax in the sale of its investments.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from the Stock Exchange or a qualified Audit Report.
Other control failures, either by the Manager or any other of the Companys service providers, may result in operational or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
The Manager reviews the level of compliance with s. 842 ICTA and other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All transactions, income and expenditure are reported to the Board.
The Board regularly considers all risks, the measures in place to control them and the possibility of any other risks that could arise.
The Board ensures that satisfactory assurances are received from service providers.
The Managers Compliance Officer produces regular reports for review at the Companys Audit Committee.
The Risks and Risk Management Policies are also detailed in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Financial Position Assets and Liabilities At 31 March 2007 the Companys total net assets were 577 million 2006: 506 million.
These comprised a portfolio of equity investments, non-equity investments and cash.
The Company has a 100 million overdraft facility of which 91.7 million 2006: 61.7 million was drawn down at the year end.
The Company has additional long term gearing provided by a 30 million 6.125% Debenture with amortised cost at the year end of 29.7 million 2006: 29.6 million.
Due to the readily realisable nature of the Companys assets, cash flow does not have the same significance as for an industrial or commercial company.
The Companys principal cash flows arise from the purchase and sales of investments and the income from investments against which must be set-off the costs of borrowing and management expenses.
During the year the Company issued 13,620,201 ordinary shares following the exercise of all warrants and 758,866 ordinary shares following the exercise of the same number of subscription shares.
The Companys use of financial instruments is disclosed in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Gearing Policy Gearing policy is under the control of the Board which has established a gearing parameter of up to 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are incurred for investment in companies where there are stock-specific opportunities.
The gearing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stockmarket, but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected stocks.
In this respect both the Board and the Manager are content that the flexibility which the overdraft facility provides offers the most appropriate means of gearing, supplementing the longer term gearing of the debenture stock.
30,000,000 6.125% Debenture 2014 The debenture was issued in July 1999, is secured by a floating charge over all the Companys assets and has a fixed rate of 6.125%.
Interest is payable on 31 January and 31 July.
Environmental and Social Policies As an investment trust company with no employees, property or activities outside investment management, environmental policy has limited application.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 19 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price to book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example, quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made on these grounds alone.
Substantial Holdings in the Company At 30 April 2007 the Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% and over of the Companys ordinary share capital: % INVESCO non-discretionary PEPs and ISA Accounts 34.7 Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 4.4 Legal & General Investment Management 3.5 Rathbones 3.4 JPMorgan Asset Management 3.4 Directors The present members of the Board are listed on page 11.
The current Chairman, Sir Patrick Sheehy, will be retiring at the AGM on 19 July 2007.
He will be succeeded by William Alexander who was appointed to the Board on 28 March 2006.
In accordance with the Boards tenure policy set out in the Statement of Compliance with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance on page 26, Sir Martyn Arbib, James DAlbiac and Antony Hardy will retire at this years AGM and offer themselves for re-election, having served on the Board for more than 11 years.
In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, Vivian Bazalgette, who was appointed to the Board on 21 May 2007, will offer himself for election, being eligible to do so.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 March 2007 are set out below.
2007 2006 SUBSCRIBER SUBSCRIBER ORDINARY SHARES SHARES SHARES SHARES WARRANTS SHARES Sir Patrick Sheehy 12,000 1,000 10,000 2,000 1,000 William Alexander 10,000 10,000 Sir Martyn Arbib 12,000 1,000 10,000 2,000 1,000 Vivian Bazalgette appointed 21 May 2007 Edward Burke 16,500 15,000 1,500 James DAlbiac 12,000 1,200 12,000 1,200 Antony Hardy 11,000 1,000 11,000 1,000 There were no changes in the above interests between 31 March 2007 and 12 June 2007.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to or had any interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
Deed of Indemnity At the AGM in 2006, shareholders approved a widening of the indemnity provisions for Directors and officers of the Company.
Since then a Deed of Indemnity was executed on behalf of the Company for the Board of Directors.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 20 20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Under the terms of the indemnity, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the discharge of his duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by the Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement thereof.
Directors will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnity notwithstanding that they may have ceased to be Directors of the Company.
However, Directors will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company, for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which they are convicted or in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Companies Act 1985 or otherwise prohibited by law, if it relates to tax payable on remuneration or other benefits received, or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith or arising from gross negligence.
Statement of Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies as determined from time to time by the Board.
The Manager also advises on currency and borrowings.
The Manager also provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares interim and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
Management Fees INVESCO Asset Management Limited is appointed Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary under an agreement dated 20 February 1996 and subsequently amended on 27 December 2001.
This agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than one years notice.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee of 0.1875% per quarter of the Companys funds under management.
A performance related fee is payable to the Manager annually in arrears, if the Companys performance exceeds the FTSE All-Share Index.
The performance related fee is equal to 10% of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.75% of the value of the Companys net assets at the relevant performance fee calculation date which is usually the Companys Balance Sheet date.
Any such performance related fee is based on the outperformance over the benchmark index after taking into account any previous underperformance.
Assessment of the Investment Manager A regular annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee: however, the performance of the Manager in its role of Investment Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator is subject to continual review by the Board.
The objective of the Company is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment in the UK equity market.
Overall the investment process is aiming to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active fund management approach.
As the Managers philosophy does not seek to regard the FTSE All-Share Index the Index as the benchmark for portfolio construction, the portfolio may look substantially different from the Index.
This may lead to periods of underperformance as well as periods of outperformance.
The Board has reviewed the Managers performance and considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders.
PIGIT pp14 32 13 6 07 8:06 pm Page 21 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process: the systems of internal control and management of financial risks: the audit process: relationships with the external auditors: the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations: its code of business conduct: and for making recommendations to the Board.
The Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has also received a satisfactory report on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officer.
The audit programme and timetable are drawn-up and agreed with the Auditors in advance of the Companys financial year end.
At this stage, matters for audit focus are discussed and agreed.
These matters are given particular attention during the audit process and among other matters they are reported on by the Auditors in their audit review to the Audit Committee.
The audit review is considered by the Audit Committee and discussed with the Auditors and the Manager prior to approving and signing the Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2007 with the Manager and the Auditors at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Auditors Details of the audit fee and fees for Auditors non-audit services are shown in Note 4 to the Financial Statements.
Audit work is conducted by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Individual Savings Account ISA and Personal Equity Plan PEP Eligibility The ordinary shares, warrants and subscription shares of the Company are qualifying investments under both ISA and PEP regulations.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2007 2006: nil.
AGM Shareholders will find on pages 49 to 52 notice of the forthcoming AGM of the Company to be held on 19 July 2007 at 11.30 a. m. By order of the Board INVESCO Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 12 June 2007
