Business review This business review has been 1 External environment prepared in line with guidance Industry environment provided by the Accounting Rathbones provides investment and wealth Standards Board to provide a management services to private individuals and trustees predominantly resident in the UK.
balanced picture of Rathbones Landsbanki Securities, in its report Private Client business and prospects, without Wealth Management October 2007, continues to see the market as very fragmented with a marketplace prejudicing the condential consisting of some 500,000 individuals in the nature of commercially sensitive UK being served by some 125 rms.
However only 11 of those 125 have funds under management of information.
Table 1 shows the ten largest private client wealth managers in terms of discretionary assets under management.
Despite difficult markets in 2007, financial assets have risen steadily over the last five years.
While markets in 2008 may also be uncertain, socio-economic and demographic changes continue to be supportive.
For example life expectancy in the UK is increasing as is the onus on individuals to make financial provision for their old age, rather than rely on state or company pension schemes.
This growing need to build wealth and generate income in retirement supports the view that the private client wealth management sector provides good medium-term growth potential.
This business review contains certain forward-looking statements which are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this review.
Statements contained within the business review should be treated with some caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including economic, regulatory and business risk factors, underlying any such forward looking statements.
The business review has been prepared by Rathbone Brothers Plc to provide information to its shareholders and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other purpose.
10 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Table 1.
Private Client Wealth Management report, October 2007 Rathbones has also seen increasing interest from Regulatory environment smaller sub 50 million UK charities and has The principal activities of the Groups key operating increased its funds under management from charity entities are conducted in regulated financial services clients to just over 1 billion for the first time in 2007. markets and the Group is therefore subject to regulation It is in the top 15 as measured by discretionary funds of its operations in those jurisdictions.
Rathbone under management Charity Finance magazine Investment Management is regulated by the Financial November 2007.
Services Authority FSA to take deposits in the UK: Following recent changes to the UK trust regime, the and Rathbone Bank BVI is similarly licenced pre-Budget report of October 2007 proposed changes by the BVI Financial Services Commission in the to both capital gains tax and the tax treatment relating British Virgin Islands.
to residence and domicile effective from 6 April 2008.
These further changes are likely to have an impact on clients of both our UK trust and tax business, and our offshore trust operations.
Investment environment Overall world markets showed growth in 2007 but the returns were modest in western markets and significant in emerging markets.
The strong performance of mining stocks contrasted with the very poor performance of banks and pharmaceuticals in western markets.
Overall the index by which we measure our performance, the FTSE APCIMS Balanced Index, rose by 2.5%.
11 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued In the UK, the Groups investment management, The new Conduct of Business rules brought about unit trust and pension and advisory activities are by MiFID applied for the first time in 2007 and, as regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
anticipated, required a significant effort to ensure The UK trust business will also be subject to registration the Group complies with the considerably extended for money laundering purposes with HMRC.
The largest impact on our business overseas businesses are subject to regulation by local has been the resultant need to re-issue terms regulatory bodies, including the Jersey Financial of business to every investment management client, Services Commission, the BVI Financial Services and to require clients to confirm updated personal Commission and the Singapore Monetary Authority.
information in return, which then needs to be entered on our systems.
Each regulated entity within the Group is required to conduct its business in accordance with the rules A recent theme for the Financial Services Authority set by the relevant regulator.
The Group is also required has been Treating Customers Fairly TCF.
It is an to maintain minimum capital balances in each of the integral part of Rathbones culture to give primary regulated entities and on a consolidated basis.
focus to our clients interests and, therefore, we see it as natural to embed the concept of TCF into our During 2007, two European Directives, which have operational practices and to demonstrate clearly had a particularly significant impact on some or all that we put clients interests first.
of our UK regulated subsidiaries, came into force.
The Capital Requirements Directive CRD, which The regulatory climate in Jersey is also evolving apace applies to both banks and investment rms, applied with revisions to the existing Codes of Practice for with effect from 1 January 2007, and the Markets both trust company business and investment business, in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID became supported by amendments to secondary legislation, effective on 1 November 2007. and the introduction of new Codes of Practice for funds services business.
The principal impacts of the CRD are the introduction of a more rened, risk-based approach In addition, Jerseys legislative framework for the to the assessment of the capital that a regulated entity prevention and detection of money laundering and is required to hold and the introduction of additional terrorist nancing has been enhanced so that it meets disclosure obligations, both of which took effect from the latest standards adopted internationally.
The level of capital that the Group new Money Laundering Jersey Order 2008, together is required to hold has increased as a result of the new with a Handbook issued by the Jersey Financial capital adequacy assessment process, where currently Services Commission, signicantly update the new interim measures are in place until our own model anti-money laundering rules and guidance first is approved by the FSA expected sometime in 2008. issued by the Commission in 1999, demonstrating The Group continues to hold more than enough capital a clear move to a risk-based regime.
to meet its new regulatory requirements.
12 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 2 Corporate strategy We stress the importance of a fee-based investment management service.
Having full discretion, with Overall objectives securities held in our nominee and surplus cash held by us as an authorised bank, allows our investment To provide investment management and trust, managers the maximum exibility and enables us to tax and pension services for private individuals, provide quality services efficiently and at a reasonable charities and trustees.
Advisory services are also provided.
Rathbone To provide shareholders with a growing stream Investment Management acts in the market as an of dividend income, delivered by steady and independent investment manager and continues to consistent growth in earnings per share as market develop its investment process.
Rathbones is actively seeking to expand its investment To provide staff with an interesting and stimulating management activities, organically as well as by career environment, involving a commitment for all appropriate acquisitions.
The critical criteria for such staff to share in the equity and profits of Rathbones.
acquisitions are that the people joining us should share our commitment to provide investment management Rathbones services services of high quality, that the acquisition should be earnings-enhancing within a reasonable timeframe Rathbones core businesses are investment management and or that the acquisition or recruitment should and trust, tax and pension services.
These are managed broaden or improve our range of services in keeping in three areas: with our overall corporate strategy.
Investment management for private Rathbones approach to the investment of client funds individuals and trustees seeks to manage risk imaginatively.
Each client is the Unit trusts responsibility of a named investment professional who makes all investment decisions in the light of his or her Trust and tax clients stated objectives, risk prole and circumstances, paying regard to the Rathbone Investment Process.
Investment management for private individuals and trustees Our Investment Process is constantly evolving and we continue to invest in the people and resources required to Discretionary investment management services for ensure it remains robust, exible and capable of meeting private individuals, charities and trustees, as well as a variety of needs.
Traditionally, our business has focused their advisers, are provided by Rathbone Investment on constructing investment portfolios from cash, bonds Management in the UK and by Rathbone Investment and equities.
As new asset classes have developed Management International in Jersey.
Rathbone and become available to private clients, we recognise Investment Management is authorised as a bank under that some clients may need us to construct portfolios the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. incorporating a broader range of investments and the different risks and rewards associated with them.
13 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued We believe that our independence allows us to select The Board believes that it is appropriate that a all investments in a portfolio on the basis of the best minimum of 80 per cent of Rathbones business available in the marketplace.
There is participation in should be in investment management and unit trusts.
the investment process by all investment professionals The provision of banking services is limited to investment across Rathbones which also ensures that the management or trust clients of Rathbones.
Short-term investments selected are suitable for our clients.
loans are made on a secured basis but mortgages, Our investment managers are able to make the final cheque books, credit and debit cards are not offered.
asset allocation decisions as well as investment selection Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services offers but internal performance monitoring and risk control clients independent advice on pensions, life assurance processes ensure that the quality of service and arrangements and on the wider aspects of estate fullment of client objectives is achieved.
It also provides self-invested with more limited sums to invest are directed, where personal pension SIPP administration services appropriate, to collectives on a best-of-breed basis.
for our clients, many of whom have their SIPP investment portfolios managed by Rathbone Investment Management.
Funds under management 14 14,000 12 12,000 10 10,000 8 8,000 6 6,000 4 4,000 2 2,000 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 0.0 Funds under management bn FTSE APCIMS Balanced Index rebased at 6762 on 31 Dec 2003 14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Unit trusts Trust and tax Rathbone Unit Trust Management provides unit trusts As with investment management, these services are and ICVCs Investment Companies with Variable provided to clients by named professionals, frequently Capital to a wide range of investors.
Funds under qualied lawyers, accountants and pension specialists.
management have grown very signicantly, largely The individual services are intended to stand on by distribution through financial advisers.
their own as profitable units but cross-referrals between investment management and trust, tax and pension Rathbone Unit Trust Management has established a activities are greatly encouraged where they are major market share of sales of equity income products, appropriate and consistent with integrity and best advice.
on the back of long-term performance.
Continuing success is dependent on delivering consistent long-term Globally, Rathbone Trust International specialises performance based on the Rathbone Investment Process.
in the provision of trustee, corporate and family ofce It has recently secured a foothold as a manager of services, from ofces in Jersey, Geneva, Singapore investment mandates from major retailers of investment and the British Virgin Islands, afliated ofces in New products and this area represents a growing part Zealand and the Netherlands, and through partners of the business.
and associates in other jurisdictions.
Rathbone Trust International prides itself on the provision of intelligent, The plan is to build on this success, mindful of the pro-active and informed duciary and corporate services need to avoid complacency given the very competitive for private individuals, their families and their family environment in which Rathbone Unit Trust ofces wherever they are based.
In addition it has Management operates.
This will involve further specialist corporate trust expertise.
strengthening our brand, attracting and retaining key employees and widening distribution both in the UK Within the UK, Rathbones is able to provide advice and overseas.
It will also involve growing distribution on tax planning, including wills and inheritance through intermediaries, life assurance companies and tax, family ofce services and trust and estate specialist mandates rather than in-house sales to clients administration.
Taxation services include the of Rathbone Investment Management.
We may add preparation of tax returns for individuals and funds to our range but only where we believe that we trusts, income and capital tax planning as well as have the skills necessary to produce above average the ability to assist with tax investigations.
investment returns for unit holders.
In an increasingly complex area, we are committed Rathbones continues to be ambitious in its plans for to providing the highest possible level of professional Rathbone Unit Trust Management, acknowledging expertise to our existing and prospective clients.
that unit trust sales are always dependent on market conditions, performance statistics, product demand and consumer confidence.
15 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Rathbones infrastructure People The investment management business relies on three As with all professional services businesses, Rathbones closely integrated systems, marketed together by Rhyme greatest asset is its people.
The company is committed to Systems as RhymeSight, comprising Rhymes core the provision of stimulating career environments for Quasar processing engine, the internally developed employees in all areas.
Rathbone Investment Desk and Equipos STR client Through our acquisitions and the operation of the reporting package.
It is expected these will remain the Share Incentive Plan, we provide equity participation core systems for the foreseeable future.
and rewards that reect the success of the business.
Rathbones aims to deploy robust and proven industry Additional profit-related schemes are in place in specic standard hardware and IT infrastructure such as areas for fee-earners.
These are designed to provide Microsoft software for enterprise wide systems.
appropriate incentives and rewards for the profitable operation and development of our businesses.
Marketing Rathbones is aware of the need to provide appropriate Rathbones is justiably proud of the growth of its training for staff throughout the business and is reputation as a very professional provider of investment committed to acting as an equal opportunities employer.
management and wealth management services.
It is Increased emphasis is placed on the benets to recognised, however, that our market places remain individual members of staff in the company by the extremely competitive and are constantly changing.
development of the appraisal process.
A variety of takeovers have led to significant levels Any business providing services to private individuals of change in our competitors and new businesses are relies on the integrity, quality and honesty of its staff.
constantly seeking to establish themselves.
Increased Great stress is placed on compliance with all relevant emphasis has been placed on marketing and business regulation and statutes and Rathbones will preserve development activities generally and through and build upon its established culture of seeking the intermediary audiences in particular.
highest possible professional and ethical standards.
Our marketing will increasingly emphasise the This encompasses an active awareness of environmental rounded nature of Rathbones services to individuals, and social concerns as well as a commitment to the building on the strengths of all parts of Rathbones.
16 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 3 Rathbone Brothers Plc Group summary 4 Segmental performance The Groups business activities are summarised in In this section the results of Rathbone Brothers Plcs Rathbones at a glance on pages 4 and 5 and set businesses are reported segmentally under the following out in more detail in the Groups corporate strategy headings: in section 2 of this review.
Investment Management Unit Trusts Key performance indicators Trust and Tax Key drivers for Rathbone Brothers Plc to deliver Investment Mangement includes the results of Rathbone growth in earnings are: Pension & Advisory Services Limited.
growth in total funds under management, both For each segment, the results comprise revenue, direct organically and by selective acquisition: and costs and allocations of various support and central maintaining an efficient operation and controlling costs and revenues.
significant revenue or cost items the cost base.
that are not considered to be relevant in assessing the Table 2.
Key performance indicators for ongoing performance of the business are not allocated Rathbone Brothers Plc to business segments.
2007 2006 Investment Management Total funds under management Key drivers for growth of revenues and profits are: at 31 December 13.12bn 12.24bn growth in funds under management: maintaining gross revenue returns: and FTSE APCIMS operational efficiency.
Key performance indicators for Underlying rate of net Investment Management organic growth in total 2007 2006 1 funds under management 7.9% 10.9% Funds under management Underlying % 1 at 31 December 11.23bn 10.38bn 2 operating margin 33.2% 31.8% Underlying rate of net Underlying basic organic growth in 3 earnings per share 85.74p 71.28p investment management 1 Net organic inows in investment management and net inows in 1 funds under management 7.8% 7.2% unit trusts as a % of cumulative opening funds under management.
2 Consolidated profit before tax excluding gains on disposal of available Average net operating for sale securities divided by consolidated net operating income 2 income basis point return 94bps 95bps excluding gains on disposal of available for sale securities.
3 Consolidated profit after tax excluding post-tax gains on disposal 3 Operating % margin 38.4% 37.5% of available for sale securities divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
1 See Table 5 2 Net operating income see Table 4 divided by the average funds under management on the quarterly billing dates see Table 6 3 Investment Management profit before tax divided by net operating income see Table 4 17 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Review of 2007 Net operating income Organic growth, which was largely responsible for Net operating income for 2007 increased by 14.9% our growth in funds under management in 2007, to 104.4 million 2006: 90.9 million.
totalled 807 million during the year.
In addition Income generated from the majority of Rathbones 150 million of funds under management were attracted clients is a combination of fees, commission and interest during the year by investment managers who joined margin.
The mix of income remains broadly consistent us during 2006 and 2007, which is classied as each year.
Fee income increased by 16.8% from 49.4 million The underlying rate of net organic growth of 7.8% to 57.7 million in 2007.
This growth was driven by exceeded that in 2006, which had been a previous the increase in the average of funds under management record year.
This reects the importance of our on our four quarterly fee billing dates of 15.6% continued investment in relationships with a range 2007: 11.12 billion, 2006: 9.57 billion.
Commission of intermediary groups and in our brand, and was income of 32.4 million in 2007 was 11.0% higher than achieved despite difficult market conditions in the in the previous year 2006: 29.2 million.
During the second half of the year.
second half of 2007, interest income benefited from The year saw continued success in marketing to higher than average levels of liquidity in client portfolios charities and funds in this area now exceed 1 billion.
and sharply increased short-term interest rates resulting Rathbone Investment Management International, from the global credit crunch.
our offshore investment management business, Chart 2.
Investment Management net operating income launched a multi-asset class funds service in September targeting offshore trustees.
Investment continued in third-party distribution 14% channels such as life company SIPP products, which are expected to generate increasing returns as they continue to develop.
The small non-core private banking 55% business acquired with the investment management 31% business from Dexia was sold to Buttereld Bank UK Limited at the beginning of January 2007 and a modest premium was received.
In its first full year of operation, Rathbone Pension Fees 2006: 54% & Advisory Services made a positive contribution Commission 2006: 32% Interest and other income 2006: 14% to Investment Managements results and has developed a platform for future growth.
18 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Operating expenses Table 5.
Investment Management funds Operating expenses for 2007 were 64.3 million under management compared to 56.8 million in 2006, an increase 2007 2006 bn bn of 13.2%.
As at 1 January 10.38 8.28 Investment managers are incentivised through a 1 Inows 1.60 1.99 number of different schemes to maintain and grow the value of funds they manage profitably.
The recruitment organic 1.45 1.13 of investment managers will result in a decrease in acquired 0.15 0.86 operating margins until they have attracted sufficient 1 Outows 0.64 0.53 funds to cover their employment costs.
The impact 2 Market adjustment 0.11 0.64 for 2007 has not been significant.
As at 31 December 11.23 10.38 Outlook The core business continues to benefit from the 3 Net organic new business 0.81 0.60 growth of the last few years and Rathbones reputation Underlying rate of in the industry as one of the leading providers of 4 net organic growth 7.8% 7.2% discretionary investment management services to 1 Valued at the date of transfer in out private individuals and trustees.
This, together with 2 Impact of market movements and relative performance the investment that we have made in our intermediary 3 Organic inows less outows relationships, should see a continuation of the organic 4 Net organic inows as a % of opening funds under management growth we have experienced over the last two years.
Investment Management average funds We will continue to seek to attract new investment under management managers to join Rathbones with their clients.
We 2007 2006 bn bn will also continue to look for acquisitions which will enhance the overall quality of our business and take Valuation dates for billing: advantage of our operational efficiency and ability 5 April 10.93 8.95 to service both small and large clients.
Investment Management financial performance 31 December 11.23 10.38 2007 2006 m m Average 11.12 9.57 Fees 57.7 49.4 Commission 32.4 29.2 Interest and other income 14.3 12.3 Net operating income 104.4 90.9 Operating expenses 64.3 56.8 Profit before tax 40.1 34.1 19 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Unit Trusts Upper decile performance in the Rathbone Global Opportunities Fund over the one, two, three Key drivers for growth of revenues and profits are: and five years to 31 December 2007 helped to attract maintaining superior fund performance: 20 million of net new money and swell the size of growth in funds under management: and this fund to over 50 million by the end of last year.
The Rathbone High Income Fund, launched in Table 7.
Key performance indicators for Unit Trusts May 2006, continued to attract support bringing a 2007 2006 further 11 million in net sales in the year.
Funds under Additional inows from other sources of business, management at including multi-manager mandates, attracted over 1 31 December 1.89bn 1.86bn 48 million during 2007.
Underlying rate of Net operating income net growth in funds Net operating income was 18.8 million 2006: 1 under management 9.1% 41.7% 14.0 million.
Rebates and trail commission payable 2 Operating % margin 36.7% 36.4% as a percentage of annual management charge income were 42.1% compared to 42.6% in 2006.
Managers 1 See Table 9 2 Unit Trust profit before tax divided by net operating income box dealing profits constituted 9.0% of net operating see Table 8 income 2006: 9.3%.
Review of 2007 Operating expenses Growth in funds under management continued in Operating expenses were 11.9 million compared 2007 until concerns over sub-prime mortgages brought to 8.9 million in 2006 an increase of 33.7%.
about significant world market volatility in the final This increase is largely due to the increase in the costs quarter of the year.
This led to a fall in sales and higher of the profit share schemes for this business following redemptions as experienced across the industry.
Total net sales from all sources for the year were Outlook 172 million.
Fund supermarkets account for 45% Market volatility has a negative effect on investor of gross unit trust sales providing an effective source confidence and, in turn, on sales and funds under of distribution to advisers throughout the UK: this management.
We have built up and maintain close includes links with life companies on whose panels contact and continuity with advisers and distribution a number of Rathbone Unit Trust Managements platforms which should lead to a recovery in new funds can be found.
The performance of the largest fund, the Rathbone Income Fund valued at 1.1 billion as at 31 December 2007, remained first quartile over five years to 31 December 2007 but at the end of last year results were affected by the underperformance of small and mid-size companies within the portfolio.
Performance of this fund has recovered in the first two months of 2008.
20 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Table 8.
Unit Trusts financial performance Trust and Tax 2007 2006 Key drivers for growth of revenues and profits are: m m improving chargeable hour recovery rates: and Initial charges net operational efficiency.
of discounts 1.0 0.9 Annual management Table 10.
Key performance indicators for Trust and Tax charge 26.1 19.5 2007 2006 Net dealing profits 1.7 1.3 Chargeable time Interest and other income 1.4 1.0 1 recovery rate 93% 91% 30.2 22.7 2 Operating margin 15.7% 10.8% Initial commission payable 0.4 0.4 1 Amounts billed as a percentage of the value of chargeable hours Rebates and trail 2 Trust and tax business profit before tax divided by net operating commission payable 11.0 8.3 income see Table 11 Table 11.
Financial performance Net operating income 18.8 14.0 2007 2006 Operating expenses 11.9 8.9 m m profit before tax 6.9 5.1 Net operating income fees 24.9 21.2 Table 9.
Unit Trusts funds under management Operating expenses 21.0 18.9 2007 2006 bn bn profit before tax 3.9 2.3 As at 1 January 1.86 1.20 Review of 2007 Net inows 0.17 0.50 significant recently enacted and proposed changes 1 Inows 0.52 0.64 to UK inheritance tax, capital gains tax and the 1 Outows 0.35 0.14 domicile rules provide a backdrop in the short to 2 medium-term of increased activity to optimise clients Market adjustment 0.14 0.16 arrangements for the future, impacting particularly As at 31 December 1.89 1.86 the UK and Jersey.
Underlying rate of Our Jersey trust business continues to broaden 3 net growth 9.1% 41.7% its offering to clients.
The recent introduction of 1 Valued at the date of transfer in out a service focused on the administration of specialist 2 Impact of market movements and relative performance funds demonstrates this commitment to taking 3 Net inows as a % of opening funds under management advantage of the depth and range of professional expertise on this island.
21 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Our acquisition in Singapore in April this year and the 5 Resources subsequent expansion of that ofce marks an important development for Rathbone Trust International.
With IT ofces in Geneva, Jersey, Singapore and the British Rathbones IT department has continued to provide Virgin Islands, and associates in the other key a robust operations infrastructure.
As we, like so many jurisdictions, the international business is well-placed businesses, become more reliant on IT systems, business to provide secure trust, duciary and related services continuity arrangements become increasingly important.
Off-site facilities are in place for both the London Net operating income and Liverpool ofces, and we conduct full business Operating income increased by 17.5% from continuity exercises each year in each location: both 21.2 million in 2006 to 24.9 million in 2007. were very successful in 2007.
Operating expenses As well as such off-site arrangements, we also look Operating expenses increased by 11.1% from at the broader system resilience to maintain the business 18.9 million in 2006 to 21.0 million, including operational capacity in as many scenarios as possible.
0.6 million of costs arising in the newly-acquired For example, local roadworks caused us to lose Singapore business and 0.1 million of power to our entire Liverpool operational hub on acquisition-related costs.
Despite the temporary shutdown, our emergency generator took over the power supply Outlook to the IT communications room with the result that In the international business, the acquisition of the London and regional ofces had no knowledge of Singapore enhances the trust and tax business global the problems and continued working without issue.
reach and provides a platform for building the service offering in the Far East and related markets.
We have continued the migration from a Novell to a The development of the Rathbone Trust International Microsoft infrastructure.
We successfully completed brand, which includes all the business overseas ofces, the largest element, moving from the GroupWise email is expected to continue to provide growth opportunities.
For a system that is now so embedded in the workplace, this was a major In the UK, advising clients on changes in legislation exercise.
Extensive project planning with regular impacting on both personal tax and the tax treatment reporting to the Groups IT Steering Committee, and of trusts should continue to create opportunities.
a large element of training and support for staff ensured risks to our IT infrastructure were minimised and the change over went smoothly.
We plan to complete the transition to Microsoft in 2008.
22 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Investment systems Private client investment operations There has been no major change to Rathbones core One key area supporting the robust organic growth investment systems part of our strategy of trying levels in the business has been the investment we have to evolve a stable and reliable platform.
One of the made to offer a range of services, supporting both new biggest projects for 2008 will be the three to four client types and new investment opportunities.
For yearly replacement of the main HP UNIX servers that example, the launch of the Rathbone Investment host our investment software.
We are budgeting over Management International Strategies Funds in the final 0.5 million for the live and back-up servers.
quarter of 2007 expanded our services.
We have also continued to work with SIPP providers and other There have been a large number of different intermediaries throughout 2007 and see ongoing developments to enhance and drive forward our opportunities in these markets.
While we need to invest business.
One project currently being piloted is the in these opportunities and while there is clearly growth launch of a new, more comprehensive client and in these areas, we also need to ensure that our intermediary web site to view on-line valuations.
investment is appropriate to the levels of business This will complement the existing functionality we generated from any one area in order to deliver have to email information to clients, providing a longer-term returns to shareholders.
very broad spectrum of electronic support.
2007 has seen an increase in operational staff in A further development for our proprietary Rathbone Liverpool of some 9% in order to support the increasing Investment Desk RID has been to develop the dealing demands of the client base: the requirement for systems software to process placings and offers for subscription.
to support these clients will see a rise in IT staff in 2008.
In most of the industry these events are highly paperdriven and liable to error, and this new software will The second half of 2007 was a very challenging be very advantageous.
We have also completed the environment for investment, given the diversity of electronic workow process we were working on in returns from various asset classes and different sectors 2006 so that all new client accounts are processed in the market.
This has been particularly so for clients this way.
The system has coped well with high levels who want income such as charities or pensioners of new business in 2007 and has cut down on the use and need regular monthly payments.
The scanning and document management of many income assets has dropped, in some cases aspects of this software have also been put into action indiscriminately, even though they may still be paying to help store and archive the large number of additional a good income for the client.
client forms generated by MiFID.
A real strength of Rathbones and this is frequently commented on by our clients is that we offer bespoke solutions with different approaches for different client needs.
In addition we do not aim to generate index returns over short periods but look to provide longerterm wealth management.
As part of this, we need to provide the full range of assets to our clients including fund of hedge funds, structured products and investment into areas such as commodities, private equity and property funds when appropriate.
23 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued We have invested in staff and technology to support In our UK trust and tax business we have reviewed these areas that are often a lot more complicated our main IT system and decided to seek a replacement to support operationally than settling a traditional UK which focuses specically on the requirements and equity or gilt.
For example, the RID placing software tax circumstances of the business in London and described above allowed us to process the largest ever Liverpool.
We have, therefore, implemented Viztopia deal done at Rathbones in December to take 20 million Practice Management from MYOB which is a in an offer for subscription of Dexion Absolute well-known industry system.
This was commissioned a lower volatility fund of hedge funds for just over in late 2007, ready for the year end accounts and the 1,400 clients.
key business period of January when tax returns have to be completed.
Other operational areas In Jersey we have seen limited change to the business In our unit trust business, we reviewed our third party infrastructure after the major property move and administrator and decided that the size of the business associated IT changes in 2006.
This has allowed the now merited a larger and better-resourced level of new ofce to bed down.
In particular, we have worked support.
We have selected IFDS as transfer agent and to rene and get better productivity out of the document HSBC as fund accountant and custodian.
Such a management system that we implemented in 2006. significant change to the infrastructure of our unit trust The Jersey trust business remains on the system that business poses significant operational risk, requiring has been replaced in the UK: our feeling is that overseas careful project management.
Key aspects of the transfer jurisdictions are better served by their own information have already been completed smoothly and we will systems and in 2008 we will review whether we want complete the exercise in the first half of 2008.
The links to remain with the existing system in Jersey or to look with these larger rms will allow us to benefit from their for a replacement.
investment in technology and obtain better management information and enhance controls.
At the same time we Property have been working on our own systems and would hope We have completed rent reviews for both of our largest later in 2008 to be able to communicate electronically properties in 2007. and more efficiently than we have in the past with these new suppliers.
In Liverpool this involved extensive negotiations with the landlords in the Port of Liverpool Building which Pension advice and administration has continued to is part of a World Heritage Site.
We acquired a further be a strong area of growth for us.
While this remains 9,000 square feet of space, ideally positioned next to a relatively small part of the business, we have spent our existing space and this has been tted out to a high significant time and money increasing the calibre of the standard.
At the same time, we reached agreement with team supporting this area and enhancing the services we the landlords to safeguard our working environment offer clients.
Processes have also been reviewed to meet while they undertook a major two-year refurbishment regulatory changes: A day in 2006 and then the new of the building: in conjunction with their works we are FSA Regulations that came into effect in 2007, involving also redecorating our existing space.
The rent was xed several new reporting deadlines in the first quarter of at 13.50 per square foot through to February 2013 2008.
As we work through these changes we expect to with the lease extended to 2018. emerge with a much more robust and streamlined support for our SIPP and SSAS clients.
24 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 In London we saw a significant rent increase reecting An important advantage of the Rathbone Investment trends over the last five years in the West End, but Process is that it provides investment managers with avoided the very highest rental gures in the area, genuine access to the best of breed across all securities eventually settling on a rent of 90 per square foot and structures, without any conicts of interest.
Our for our main building at 159 New Bond Street.
independence and size provides access to a very wide The lease on our adjacent building in 161 New Bond range of investment options which are considered Street is due for renewal in 2008 and this too will by specialist committees, who conduct due diligence lead to a rent increase.
The refurbishment works in across an increasingly broad and complex range of London that we have completed in the last year are investments.
These involve researching investment now essentially complete providing an attractive opportunities across all asset classes, including xed environment for work and client meetings.
income, UK equity and managed funds.
In addition, an alternatives team covers hedge funds, property, A rent review has also been completed in Edinburgh structured products, commodities and private equity.
and one is due in the first half of the year in Winchester.
In Bristol, we had outgrown our existing ofce and are Brand and reputation in the final stages of negotiations for a well-located new ofce which will accommodate more staff we hope We continue to grow our reputation as a quality name to have occupancy by the middle of 2008. in wealth management.
While parts of the property market are clearly now Investment continues in promotion with Rathbones cooling, five year rent reviews reect longer trends in prole increasing in key media during 2007: in part property costs.
This has increased our costs in 2007 through our advertising campaign in the national press, and given the phasing noted above, there inevitably which we expect to continue through 2008. will be further increases in operating costs in 2008.
We continue to invest in our central marketing resource and in the quality and quantity of marketing The Rathbone Investment Process activities, including proposals and presentations to The Rathbone Investment Process pulls together the potential new clients, a range of business development combined expertise of our investment managers from events seminars, workshops and similar, our our discretionary investment management and unit trust presence at industry conferences, our involvement operations.
It is designed to enable investment managers with appropriate trade bodies, and our range of to make considered and consistent decisions in the best marketing materials.
A good example of the latter interests of their clients, drawing on the combined are the revised and signicantly upgraded websites knowledge and experience of investment managers launched in 2007 for Rathbone Unit Trusts and throughout Rathbones, and taking advantage of the Rathbone Greenbank Investments www.
com best external products and structures that are available.
Our Strategic Asset Allocation Committee meets monthly Marketing is not just the responsibility of our central to consider the opportunities and threats within marketing department but of everyone, and investment financial markets.
Conclusions from these meetings are managers and trust professionals continue to participate reected in a range of models with differing risk and in and indeed drive initiatives to grow the business.
These enable investment managers to make informed and disciplined decisions about the structuring of individual clients portfolios in the light of their stated aims, circumstances and appetite for risk.
25 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued People We seek to invest in our people and our current standards of qualication in the UK exceed the As stated in our strategy page 16, in line with all guidelines set out by the Financial Services Authority.
professional services businesses, Rathbones greatest A new head of training joined early in 2007 and asset is its people and we aim to provide staff with Rathbones spent an average of 542 per person in 2007 an interesting and stimulating career environment, enhancing individuals skills.
Many staff took part in involving a commitment for all staff to share in the development activities to improve their professional equity and profits of Rathbones, and to encourage competence with 92 of our people studying for a and reward organic growth.
Staff turnover in the UK fell from 11% in 2006 to 8% During the year all staff had the opportunity to attend in 2007.
The turnover amongst investment managers training to support the introduction of MiFID and the in Rathbone Investment Management was 2% in updating of our IT systems.
2007 2006: 4% with the average length of service at 10.8 years all UK staff 7.5 years and 408 people We encourage equity participation at all levels.
having more than five years service all UK staff 689.
This is supported by the provision of a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Approximately 78% of UK employees and Staff turnover in our Liverpool operations area was 60% of offshore employees contribute to the SIP by 9% in 2007, a much lower level than would be likely way of monthly payroll deduction.
Participation in a location such as London.
With so much happening rates and shareholdings are lower offshore due to in the business it is very important that we keep and the absence of UK tax reliefs on SIP contributions.
motivate the quality staff we employ.
As at 31 December 2007, over 1.2 million Rathbone To support our local community we have decided to Brothers Plc shares were held by Rathbone employees invest around 120,000 into four very different schools in the SIP with average holdings of over 2,000 shares in the Liverpool area to support them in achieving per participating employee in the UK and just under Specialist Schools and Academies Trust status.
investment will release over 1m of government money in additional funding to help these schools develop profit-related schemes are in place in specic areas for their chosen specialism.
These are designed to provide appropriate incentives and rewards for profitability and successful Amongst the initiatives that have been implemented new business generation.
with the individual schools and as part of our contribution to the celebrations for the Liverpool Capital of Culture, we are hosting a Summer Exhibition of artistic works during July 2008 in conjunction with the four schools, which we hope will showcase the creative talents of Liverpools youth across many different and diverse artistic mediums.
Information is available at www.
26 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 6 Risks and uncertainties Reputational risk Rathbones has a reputation as a high quality provider The principal risks and uncertainties that face of investment management and wealth management Rathbones are: services.
There is a risk that significant damage to reputation could lead to the loss of existing clients Financial risks and failure to gain new clients which would lead The principal financial risks that the Group faces, to financial loss.
together with the policies and procedures for the Reputational risk could arise for a wide variety of monitoring and management of those risks, are set reasons including poor performance or service, and out in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
regulatory censure leading to negative publicity.
Non-financial risks This risk is mitigated by preserving and building on our established culture of seeking the highest possible The significant non-financial risks that face professional and ethical standards, and fostering a Rathbones are: strategic focus throughout the business on the provision Competition risk of a first class service to our clients.
The Group also Rathbones operates in a competitive market and places significant emphasis on compliance with all therefore there is a risk of loss of existing clients or relevant regulation and statutes, in particular the failure to gain new clients due to poor performance Training and Competence regime of the Financial or service, failure to respond to changes and Services Authority.
This is monitored and controlled demands in the marketplace, inadequate investment by internal and external auditors as well as the in marketing or distribution, or the loss of key Groups compliance department.
Regulatory risk To mitigate this risk, we continue to invest in the The financial services sector in which we operate is people and resources required to ensure the Rathbone heavily regulated.
Failure to comply with regulatory Investment Process remains robust, exible and requirements could lead to fines or other disciplinary capable of meeting a variety of needs.
There is also a risk that changes in, or additional, continuously monitors developments in the regulation could adversely affect profitability.
marketplaces in which it operates and the Group We monitor changes in regulation, assess the impact any invests in enhancing or broadening the services offered changes may have on our business and plan to ensure we where we believe it will contribute to growth in have sufficient resource to implement those changes.
Investment is maintained in the marketing and operational resource to continue to develop Technology risk distribution channels for all parts of the business.
The continuing delivery of high quality services to clients is to a large extent dependent on a robust and Recruitment policies stress the importance of exible IT infrastructure.
Failure of IT strategy or recruiting high quality staff and, through regular implementation would have an adverse impact on benchmarking, we ensure that remuneration packages the business.
Staff training and development are supported by the employment of a dedicated IT infrastructure is given a high priority.
There are training manager and contracts of employment for all a number of business-led IT steering committees fee earning staff are reviewed regularly and updated in place but overall responsibility for strategy rests when necessary.
with the Group IT Steering Committee, chaired by a main board director.
IT projects are reviewed by the Group committee on a monthly basis and formal documented procedures exist for approving IT changes or developments.
In the UK, we have duplicate core systems in our London and Liverpool ofces that can be accessed from disaster recovery sites in Leatherhead and Warrington.
27 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Operational risk Management stretch Operational risk arises from the risk of losses Management stretch is the risk that business growth resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, might cause the management structure to become overly people and systems, or from external events.
complex, undermine accountability and control within the Group, and may make the identication, analysis The Group actively manages these risks and and control of risks more complex.
This is achieved by implementing and communicating guidelines The Executive Committee, which consists of four to staff and other third parties.
The Group also executive directors, retains close day-to-day contact regularly monitors the performance of its controls with key management throughout the Groups entities and adherence to these guidelines through the and ensures that activities are appropriately coordinated Risk Management Committee.
and controlled in accordance with the Groups strategy.
A clear, hierarchical monitoring and governance Key components of the group control environment structure is in place to provide effective oversight include modelling of operational risk exposure and throughout the Group and to provide a transparent scenario testing, management review of activities, mechanism for the escalation of issues.
documentation of policies and procedures, contingency planning and embedding systems and controls 7 Financial position within our key processes.
Group Risk Group financial performance The Group consists of 26 operating entities and will Reported profit before tax for the year rose by continue to grow in line with its acquisitive strategy.
16.8% from 44.7 million in 2006 to 52.2 million in Where Group entities fail to consider the impact of 2007 and reported basic earnings per share increased their activities on other parts of the Group, or the risks by 14.7% from 76.62p in 2006 to 87.88p in 2007. arising from these activities, there may be a potentially adverse impact on the Groups profitability.
In addition Underlying profits before tax, which exclude gains to reputational risk, discussed above, there are two on the disposal of London Stock Exchange Group plc other components of group risk: shares, rose by 22.7% from 41.5 million in 2006 to 50.9 million in 2007.
Underlying basic earnings Strategic per share rose by 20.3% from 71.28p in 2006 to This is the risk that the Groups strategy is inappropriate 85.74p in 2007. or that the Group is unable to implement its strategy.
Operating income Reported operating income has increased by 15.6% from 133.7 million in 2006 to 154.5 million in 2007.
Excluding the disposal of the London Stock Exchange Group plc shares, underlying operating income increased by 17.4%.
Operating income for each business area is referred to under Segmental performance pages 17 22.
28 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Operating expenses Operating expenses include an amortisation charge of 0.9 million 2006: 0.5 million in relation Operating expenses increased by 14.9% from to intangible assets arising from amounts paid to 89.0 million in 2006 to 102.3 million in 2007. acquire investment management contracts.
The acquisition of Federal Trust Singapore Pte Limited increased costs in the year by 0.7 million of which Tax 14% is non-recurring.
The effective tax rate for the year is 28.4% Table 12.
Operating expenses 2006: 28.2%, calculated as the total tax charge of 2007 2006 14.8 million 2006: 12.6 million divided by the m m profit before tax of 52.2 million 2006: 44.7 million.
Staff costs A full tax charge reconciliation is set out in note xed 46.2 42.3 11 to the accounts.
profit related variable 22.7 17.0 The effective rate of tax is lower than the UK standard Total staff costs 68.9 59.3 rate of 30% due to corporation tax deductions in Other operating expenses 33.4 29.7 respect of exercised share options for which there is no related charge in the profit and loss account, and Operating expenses 102.3 89.0 profits arising in lower tax jurisdictions, principally Underlying cost Jersey, that have not been remitted to the UK.
1 income ratio 66.8% 68.2% 1 Operating expenses divided by operating income excluding gains Dividend from disposal of available for sale securities see table 14 An interim dividend of 16p per share was paid to shareholders on 10 October 2007 and the Board Staff costs have increased by 16.2% during the year.
is recommending a final dividend of 25.0p, resulting The increase of 9.2% in xed staff costs from in a total payment of 41.0p, an increase of 17.1% 42.3 million to 46.2 million reects salary ination on 2006.
This dividend is covered 2.1 times by reported and the increase in headcount the average fulltime earnings per share and 2.1 times by underlying equivalent headcount increased by 5.9% from 750 to earnings per share.
794, in part due to the acquisition in Singapore which added 10 full time equivalent staff.
Variable staff costs have increased by 33.5% from 17.0 million to 22.7 million due to the increase in the cost of profit sharing and new business incentive schemes, both of which reect increased profits and net organic growth.
Other operating expenses have increased by 12.5% from 29.7 million in 2006 to 33.4 million in 2007.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition in Singapore, the increase is 11.4% and is largely attributable to increased property and ofce costs, following the rent review in our London ofce and additional space being leased in Liverpool.
29 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review continued Capital Cash ow The introduction of the Capital Requirements Directive Excluding the cash ows that arise from Rathbone has increased the level of regulatory capital that we Investment Management acting in its capacity as a bank, are required to hold after 1 January 2008.
However, the most significant non-operating cash ows during we continue to maintain a capital position that is the year were as follows: in excess of the new regulatory capital requirement, Cash outows relating to the payment of dividends although the available headroom has been reduced by of 15.9 million.
Total shareholders funds and return on During the year, we drew down a further 3 million capital employed under the term loan facility from Barclays Bank PLC.
A total of 15 million was drawn down under the 2007 2006 m m facility, of which 2.7m was repaid during the year.
The balance is repayable in six-monthly equal Shareholders funds at instalments ending on 4 April 2011.
1 January 159.1 130.4 Shareholders funds Investment in London Stock Exchange Group plc at 31 December 184.8 159.1 Average shareholders As at 31 December 2007, the Group held 300,000 funds 172.0 144.8 shares in London Stock Exchange Group plc 2006: 400,000.
These shares were acquired for a Profits before tax 52.2 44.7 total cost of 2 but are carried at market value on the Profits after tax 37.4 32.1 balance sheet under the heading Investment securities Return on capital employed available for sale with changes in value taken to a pre-tax 30.3% 30.9% revaluation reserve.
On the sale of shares, the difference Return on capital employed between the sale proceeds and the original cost is post-tax 21.7% 22.2% recognised in the income statement.
In 2007, 100,000 shares were sold and the gain on sale Treasury policy and objectives of 1.3 million is included in the income statement under the heading Net income from sale of available for Rathbone Investment Management Limited holds sale securities.
most of the Groups surplus liquidity on its balance sheet and this includes clients cash that it holds in its capacity as a deposit taker which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The treasury department of Rathbone Investment Management, reporting through the Banking Committee to the Board, operates in accordance with procedures set out in an approved treasury manual and monitors exposure to market, credit and liquidity risk, as set out in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
30 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Pensions During the year, the Group made special contributions of 3.9 million into the Rathbone 1987 Scheme, The Group operates two dened benefit schemes concluding the contribution schedule agreed by the both of which are closed to new members and a Board to signicantly reduce the deficit in the scheme dened contribution pension scheme.
During 2008, a triennial valuation 2007, the combined accounting deficit for the two of the Rathbone 1987 Scheme as at 31 December 2007 dened benefit schemes totalled 6.5 million will be undertaken and a schedule of contributions 2006: 10.8 million.
The reduction in the combined will be agreed in relation to any further deficit in the deficit over the year has been driven by the increase scheme at the conclusion of the valuation process.
in long-term interest rates during the year, which are used to discount the pension scheme liabilities, as well The triennial valuation as at 31 December 2005 as improved market levels and increased contributions of the Laurence Keen Scheme which has no active increasing the pension scheme assets.
members was concluded during the year and as a result the level of funding of the deficit was reduced from 562,000 to 420,000 per annum for the next three years.
Table 14. profit before tax m and earnings per share NonInvestment Unit Trust  As 1 2 Management Trusts and Tax allocation totals items reported 2007 Operating income 104.4 18.8 24.9 5.1 153.2 1.31 54.5 Operating expenses 64.3 11.9 21.0 5.1 102.3 102.3 profit before tax 40.1 6.9 3.9 50.9 1.3 52.2 Earnings per share 85.74p 87.88p NonInvestment Unit Trust  As 1 2 Management Trusts and Tax allocation totals items reported 2006 Operating income 90.9 14.0 21.2 4.4 130.5 3.2 133.7 Operating expenses 56.8 8.9 18.9 4.4 89.0 89.0 Profit before tax 34.1 5.1 2.3 41.5 3.2 44.7 Earnings per share 71.28p 76.62p 1 Central revenue mainly interest included in net central costs which is allocated to the business areas 2 profit on sale of shares in London Stock Exchange Group plc 31 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
