14 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review INTERNATIONAL 2007 2006 Net written premiums 2,513m 2,334m Underwriting result 206m 149m Combined operating ratio 91.3% 93.1% International has had another strong in profitable segments where our technical expertise gives us competitive advantage.
year, delivering above market growth, and strong improvements in the Simon Lee Customer focus is central to our propositions underwriting result and the COR.
Chief Executive, International businesses and we are optimising customer reach Business overview through our multi channel distribution strategy, with strong Intermediary, Affinity International comprises the Groups operations and Direct propositions.
in Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland and Italy.
These businesses have strong positions in attractive We delivered our target of 40m of annualised markets and we aim to outperform in terms expense savings one year ahead of schedule, of both growth and profitability.
and have committed to delivering a further 20m in savings by mid 2008.
Key strategies Progress against strategies We are committed to delivering sustainable profitable performance.
We are using three International delivered another strong levers to drive the business forward and performance in 2007, with 8% premium growth outperform the competition: to 2,513m and a 1.8 point improvement in the COR to 91.3%.
International contributed the Delivering profitable growth ahead of the majority of the Groups underwriting result, market, by pursuing a segmented approach, at 206m, which was a 38% increase on 2006. expanding our distribution and through selected acquisitions Scandinavia Leveraging our market leading capabilities in Scandinavia is a significant component of the underwriting and claims International portfolio and 24% of the RSA Applying a rigorous approach to driving Group.
Codan and Trygg-Hansa hold the continuous operational efficiencies across number three positions in Denmark and the business.
Sweden respectively, and we have recently increased our presence in Norway and The combination of our geographic spread and expanded into Finland.
In 2007, Scandinavia targeted, segmented approach means that we delivered above market growth of 8% and can choose to expand in specific areas at different improved the COR by 2.3 points to 91.4%.
points in the insurance cycle.
We target growth Business review A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 007 07 | | R RS SA A | | 1 15 5 Leaders in renewable energy We have over 25 years experience in the renewable energy sector, and our technical capability has made us a market leader in several markets including Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Ireland.
In 2007, we launched a Global Renewable Energy business, bringing together over 300 engineers and renewable energy underwriters.
Through our global network of offices we service some of the most prominent players in the renewable sector, including technology manufacturers, utility companies, financiers and developers.
We have increased our presence in the Wind, Hydro, Bio-Energy and Solar Energy sectors and have developed market leading solutions for our customers and brokers.
We are well on track to position RSA as the key insurance solutions provider in this important global sector.
Further details can be seen on www.
16 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Key targets 2007 achievements Profitable growth ahead of the market Net written premium growth of 8% and a COR of 91.3% Strengthen number three position in Denmark and Sweden Net written premium growth exceeds market growth in both countries Strong double digit growth in Johnson Net written premium growth 11% on constant exchange 40m of annualised savings by mid 2008 Achieved mid 2007, new target of a further 20m announced Scandinavian expense ratio sub 15% by mid 2008 Scandinavian expense ratio 15.3% Canadian Intermediated expense ratio sub 10% by mid 2008 Canadian Intermediated expense ratio 10.5% Personal delivered a 10% increase in net written supplemented by the impact of acquisitions Other Europe premiums, reflecting the strong performance of made in 2006, and now represents 36% of Other Europe comprises our operations in WLI, our 2006 acquisition as well as continued the Canadian business.
Johnson is one of the Ireland and Italy and continues to deliver strong double digit growth in the bancassurance and leading direct writers in Canada and during above market growth with premiums up 10%.
Our car dealership the year we signed a national agreement with The COR improved by 3.7 points to 89.1% channel gives us access to 30% of the Swedish AIR MILES, Canadas leading loyalty rewards and the underwriting result increased by 43% and Danish car markets, and this year we have programme, which has over nine million to 40m.
Ireland delivered another strong increased premiums by over 90%.
performance, with growth driven by EGI, channel is a market leading provider in the specialty lines insurer acquired in 2006.
Scandinavia, and increased premiums by 47% Personal Broker grew 10% in 2007, with both during the year.
Travel and Property contributing significantly.
Italy continued to outperform the market with During the year we further strengthened the 14% premium growth.
Focused in northern In Commercial lines, we have maintained strong broker distribution channel with the addition Italy, we operate through brokers and non tied momentum across the region.
During 2007 we expanded our leading position in Marine Hull and have also benefits from the agreement with AIR MILES.
distribution network, adding 34 new agencies benefited from our acquisition of the Pohjola and 12 new brokers.
Marine portfolio in Finland, which gives us a Commercial net written premiums were flat at 40% share of the Finnish marine market.
183m 4% on constant exchange, reflecting a Market conditions In Construction and Engineering, premiums disciplined approach in increasingly competitive are up by 13% across the region, building on market conditions.
The COR improved by During the year, we have seen some challenging our strong position in the Danish market.
3.7 points to 90.3% and the underwriting conditions within our regional markets and the result improved by 125%.
With a focus on rating environment is showing some signs of Canada operational excellence, we have driven further increasing competitiveness.
Our niche, Canada has delivered another excellent efficiencies by investing in our technology segmented approach has benefited us in this performance.
Net written premiums are up platform, with 90% of our SME portfolio now environment and we are shifting capacity to 6% 9% on constant exchange, while the being quoted online.
where we can see the best returns.
underwriting result of 50m was a 4% improvement on 2006.
This reflects our We also look to acquire businesses that have Outlook continued focus on underwriting excellence, a strategic fit.
The acquisition of Canadian claims and expense management.
The COR Northern Shield diversifies our geographic We have built a track record of delivering strong was in line with 2006 at 92.4%.
spread and makes us the market leader in top and bottom line performance and we are British Columbia and the sixth largest general confident that we have the portfolio, the Johnson, our Personal lines direct business, insurer in Canada.
strategy and the capabilities to continue to delivered 8% growth 11% on constant outperform in our markets, and deliver exchange, with strong organic growth sustainable profitable performance.
We have built a track record of delivering strong top and bottom line performance.
