20 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review emerging markets 2007 2006 Net written premiums 615m 531m Underwriting result 18m 11m Combined operating ratio 95.3% 97.3% In its first year, Emerging Markets During 2007, we established a platform to accelerate future growth.
Significant capability delivered strong double digit growth has been added across the region with new in net written premiums, with a 2 point Paul Whittaker CEOs appointed in seven countries.
More than improvement in the COR to 95.3%.
CEO of Emerging Markets 20 senior technical staff have moved from RSAs established businesses into Emerging Markets Business overview to continue our focus on leveraging Group best practice in underwriting discipline and Emerging Markets has operations in 20 operational excellence.
countries across Latin America, Asia and the Middle East, the Baltics and Central and Eastern Centres of underwriting excellence have been Europe.
We are the number one insurer in established in major markets and provide Chile and in the Baltics, a leading international technical expertise to assist our smaller insurer in the Middle East, and through our operations underwrite complex risks.
In Asia joint venture Link4, the leading direct insurer and the Middle East, we have focused on in Poland.
building expertise in Construction and Engineering C&E, and have recruited market By 2010, we aim to double net written leading capability in the hubs of Hong Kong, premiums from 2005 levels in Latin America, Singapore and the Middle East.
This initiative Asia and the Middle East and the Baltics.
has already delivered 51% growth in C&E gross written premiums across the region this year.
Key strategies We see personal insurance sold through affinity We are focused on delivering profitable growth partners such as mobile phone providers and through expanding distribution, disciplined utilities as a major opportunity to satisfy a need underwriting and improving operational for basic insurance products.
Our strategy is to focus on development activity in Latin America in 2007 markets where we can establish a meaningful and these propositions will be rolled out in market presence, either in overall market share Asia and the Middle East in 2008, building on or in segments where we have a competitive the regions competence with established advantage.
We are committed to close affinity partners.
cooperation across the region to develop customer solutions which can be replicated in our territories cost effectively.
Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | rsa | 21 Baltics 2007 was a very successful year for the Baltics.
the operations in Latvia and Lithuania reaped the benefits of leveraging group best practice to deliver an excellent underwriting result, and we launched our new operation in estonia.
in Lithuania, our business grew faster than the market, increasing its market share by 3% to 37% whilst maintaining its COr below 90%.
this rapid growth and improved performance was the result of a structured programme to modernise the operational and sales platforms of the business.
We were the first in the market to use differential pricing which allows improved risk selection.
Over 60% of business is now renewed automatically, cutting administration costs and allowing our sales network greater time to focus on new business.
2008 will be a busy year for the Baltics as further operational enhancements are made, however we have demonstrated our ability to successfully manage change and we anticipate another strong year of performance.
22 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 key targets 2007 achievements Double size of Emerging Markets by 2010: 15% growth p. a.
Net written premium growth 19% on constant exchange Latin America COR sub 100% by end 2007 Latin America COR 98.7% We are working with our broker partners to economic conditions.
Our Lithuanian business successfully launched a similar operation in the develop new propositions targeting Small and increased its share of the market by 3% to 37% Czech Republic.
In 2007, Link4 grew premiums Medium sized Enterprises SMEs.
We are and we launched our operation in Estonia in by 38% to 47m, well ahead of the market.
We looking to automate cover on SMEs, reducing November.
The improvement in the COR from look to build on this experience as we roll out our partners servicing costs and we aim to 92.2% to 89.6% demonstrates the results of our our direct proposition in Russia in 2008. replicate this technology across the region.
operational excellence programmes on automatic renewals, pricing and claims.
Market conditions Progress against strategies asia and the middle east Emerging Markets covers a large number of The 2007 results clearly demonstrate the Asia and the Middle East continued to perform countries with diverse economic and regulatory success of these strategies, with 19% premium strongly with 15% premium growth on constant environments.
Common themes include the growth on constant exchange, a 64% increase in exchange, driven by strong Motor performance continued growth in demand for insurance underwriting result to 18m and a 2 point in the UAE, and a COR of 88.8%.
We were products in Personal lines, driven by increasing improvement in the COR to 95.3%.
named Insurer of the Year in the UAE and affluence, and in Commercial lines as strong received positive coverage of our response to GDP growth continues.
Latin america Cyclone Gonu in Oman.
In China, we were the Latin America delivered a 15% growth in net first European insurer to receive a subsidiary Strong GDP growth and low insurance written premiums on constant exchange, licence.
This allows us to accelerate our penetration continue to present exciting market reflecting strong growth in Chile as well as expansion strategy, and subject to regulatory opportunities, and at the same time, attract new in Marine in Brazil and Mexico.
The COR approval, we aim to open 11 branches by 2011, entrants and bring increased competition.
improved by 5 points to 98.7% following giving us access to 45% of the Chinese actions taken to improve profitability.
2008 priorities and outlook result was achieved against the backdrop of a number of weather events in the region, Joint ventures We anticipate 2008 will be an exciting year for including an earthquake in Chile, floods in Both our major joint ventures made good Emerging Markets as we continue to implement Mexico and hailstorms and a tornado in progress during 2007.
India continued to deliver our organic growth strategy.
In December, we took the double digit growth and we have appointed a are building a pipeline of targeted bolt on opportunity to exit the Venezuelan market.
new CEO and continue to focus on accelerating acquisitions to accelerate delivery of our the growth of this business.
Our joint venture in growth objectives.
We are committed to the Baltics Central and Eastern Europe employs a direct underwriting discipline and continuous The Baltics again performed strongly, delivering model in an intermediated world.
It owns Link4, operational improvement to drive sustainable premium growth of 35% driven by positive the leading direct writer in Poland, and in May profitable performance.
Strong GDP growth and low insurance penetration continue to present exciting market opportunities.
