Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 17 Business review UK 2007 2006 Net written premiums 2,688m 2,618m Underwriting result 65m 160m Combined operating ratio 97.6% 92.3% The UK has delivered another strong and build retention.
We are creating our own space in the affinity market, and our reputation performance in a competitive for delivering quality propositions for our market.
The underwriting result of Bridget McIntyre partners and their retail customers is attracting 65m includes the 120m impact of UK Chief Executive new deals.
the UK floods and other adverse weather and demonstrates continued We achieved our target of 70m of annualised profitability in challenging conditions.
expense savings one year ahead of schedule, and have committed to delivering a further Business overview 50m of savings by mid 2008.
We are targeting a sub 15% expense ratio for the UK business, We are the UKs largest Commercial and and sub 20% expense ratio for MORE TH N. third largest Personal lines insurer.
We are committed to delivering sustainable profitable Progress against strategies performance.
We will only write business that is profitable and are driving growth in segments In 2007, the UK delivered another strong result.
where we can achieve our target returns.
We The business continues to grow profitably, with are committed to underwriting discipline and a 3% increase in net written premiums to actively withdraw capacity in areas of the 2,688m.
The COR of 97.6% includes the market where the rate, terms and conditions impact of the summer floods of 120m, as well do not meet our underwriting criteria.
as other adverse weather through the year.
Excluding the floods, the UK COR was 93.0%.
Key strategies We have continued to take action on rate, In Commercial, we are focusing on specialist and retention remains strong at over 80%.
segments and leveraging our technical expertise The 2007 expense ratio is 17.5%, down from to develop innovative risk solutions, deliver 18.1% in 2006, and MORE TH N delivered profitable growth and manage retention in our its target, with an expense ratio of 19.8%.
Commercial In Personal, we aim to strengthen our number In Commercial, net written premiums were three position by enhancing our customer focus.
down 9% to 1,614m 2006: 1,770m Using increased customer segmentation and reflecting our commitment to underwriting pricing sophistication, we are launching discipline and selective capacity withdrawal.
innovative products to acquire new customers The Commercial COR was 95.9%.
18 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 UK floods The city of Sheffield was hit particularly hard by the June floods.
The River Don rose by 15ft and a 6ft torrent of water swept through the 64 acre site of Sheffield Forgemasters SFIL, the worlds largest independently owned forgemaster and a major local employer.
RSA experts were quickly on the scene, working alongside SFIL to control the scale of the loss.
Our work supported the cashflow of the business, secured the 600 jobs and minimised the business interruption suffered.
Production resumed in July, just weeks after the water receded.
Our proactive stance in understanding management priorities, our flexible approach and our speed in settling the claim, significantly reduced the scale of the final loss.
The Chief Executive of SFIL, praised our exceptional support and said, the final settlement was concluded in a friendly and professional manner and this undoubtedly aided our recovery.
Our response to SFILs claim was also recognised by the Association of British Insurers and by The Prince of Wales.
We work in partnership with our customers, combining our expertise with their specific company needs and together we find the best solution to get them back up and running again as soon as possible.
Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 19 Key targets 2007 achievements Move to number one in the broker market by choice, We are working with broker partners to strengthen relationships and reputation, capability and profitability by 2010 our customer propositions.
Retention remains strong and we are using a targeted approach to drive growth in specialist lines that are profitable Strengthen number three position in Personal lines Strong growth in MORE TH N, with 8% increase in NWP Grow Affinity business by more than 50% by 2010 from 2005 levels Increased 23% from 2005 levels 70m of annualised savings by mid 2008 Achieved mid 2007, new target of a further 50m announced MORE TH N expense ratio sub 20% by end 2007 MORE TH N expense ratio 19.8% UK expense ratio sub 15% UK expense ratio 17.5%, down from 19.4% in 2005 We continue to focus on implementing our rate web capability saw web sales grow by 160% opportunities for insurers with strong customer plans, maximising retention and driving growth on Household and 30% on Motor since 2005. propositions and efficient broker servicing models.
Marine premiums We continue to focus on driving down cost per increased by 8%, and during the year we launched sale by implementing initiatives to increase cross The Personal market remains competitive, six specialist trading units, including Property sales and marketing efficiency.
In 2007, we won and is evolving with an increase in aggregator Investors, Construction and Engineering, and Risk Precision Marketings Direct Brand of the websites.
Aggregators are an increasing Solutions.
We are successfully using these trading Year Award.
source of business for us, and require stringent units to increase our levels of specialisation within underwriting, high brand recognition and a our target segments, and their niche expertise Affinity continues its good momentum.
We externally benchmark to improve our customer propositions, and we signed five new deals which will bring an the quality of our underwriting and are using opportunities for cross sales.
additional 50m in premiums at full run rate.
our PCMs to build relationships with our With 23% growth in Affinity since 2005, we are aggregator customers to increase retention.
Personal on track to deliver our target of increasing this Net written premiums increased by 27% to business by 50% by 2010.
Outlook 1,074m driven by organic growth and recent Affinity deals including Paymentshield.
The COR Technical capabilities We are committed to maintaining underwriting was 100.6%, which includes 6% in respect of discipline and rigorous risk selection to deliver the floods.
Motor performed strongly, delivering Our technical skills are market leading and a real sustainable profitable performance.
We will a COR of 98.7%, a 3.8 point improvement source of competitive advantage.
During 2007 continue to implement our rate plans and focus over 2006. our Underwriting and Geographical on driving growth in profitable segments.
Assessment teams were awarded the Insurance MORE TH N had another very strong year Times Training Programme of the Year Award In Commercial, we will continue to focus on our with an 8% increase in net written premiums to for their underwriting excellence and training target trades and segments and use our industry 475m, new business sales up 10% and a 7% programme.
The programme has also been recognised technical skills to maintain strong increase in average motor premiums.
accredited by the Chartered Insurance Institute.
We will continue to innovate our product offerings and pricing to realise the We have strengthened our MORE TH N Market conditions growth potential of MORE TH N. In Affinity, brand through the More Is proposition we will continue to target new opportunities and focusing on key customer segments, new The UK is the Groups most competitive market deliver profitable growth from our existing deals.
products that reward customer loyalty and high and we anticipate similar conditions in 2008. levels of service.
Over 170,000 customers have By maintaining discipline and investing in our signed up to our Personal Customer Manager In Commercial, distribution is evolving with capabilities, our UK business will remain well PCM initiative which has had a positive impact increasing consolidation in the broker market and positioned to continue delivering sustainable on retention levels.
Our enhanced the emergence of specialists.
This is creating new profitable performance.
We will continue to implement our rate plans and focus on driving growth in profitable segments.
