Business review Description of business banking proposition and customers are able to access services Introduction through a full range of channels, including the largest network of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company of branches and ATMs in the UK, the internet and the telephone.
one of the worlds largest banking and financial services groups, with a market capitalisation of 44.4 billion at the end of 2007.
Retail also includes the Groups non-branch based retail Headquartered in Edinburgh, the Group operates in the UK, US businesses that issue a comprehensive range of credit and and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, the Royal charge cards to personal and corporate customers and provides Bank and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest are major card processing services for retail businesses.
Retail is the UK clearing banks whose origins go back over 275 years.
In the leading merchant acquirer in Europe and ranks third globally.
US, the Groups subsidiary Citizens is ranked the ninth largest commercial banking organisation by deposits.
The Group has a It also includes Tesco Personal Finance, The One account, MINT, large and diversified customer base and provides a wide range of First Active UK, Direct Line Financial Services and Lombard Direct, products and services to personal, commercial and large all of which offer products to customers through direct channels corporate and institutional customers.
In continental Europe, Retail offers a similar range of products through the RBS and Comfort Card brands.
The Group had total assets of 1,900.5 billion and owners equity of 53.0 billion at 31 December 2007.
It is strongly capitalised Wealth Management provides private banking and investment with a total capital ratio of 11.2% and tier 1 capital ratio of 7.3% services to its clients through a number of leading UK and as at 31 December 2007. overseas private banking subsidiaries and offshore banking businesses.
Coutts is one of the world's leading international Organisational structure and business overview wealth managers with offices in Switzerland, Dubai, Monaco, The Groups activities are organised in the following business Hong Kong and Singapore, as well as its premier position in the divisions: Corporate Markets comprising Global Banking & UK.
Adam & Company is the major private bank in Scotland.
The Markets and UK Corporate Banking, Retail Markets comprising offshore banking businesses The Royal Bank of Scotland Retail and Wealth Management, Ulster Bank, Citizens, RBS International and NatWest Offshore deliver retail banking Insurance and Manufacturing.
A description of each of the services to local and expatriate customers, principally in the divisions is given below.
Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
Corporate Markets is focused on the provision of debt and risk Ulster Bank Group including First Active, provides a management services to medium and large businesses and comprehensive range of retail and wholesale financial services in financial institutions in the UK and around the world.
the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, supported by an extensive network of branch and business centres.
Retail Markets Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to operates in the personal and affluent banking sectors.
Corporate major corporations and financial institutions around the world, Markets provides a wide range of services in the commercial, providing an extensive range of debt financing, risk management corporate and wealth markets.
RBSs European Consumer and investment services to its customers.
GBM has a wide range Finance ECF activities, previously part of RBS Retail Markets, of clients across its chosen markets.
It has relationships with an are now managed within Ulster Bank.
ECF provides consumer overwhelming majority of the largest UK, European and US finance products, particularly card-based revolving credits and corporations and institutions.
GBMs principal activity in the US is fixed-term loans, in Germany and the Benelux countries.
conducted through RBS Greenwich Capital.
Citizens is the second largest commercial banking organisation in UK Corporate Banking is the largest provider of banking, finance New England and the ninth largest commercial banking and risk management services to UK corporate customers.
organisation in the US measured by deposits.
Citizens provides Through its network of relationship managers across the country it retail and corporate banking services under the Citizens brand in distributes the full range of Corporate Markets products and Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New services to companies.
Jersey, New York state, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont and the Charter One brand in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.
Retail Markets leads the co-ordination and delivery of our multiThrough its branch network Citizens provides a full range of retail brand retail strategy across our product range and comprises and corporate banking services, including personal banking, Retail including our direct channels businesses and Wealth residential mortgages and cash management.
In addition, Citizens engages in a wide variety of commercial Retail comprises both the Royal Bank and NatWest retail brands, lending, consumer lending, commercial and consumer deposit and a number of direct providers offering a full range of banking products, merchant credit card services, trust services and retail products and related financial services to the personal, premium investment services.
Citizens includes RBS Lynk, our merchant and small business markets across several distribution channels.
acquiring business, and Kroger Personal Finance, our credit card joint venture with the second largest US supermarket group.
In core retail banking, Retail offers a comprehensive product range across the personal and small business market: money RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the UK, by transmission, savings, loans, mortgages and insurance.
It sells and underwrites retail and SME insurance over the telephone and internet, as well as through Customer choice and product flexibility are central to the retail 30 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review
