qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 14:48 Page 30 Business Review Sustainability We are leading by example through our sustainable approach to business and society.
We are constantly challenging ourselves as to how we can contribute in our markets in a distinctive way.
Building a sustainable business is an we operate in: second, we want to do Renewable energy integral part of our long-term strategy to things which leverage our capabilities and As with every aspect of business, we have to enhance shareholder value.
At Standard infrastructure: and third, we focus on where identify areas where we can achieve critical Chartered, we are determined to lead we can add distinctive value.
In this report, scale and have a distinctive edge in order to by example in the markets in which we we highlight some of our success stories of create long-term value for our stakeholders.
As well as contributing to economic 2007, which passed the three tests, and As a leading international bank, we growth through our core business activities, discuss some of our unfinished tasks.
continued to leverage our expertise to we want to help protect the environment Access to financial services promote the deployment of clean and and to have a broader positive impact on Standard Chartered is committed to renewable technologies across our the societies in which we live and work.
bringing millions of people in our markets markets.
In May 2007, we financed the And as we engage as a partner with into the mainstream economy by improving worlds largest photovoltaic plant in governments and communities in access to financial services and helping South Korea, a project which will reduce addressing these wider challenges, them make an economic contribution.
greenhouse gas emissions and generate we are learning more about how the new jobs and industries.
issues interact with each other and Our partnerships with over 40 microfinance our core business objectives.
institutions MFI enabled us to disburse In September, at the Clinton Global $170 million in 2007 across 13 countries.
There are numerous ways we are striving Initiative, we committed $8 10 billion in These loans will help improve the livelihoods to be a force for good.
These examples funding and advisory services over the next are documented in our Sustainability of 1.2 million people and stimulate five years to develop clean technology and grassroots enterprise.
We are on track to Review 2007 and in the sustainability renewable energy in Asia, Africa and the deliver on our commitment to originate section of our website.
There we discuss Middle East.
By making our commitment and disburse $500 million by 2011. in detail how we progressed in 2007 in public, we hope to be a catalyst for change, our seven sustainable business priorities: influencing businesses to invest in the In January 2008, we signed loan and Sustainable Finance, Access to Financial transition to a low-carbon future.
co-operation agreements with the China Services, Protecting the Environment, Foundation for Poverty Alleviation at a We are also minimising the environmental Responsible Selling and Marketing, Tackling meeting attended by Premier Wen Jiabao impact of what we do and influencing our Financial Crime, Community Investment of the Peoples Republic of China and customers and suppliers worldwide to and a Great Place to Work.
Gordon Brown, Prime Minister of the do likewise through our sustainable We apply three tests to decide which areas United Kingdom.
This is the first time lending practices and our procurement of sustainability to focus on: first, we ensure an international bank has provided such selection process.
that what we do is relevant to the markets a microfinance credit facility in China.
Working with SME clients on Living with HIV Supporting Microfinance in India We are providing training resources to our We partnered with Opportunity SME clients to help them implement their International and World Vision to own HIV AIDS programmes.
This programme provide cross-border security started in Tanzania and was extended to solutions to independent start-up Singapore and Hong Kong.
30 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp030-033 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 14:48 Page 31 Leading with our sustainable business strategy Incorporating social and environmental issues in our lending policies 23001 pp030-033 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 14:50 Page 32 Leading the way Leading with our sustainable business strategy Managers make Financing Supporting environmental renewable farmers in pledges energy projects China Our senior executives pledged to In May, we financed the worlds We took rural finance to a new level take a more environment-friendly largest photovoltaic plant in South by reaching an agreement with a approach to their daily and business Korea.
At the Clinton Global Initiative local Chinese company to assist lives during the annual Country in New York, we committed $8 -10 cotton farmers in Urumqi to Managers Conference in Singapore.
billion over the next five years to enhance productivity, increase Their pledges were recorded on finance renewable and clean energy income and improve living The Greatest Race on Earth: Race projects such as wind, hydro, standards.
We are the first for a Living Planet website.
The geothermal, solar, bio-mass and international bank to establish a environmental challenge was added coal-bed methane projects in Asia, complete microfinance programme to the Greatest Race on Earth series Africa and the Middle East.
The to lend directly to farmers in rural in 2007 08 to raise awareness of development of renewable energy China.
Our partnerships with over the environmental issues faced by projects will help mitigate the effects 40 microfinance institutions have the world today and the actions of climate change, a stated goal for enabled the Group to disburse individuals can take to redress them.
Environmental pledges Committed over next five years to Microfinance loans made since October 2007 finance renewable energy projects disbursed in 2007 Over 1 $8-10 $170 As at February 2008 For more information visit: www.
qxp:Layout 1 13 3 08 16:04 Page 33 Business Review: Sustainability continued HIV education critical trends, issues and opportunities that The Greatest Race on Earth: Race for we should address.
a Living Planet encouraged employees, Our work on HIV education through customers and members of the public our Living with HIV programme and on The Committee also oversees delivery to commit to take steps in their daily lives prevention and treatment of certain forms against the Groups seven sustainable to help improve the environment.
of blindness such as cataracts through our business priorities.
Cumulatively, participants have pledged `Seeing is Believing initiative are examples to save three billion litres of water and of how we are making a difference to the The second change on the governance take steps that could save over 100,000 lives of many people whilst also helping front in 2007 involved setting up the trees from being cut down.
Wholesale Banking Sustainable Business to create healthy and stable workforces, Council.
The purpose of this Council is another condition for sustainable Measurement and review to identify and respond to commercial economic growth.
We continued to review our progress opportunities that help address against external measures and We have extended our HIV education sustainability challenges.
commitments such as the Global Reporting programme to SME Banking clients Initiative, the Global Compact and the We also developed position papers on key and corporate clients to help them Equator Principles, reporting progress sectors such as dams, power generation, manage HIV AIDS programmes within against each of these on our website.
forestry and palm oil plantations as well as their workplaces.
on key issues such as child labour.
We are pleased that our performance In 2007, as part of our Clinton Global was recognised by the industry.
In 2007, In 2007, we set up two specialised Initiative commitment to educate one million we were included in the FTSE4Good committees to look at certain key areas of people by the end of 2010, we partnered Environment Leaders Europe 40 Index sustainability.
These are the Environment with AIESEC, the worlds largest student and the Climate Leadership Index for our Committee and the Group Financial Crime organisation, to educate 300,000 students.
reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Both are chaired by We also won the Global Business Coalition Seeing is Believing Dr Tim Miller, director for People, Property Business Excellence Award for using our In Phase III of Seeing is Believing we and Assurance.
core competencies in addressing HIV AIDS.
reached our goal of raising $10 million by A detailed report on our performance in 2010, to make a difference to the lives of The recognition has made us redouble 2007 with regard to Corporate Governance 10 million people, three years ahead of our commitment to our brand promise: issues is available on pages 68-72. target.
In 2008, we will launch Phase IV Leading by Example to be The Right Partner to all our stakeholders.
We are a more ambitious programme of sustainable Engagement convinced that we can deliver on this eye care targeted at the poor and We can deliver on our ambitious plans promise through our approach towards marginalised communities in cities through the enthusiasm, talent and skills of building a sustainable business in our where the Group has a presence.
every employee in the Group.
We are focused on delivering significantly stepped up efforts to get all Governance on this commitment.
The success of our our 70,000 employees engaged through: We reshaped the strategic direction of business depends on it.
the two-year-old Corporate Responsibility Employee volunteering: Senior executives and Community Committee, which is led our efforts by getting involved in a sub-committee of the board, and volunteering their skills and thousands renamed it the Sustainability and of employees participated as well.
All employees were provided with access to a range of tools such as our innovative The change in the name was deliberate.
and international Carbon Calculator The role of the Committee is to stretch the which enable them to measure and Groups ambition to build a sustainable reduce the impact of their actions on business that delivers long-term shareholder the environment.
value, challenge practice and identify the Reducing operational impact Improving anti-money laundering systems We have rolled out initiatives across Over the last three years, Standard Chartered our markets to reduce waste by using has invested over $55 million in improved more recycled paper and ensuring we anti-money laundering monitoring systems recycle our waste paper to help and automated surveillance to identify protect the environment.
