qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 16:04 Page 18 Business Review Performance The stable economic outlook for our key markets and our strong liquidity and balance sheet give us the confidence to pursue our key strategic priorities.
Standard Chartered had another year of spread across 11 locations in seven knowledge, relationships and branch record performance in 2007 on the back markets worldwide network to lead the way in Asia, Africa of the targeted investments made in and the Middle East and become the Acquisition of American Express Bank, previous years in our key growth markets worlds best international bank.
which is due to be completed in the first in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
The quarter of 2008, will further boost the The stable economic outlook for our key Group crossed several notable milestones Private Bank and Transaction Banking markets and the Groups strong liquidity during the year: and balance sheet give us the confidence Islamic Banking: Launched Saadiq, our to pursue our key strategic priorities: Record earnings: Operating income global Islamic Banking brand, in the UAE, exceeded $11 billion and profit before tax Malaysia, Pakistan and Bangladesh Sustaining organic momentum surpassed $4 billion, both for the first time Taiwan: Rebranded all Hsinchu branches Delivering growth from our acquisitions Broad-based growth: Headline income overnight following amalgamation in June Continuously improving the way we work grew 28 per cent, with organic income China: Incorporated in China, launched Building our leadership growth accelerating to 23 per cent, local renminbi banking services and a record high Reinforcing the brand increased the number of outlets to serve EPS growth: Normalised earnings per local customers These priorities will allow us to pursue share increased 15.8 per cent to growth, value creation and the strategic The record performance in 2007 ushers in 197.6 cents business opportunities thrown up by the a very special year for the Group.
This year Strong markets: For the first time, profit current market dislocation.
Standard Chartered will celebrate 150 before tax surpassed $1 billion in Hong years of its presence in India and China.
This report explores some of these Kong and $500 million each in India and priorities to assess our performance in the Middle East and Other South Asia In 1858, when we set up our first branches 2007 and to lay out how we aim to make MESA region in Calcutta and Shanghai, India and progress in 2008.
China were among the worlds largest Strong balance sheet: The Groups economies.
The world has turned full circle Organic growth liquidity and capital positions remained and Asias two most populous economies Here, the numbers speak for themselves.
comfortably above targets throughout are again among the biggest drivers of the Our income soared 28 per cent to $11,067 2007, despite the market turbulence, global economy.
million, driving up profit before tax by 27 per reflecting our vigilant and prudent cent to $4,035 million.
approach to risk management This is a huge opportunity for Standard Chartered.
We are in the right place at the Private banking: Launched The Standard Most of our regions delivered strong right time.
The Group aims to leverage its Chartered Private Bank, with offices now performances as business conditions in Private Bank global launch Expanding network in Indonesia The Standard Chartered Private Bank offers an PT Bank Permata, jointly owned by Standard open architecture and best-of-breed products, Chartered and PT Astra International, is leading besides delivering first-class service to high the way in Indonesia.
We had 256 branches net worth clients.
Headquartered in Singapore, and six Islamic Banking centres across it spans across 11 locations in seven markets.
18 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp018-025 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 16:05 Page 19 Leading across our growth markets Our strong local presence in Hong Kong 23001 pp018-025 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 16:08 Page 20 Leading the way Leading across our growth markets Dubais first Strengthening New Shared dedicated SME our pole position Services Centre Banking centre in India in China In 2007, we opened Dubais first We strengthened our position as the We opened our first Shared Services dedicated SME Banking centre, in largest international bank in India by Centre in Tianjin.
This centre will Jebel Ali.
This centre is part of the being the first to open full-service solidify the foundations of Standard next phase of the Groups strategy branches in Siliguri and Jalgaon.
Chartereds back office operations to further grow and develop the Both these branches are an integral and enhance the efficiency of our SME market segment.
It will build on part of Standard Chartereds services.
It is also reflective of our our established presence in the strategy to continue to reach out to commitment to China where the region and ensure our customers new Wealth Management and SME number of outlets rose by 17 in have access to the right advice customers in regional centres.
This includes from the right people.
now have 83 branches across 33 13 branches, 23 sub-branches cities in India.
and two representative offices in the country.
Income growth from MESA region Employees nationwide Chinas staff growth Up 33 18,000 Up 100 For more information visit: www.
qxp:Layout 1 13 3 08 14:50 Page 21 Business Review: Performance continued the Groups main markets continued to Singapore, Malaysia, Africa and our recently a confident investment agenda for future benefit from strong economic growth, good relaunched UK business also generated growth: and the asset quality is excellent.
local currency liquidity and benign credit double-digit income growth each with growth Wholesale Banking environments.
In many markets we are rates of over 20 per cent.
Hong Kong saw Wholesale Banking had an outstanding seeing a clear re-pricing for risk.
a 17 per cent income growth while India year.
Across the spectrum, the Wholesale had a 26 per cent income growth.
As seen in recent years, it is the organic Banking business, whether viewed by franchise that continues to drive performance.
We invested in distribution capabilities, product, by customer segment or by Of the total income growth of 28 per cent, key for both SME Banking and Wealth geography, fired on all cylinders.
approximately 80 per cent of the increase Management, with over 70 new branches Income grew 34 per cent, again came from the organic business.
in Pakistan, China, Korea, Africa and Hong underpinned by strong growth in client Kong and over 600 new and upgraded ATMs.
The underlying rate of income growth of 23 income of 37 per cent as we continued per cent is a record high with 2007 being As a result of these expansions and new to deepen client relationships, increased the fourth consecutive year of accelerating investments, Consumer Banking expenses cross-sell and shifted to higher double-digit organic income growth.
This rose 28 per cent, or 20 per cent on an value products.
is a clear indication that our disciplined underlying basis.
Almost half of the Profit before tax grew 27 per cent on investment programme over the last few underlying growth can be attributed to the a headline basis and 28 per cent on an years is paying off.
accelerated investment in future growth.
What is also pleasing is the continued We continued with product innovation and balance of income growth across both over the course of the year launched more The Wholesale Banking strategy is clearly businesses Consumer Banking and than 1,500 global product initiatives across working well.
We have focused on Wholesale Banking.
We have two strong Wealth Management and SME Banking.
deepening client relationships and we are engines of growth, each of which contributed We also launched Consumer Transaction seeing good results as we become a core over $1 billion of incremental income in 2007.
Banking to deepen our capabilities to meet bank to more of our clients.
As an example, customers needs through all channels, income from our top 50 clients was up over Consumer Banking including the internet and mobile phones.
50 per cent year on year and income from On a headline basis, Consumer Banking our top 10 clients was up over 85 per cent delivered income growth of 24 per cent Our presence in the UAE received a boost year on year.
and expense growth of 28 per cent, with the opening of Dubais first dedicated with profit before tax rising 27 per cent, SME Banking centre in Jebel Ali.
Turning to costs, expenses grew by 31 per reflecting healthy returns on our cent.
A good portion of the investment was The Standard Chartered Private Bank has investments in our Wealth Management focused on higher staff compensation as now been rolled out across a total of 11 and SME Banking businesses.
we strengthened our teams with product locations in seven markets and we have specialists, in areas such as Corporate Underlying income growth in Consumer had significant success in building a strong Advisory, and with relationship managers Banking rose 15 per cent.
team and attracting new clients and assets.
to enhance our sales coverage.
Income growth from the Consumer The acquisition of American Express Bank, We are also scaling up our product offering Banking business was well diversified with which is scheduled to be completed in the and capabilities, such as Principal Finance, nine markets now contributing $200 million first quarter of this year, will turbo-charge Equity Derivatives, Commodity Derivatives or more in income, compared with only five this effort by adding 19 markets, key markets in 2005.
Wealth Management booking centres, 120 relationship managers and Convertibles.
income now contributes over 45 per cent and over $22 billion of private banking In 2007, we launched our global Islamic of total Consumer Banking income.
Banking brand, Saadiq, in the UAE, Other Asia Pacific region, with an income To summarise for Consumer Banking, we Malaysia, Pakistan and Bangladesh, growth of 60 per cent and MESA region, maintained double-digit income momentum: seeking to capitalise on the growing with a growth of 38 per cent, performed growth remained broad-based, reflecting the demand for specialised financial services particularly well.
breadth and scale of our franchise: we have in these markets.
Starting Vietnam Consumer Banking Innovative product promotions We opened Consumer Banking branches We set the market abuzz in Singapore with our in Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi.
We will innovative way of promoting our products such focus on strengthening banking services as the e$aver and Business$aver campaigns and bringing international banking solutions and the XtraSaver 8% CashBack on debit cards.
qxp:23051 p18-25 12 3 08 23:15 Page 22 Business Review: Performance continued We also set up new offices, such as in growth for the first time since 2001 a modest revival in mortgage margins in our driven by strong growth in SME Banking new business booked at the end of the year.
Geneva, to deepen our client relationships and Wealth Management.
in markets which are getting more closely Wholesale Banking income momentum interlinked with our key markets of Asia, The business in India, our second biggest picked up as the investments in people Africa and the Middle East.
and products began to pay off.
market by profit, broke through $1 billion in income for the first time in 2007.
Profit Wholesale Bankings product capability In Pakistan, where we acquired Union Bank before tax rose 71 per cent to $690 million.
was enhanced through acquisitions of in 2006, the economy continued to expand India is now the Groups largest Wholesale several specialist businesses in 2007. despite the uncertain political environment Banking market.
These included Pembroke, a leading aircraft and this was reflected in our performance.
leasing, financing and management firm: China To give a sense of the momentum, on a Harrison Lovegrove, a global oil and gas China is increasingly becoming a major comparable basis, income grew 17 per cent.
advisory boutique: A Brain, a fund driver of income for the Group.
administration company in Korea: and, Profit before tax on the same basis fell 17 Income increased 73 per cent to $498 American Express Bank, which, once the per cent, reflecting the impact of integration deal is closed in 2008, will bolster our US million in 2007 with about three quarters expenses as we continue to build out the being generated by the Wholesale Banking dollar-clearing capabilities and expand platform for future growth.
We were one of the first four our euroand yen-clearing capabilities in We had particular success in cross-selling international banks to locally incorporate Transaction Banking.
Standard Chartered products such as last April.
Islamic finance, commodity-related Wholesale Banking achieved significant products and export finance to the Union Since then we have been investing to capture productivity increases in 2007 with Bank customer base.
Our market share of the opportunities afforded by the market business-as-usual expenses growing far the export finance business rose to 10 per reforms such as providing local currency more slowly than client revenue and we are cent in 2007, from three per cent prior to renminbi consumer banking services continually looking to improve the flexibility the Union Bank acquisition.
and rapidly positioning our franchise as of our expense base.
a business of scale and breadth.
In Taiwan, following the amalgamation To give a sense of this, performance related of Hsinchu and Standard Chartereds In 2007, we doubled the number of staff in compensation now constitutes over 40 per Taiwan operation on 30 June 2007, China from 2,100 to 4,300.
Our local network cent of total Wholesale Banking staff costs, we were successful in selling Standard expanded from 21 to 38 outlets.
Profit before up from 24 per cent in 2004, 31 per cent Chartered products through the Hsinchu tax from China increased by 72 per cent in in 2005 and 35 per cent in 2006. distribution network.
Growth markets Income in Taiwan in the second six months Delivering growth through acquisitions Standard Chartereds outstanding of the year was 10 per cent higher than in One of the key determinants of the success the first six months when no Standard performance in 2007 was a result of the of our business is our ability to integrate Chartered products were sold through the strong growth in our biggest markets such acquired businesses.
We have made Hsinchu platform.
Expenses also increased as Hong Kong and India as well as in our tremendous headway in 2007. half on half as integration commenced.
fast-growing emerging markets such as China and Nigeria.
We exceeded our In Korea, our business reported a three We remain confident that Hsinchu will be performance targets in many markets by per cent headline income growth in 2007. earnings-per-share accretive and deliver a good margin in a very difficult year for the But, excluding the impact of three one-off double-digit return on investment in 2008. banking industry in Europe and the US.
accounting adjustments and charges, Continuously improving the way we work Several of our markets set new records.
income increased by 15 per cent.
As we build up our infrastructure in line with For instance, Hong Kong became the first Consumer Banking in Korea had strong our growing business needs, we are aware of our markets to make over $1 billion in growth in SME Banking and Wealth that there are other sources of unique profit before tax.
Consumer Banking in Management, offset by a fall in mortgage strength which can provide Standard Hong Kong saw a double-digit income income.
However, we are beginning to see Chartered a huge competitive advantage.
Tesco PLCs first Islamic financing programme First bank account in Africa designed for women We managed the Islamic Sukuk issue for Tesco The DIVA Account offers discounts and lifestyle Stores Malaysia Sdn Bhd through their benefits designed especially for women.
This is MYR3.5 billion conventional and Islamic notes a first-to-market product which recognises the programme.
The issue was guaranteed by pivotal role played by women in the economic Tesco PLC.
22 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp018-025 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 16:10 Page 23 Leading with innovative products and services Introducing innovative financial solutions in the Middle East 23001 pp018-025 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 16:12 Page 24 Leading the way Leading with innovative products and services Launching Starting US dollar Saadiq in China-bound Introducing major markets payment service Straight2Bank Through Saadiq, our global Islamic The increasing importance of China Straight2Bank is our one-stop Banking brand which means truthful, to the global economy has attracted proprietary electronic banking we aim to capitalise on the growing a lot of attention to US dollar channel for corporate and demand for Islamic Banking and payments into China.
The fully financial services for the benefit of this as a gap and promptly offered integrated end-to-end platform our customers and stakeholders.
our clients the US dollar Chinaprovides cash, trade and securities We launched Saadiq in the UAE, bound payment service with services through a single sign-on Malaysia, Pakistan and Bangladesh real-time access to New York access.
The launch was supported payment systems.
Through this clients with streamlined and by a combination of policies and service, we aim to streamline the straight-through processing of incentives that were put in place end-to-end process, reducing transactions, resulting in significant by governments and regulators turnaround time and allowing operating efficiencies and cost in these markets.
payments to reach the beneficiary savings.
This platform can be within the local business day.
accessed by our clients from any location.
Global US dollar transactions Islamic Banking products cleared daily by Standard Growth in client base with trade Chartered in New York facility as a result of Straight2Bank developed to date 27 $144 Up 238 For more information visit: www.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 16:13 Page 25 Business Review: Performance continued The first is our processes, policies and indicates the level of employee engagement, procedures the plumbing and wiring of also shows a steady improvement despite the Group.
This comes under our Outserve our rapid growth, both organically and Plus umbrella where we strive to become through acquisitions.
operationally excellent by embedding a Having dealt with the plumbing and wiring culture of continuous improvement of the business, we need to redouble our throughout the Group.
By doing this, we focus on the second aspect of improving aim to delight customers with the quality of the way we work.
This is about our culture, our service, make life easier for our staff and our values, the way we interact with each customers, and create capacity to enable other and with our customers.
Our culture the Group to grow on a sustained basis.
and values allow us to collaborate across We will know we are succeeding when borders and across businesses, attract customers and clients tell us that we new hires, keep people in the Group and really understand their needs: our attract clients.
employees feel a deep sense of pride The challenge is to avoid getting too to work for the Group: and when we are complacent about these values and widely acknowleged to have Best in Class taking them for granted.
Building the brand We have already had several successes on We recognise that how we continue to build this front.
For example, in Singapore, the our brand in the coming months will have simplification of the account opening process an impact on shareholder value creation.
has reduced the time taken to open accounts from 35 minutes to nine minutes.
We want to build our brand at the pace In Wholesale Banking, we launched we are growing the business.
A big part Straight2Bank, our one-stop proprietary of brand building is our commitment to electronic banking channel for corporate live the brand and values in everything and institutional clients.
The fully integrated we do.
We continue to embed our brand end-to-end platform provides cash, promise, Leading by Example to be trade and securities services through The Right Partner in our markets, into a single sign-on access.
The enhancements provide clients with The People and Sustainability sections streamlined and straight-through processing of this review have more details about of transactions, resulting in significant our initiatives in these areas.
operating efficiencies and cost savings.
So, leveraging our brand, values, culture and This platform was introduced in response the way we work remain among the top to our clients need for sophisticated priorities for this year.
These are the key transaction, hedging and information drivers of shareholder value for the Group.
All in all, we start 2008 in good shape Our Key Performance Indicators pages with strong momentum.
While the global 16-17 show that our efforts are making a environment is undoubtedly more difference to our customers, employees and challenging and there are many other stakeholders.
For example, Wholesale uncertainties in the world, our businesses Bankings Service Quality Index and are performing strongly and we are clear Consumer Bankings Loyal and Positive about our strategy and priorities.
We are Index have both risen in 2007 over the well positioned to meet future challenges.
The Q12 ratio, which Sri Lankas first oil hedge Rebranding in Taiwan We structured and transacted Sri Standard Chartered became the first Lankas first oil hedge with Ceylon international bank to gain an island-wide Petroleum Corp.
Hsinchu branches were rebranded commitment towards supporting overnight, giving us the largest international the economic stability of the country.
