qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 14:58 Page 26 Business Review People 2007 was a year of tremendous expansion for the Group.
We have been very successful in supporting this growth due to our ability to attract, engage and develop the best international talent across our markets.
Attracting and retaining the best talent the senior management positions in China environment to retain employees.
This Standard Chartered saw a 19 per cent and Hong Kong, respectively, now are process begins from the day an individual net increase in the number of employees represented by women.
Globally, 20 per cent joins the Group.
Since launching the Right in 2007 to 70,000, as we stepped up of all senior managers are women.
Start induction programme in 2006, the recruitment to support our business growth.
percentage of employees leaving the Group Leveraging local knowledge is one of Attracting and retaining the best talent, within a year of joining has decreased by the key components of our success and driving performance and engagement and five per cent.
we have extended this approach to our building leadership capability are critical As part of our efforts to retain talented staff, recruitment strategy.
In 2007, we launched priorities for the Group.
we continued to provide an inclusive a global employee referral programme.
There were particularly strong increases in environment for our people.
In 2007, a new This has been very successful with more the number of employees in many of our flexible working framework that includes than 36 per cent and 37 per cent of new core strategic markets.
For example, we working flexible hours and part-time hires in China and India, respectively, recruited almost 3,000 employees in India, working was piloted in Ghana, Singapore, referred to the Group by current employees.
just under 1,000 in Pakistan and the UK and the US.
The Group also We also re-launched our internal job posting over 1,000 employees each in China, launched the work@home programme at its guidelines in 2007.
The number of positions Hong Kong and Singapore.
We expect to Shared Services Centre in Chennai, India.
advertised internally has since increased continue hiring in these growing markets Over 100 employees have already enrolled from 26 per cent in 2006 to 67 per cent in the coming years.
This provides greater visibility We are very proud of our deep history and In 2008, the Group will extend the policy of career opportunities to our current local knowledge across our markets.
We to another six to eight countries.
We will employees and also allows the Group are particularly proud of the diversity that also work towards including other kinds of to further develop its internal talent pool.
we have worked very hard to promote.
flexible working arrangements to help our In 2007, we exceeded our International Our employees represent over 100 different employees enjoy a healthy and manageable Graduate intake targets and hired more nationalities and we have maintained an work-life balance.
business school graduates as Management approximately equal gender balance The Group has been researching the root Associates.
We place a strong emphasis on across the Group.
causes of attrition and the drivers of retention these diverse individuals as they are a key In 2007, we focused on increasing the in some of our core markets.
Our integrated part of our leadership pipeline.
proportion of women at senior levels.
To approach offers a more proactive strategy date, the shift has been particularly strong in Alongside attracting talented individuals, towards attrition and was launched in India, Asia, where 45 per cent and 31 per cent of we continue to focus on creating the right China and the UAE in 2007.
Training academies to nurture talent Bringing in the best to Standard Chartered We believe in the continuous training and Over 330 International Graduates joined the development of our people, so we are investing Bank in 2007, representing 34 nationalities.
in training academies in India, China and Of the new recruits, 42 per cent are women.
We want to become the employer of We also recruited 57 Management Associates choice by providing outstanding talent training.
from business schools during the year.
26 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp026-029 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 14:58 Page 27 Leading the way through our talented and diverse teams Making Standard Chartered a great place to work 23001 pp026-029 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 15:01 Page 28 Leading the way Leading the way through our talented and diverse teams Bringing Building our emerging women A great place management leaders together to work skills In 2007, we organised the Global As part of our efforts to retain talented The Great Manager Programme is Womens Forum in Dubai, bringing staff we continued to provide an our scalable approach to building together over 100 emerging women inclusive environment for our people.
We delivered leaders from across 37 countries.
In 2007, a new working framework this programme to 5,500 people The Forum focused on gender that includes working flexible hours managers.
Almost 90 per cent of diversity with regard to customers, and part-time working was piloted the managers surveyed have made community and workplace.
During in Ghana, Singapore, the United changes or intend to change the the year, we focused on increasing Kingdom and the United States.
way they manage and engage their the proportion of women in senior We also launched the work@home teams as a result of the programme.
To date, the shift has been programme at our Global Shared The programme was conducted particularly strong in Asia, especially Services Centre in Chennai, India.
through numerous communications, among the senior management in We also implemented a five-day an intranet site and a number China and Hong Kong.
Women in senior Working week launched Managers participating in the management across Asia Great Manager Programme 20 5-day week 5,500 For more information visit: www.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 15:02 Page 29 Business Review: People continued Engagement Performance This site has received about 106,000 visits, Standard Chartereds brand promise, The Groups approach towards rewarding 52 per cent of which were return visits.
Leading by Example to be The Right employees is closely aligned to performance.
We have significantly increased our Partner, means living the Groups core We launched a new on-line performance focus on executive development and values.
Our five values Creative, and compensation management system had one-and-a-half times as many leaders Responsive, International, Courageous which will help us meet the challenges attending internal core programmes in and Trustworthy form the basis of how around decision making as we grow and 2007, as compared with 2006.
In particular, we keep our employees engaged with our help reinforce the links between performance 250 of our existing leaders undertook a strategic business objectives.
The values decisions and reward allocations.
tailored leadership development process are the heart and soul of the brand and are focused on building the capabilities of our what makes Standard Chartered a great The invitation for the Groups 2007 leaders in key growth markets.
place to work, setting us apart from our Sharesave scheme closed with a record competitors and powering our success.
17,500 applications, a 40 per cent increase Identifying and developing our future leaders on 2006.
Approximately 40 per cent of the remained firmly on the Groups agenda in 2007 marks the seventh year we have eligible staff now participate in the scheme.
The percentage of high performing, measured employee engagement across This supports our goal of encouraging high potential junior and middle management the Group.
Despite adding more than wider share ownership across the Group.
employees rose by 26 per cent and 37 10,000 employees last year, we achieved a per cent respectively.
95 per cent voluntary response rate to our Talent management and development annual Q12 engagement survey and the Standard Chartereds strengths-based We now have in place executive succession philosophy is one of the cornerstones of plans for over 220 critical leadership roles, Groups overall engagement score rose for our approach to talent management.
By including focused development plans the seventh consecutive year.
identifying and leveraging an employees for those identified as successors.
This We believe that employee engagement talents into strengths, and then creating the succession pool represents 41 nationalities is strongly linked to having great people environment in which these strengths can across all markets at the middle managers.
Our Great Manager Programme flourish, we enable our employees to do management level, indicating its diversity.
was launched in 2007 and 5,500 people what they do best, every day.
2007 was a year of tremendous expansion managers across the Group have One way Standard Chartered helps for the Group and we have been hugely participated so far.
The programme is a individuals identify their strengths is through successful in supporting this growth, scalable approach to building management the use of an on-line self-assessment system.
in terms of attracting, engaging and skills and is delivered to support the They are then supported by in-house developing talent.
The progress made in Groups people management calendar.
experts who develop action plans to 2007 has put us in an even better position The programme was conducted through improve their effectiveness.
To date over to nurture further growth and success numerous communications, an intranet site 7,000 employees have participated in this in 2008. and podcasts.
Almost 90 per cent of the process with the assistance of almost managers surveyed indicated that they 240 strengths coaches.
have made or intend to make changes to Overall, more than 16,000 learner days the way they manage and engage their of classroom induction were completed teams as a result of this programme.
In addition, the launch of Almost 76 per cent of managers now Learning@SCB brought together the have a goal around people management Groups various on-line learning tools and included in their performance objectives.
programmes under a single web location.
Facilitating language capabilities Group Womens Council We broadened our communication The Group Womens Council was formed in capabilities by launching a centralised January 2007 to drive the gender diversity service for translation into Korean, strategy.
The 10-member Council represents Chinese, Thai and Bahasa Indonesia our businesses and geographic footprint.
to reach out to a larger number of employees.
