BUSINESSREVIEW THE DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY HAVE PLEASURE IN PRESENTING TO THE SHAREHOLDERS THEIR BUSINESS REVIEW FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2007.
To the extent that any parts of this Business Review NATUREOFTHEBUSINESS provide forward-looking information on the Company, The Company was established on 18 May 1989 as an Shareholders should be aware that it is difficult to make investment trust whose principal objective is to provide any assumptions on future performance based on this long-term capital appreciation for its investors through information, particularly as the Company invests in investment in companies operating in emerging markets emerging markets.
or whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
The Board views long-term for emerging Further information on the performance of the Company markets to be at least five years.
The Board has is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML 5 and in the Managers Report and Portfolio Review on as the Investment Manager of the Company to carry out pages 20 to 24. day-to-day investment management services for the Company.
The Investment Manager reviews the portfolio allocation and performance with the Board at each quarterly Board Meeting.
The Company is listed on both the UK and New Zealand Stock Exchange: however the majority of its Shareholders are based in the UK.
TEMIT is the largest emerging markets investment trusts in the UK with a market capitalisation of 1,754 million as at 30 April 2007.
The top five markets invested in are Brazil, China, South Korea, Russia and Turkey.
Mark Mobius works with some of his senior analysts 1,754m    asat30April2007.
10 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC INVESTMENTPROCESS Management Company The Board has appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML as Investment Manager of the Company.
TAML has over 20 years of investment experience in emerging markets and approximately US$34 billion in assets under management.
TAML is part of the Franklin Templeton Group which has $601.1 billion in assets under management as of 30 April 2007.
TAML currently has 56 employees, consisting of 34 portfolio managers analysts from 20 nationalities who between them speak 19 different languages.
They are located in 13 offices: Moscow Russia : Warsaw Poland : Vienna Austria : Dubai United Arab Emirates : Istanbul Turkey : Johannesburg South Africa : Hong Kong China : Singapore, Shanghai China : Seoul South Korea : Mumbai India : Rio fide Janeiro Brazil : and Buenos Aires Argentina.
TAMLs Managing Director is Mark Mobius who has spent over thirty years working in Asia and other emerging markets.
TAMLs Emerging Markets Team receives support from the employees of Franklin Resources Inc. its ultimate parent company and its subsidiaries.
Investment Style The Investment Manager employs a bottom-up, value oriented, long-term approach to investing.
It focuses on the market price of a companys securities relative to the Investment Managers evaluation of the companys longterm earnings, asset value and cash flow potential.
As it looks for investment, it focuses on specific companies and undertakes in-depth research to construct an action list from which it makes its buy decisions.
Before a purchase is made, it looks at the companys potential earnings and growth over a five-year horizon.
During its analysis, it also considers the companys position in its sector, the economic framework and political environment.
The portfolio will frequently be over-weight or underweight against the indices.
This is consistent with its investment approach of long-term value investing.
The TAMLs Emerging Markets Team Investment Manager evaluates investment opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily basis, and adjusts the portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are assessed to be best bargains in global emerging markets.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 BUSINESSREVIEW CONTINUED The Investment Manager searches for well-managed specialists.
Before investing in any company, the financial companies assessed as under valued, especially those that details of that company are subject to a rigorous review.
On the other hand, The analysts also visit the company to conduct an on-site the Investment Manager sells companies that, in its tour enabling them to interview management, assess opinion, are over valued, typically when the earnings quality of products or services, analyse customers and prospects or underlying net asset values are fully ascertain whether the company has any distinct recognised by other investors.
The Investment Managers investment research and The Companys top ten holdings as at 30 April 2007 are portfolio construction processes may be summarised in disclosed on page 31. five steps: 1 Identify Opportunities A master list is compiled which is screened for securities that meet certain Investment Outlook market capitalisation and liquidity criteria as Emerging markets continue to report strong determined by the Investment Manager: macroeconomic growth and are implementing structural reforms.
Taking a long-term view, emerging markets 2 Analyse Companies A detailed analysis of the continue to offer investors an attractive investment stocks industry and financial accounts is undertaken destination.
The role of emerging markets in the global along with a visit to the company to interview economy has grown significantly in recent years.
These management, assess its quality of product or services, countries have made fundamental improvements to their analyse customers and competitors and ascertain economies.
These developments mean that emerging competitive advantage: markets investments contain good opportunities.
In 3 Construct Action List Each stock on this list has addition to the traditional emerging markets, the larger a specified buy and sell target.
This selection list is a frontier markets, such as Slovenia, Romania and the dynamic list that is monitored continually: Ukraine, are also beginning to look interesting although no one can predict the market direction and a bear 4 Allocate Portfolio On a weekly basis, the portfolio market could start at any time.
However, the good news is reviewed for consistency and to ensure that it is that bear markets have been shorter in duration than complies with investment committee guidelines: and bull markets and bear markets have gone down a smaller 5 Evaluate and Monitor Portfolio Once the portfolio percentage than bull markets increase.
In general, the has been constructed, each investment within the strong fundamental outlook for emerging markets portfolio is reviewed against price targets set for the remains intact and we expect long-term investors securities.
These targets are continually updated, with to be well rewarded.
comparisons made with the sector that the security The Manager continues to emphasize four major themes operates in.
Contact is also maintained with the in our investments the four Cs.
These are: company and its suppliers and staff.
Consumer, Commodities: Convergence: and Corporate As a result of detailed research and investigation, TAML Governance.
Sectors that are geared towards direct has created a master list of securities.
Compiled by the consumption will continue to benefit from the higher emerging markets team over the past nine years, this list disposable income per capita in emerging markets.
With is a proprietary database of over 17,000 emerging market commodity prices at relatively high levels, there will be companies and forms the basis of the decision as to many opportunities for good profits for companies whether to invest in these companies.
The fact that supplying them.
Convergence between Asia and China TAMLs country and sector analysts are based in many of will continue to provide good opportunities for the emerging market countries in which the Company companies.
Finally, Corporate Governance is very directly invests, should offer distinct competitive important in investing.
We want to invest in companies advantage.
This creates both country and sector that treat investors fairly.
12 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC S&P IFCI Composite Index  The S&P IFCI indices are designed to measure the type The Investment Manager employs a value investing of returns foreign portfolio investors might receive from strategy and purchases stocks trading at less than their investing in emerging market stocks that are legally and assessed value.
The TEMIT portfolio may therefore differ practically available to them.
Constituents for the S&P significantly from the benchmark indicies.
IFCI series are drawn from the S&P IFCG stock universe The following are considered to be key performance based on size, liquidity, and their legal and practical indicators for the Company: availability to foreign institutional investor.
The S&P Emerging Market Indices are calculated daily MSCI Emerging Markets Index using data received from correspondents in local markets The MSCI Emerging Markets Index MSCI Index and are widely recognized as one of the most is a free float-adjusted market capitalisation index that is comprehensive and reliable measures of the worlds designed to measure equity market performance in the emerging markets.
The indices and their underlying global emerging markets.
As of May 2007 the MSCI database, which Standard & Poors acquired from Index consisted of the following 26 emerging market International Finance Corporation IFC in 2000, have country indices: Argentina: Brazil: Chile: China: been maintained since 1975.
As a result, the indices Colombia: Czech Republic: Egypt: Hungary: India: contain a very comprehensive history for the Companys Indonesia: Israel: Jordan: Korea: Malaysia: Mexico: benchmarking purpose TEMIT underperformed the S&P Morocco: Pakistan: Peru: Philippines: Poland: Russia: IFCI Index 4.22% vs. 8.95% during the year.
Since South Africa: Taiwan: Thailand: Turkey and Venezuela.
inception, the net asset value of TEMIT has risen by The objective of MSCI, with respect to its Equity Index 1,071.4%, compared with a rise of 609.6% for the S&P Series, is to construct global benchmark indices that IFCI Index in the same period.
contribute to the investment process by serving as The performance attribution is explained in more detail relevant and accurate performance benchmarks and in the Managers Report on page 20. effective research tools, and as the basis for various Shown below is TEMITs NAV movement in comparison investment vehicles.
Price indices measure market price to its benchmarks.
performance only, and are calculated at least on a daily basis.
Each index measures the sum of the market capitalisation weighted returns of all its constituents TOTALRETURN on a given day.
In constructing these indices, MSCI consistently applies its equity index construction and maintenance methodology across regions and developed and emerging markets.
This consistency of approach makes it possible to aggregate individual country and industry indices to create meaningful regional and composite benchmark indices.
This has resulted in it becoming a wellrecognised industry benchmark, which is widely used by the institutional investor.
TEMIT underperformed the MSCI Index 4.22% vs. 7.46% during the year.
Since inception, the net asset value of TEMIT has risen by 1,071.4%, compared with a rise of 611.3% for the MSCI Index.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 BUSINESSREVIEW CONTINUED Share Price Discount For the year to 30 April 2007, global emerging markets have continued to perform strongly.
During this time period, the Companys NAV gained 3.18%.
The Companys share price gained 5.48% over the 12 months, which reflected a narrowing of discount over the year.
The discount has narrowed from 10.9% at 30 April 2006 to 8.9% at 30 April 2007.
Shown below is the Companys share price discount over the past five years.
 The Companys share price gained 5.48% over the 12 months.
14 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC  The historic performance of TEMIT and the markets in which it invests can provide no guarantee of future performance.
Although the number and spread of investments in TEMITs portfolio is intended to reduce the degree of risk, investors should be aware of the risk associated with TEMITs investment objectives.
Many of the companies in which TEMIT does or may invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests may affect its income and the value and marketability of its investments.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of its investments and the income derived therefrom, and investors in emerging markets can face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, companies in emerging markets are not always subject to accounting, auditing and financial standards which are equivalent to those applicable in the United Kingdom and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 would result in the and there may also be less government supervision and Company being subject to capital gains tax on portfolio regulation.
These risks can increase the potential for investments.
Breaches of other regulations such as the losses in Company and affect its share price.
For these ULKA Listing Rules, could lead to a number of reasons, a long-term approach to investing in emerging detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Directors have adopted have a robust framework of In addition, the Company may invest a greater portion controls which is designed to monitor the principal risks of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities facing the Company, and to provide a monitoring system domiciled in a particular country, or securities within to enable the Directors to mitigate these risks as one industry group than other types of fund far as possible.
As a result, it may be more sensitive to economic, business, political or other changes affecting The information in this report reflects analysis, opinions similar issues or securities, which may result in greater and portfolio holdings as of 30 April 2007, the end of fluctuation in the value of the portfolio.
The way the Investment Manager implements TEMITs main investment strategies and the It is important to recognise the effect of currency resulting portfolio holdings may change depending on movements on TEMITs performance.
In general, if the factors such as market and economic conditions.
value of sterling increases compared with a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign currency These opinions may not be relied on as investment will decrease in value because it will be worth fewer UK advice or an offer for potential security.
This can have a negative effect on fund is not a complete analysis of every aspect of any market, performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling country, industry, security or the Company.
Statements weakens in relation to a foreign currency investment of fact are from sources considered reliable but the traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, Company and the Investment Manager make no which can contribute to an improvement in the representation or warranty as to their completeness Companys performance.
It is also worth noting that the Company operates in a Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject complex regulatory environment and faces a number of to is also detailed in Note 17 of the Notes to the regulatory risks.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income Financial Statements.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 BUSINESSREVIEW CONTINUED 1,925m Asat30April2007,  were1,925million,  at30April2006.
Cash Flows  As at 30 April 2007, the Company held 25.9 million Financial Results in cash, representing 1.3% of total net assets.
It is the As at 30 April 2007, the net assets of the Company were general policy of the Board to be fully invested.
For the 1,925 million, compared with 1,866 million at 30 period to 30 April 2007, the Company had the following April 2006, an increase of 3.18%.
The majority of this significant cash inflows and outflows: increase can be attributed to market appreciation of securities held during the year.
The following points Payment of annual dividend totalling 14.8 million: should also be noted: Purchases of securities for the period were Investment income has increased by 8.4% over the 361 million: same period last year as a result of the income being Sales of securities for the period were 365 million.
earned on an increased portfolio.
The Total Expense Ratio has fallen from 1.41% at 30 April 2006 to 1.32% at 30 April 2007.
This is due, in part, to an increase in the size of the Company, and also due to the reduction in administration fees from 0.25% to 0.20% effective January 2006, and a reduction in custody charges negotiated with JP Morgan during the year.
Sales of investments during the period crystallised realised net gains of 143.9 million.
Invested portfolio funds at 30 April 2007 had a value of 1,900 million against a cost of 960 million.
The Company has not geared its portfolio.
16 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
