Business Review The review which follows is designed to provide potential investors shareholders with information about your Companys must have easy business and results in 2007.
All of the matters access to the historically dealt with in the Chief Executives Report are Trusts equity.
He got the hi-, she got the record.
now included in this review which covers the following: Central to the Objectives and strategy provision of Management arrangements liquidity is the The Witan benchmark proactive Portfolio review management of Manager review process Witans discount Buy-back policy in terms of level and volatility.
Your Company buys Witan Investment Services back its own shares when they stand at a substantial Principal risks discount.
This both provides liquidity and enhances the Key performance indicators net asset value of the Trust.
In addition, Witan Your Boards priorities for 2008 implements an ongoing marketing programme Outlook designed to stimulate demand for and encourage new investment into the Trusts shares.
This programme Witans Objectives and Strategy reaches out to both the private and professional Witans objective is to be the first choice for wealth investor.
From an investment perspective, this means that Witan will seek In everything Witans aim is to provide the best to outperform global stockmarkets consistently, adding possible return to shareholders.
With this in mind, your value in the long term for its investors.
In addition Board applies strict controls to costs and only Witan must encourage new investors to buy the Trusts undertakes expenditure where necessary.
shares in order to provide ongoing liquidity for shareholders.
These are two clear and simple strategic Management Arrangements aims and the Witan approach to each is described The management of Witans assets is almost entirely below.
The Company maintains a small executive team of five full-time employees, Witan aims to outperform by using a multi-manager including the Chief Executive, to manage and control best of breed investment structure.
Your Board aims to these outsourced relationships, to run Witan control risk in line with investor expectation, but will Investment Services and to advise the Board on be prepared to enhance performance by employing investment and business strategy.
innovative investment techniques and diverse asset classes if and when these are appropriate.
As an In addition, in December 2006, the Board chose Mellon investment trust, Witan can borrow in order to improve Capital Management Corporation, one of the worlds performance in rising markets.
Furthermore Witan is leading currency managers, to manage an active committed to growing its dividend at least in line with currency portfolio.
This has been achieved by investing the rate of ination.
in a UBS loan note, the returns from which will mirror Mellons currency performance after fees.
Currency risk Your Board places great importance on the need to is inherent in your Companys portfolio as a result of its provide constant liquidity in Witans shares to the international investments.
However, by teaming up market place.
Shareholders must be allowed to sell at a with Mellon, Witan are looking to exploit this risk to price that reects prevailing market value while enhance returns.
7 Business Review continued The table below shows the current equity investment management arrangements: INVESTMENT BENCHMARK INVESTMENT EQUITY MANDATE MANAGER TOTAL RETURN STYLE UK mainstream equities Henderson Global Investors FTSE 350 ex investment Enhanced index companies UK smaller companies Henderson Global Investors Hoare Govett Smaller Growth at an attractive Companies ex investment price companies Global Southeastern Asset Management FTSE All-World Quality at a discounted valuation Global MFS International FTSE All-World Growth at an attractive price Global Thomas White International FTSE All-World Fundamental valuation techniques Continental Europe Wellington Management Company FTSE World Europe ex UK Fundamental research North America Henderson Global Investors FTSE World North America Enhanced index Japan Brandes Investment Partners FTSE Japan Value Far East Comgest FTSE All-World Asia ex Fundamental Japan Australia New Zealand research Australasia Orbis Investment Management FTSE Australia Value During the year the Board made some changes to the multi-manager unit trust.
This, in turn, has allowed investment manager line-up.
Following a formal review, Witan to continue paying rising dividends.
APS were removed and replaced by a combination of Comgest and Orbis.
In addition, Thomas White a third The Witan Benchmark global manager was appointed.
Their portfolio was Your Companys benchmark is a quantitative funded by a reduction in the size of, primarily, the UK representation of what shareholders can expect in the mainstream and North America portfolios.
long term from an investment in Witan both in terms of the underlying investment structure of the portfolio and Your Company has also appointed third parties for the performance.
It enables the aims of your Company to be various supporting services it requires.
The most encapsulated succinctly without the need for a detailed important of these are BNP Paribas Securities Services description.
It is an equity benchmark, although your SA for global custody, BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Board reserves the right to invest in other assets if it Limited for investment accounting and deems it to be appropriate, for better performance or administration, Henderson Global Investors for capital preservation.
Similarly, the benchmark does not company secretarial services and Equiniti Limited as drive either portfolio distribution or mandate allocation, Witan Wealthbuilder plan administrator.
From time to as can be seen from the table above showing the time, and as required, Witan also buys in services for investment management arrangements, but it does legal, compliance, investment consulting, financial provide a marker for the long term performance of the and tax advice.
Over shorter periods, performance can be expected to vary, sometimes considerably, from that of Although multi-manager arrangements can prove the benchmark.
expensive, Witans careful cost control has resulted in a total expense ratio of 0.53%, one of the lowest in the From 1 October 2007 the Companys benchmark investment trust industry and much lower than any changed from 50% FTSE All-Share Index: 50% FTSE 8 World ex UK Index to 40% FTSE All-Share Index: Witans net asset 20% FTSE All-World North America Index: 20% FTSE value rose by 5.5% All-World Europe ex UK Index: 20% FTSE All-World over the year, Asia Pacic Index.
This change recognises that the 0.2% ahead of the world economy in GDP terms is increasingly split into benchmark.
three trading areas: the Americas, Europe, and Asia Positive Pacic and, within these regions, a large proportion of contributions to trade ows are internal.
The Board feels an equal this came from weighting of all three areas in the Trusts benchmark buying back shares gives a fairer representation of the Companys at a discount to proposition to its investors and ultimately will offer a net asset value, the Boards gearing policy, and the truer gauge of its long term performance.
The new overweight allocation to Europe and Asia outside benchmark allocates a greater weighting to the Asia Japan in the first nine months of the year.
As noted Pacic region, an area which your Board expects to above, the Board amended the Trusts benchmark from outperform in the long term.
October, raising the weighting in both of these regions.
This made the benchmark much harder to beat in the Portfolio Review final quarter of the year.
Hendersons UK smaller 2007 was another good year for equity investors, albeit companies and North America teams, Brandes and the one of rising volatility particularly in the second half of new managers, Thomas White, Comgest and Orbis in the year.
Over the year world markets, as measured by the final quarter, all contributed positively towards the FTSE World ex UK Index in sterling terms, returned performance.
The overweighting of Japan and the 9.7%.
The star performers were the Emerging Markets, underperformance of Wellington, Southeastern, MFS, particularly Brazil and India, which returned in excess of Mellon, our currency manager, and APS in the first half 70%.
The worst performing markets were Ireland of the year detracted from the relative return.
The UK equity market, as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index, returned 5.3%.
The geographical breakdown of the portfolio is laid out on page 18.
This reects the strategic asset allocation of Currencies had much less of an impact on returns than the Board, coupled with the stock selection of our in 2006, although the major currencies were just as three global managers who seek to nd the most volatile.
The strength of the Euro was the main feature, attractive stocks they can irrespective of geography.
enhancing returns from Europe ex UK to the sterling Page 18 also shows the breakdown of the portfolio by investor by 8.3% to 15.7%.
industrial sector and page 19 lists the fty largest equity holdings in the portfolio.
These holdings Over the last five years equity markets have performed represent almost 40% of the portfolio by value and will exceptionally well with the UK returning 15.4% per be the main drivers of Witans performance going annum and the rest of the world 13.5%.
Whilst, as a result of the Companys chosen an above average rate of progress albeit from a low management structure, this list inevitably includes starting point.
What has been remarkable throughout many of the UKs largest companies, holdings such as this period, until the last few months, has been the lack Liberty Media, Philips Electronics, Fairfax Financial and of volatility in markets.
That, at least, appears to be Japan Petroleum Exploration underline the global and changing as the sub-prime crisis, and its after-effects, stock specic nature of Witans portfolio, as do the have increased investors sensitivity to risk.
tables overleaf which show Witans largest stock positions relative to its benchmark.
A full list of Witans shareholders also saw good returns with a total Witans holdings can be found on the website return from holding the shares during the year of 7.5%.
9 Business Review continued Top 10 Overweight Positions at 31 December 2007 Portfolio Weighting Name Sector minus Benchmark Weighting DirecTV Consumer Services 1.21 UBS Financials 1.17 Dell Technology 1.15 Nipponkoa Financials 1.03 Walt Disney Consumer Services 0.90 Fairfax Financial Financials 0.89 Japan Petroleum Exploration Oil & Gas 0.84 Philips Electronics Consumer Goods 0.79 KDDI Telecoms 0.73 Cemex Industrials 0.72 Top 10 Underweight Positions at 31 December 2007 Portfolio Weighting Name Sector minus Benchmark Weighting BP Oil & Gas -0.47 HSBC Financials -0.46 Telefonica Telecoms -0.40 Vodafone Telecoms -0.40 Banco Santander Financials -0.35 Gazprom Oil & Gas -0.35 General Electric Industrials -0.34 Exxon Mobil Oil & Gas -0.33 Microsoft Technology -0.30 Nokia Technology -0.29 Source of both tables: Style Research.
Below is a more detailed review of the portfolio by anticipate an economic slowdown.
This bad news was strategic segment.
partially offset by being overweight larger companies relative to smaller ones.
When risk aversion increased in UK markets, large capitalisation stocks started to The UK portfolio is managed in two parts: the UK outperform.
During the year holdings in Compass mainstream portfolio is managed by the Henderson UK Catering, Aggreko which rents out large power enhanced index team and provides Witan with a generators among other things, First Group and Arriva relatively low risk exposure to the UKs largest bus and rail companies all added to performance as did companies: the UK smaller companies portfolio is takeovers for Hanson Building Materials and ICI.
actively managed by the Henderson smaller companies team.
This combination gives Witan a strategically After four consecutive years of strong upward progress, overweight position in smaller companies, an area 2007 proved to be a difficult period for UK smaller which tends to outperform in the long term.
The Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index ex investment companies gave a negative return of The UK mainstream portfolio was marginally behind its 8.3%, compared to a positive return of 5.3% for the benchmark in 2007 see table on page 14.
This was FTSE All-Share Index.
Although the year started brightly, disappointing because over the first three quarters of the the US sub-prime crisis and the consequent credit year performance was positive.
The underperformance crunch had severe negative consequences for smaller in the final quarter was not a direct result of the credit companies.
Investors became increasingly cautious on crisis but arose from its secondary effects.
Henderson the prospect for global economies and corporate was attracted into cyclical stocks because of their cheap earnings growth.
In this environment there was an valuations and continued good profitability.
This was unsurprising ight to relative liquidity and the safety of too early a move as the stock market started to large companies as noted above.
10 The Witan smaller companies portfolio fell 5.0% on a deviate from total return basis, outperforming its benchmark by indices for long 3.6%.
The portfolio had a number of strong winners periods of time.
It including W S Atkins, the consulting engineer, is only in the long Wellstream, a manufacturer of exible pipes for the term that their offshore oil industry, International Ferro Metals, a performance can producer of ferro-chrome for the stainless steel market, be judged and by and Laird Group, the electronics group.
The common that measure all feature of these winners was their ability to exceed have superb market earnings expectations over the year through records.
The portfolio also benefited from a number of take-overs including Gyrus, Southeasterns performance in 2007 at 6.4% was below a medical equipment manufacturer, Inspicio, an par, both in terms of how they measure themselves inspections and testing business, Sondex, an oil services ination plus 10% and our benchmark of the FTSE company, and Umbro, the sportswear group.
They say: It is important to differentiate between the portfolios short On balance, Henderson remain cautiously optimistic.
term stock price performance and the value of the They say: Much depends on whether the authorities, businesses in the portfolio.
The volatility in markets in through monetary easing, can stop the negative the second half of 2007 provided Southeastern with sentiment and the lack of banking liquidity from plenty of opportunities.
During the year they sold five becoming a self-fullling recession.
We remain hopeful holdings whose share prices approached their appraisal that the worst fears will not arise and believe that value: Comcast, Discovery Holdings, Nikko Cordial, a valuations are compelling in most circumstances.
Japanese stockbroker, Olympus and Spirit, a telecom Pockets of value are also starting to appear in smaller company: and purchased five new securities: eBay, companies even though corporate profitability will be Japan Petroleum Exploration, Limited Brands, an under pressure in 2008.
American retailer, Nikko Cordial and UBS, which was purchased after UBS had disclosed an exposure to the Global credit crisis.
This represents an unusually high level of We have three global managers: Southeastern, MFS and turnover for Southeastern who typically own only Thomas White, who were appointed in September seventeen to twenty stocks in their portfolio.
At the end of 2007 they had 190.2 million, Southeastern comment: Some may wonder how we 131.2 million and 127.9 million, respectively, under can be buying companies enthusiastically when so management for Witan.
Southeastern might be loosely much uncertainty exists.
While we may appear stupid described as a value manager, although they will in the short run, our long term horizon and that of our invest in growth companies, for example eBay, clients gives us the luxury to act based on how business provided they understand the business dynamics and will look several years from now, not based on whether the price can be justied by their exacting valuation fear will grip markets next quarter.
In the businesses we criteria.
MFS is classied as a growth manager but will are buying, we believe short term fears are more than only invest in growth at the right price.
Thomas White reected in the stock prices.
They apply the appraisal technique that they believe is most appropriate to that individual MFS underperformed the FTSE All-World Index in the company, industry sector, or country.
This body of twelve months to the end of 2007 by 1.5%.
Performance valuation knowledge has been rened over decades.
suffered from being underweight in the energy sector They then invest in the most attractive companies which appreciated signicantly in 2007, helped by arising from this process.
All of these managers are record high oil prices.
Investments in Harley Davidson, stock pickers and, as a result, will see their performance which suffered from the challenging consumer 11 Business Review continued environment in the US, Bridgestone, the Japanese tyre the year your Companys direct holdings were swapped manufacturer, and Canon also detracted from for a holding in the Henderson North America OEIC performance.
On the positive side, being underweight in which pursues an identical policy.
This was done at no financial services and investments in relatively defensive effective cost to the Trust and Hendersons remuneration companies, such as Nestl, Reckitt Benckiser, the remains unchanged.
The portfolios exposure to household cleaning products company, and E. ON, companies that benefited from increased global Germanys largest utility, all benefited performance.
infrastructure spending was a significant positive, as were holdings in Crocs, a maker of fashionable shoes, MFS say: We remain focused on high-quality companies Equity Ofce Properties and Cablevision.
On the other with sustainable above average growth and returns, hand, for most of the year being overweight large whose prospects are not reected in their valuation.
The companies relative to small held back performance.
stocks which satisfy our investment criteria continue to Henderson comment: Looking forward, the uncertain be concentrated in the less cyclical areas of the market, investment landscape we face for 2008 offers us plenty with above-average returns and below-average debt levels.
of opportunity to continue the positive momentum of 2007.
In many ways, such an environment is ideal for Thomas White, in their first quarter of management for our approach with abundant mispricings and market Witan, outperformed the benchmark by 2.6%.
inefficiencies, so we are confident that we can continue Performance in the fourth quarter of 2007 was led by to add value to the portfolio in the future.
companies based in Canada, Latin America, and the Pacic Rim.
These regions were heavily inuenced by Europe ex UK their commodity and energy-related companies.
In 2007 the Witan Europe ex UK portfolio Petrobras Brazil, 53.2% Potash Corp. Canada, 40.7% underperformed its benchmark by 7.7%.
This continued and Rio Tinto Ltd Australia, 25.8% were the top the trend seen since Wellingtons appointment.
As a performers in the portfolio.
Other top gainers included result, during the year the Board undertook a formal the Deutsche Brse Germany, 49.4%, Monsanto US, review of Wellington which resulted in the manager 34.2% and MTR Corporation Hong Kong, 27.3%.
In recent years, according to Wellington, European markets have been trendOn the outlook for 2008 Thomas White comments: In following with in-favour areas outperforming while early January 2008, global market declines have been other areas were dismissed.
This, they say, has been fostered by fear and uncertainty stemming from the working against the relative performance of the credit crisis.
This crisis has extended its reach to all portfolio as the relative price of stocks did not always corners of the globe.
We believe volatility will remain in follow the relative earnings of the companies, leading to the short run as the results of these credit issues are anomalous valuations.
In contrast to the market, absorbed by the markets.
A major positive for the Wellington have been nding more opportunities in markets is that equity valuations begin from reasonable those areas that have been less popular.
They believe the levels, with price earnings ratios near 30 year lows.
new, less certain, economic environment could lead to a Positives in 2008 will include capital goods demand change in the markets focus.
Recent evidence of a from emerging market countries and strength in exports change comes, on the one hand, from the resurrection encouraged by a weak dollar.
US consumer spending will in telecoms, an area that was once shunned by the continue to be negatively impacted by tightening market and where Wellington were buying, and, on the credit.
other hand, from recent falls in industrials, an area that was loved by the market but where they found few North America opportunities.
The portfolio benefited during the year The North America portion of the portfolio from being underweight in energy.
On the other hand, outperformed its benchmark by 1.1% in 2007.
During the holding in UBS suffered from fallout of the US sub- 12 prime crisis and BMW underperformed as new models Financial and failed to excite.
We have also found Looking to 2008, Wellington say: Among more value in cyclically-exposed companies, we have to be aware of companies in the the greater risk to earnings from possible US and UK construction and recessions.
Our preference for those stocks where engineering valuations and expectations are already low should industry, where nally stand us in good stead here.
In nancials, for purchases example, while banks are facing liquidity issues, included Obayashi slowing growth, fide-leveraging and forced capital Corporation and Okumura Corporation.
We raisings, the insurance sector has already seen this story acknowledge that it can be difficult to assess the exact played through during the post-bubble decline of 2000- impact of adverse economic events.
Fortunately, our 2003, and is now in a much better balance sheet and fundamental bottom-up investment process does not sustainable earnings position, yet relative performance revolve around making bold forecasts or exact has barely differed thus far.
This to us is an opportunity, prognostications.
as it is with other stocks where expectations remain low such as BMW, Peugeot, Safran the French Asia Pacic excluding Japan aeronautical and technology company, TNT the As was reported at the interim stage, APS, whose Dutch parcel delivery and courier company, Rhodia a performance continued to disappoint -4.5% relative for French chemical company and Inneon a German the first six months of 2007 were replaced by a technology company.
combination of Comgest for Asia ex Japan and Australasia and Orbis for Australasia.
Japan The Japanese equity market portfolio, managed by For the five months since end July 2007, Comgest Brandes, outperformed its benchmark by 1.5%.
The outperformed their benchmark by 0.7%.
This was portfolio benefited most from advancing share prices primarily due to particularly good performance during among holdings in the electronic equipment and the sharp correction in Asian markets at the end of the instruments industry.
Within this industry, positions year.
Comgest, whilst expecting Asian markets to such as Hitachi and TDK Corporation were among the remain volatile this year, remain confident that the top performers.
On the other hand, falls among companies in their portfolios which tend to benefit holdings in consumer finance and in commercial from barriers to entry such as trademarks, patents, banking industries weighed on the overall results, innovative products or know-how, will continue to particularly Promise Company and ACOM Co prosper.
They remain overweight in large capitalisation consumer finance, and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial growth stocks and service companies linked to the Group and Mizuho Financial Group commercial energy and raw material industries.
Orbis also outperformed their benchmark in the first Brandes are taking advantage of the current market five months since their appointment by 4.1%, again volatility to purchase companies in industries such as primarily due to very good performance at the end of commercial banking and diversied financial services.
This was partially due to having little exposure We have found that, in difficult times, stock prices to heavily geared property and infrastructure funds tend to exaggerate the prevailing uncertainty.
Orbis remain cautious about Opportunities are created where individual stock prices the general level of company earnings and are therefore fall below a rational assessment of the business worth.
focusing on those sectors and shares where profits are Examples of these new buys include Sumitomo Mitsui sustainable and margins are not high relative to history.
13 Business Review continued Currency Manager Our approach has been tested by the Asian currency During 2007 the investment linked to the Mellon crisis, the dot-com boom and bust, 11 September, and Currency Fund fell by 20.1%.
This is equivalent to more.
We have historically taken positions ahead of underperforming its benchmark on a 350 million anticipated changes in the market, which has currency portfolio by 2.7% a disappointing result, sometimes caused disappointing short term although one which was within the range of expected performance before valuations correct.
Mellons performance was hurt by being strategy has consistently delivered attractive returns to underweight the Norwegian krone and Australian patient investors.
It has been said that the four most dollar, two currencies which it continues to regards as dangerous words in investing are its different this being very overvalued.
We believe it is not different this time and partially offset by overweight positions in the New investors in our strategy will continue to be well Zealand dollar and UK pound.
Mellon comment: We rewarded over three to five year time frames.
have been asked if global changes, such as the mortgage-related liquidity crisis and the rise of Manager Review Process emerging markets, could be negatively impacting our During 2007, as in previous years, the Board reviewed strategy.
We believe that although the world is both Witans benchmark and the investment constantly changing, investment fundamentals and our management structure to ensure that they were still relative value mean reversion methodology is timeless.
appropriate for your Companys objectives.
This was not Performance for the year ended 31 December 2007 and from inception to 31 December 2007 Investment Manager Value of % of Witans Performance Benchmark Performance Benchmark Funds under Assets under in the period Performance in the period Performance Management Management 31.12.06 to 31.12.06 to since inception since inception m at 31.12.07 at 31.12.07 31.12.07 % 31.12.07 % to 31.12.07 % to 31.12.07 % annualised annualised A A Henderson Global Investors UK mainstream 403.7 31.5 5.6 5.8 15.7 15.6 A A Henderson Global Investors UK smaller 56.1 4.4 -5.0 -8.3 17.7 16.4 A A Southeastern Asset Management Global 190.2 14.8 6.4 10.8 10.9 14.9 MFS International Global 131.2 10.3 9.1 10.8 14.8 A 14.9 A C C Thomas White Global 127.9 10.0 not applicable 3.0 0.9 A A Wellington Management Company Europe 118.4 9.3 6.8 15.7 16.2 22.2 A A Henderson Global Investors USA 79.0 6.2 6.8 5.6 9.8 9.2 A A Brandes Investment Partners Japan 73.5 5.7 -5.0 -6.4 5.6 8.2 B B Comgest Far East 76.3 6.0 not applicable 16.5 15.7 B B Orbis Australasia 23.1 1.8 not applicable 15.3 10.8 excluding cash balances held centrally by Witan and the unquoted investments.
In recruiting these managers we were looking for rms that had a strong investment philosophy... that had a clear, rigorous and disciplined investment process... and for rms that had a long-term record of outperformance.
extract from the CEOs Review 2004 14 just a geographic review, but also considered other asset to subject all of types as well as the proportion of return expected to be the existing generated by markets beta and manager skill alpha.
managers to a This review led to the appointment of a third global peer group review equity manager and the splitting of the Asia ex Japan on at least a portfolio into an Australasian component and an exrolling three year Australasian component.
In addition, the Board met with the investment Among many managers on 15 occasions.
At these meetings the matters these managers were asked, among other things, to: reviews will address the following questions: explain their choice of investments, which enabled Why did we appoint the manager?
the Board to check that these were within Witan Excluding performance, have they done what we guidelines and in accordance with the managers own expected?
investment philosophies: Is performance out of line with the managers own provide a detailed analysis of their performance to historical experience?
date and the reasons behind it: If so, is there a good reason for this?
report on any significant changes to the organisation: Do we still believe in them?
and Are there attractive alternative managers available?
re-afrm their investment strategy and philosophy.
There will, however, be no presumption on what the The Board judges that it is, as noted in last years outcome of these reviews might be.
report and accounts, now appropriate to make this formal review process applicable to all the managers, Buy-Back Policy even if there is no dissatisfaction with the manager.
Your Board believes that it is in shareholders interests This will involve an assessment of what each of the to buy back the Companys shares when they are investment managers has achieved for Witan since standing at a substantial discount to net asset value.
their appointment and what the alternatives might be.
Any purchase of shares at a discount to their net asset Only a foolish fund manager would believe that he value will increase that net asset value and will support owns all of the most attractive shares he she should an increase in the Companys share price, all other always be searching for something better whilst things being equal.
recognising that ultimately this may prove to be a fruitless task.
Similarly, Witan is always on the lookIn 2007 the Company bought back and cancelled a out for the best fund managers, irrespective of total of 37,346,388 of its ordinary shares at a cost of speciality, as this may give a guide to a better way of 181.6 million, including stamp duty.
The result of this structuring the entire portfolio.
Within each speciality in terms of performance enhancement was to add just your Company is also trying to recruit the best fund under 1.4% to the net asset value per share at managers available.
However, we also need to accept 31 December 2007. the role that luck both good and bad plays in fund management, so should try to avoid appointing fund Witan Investment Services WIS managers who have just had a lucky run or replacing Witan Investment Services Limited is a wholly owned those who have been unlucky.
Furthermore, the Board subsidiary of Witan Investment Trust plc.
It was must remain cognisant of the not inconsiderable cost established in March 2005 and has been regulated by of changing investment managers.
The Board intends the FSA since April 2006.
15 Business Review continued WIS has two discernible channels of income by which its normal conditions, to allow the invested level to drop performance and profitability may be judged.
The prime risk, therefore, of investing in rstly, revenues from transaction fees and annual Witan, remains a fall in equity prices.
The other generic management charges relating to its savings plan business risks associated with any international equity portfolio and, secondly, executive management and marketing are those of strategy and of country, currency, industrial fees paid by its corporate clients, Witan Investment Trust sector, and stock selection.
There are also risks plc, Witan Pacic Investment Trust plc and Tribune UK associated with the choice of managers.
Your Board Tracker plc, the last named until it merged with seeks to manage these risks through the appropriate Edinburgh UK Tracker Trust plc in September 2007 when application of gearing, liquidity, and asset allocation it ceased to be a client.
policies and by monitoring the stock selection activities of your managers.
Moreover, the adverse effects of a The platform which provides savings plans to Witan failure, however dened, by an individual investment Investment Services clients is called Witan manager are reduced signicantly by the multi-manager Wealthbuilder.
It currently has over 30,000 customers structure.
Further, your Board reviews regularly the with assets of some 220 million invested.
Ongoing competency of the fund managers.
success will be indicated by growth in these gures.
The major cost incurred by Witan Investment Services is its In addition, your Company also faces the risk that its fee to Equiniti Limited, the administrators of the Witan objective and strategy become inappropriate in a Wealthbuilder platform.
WIS is intended to be a profit rapidly changing financial services and savings market.
centre in its own right and the company contributed This is a matter which is reviewed regularly by the positively to the consolidated results of Witan Witan and the Witan Investment Services Boards.
These Investment Trust plc during 2007. reviews focus on investment policies, the role of marketing and the Witan Wealthbuilder savings Witan Investment Services aim is to stimulate demand schemes, and discount control policies, as well as wider for Witan shares and to do so profitably.
It has three industry trends.
key objectives: Finally, there are operational and regulatory risks, and to provide a revenue stream exceeding the costs the unavoidable risks of errors and omissions.
These are normally incurred by its parent, Witan Investment regularly and extensively reviewed by Witans Audit Trust plc: Committee.
Witan Investment Services and its its activity must have a tangible benefit for Witan marketing activities are also regulated by the Financial shareholders: and Services Authority and the subsidiary is subject to its to develop profitable new products within Witan that own operating rules and regulations.
Your Board takes may create demand for Witan shares.
its regulatory responsibilities very seriously and reviews the main points of compliance against requirements on In line with the last objective, at its away day in a quarterly basis.
Your Board also takes professional June 2007, the Witan Investment Services Board legal, accounting, and tax advice in advance if there is agreed to develop a Jump Child Trust Fund product the slightest doubt concerning any proposed activity of to sit beside its successful Jump savings plan.
Operationally, the multi-manager new product will be launched in the first quarter of structure is a fairly robust one as each of the fund 2008. managers, custodians and fund accountants keep their own records which are reconciled on a monthly basis.
Principal Risks In addition, the Witan executive monitors the activities Because Witan is essentially a vehicle for UK and of all third parties and escalates any issues to the Board.
overseas equity investment, your Board is unlikely, in Comprehensive contractual obligations and 16 indemnification provisions have been put in place with looking to develop each of the third party services providers.
further Witan Investment Key Performance Indicators Services.
In the Your Board assesses its performance in meeting the near term, as noted Companys objective against the following key above, it expects to performance indicators: launch a Child net asset value return Trust Fund CTF share price return product under its performance against Witans overall benchmark Jump brand.
annual dividend growth discount to net asset value Outlook the level of buy back activity Whilst it is always difficult to predict the future for total expense ratio markets, it does seem reasonable to suggest on this growth in the number of private investors.
occasion that at the current time prospects are more uncertain than usual.
The amount of credit in the In addition, the Board reviews both absolute and relative world is enormous and has been growing inexorably for volatility and risk statistics for the portfolio.
The the last twenty years: but that is about to come to a halt Companys staff are appraised on a regular basis and the as a result of the credit crisis, which started in the subBoard evaluates employee performance.
Witans prime home loans market in the US, spreading more performance in 2007 against these indicators is shown widely.
How far this will go and its impact on the real on page 3 and is discussed in the Chairmans Statement.
economy are difficult to quantify.
A slowdown, and perhaps even a recession, in the US and elsewhere Your Boards Priorities for 2008 seems inevitable.
Whilst it would be easy to extrapolate Every year your Board has an away day which sets its this to some sort of Armageddon scenario, we should priorities for the next twelve months.
In May 2007, the recognise that central banks, the US in particular, are Board agreed to review your Companys benchmark to taking decisive action by reducing interest rates and reect the changing investment environment: to governments are looking to see what scal stimuli they reconsider the investment management arrangements can deliver.
Once the pain in the banking sector is with a view to increasing the proportion allocated to thought to be out in the open, it is likely that investors active managers: and to consider alternative Asia ex around the world will start to look for the relative Japan and Europe managers.
During the course of the winners.
If our managers stockpicking skills are as good remainder of 2007, a new benchmark was established as we believe then we would expect Witan shareholders and announced: a new global manager was appointed: to benefit from this process.
the proportion of the portfolio allocated to lower tracking error strategies in the UK and US was reduced by 11% and APS was replaced by a combination of By order of the Board Comgest and Orbis.
During 2008, your Board will G S Rice continue to review your existing managers and to seek For and on behalf of out opportunities to improve performance.
It is Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, currently considering whether there might be a role for Secretary another active manager in the UK.
