Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:16:54 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -525048062 Report of the Directors Business review INTRODUCTION TO THE BUSINESS REVIEW with effect from 1 July 2007 BT is one of the worlds leading providers of communications solutions and services operating in 170 countries.
Our customers We are committed to increasing shareholder value by BT GLOBAL BT RETAIL BT WHOLESALE OPENREACH transforming the customer experience through service SERVICES excellence, by the effective management of our strong brand, by BT GROUP exploiting our large-scale networks and by delivering exciting new services to our existing customer base.
We aim to nd new BT DESIGN and mutually rewarding ways of engaging with around 18 BT OPERATE million customers to capitalise on the possibilities of convergence, to offer global reach combined with the service values associated with local delivery, and to continue to provide innovative services and solutions.
Our principal activities include: OUR STRATEGY Our strategy is to: r networked IT services r local, national and international telecommunications services r pursue profitable growth in new wave markets r broadband and internet products and services r defend our traditional business r converged xed mobile products and services.
r transform our networks, systems and services for the twenty-first century We have had ISO 9001 certication the international quality r create long-term partnerships with our customers.
management system standard for most of our operations in the UK and worldwide since 1994.
The successful delivery of this strategy depends on the Our policy is to achieve best practice in our standards of commitment of all BT people and our continued ability to business integrity in all our operations, in line with our published manage their development and reward them.
statement of business practice The Way We Work and we For the 2007 financial year, the KPIs key performance are committed to enhancing our positive impact on society indicators against which we measured the success of our through leadership in corporate social responsibility and by strategy were earnings per share before specic items see doing business in a sustainable way.
Earnings per share on page 42, free cash ow see Financing on page 43 and customer satisfaction see Improving customer OUR OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE satisfaction and service on page 18.
From the 2008 financial BT has four customer-focused lines of business: BT Global year, customer service replaces customer satisfaction as a KPI.
Services, BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
BT Retail, BT Wholesale and Openreach operate mainly within Pursue profitable growth in new wave markets the UK, where BT is the largest communications services In the 2007 financial year, 36% of our revenue was from new provider to the residential and business markets, supplying a wave activities primarily networked IT services, broadband and wide range of communications products and services, including mobility up from 32% in the 2006 financial year.
voice, data, internet and multimedia services, and offering a comprehensive range of managed and packaged communications New wave revenue m per quarter solutions.
2400 BT Global Services provides a range of products and services, 2000 including communications, networked IT and consultancy 1600 services to address the needs of major corporations, 1200 governments and multi-site global organisations.
800 In April 2007, we announced a new structure, which includes 400 two new business units and is designed to enable us to deliver 0 faster, more resilient and cost-effective services to customers wherever they are.
With effect from 1 July 2007, BT Design will be responsible for the design and development of the platforms, systems and processes which will support our services: BT Operate will be responsible for their deployment and operation.
Develop our global networked IT services capability Around 20,000 BT employees from design, operations, IT and Our networked IT services strategy is to reinforce BTs position networks will move into these new units.
We believe that as a global player competing alongside the worlds best in these changes will keep BT ahead of the game.
We continue to develop broader and deeper capabilities around the world.
Our portfolio of services includes managed network services, systems integration, IP infrastructure, CRM customer relationship management, security applications, managed mobility, hosting and outsourcing.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 9 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:16:58 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -136154725 Report of the Directors Business review Broadband at the heart of BT three years in spite of intense competition from other providers In the 2007 financial year, we continued our drive to enhance packaging calls with broadband.
This reduced rate of loss was the awareness, availability and attractiveness of broadband.
At driven by a range of price reductions and by encouraging 31 March 2007, we had 10.7 million broadband lines including customers to sign up for our innovative pricing packages.
In the highly competitive retail market, our market share of consumer and business DSL digital Transform our networks, systems and services subscriber line and LLU broadband connections in the UK was for the twenty-first century 34%.
With 3.7 million broadband connections including PlusNet, Our strategy is to build innovative and versatile networks that we are now the UKs most popular broadband retailer including will be a platform for rapid delivery of new services and cable.
simultaneously transform the customer experience and enable us to operate ever more cost effectively.
Our 21CN twenty-first Create convergent mobility solutions century network, for example, is helping to define In a convergent world, individuals and businesses increasingly communications networks for the future and we are investing in need to connect and communicate wherever they happen to be, an innovative exible systems infrastructure throughout BT.
using whatever device they choose, and we offer a range of mobility services in both the consumer and business markets.
Our UK network In the 2007 financial year, group mobility revenues were BT has the most comprehensive xed-line communications 294 million.
The emphasis was increasingly on new services network in the UK, with around 5,600 exchanges, more than that give customers the best of xed and the best of mobile 700 local and 100 trunk processor units, more than 120 million communications, either combined in a single handset or bundled kilometres of copper wire and more than nine million kilometres together in a compelling offer.
At 31 March 2007, we had a of optical bre, and the most extensive IP backbone network in total of 314,000 mobile connections in the UK both GSM and the UK.
The network services we provide include frame relay, our new, intelligent xed mobile service, BT Fusion.
In addition, ATM asynchronous transfer mode and IPVPN internet protocol we manage around 100,000 connections on behalf of large virtual private network.
enterprise customers, the majority of which are outside the UK.
The number of customer minutes on BT Openzone our public Our global reach wireless broadband service grew by 60% in the 2007 financial We have one of the broadest IP-enabled networks in Europe year compared with the previous year.
and our network-based services extend to and across North and South America and the Asia Pacic region.
Defend our traditional business At 31 March 2007, our agship MPLS multi-protocol label Although we continue to face challenges in our traditional switching network service provided coverage and support to markets as a result of competition, a shift in our customers over 100 countries from more than 1,300 points of presence.
buying patterns and a tough regulatory regime, we aim to Our MPLS revenue grew by 31% during the 2007 financial year defend our traditional business mainly calls and lines while to 556 million.
offering customers new, next-generation services.
Global customer service is provided via service and network management centres around the world, 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Traditional revenue trend % per quarter 0 Create long-term partnerships with our customers -1 We believe that our relationships with our customers are key -2 particularly in a market experiencing major transformation.
-3 Understanding customers needs and responding to them -4 exibly, comprehensively and with insight is critical in helping to -5 differentiate us from our competitors.
That is why we aim to put -6 the customer at the heart of everything we do strengthening that relationship and building trust and delivering what we promise.
This is encouraging customers to move from short-term contracts based on individual transactions, to longer-term Revenue versus same period in prior year adjusted for the impact of mobile termination rate reductions and excluding Albacom 2005 06 arrangements under which they sign up for packages of services.
OUTLOOK Our performance underpins our confidence that we can continue Active voice customer losses additions 000 50 to grow revenue, EBITDA before specic items, earnings per 0 share before specic items, and dividends over the coming year.
We are confident in our ability to improve shareholder returns -100 and accelerate the strategic transformation of the business.
In addition, taking into account the groups net debt level and -200 strong cash ow generation, we have decided to introduce a new 2.5 billion share buy back programme, while increasing -300 dividends and investing in the growth of the business.
We expect this buy back programme to be completed by 31 March 2009.
We seek to maintain a solid investment grade credit rating and will continue to invest for the future and, with an Active voice customer customers who generate voice revenue efficient balance sheet, further enhance shareholder value.
losses in the 2007 financial year were the lowest for more than 10 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:16:59 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1750993089 LINES OF BUSINESS two-thirds of the way to completing the Scottish N3 network.
BT Global Services These networks provide NHS professionals with fast and secure BT Global Services target market is the top 10,000 multi-site access to health applications, enabling them, for example, to organisations, both overseas and in the UK, including major obtain patient records and images rapidly and reliably at companies with significant global requirements, together with signicantly lower cost.
At the end of March 2007, the N3 large organisations in target local markets.
network was voice-enabled, which will further reduce the cost In the 2007 financial year, BT Global Services revenue of telephony services and bring enhanced communications increased by 4% to 9,106 million.
New wave and non-UK between NHS sites.
In London, where we are implementing new IT systems for revenue increased by 8% and traditional revenue declined by 9%.
New wave and non-UK revenue accounted for 79% of total the NHS across the capital, we have delivered capability to over revenue, compared with 76% in the 2006 financial year.
50% of trusts and completed our rollout of picture archiving The continued migration of our customers from traditional communications systems to 21 trusts.
These systems enable voice and data services to networked IT services and managed images such as X-rays and scans to be stored, displayed, solutions enables us to build closer, high-value relationships with transmitted and archived electronically rather than being printed these customers, helping them to manage their businesses more onto lm, and will bring considerable benets to both patients effectively and gain competitive advantage in their markets.
Such relationships will, we believe, deliver long-term, profitable In the 2007 financial year, we also completed the most revenue, more than offsetting the decline in our traditional complex and challenging software upgrades so far on the business revenue.
national database and messaging service known as the Spine, As well as local, national and international communications creating the infrastructure and software to support the rollout of services and higher-value broadband and internet products and the NHS Summary Care Record Service, which will give services, we offer a comprehensive portfolio of networked IT healthcare staff faster, easier access to reliable information services focused on messaging and conferencing, CRM, about patients.
We also offer In August 2006, we began the deployment of one of the consultancy services to help organisations understand network worlds largest IP converged private networks for the performance, operate their networks and applications efficiently Department for Work and Pensions DWP, under an agreement and transform their businesses.
The DWP is one of BTs three largest Our extensive global communications network and strong central government clients and the contract which runs until partnerships enable us to serve customers in the key commercial March 2011 is worth 740 million over its lifetime.
centres around the world using a combination of direct sales and In the 2007 financial year, we secured networked IT services services capabilities and strategic partners.
orders in the UK and around the world worth 5.2 billion.
This BT Global Services is an increasingly global operation.
included the following significant contracts: Although it currently generates most of its revenue in the UK, Date Contract the US and Western Europe, we are anticipating strong growth May 2006 We were awarded a three-year extension to our existing in the Asia Pacic region, particularly in India where, in the outsourcing contract with Unilever.
The deal, which is 2007 financial year, we obtained both national and international long-distance licences through our venture, BT Telecom India.
worth around an additional 270 million, means that we Markets in Japan and China will also become increasingly will continue to deliver voice, data and mobile services important.
In the 2007 financial year, BT Global Services globally to Unilever until 2012. experienced particularly strong revenue growth of over 30% in July 2006 We reached agreement with Dutch electronics giant the Asia Pacic region.
Philips on a five-year contract to provide a fully managed The revenue growth that we have experienced in Italy in recent solution for data, voice, conferencing and mobile years is a good illustration of the success of our global strategy.
communications services in over 40 countries in EMEA Thanks to a mix of both organic and inorganic growth, we are now Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
We will manage one of the main competitors in the Italian business market.
Philips MPLS-based data transport services within EMEA, together with voice services, managed mobility and Networked IT services certain metropolitan area networks, in addition to In recent years, we have developed a track record of winning providing global data access services, including security and delivering complex, large-scale networked IT services services and rewalls, IP address management and contracts for large business customers and other organisations conferencing services.
including the public and government sectors around the world.
We have shown that we have the experience and expertise to September We signed a seven-year managed services agreement with help our customers succeed in a world in which business 2006 PepsiCo Inc to provide and manage an integrated applications are increasingly being networked and networks are portfolio of data, LAN local area network, security, seen as increasingly vital to productivity and competitive conferencing, remote access and internet services to advantage.
support the IT requirements of PepsiCos international BT is proving to be a world leader in delivering networked IT division.
Under the terms of the contract which covers services through, for example, our work for the NHS National more than 900 locations in over 60 countries BT will Programme for Information Technology, which is helping to migrate these services to a state-of-the-art, high-speed, transform the lives of doctors, nurses and patients across IP-based global MPLS infrastructure.
England by delivering new computer systems and services to October We announced a contract with Alliance & Leicester to improve the way patient information is stored and accessed.
2006 transform its telecommunications infrastructure into a In January 2007, N3 the national broadband network that single, fully managed, converged network for both voice we are building for the NHS reached 18,000 connections in and data communications.
England, two months ahead of schedule.
We are also more than BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 11 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:03 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 755996134 Report of the Directors Business review Date Contract both.
BTs broad service portfolio, large presence and range of engagement models make it a candidate for most types of December We signed a 322 million deal with Liverpool City Council organisations with pan-European networking needs.
According 2006 for a further five years to 2017.
We will continue to to specialist researchers, Forrester, There are only a handful of invest in new technology and new ways of working to international network operators that can provide complex ICT deliver additional benets across a range of council solutions that include global WAN wide area network services.
This new deal increases the lifetime value of the BT stands rmly among them.
contract to more than 825 million.
February We announced that we were signing a strategic BT Retail 2007 agreement with Credit Suisse, worth over 575 million, In addition to serving consumer customers in the UK, BT Retail to provide a broad package of mobile and internet also has responsibility for: technologies and advanced connectivity services which will enhance its operating efficiency as an integrated r small and medium-sized businesses in the UK global bank.
The contract is initially for five years and will r BTs activities in Ireland be delivered in partnership with Swisscom to address r a number of discrete enterprises, such as BT Conferencing, BT requirements across Credit Suisses enterprise and financial Directories and dabs.
trading environments, with an additional focus on jointly Revenue in the 2007 financial year was 8,414 million, creating service innovations.
compared with 8,507 million in the 2006 financial year.
March With our partner Liberata, we signed a deal to become Revenue grew year on year in the final two quarters of the 2007 the private sector strategic partner to Sandwell 2007 financial year the first time in four years.
Metropolitan Borough Council in the West Midlands.
BT Liberata will build a new regional business centre in Sandwell to run a range of IT and core business services for the council, attract new business to the borough and create jobs.
The contract is valued at almost 300 million over 15 years.
9% 9% We also continue to build relationships with key industry players in order to enhance the abilities of all parties to deliver 27% 55% networked IT services.
Examples of such successes are: October Capgemini transferred a substantial portion of its 2006 European Networking Infrastructure Services NIS operation to BT.
As part of this, we have taken on approximately 250 people employed in Europe and are now responsible for providing NIS services to Capgemini At a time when convergent, new wave products and services customers.
are radically reshaping the communications industry, customers of all kinds have more choice than ever before.
However, more November We were selected as a sub-contractor to Atos Origin to choice can also mean more complexity and more confusion and, 2006 deliver a managed network service for the Department consequently, the possibility of customers missing out on the for Constitutional Affairs.
The contract is worth benets.
BT Retail aims to offer customers straightforward and 96 million over seven years.
As the network services complete services that compete on value not price, backed by sub-contractor, we will be responsible for migrating three levels of customer service that differentiate us from our existing networks to a single, secure, resilient MPLS competitors.
And this applies as much to traditional services such network.
as telephone calls as it does to new broadband and mobility February HP and BT announced that they had signed seven-year services.
2007 outsourcing contracts with Anglo American worth in total around US$450 million.
Under the contracts, BT and HP Consumer customers will jointly manage the companys global voice services, At 31 March 2007, we had more than 16.2 million UK consumer data centre operations and end-user workplace customers with around 19.3 million residential customer lines environment.
A core part of the agreements is a voice, ISDN integrated services digital network and transformation programme to create an integrated global broadband.
In the 2007 financial year, consumer revenue declined by 3% to 5,124 million, primarily reecting the impact IT infrastructure to support Anglo Americans strategy for of CPS carrier pre-selection and WLR wholesale line rental.
However, the rate of revenue decline has been slowing and Networked IT services revenue for BT Global Services for the ARPU average revenue per user is strong.
2007 financial year was 4,048 million, an 8% increase compared with the 2006 financial year.
We continue to feature prominently in reviews of business capabilities.
Gartner, for example, publishes a quarterly assessment of network service providers ranked by their ability to execute and their completeness of vision.
In the latest Gartners assessment Magic Quadrant Report of Pan-European Network Service Providers, BT Global Services is ranked top for 12 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:06 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -312856455 Combined with the BT Home Hub a device that connects Consumer average revenue per user 12 month rolling average wirelessly to PCs and other broadband devices BT Total Broadband enables customers to experience the full range of broadband services at home or when out and about.
260 With the launch of BT Vision in December 2006, we are 250 helping to define next-generation television, which is made possible by the convergence of digital broadcast TV and 240 broadband technology.
Customers are now able to watch what 230 they want, when they want.
BT Vision, which does not require a regular monthly subscription, is the first widely available TV service of its kind.
The service is delivered via a new set-top box the V-box which contains a personal digital recorder able to In the consumer market we aim to provide customers with a store up to 80 hours of content, and pause or rewind live TV.
range of services that help them communicate more effectively, In December 2006, we announced that BT Vision customers access entertainment and manage their lives.
By increasing will have access to live FA Premiership and Scottish Premier revenue from broadband, mobility and internet services, we League football from the beginning of the 2007 08 season.
intend to reduce further our dependence on revenue and profit Under an agreement with leading pay TV sports broadcaster, from traditional, xed-line voice services.
We also aim to Setanta, BT Vision will carry 46 live Premiership games a season.
maximise the returns from our traditional business and defend The fact that BT Vision already had the rights to 242 near live market share vigorously, through service offerings backed by Premiership games means that 75% of all Premiership games will innovative marketing and excellent quality of service.
Customers will also be able via BT Visions replay TV service to access a selection of terrestrial New wave services for consumers programmes released in the previous week.
Other content deals Consumer new wave revenue grew by 34% to 858 million have been signed with a wide range of leading entertainment in the 2007 financial year, driven principally by broadband.
companies, including Warner Brothers, Disney, Universal Pictures, Residential broadband customers increased by 32% to 2.8 Dreamworks, Channel 4, HBO, BBC Worldwide, Paramount, million.
Warner Music Group, EMI, Universal Music, Sony, BMG and the BT offers a family of broadband packages designed to meet History Channel and the National Geographic Channel.
the diverse needs of our customers, simply and cost effectively in a highly competitive market.
We believe that the broadband Convergent services for consumers experience is about much more than having basic access to the We are also playing a lead role in the development of internet internet: customers want their broadband connection to offer telephony or VolP voice over IP.
In January 2007, we achieved a range of exciting content and secure, robust services as the milestone of one million registered consumer customers for standard, without having to pay extra for these features.
our VoIP services BT Broadband Talk and BT Softphone six In June 2006, we launched BT Total Broadband, a months ahead of schedule.
BT Broadband Talk enables comprehensive broadband package offering download speeds of customers to make and receive broadband calls using an up to 8Mb and giving customers free internet voice calls, free ordinary phone: BT Softphone is for users making calls over their video calls and a suite of security software, all brought together PCs.
Both services offer high-denition sound.
At 31 March through the BT Home Hub.
Customers have the choice of three 2007, the two services had 1.4 million customers.
In the consumer mobility market our strategy is to build a options and can enjoy ultra-fast download speeds and free evening and weekend UK voice calls with our BT Broadband foundation for the delivery of xed mobile convergent solutions.
BT Fusion launched in June 2005 is the worlds first BT Total Broadband also includes 250 free BT Openzone intelligent mobile service that switches calls to a BT broadband Wi-Fi minutes a month, giving customers access to thousands of line when the user is at home, offering customers the BT Openzone hotspots.
At 31 March 2007, 2.4 million of our convenience of mobile in combination with the cost and quality residential broadband customers had signed up for BT Total advantages of a xed-line phone.
BT Fusion brings with it a range of mobile services including text and picture messaging.
In Broadband, more than half of whom had opted for our premium packages.
January 2007, we launched BT Fusion Wi-Fi handsets.
Users of BT RETAIL PRODUCTS AND SERVICES BT Vision the V-box BT Fusion The BT Home Hub defining next-generation television the worlds first intelligent mobile service an icon of convergence BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 13 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:11 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1396824605 Report of the Directors Business review this service can make calls at home or out and about at our BT Service register which lters out most unsolicited marketing Openzone hotspots at substantially reduced cost.
At 31 March 2007, we had almost 500,000 customers Value-added services for consumers registered on BT Text the text-to-speech service that enables Because we believe that customers want hassle-free access users to send and receive texts on their home landline phones.
to new services, we are increasingly offering a range of Since autumn 2005, almost three million customers have value-added services designed to make their lives easier.
registered to have their Friends & Family calling circle Essentially, these services cover three areas: support, security automatically updated to ensure that the numbers they dial and entertainment.
most frequently attract maximum discounts.
BT Home IT Advisor, for example, is a one-stop advice and support service for broadband customers, giving them a single Business customers point of contact with a team of highly trained advisors, At 31 March 2007, in the UK we had around 1.5 million dedicated to providing comprehensive support for their PCs, business customers, with around eight million exchange lines.
networks, applications and up to 20 devices.
The service can In the SME small and medium-sized enterprises market even create a virtual engineer in the home by enabling an typically companies with up to 500 employees, our strategy is advisor to access a customers computer remotely in order to to provide customers with converged IT and communications troubleshoot a problem.
Customers can either choose to pay a services that help them to manage their businesses more simply monthly fee and use the service as often as they like, or they and efficiently.
By providing innovative communications can select a pay-as-you-go option.
At 31 March 2007, almost solutions and new levels of support to our business customers, 40,000 customers were paying a monthly subscription to BT we believe that we can help them to gain competitive Home IT Advisor.
The BT Home IT Visit service takes the principle of domestic Overall in the SME market during the 2007 financial year, IT support a step further.
Customers are offered a house visit revenue grew by 1% to 2,353 million.
29% of revenue was from a specialist BT engineer who can give advice and guidance from new wave activity, compared with 23% in the 2006 on a range of computer matters, from installing software to financial year.
setting up a wireless network or connecting digital devices such as cameras and MP3 players.
New wave and value-added services for business and major Our computer security products include BT Net Protect, which corporate customers offers anti-virus and rewall security products and BT Digital Broadband is increasingly critical to the success of small and Vault, an online data back-up and storage facility.
medium-sized businesses and BT Business Broadband remained the leading internet service provider for SMEs in the UK.
Traditional services for consumers In the 2007 financial year, broadband revenues in the We continued to develop the services we have traditionally business sector grew by 14% and 48% of new business offered in order to make them more attractive to consumers.
broadband customers had contracts for a minimum of two years.
In August 2006, following a widespread review of telephone At the end of the 2007 financial year, we had around 700,000 tariffs, we cut the prices of BT Together Options 2 and 3 by business broadband customers.
We also offered a years free UK evening and However, businesses need more than basic broadband access weekend calls to all customers who signed up to one of these over 95% of our broadband sales are now made with valueoptions packages for 18 months.
At 31 March 2007, three added services attached.
Our BT Business Broadband Voice service is demonstrating million customers had signed up for BT Together Options 2 and 3, and 68% of consumer revenue was under contract.
From the possibilities of VoIP for businesses.
At 31 March 2007, we October 2006, we cut the cost of calling many non-geographic were signing up around 2,000 new BT Business Broadband Voice numbers and since January 2007 have been offering all our customers a week.
customers who opt for paperless billing a reduction in their BT Business IT Support Manager enables business customers monthly rental.
who want help installing BT Business Broadband to book an engineer to visit their premises and or provide after-sales support.
At 31 March 2007, more than 23,000 PCs were BT Together customers 000 quarter end supported in this way.
BT Business IT Manager gives SME customers the equivalent of their own IT manager at a fraction of the cost.
Customers can 3000 choose the level of service that suits their business, ranging from 2500 2000 advice over the phone or the remote running of software 1500 applications to help with installing PCs and networks and 1000 developing more complex, long-term solutions.
500 In January 2007, we launched BT Business Total Broadband, 0 a comprehensive broadband package designed specically for SMEs.
In addition to download speeds of up to 8Mb, BT Business Total Broadband customers get a free BT Broadband Voice additional line offer, which gives capped UK and international calls over the internet, and security software, At 31 March 2007, over seven million customers had signed including anti-virus and rewall applications for all ofce PCs.
BT up for BT Privacy, a caller display service which enables Business Total Broadband offers Option 2 and 3 customers 250 customers to preview incoming call numbers and lter out free BT Openzone wireless minutes a month, along with the unwanted calls up 90% on the 2006 financial year.
All BT Business Essentials package which is designed to make it easier Privacy customers can be added to the Telephone Preference for SMEs to run their business.
The package includes ten Business Email Lite mailboxes, 20Mb of webspace and access to 14 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:11 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 813003096 BT Workspace Lite, which enables everyone in the business to access to around 10,000 hotspots in key locations in the UK and store, access and share information.
Customers also have the Ireland and more than 40,000 globally.
support of a free, dedicated helpdesk, 24 hours a day, seven We are also leading the way in building wireless cities days a week.
throughout the UK, in order to ensure that local residents, businesses, tourists and local government employees are always Converged services for business and major corporate customers best connected, wherever they are, whatever they happen to be In the mobility market, our strategy is to integrate traditional doing and whatever device they happen to be using.
In May xed, mobile and IP services to offer a single communications 2006, we announced the creation of our wireless cities solution to our customers through commercial packaging and programme, which committed us to Wi-Fi enabling 12 cities by through the exploitation of technological convergence.
We achieved this ahead of schedule.
addition, we provide a range of managed mobile services to UK In December 2006, Ofcom published a consultation document and global customers who either outsource their mobile setting out its proposals for the award of available wireless communications entirely or rely on BT to provide specic spectrum at a frequency ideally suited to the provision of managed services.
wireless broadband services, including those outside the home During the 2007 financial year, we launched a number of and ofce.
This award will be made through an auction which new services designed to integrate business and corporate could take place in late 2007.
We believe it is important for the customers xed and mobile communications services, including UK that this spectrum is developed for wireless broadband BT Fusion Wi-Fi for Business a single mobile device, designed services and new applications, as is happening in many other for the SME market, which offers a two-way handover between parts of the world.
The benets include high-speed access to business applications, free access to all xed and mobile messages stored in one place and cheaper call rates.
In April 2007, we launched BT Ofce Anywhere, a service revenue up that gives users the functions of a Windows PC but in a smartphone small enough to t in the pocket.
Because, unlike 18% other smartphones, it comes with VoIP, BT Ofce Anywhere also offers free hour-long internet phone calls to UK landlines, plus capped calls to UK mobiles and international landlines from BT Openzone Wi-Fi hotspots in the UK and Ireland, from home Enterprises and ofce networks, and from around the globe wherever users BT Enterprises consists of six businesses BT Conferencing, BT have access to a compatible wireless network.
Directories, BT Payphones, BT redcare monitoring and tracking facilities, BT Expedite a specialist retail division offering store Traditional services for business customers integration solutions and services and dabs.
com which build At 31 March 2007, BT Business Plan had almost 600,000 on BTs existing strengths to generate innovation and growth in locations, up 16% on the 2006 financial year, and accounted for a range of  markets.
Revenues in the 57% of call revenues from business customers.
2007 financial year were 710 million, up 32% on the 2006 Customers of BT Business Plan excluding the lite option can financial year.
also sign up to receive BT Assurance Plus, free of charge.
The BT Conferencing, for example, is now the number one benets of BT Assurance Plus include: the xing of any problems conferencing service provider in Europe.
It has 300,000 the next working day, including Saturday: a dedicated support customers around the world for its comprehensive portfolio of team and a Freefone fault reporting number: and the option of audio, video and internet conferencing services and products, call diversion to a mobile phone, another xed line or a backed up by high quality service and support.
com, a leading internet-based retailer of IT and technology products, is a key part of our strategy to strengthen our online sales and services capabilities in both the consumer and SME markets.
See Acquisitions and disposals in the 2007 access to financial year on page 19 dabs.
com has a product portfolio of around 15,000 lines from the worlds leading manufacturers, 40,000 including HP, Canon, Toshiba, Sony, Fujitsu Siemens, Microsoft hotspots and BT.
During the 2007 financial year, revenue from dabs.
Convergent services in the wider community BT Ireland Increasingly, we are extending the power of convergent BT has a long track record in Ireland, North and South, where broadband and mobile services out of the home and ofce and we have successfully run two separate operating units for a into the community more widely.
BT Openzone is one of the number of years.
In the 2006 financial year, we merged these leading providers of Wi-Fi services in the UK and Ireland.
We two divisions to create BT Ireland a single, integrated business operate our own network of high-quality sites, which include serving the whole of Ireland.
Our vision for this business is to hotspots at Thistle, Ramada Jarvis and Hilton hotels, main train become the leading provider of networked IT and converged IP stations, British Airways lounges, BAA airports and RoadChef and services on the island of Ireland.
In the 2007 financial year, BT Welcome Break service stations and offer more wholesale and Ireland generated revenues of 738 million.
roaming connections than any other UK Wi-Fi network operator.
BT Ireland operates across four principal markets consumer, BT Openzone offers customers a high-speed, wireless broadband business, major business and wholesale delivering innovative connection over which they can access the internet to work, talk broadband packages and complex IT services to customers, large or play.
At 31 March 2007, our BT Openzone customers had and small.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 15 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:13 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -371968872 Report of the Directors Business review BT Ireland was recently named as the second largest IT services DSL broadband connections million quarter end company on the island with a strong focus on managed and 12 converged solutions.
In the financial services sector, for example, it supports 13 of the 16 largest Irish and international 10 companies.
BT Ireland also has a significant wholesale business, 8 supporting other leading operators, xed and mobile.
Further 6 growth comes from infrastructure and transmission solutions including, for example, the build and management of 4 Hutchisons 3G network in Ireland.
In the consumer and SME markets, we are positioned as one 2 of the leading players in Northern Ireland and one of the leading alternative providers in the Republic of Ireland, offering 0 competitive broadband and added value services.
BT Wholesale LLU Openreach BT Wholesale is evolving into a leading provider of innovative business solutions.
Our 21CN programme is replacing the existing network and will provide the platform to offer a seamless customer experience.
The 21CN will provide the We continue to look for commercially viable ways of bringing opportunity for our communications provider customers to broadband to those customers for whom availability remains an develop new and compelling consumer products.
We continue, for example, to explore the feasibility of In the UK wholesale market, we provide network services and installing broadband equipment at locations closer to the solutions to over 700 communications companies, including customer than the BT exchange, as well as the possibility of xed and mobile network operators, ISPs internet service delivering broadband over existing bre cables.
As a providers and other service providers.
We interconnect with demonstration of our commitment to delivering higher-speed more than 180 other operators, as well as carrying transit trafc broadband to UK consumers, 74% of wholesale broadband lines between telecommunications operators.
were at least 2Mb at 31 March 2007 compared with 59% a year In the 2007 financial year, revenue from our wholesale earlier.
activities increased by 3% to 7,584 million.
We are now conducting in-house trials of broadband speeds New wave revenue was 1,097 million, up 17% on the 2006 of up to 24Mb.
By continually upgrading exchanges across the financial year.
This increase was driven by the continued growth UK to support this service, we are providing the UK market with of broadband as well as a strong emphasis on building a stable, high-speed broadband service with the widest national innovative network solutions.
We have a long and successful tradition of delivering In addition, we have enhanced broadband line stability to network-based connectivity to the carrier and intermediate ensure that customers can run more bandwidth-hungry telecommunications markets throughout the UK.
We have a applications, including video, gaming and music downloads, at number of agreements with service providers and mobile the same time as sending receiving e-mails and surng the operators to upgrade their IP capability.
In addition, we have internet.
used our expertise and geographic reach to provide bespoke data housing solutions.
Managed network services In September 2006, Vodafone UK signed an agreement with BT, Deliver on broadband to buy DSL broadband and xed-voice capacity from us in a At 31 March 2007, 5,558 exchanges had been upgraded, move which gave it immediate nationwide coverage, rather than making broadband available to more than 99.9% of the UKs installing its equipment in our exchanges.
When, in April 2002, we first set targets By opting for the BT IPStream product, Vodafone UK is able for broadband penetration in the UK, there were under 150,000 to provide a broadband service to its customers without the DSL connections, and exchanges covering just 66% of the need to invest in its own xed-line network.
As part of this deal, population had been upgraded for broadband.
Including cable we are managing the service end-to-end and incorporating customers, over 50% of all UK homes subscribe to broadband.
functions such as customer service and billing operations.
Vodafone UKs service, Vodafone at Home, was launched in January 2007.
From May 2007, the charge for BT IPStream was reduced by up to 9%, with a second round of price reductions planned for January 2008.
There will also be opportunities for further savings for communications providers at high-density exchanges the current scheme, which covers 561 exchanges, will be extended to 1,016.
BT DataStream customers will also have opportunities to benefit from this enhanced rebate scheme.
Mobility for wholesale customers In the 2007 financial year, we saw continued growth in the UK wholesale mobility arena increasing the volume and value of wireless-originated trafc over our network.
16 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:15 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1718647740 A key element of our wholesale mobility offering is BT Movio, a of business fair, equal and open access to the crucial first mile service that delivers digital broadcast television and radio to of network and underpin the future development of the mobile handsets over the DAB digital audio broadcasting industry.
The first mobile operator to re-sell the BT Movio Openreach now provides services to around 400 service is Virgin Mobile.
communications providers in the UK, connecting millions of end users premises to their telecommunications networks by xedTraditional services for wholesale customers line local and backhaul connections.
At the same time as growing our new wave business, we At the heart of Openreachs operations are the 20,000 eld continued to implement our strategy of defending our engineers who install, repair and upgrade lines, ensuring that traditional business selling a wide range of capacity and callhouseholds, ofces and other premises have reliable local access based products and services, including regulated interconnect to the telephony, internet and other services offered by their services and new, non-regulated products and services.
maintained our focus on the cost reduction opportunities that For the 2007 financial year, Openreach reported for the first arise as our business changes.
time as a separate line of business.
Revenues were 5,177 million, driven by strong market volume growth, which Twenty-first century network more than offset the impact of a price reduction for WLR We believe that our 21CN programme is the most ambitious wholesale line rental.
business transformation programme in the global telecommunications industry today and one of the largest ever Equivalence Management Platform investments by a private sector company in the UKs The EMP equivalence management platform was established in infrastructure.
June 2006 and is the largest IT capability of its kind in the UK An end-to-end, next-generation IP network, 21CN provides telecommunications industry.
The EMP is the transactional the platform to transform the customer experience by ensuring platform that will underpin all Openreachs interactions with that the delivery of converged services is fast, efficient and communications providers.
It was designed to deliver service highly cost effective.
It will bring new voice, data, broadband with a greater degree of automation, processing up to 100,000 and multimedia services to businesses and homes quicker than orders a day and with the capacity to carry out up to 60,000 before, and give customers more control over the way they use line checks an hour.
And it will enable us to rationalise and transform our services portfolio.
Products In November 2006, the first customers, in the village of Wick, Wholesale Line Rental near Cardiff, were moved onto the 21CN infrastructure for live WLR, which enables communications providers to offer running.
This was the first stage of a rollout programme, which telephony services with their own brand over BTs network, anticipates that around 350,000 voice lines and around 80,000 currently generates around two-thirds of Openreachs revenue.
broadband lines in South Wales will be moved onto 21CN by the We anticipate that this will decline as customers increasingly end of 2007.
To achieve this milestone, we designed and built migrate to LLU.
In December 2006, Openreach achieved a the largest network testing facility in our history: rebuilt around significant milestone by placing the first live order for its new 20% of the UKs national telecommunications infrastructure: WLR capability, WLR3 wholesale line rental analogue, on an installed 21CN equipment at more than 100 sites around the equivalent basis via the EMP.
UK: and laid more than 2,300 kilometres of bre optic cable.
At 31 March 2007, Openreach was providing more than 23 million WLR lines to BT lines of business and over 4.2 million to We also invested more than 1,500 man-years in developing new IT systems to support the new network.
Of the lines provided to other During the 2008 financial year, we plan to increase the pace communications providers, over 3.5 million were WLR analogue of investment and operational activity to prepare for the lines up 46% on the 2006 financial year and 689,000 were national migration of customers to the new network.
The plan is WLR digital lines up 52% on the 2006 financial year.
that the full, national rollout of 21CN will be substantially complete by the end of the 2011 financial year.
Local Loop Unbundling We have also set up a 21CN global venture which will enable LLU, which enables communications providers to use the us to market the experience we have acquired of designing, Openreach lines connecting BT exchanges to end users premises building, testing and delivering networks on the scale of 21CN and to install their own equipment in those exchanges, is to other network operators around the world.
The services we another key Openreach product.
offer range from consultancy to design and build.
There are two types of unbundled line: We are committed to building open, transparent and inclusive relationships with the rest of the industry and launched r a fully unbundled line gives other communications providers Consult21 in the 2005 financial year in order to promote a the exclusive use of the copper line shared understanding of the 21CN vision and the progress we r a shared access line only gives other communications are making towards it.
Since then, many of our wholesale providers the use of the high-frequency channel used for customers have contributed on a regular basis to this major broadband the line will also be used by the customers industry consultation process.
Openreach In February 2007, we achieved the milestone of 1.5 million Openreach was established in January 2006.
Following a non-BT communications providers unbundled lines, an increase strategic review of the telecommunications market by Ofcom, of 640% since Openreach was created.
Combined with BTs use BT undertook to put responsibility for our access network in the of unbundled lines, this brought the total to 10.7 million BT hands of one distinct organisation within the BT group that lines of business 8.8 million: non-BT customers 1.9 million would offer communications providers including other BT lines in the UK as at 31 March 2007, with 21 communications BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 17 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:15 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 20961736 Report of the Directors Business review providers operators with more than one line providing Investing in recruitment, training and development unbundled services from 1,512 local exchanges and Openreach There was a major focus on talent acquisition and accelerated fullling more than 55,000 LLU orders a week.
We recruited 1,100 eld engineers during the 2007 financial year and expect to recruit up to 400 modern apprentices in the LLU volumes 000 quarter end 2008 financial year.
We also invested more than 44 million in the training and 2,000 development of Openreach people.
The Openreach Network 1,500 Health Academy trained around 1,250 managers, for example.
By the end of the 2008 financial year, around 8,500 engineers 1,000 will be trained in fault prevention techniques and over 10,000 500 frame engineers will be accredited to carry out frames work.
In 0 addition to such specialist technical training, Openreachs employees are required to complete mandatory training to support the BT Code of Practice.
There was a concerted drive to ensure that Openreach people fully understood the behavioural implications of compliance.
The 1.5 million line milestone was critical because, in Ofcoms view, it represented the appropriate level of competition to TRANSFORMING OUR COSTS enable BT to announce plans to reduce our wholesale broadband We remain focused on financial discipline and on delivering prices offering communications providers a cost-effective efficiency programmes to generate sustainable cost savings.
We continue to benchmark ourselves against the best in the industry.
In the 2007 financial year, efficiency programmes Ethernet delivered savings of over 500 million, enabling us to invest in Openreach continues to develop a comprehensive portfolio of growing our new wave activities and increase our profits.
Ethernet products to support backhaul and access services for A key area of focus has been enhancing the ways in which LLU operators and a growing number of other communications customers can deal with BT, simultaneously saving costs and providers.
Programmes have targeted the cost of failure by, for example, minimising the number of times a Equivalence customer call is transferred before resolution and reducing the The Undertakings completed in the 2007 financial year included amount of call waiting time through better call routing.
some major product deliveries the launch of LLU and Ethernet The number of transactions completed via bt.
com rose by products on an equivalent basis and the separation of more than 90% in the 2007 financial year.
And at 31 March management information systems were the most significant from 2007, we had over 2.8 million customers receiving e-bills up our customers point of view.
Further Undertakings remain to be 22% in the financial year over 900,000 of whom do not implemented between now and 2010.
See BTs Undertakings receive a paper bill a 90% increase on 31 March 2006. under the Enterprise Act, on page 21 We have also been reducing the complexity of our systems and processes.
See IT Support on page 24 Network investment and service performance Other programmes relate to innovative procurement and Service involves more than reactive provision and repair activity: sourcing and we continue to look at ways of streamlining our it also includes reinvigorating the access network infrastructure organisation and eliminating duplication.
improving the health of the network leads to improved We also continued to reduce overheads such as reliability, enhanced service standards and reduced cost.
accommodation, using buildings more efficiently and introducing In the 2007 financial year,  exible working practices.
In the 2007 financial year, we vacated the installation of new network components, focused on improving around 40 buildings and installed an additional 1,300 exible the quality of individual workmanship and concentrated on workstations which can be shared by multiple users.
identifying and upgrading the worst performing parts of the network.
This led to a decrease in the number of access network IMPROVING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND SERVICE faults, while the number of high-bandwidth services provided Improving customer satisfaction remains a significant challenge continued to increase.
one that we need to rise to if we are to maintain long-term, Peaks in demand caused by serious weather incidents are now mutually rewarding relationships with our customers.
This is why resolved more rapidly than they used to be.
Our rapid recovery our aim in the 2007 financial year was to increase the number from the extensive damage caused by the January 2007 storms of customers who are very or extremely satisfied with BT by is a good example of the advantages of the move to one distinct 5%, at the same time as maintaining the improvements in organisation managing a fully integrated engineering workforce.
customer dissatisfaction levels we had achieved in previous During the 2007 financial year, around 150,000 network years.
joints were replaced or sealed and 9,000 network black-spots In the 2007 financial year, the average score for customers were upgraded.
We also removed or replaced 25,000 defective who were very or extremely satisfied was around 3% higher telephone poles and renewed or upgraded 32,000 overhead than in the 2006 financial year: levels of dissatisfaction wires.
Focusing our repair activities on some of the main causes of faults, we carried out more than 40,000 targeted improvements to local networks.
Overall activity levels in exchanges rose by 70%, and by 31 March 2007, 655 exchanges had been prepared for 21CN.
18 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:20 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -109738161 Understanding what drives satisfaction is crucial to delivering Acquisitions and disposals in the 2007 financial year improvements that will sustain loyal relationships with our During the 2007 financial year, we completed a number of key customers.
During the 2007 financial year, for example, we transactions: recruited additional call centre staff and improved our repair and Date Acquisition call handling performances.
In addition, we launched a number of new services, products and pricing changes designed to April 2006 We acquired dabs.
com, one of the UKs leading online improve customer perception of the value for money we offer retailers of IT and technology products.
and how we account manage our relationships with them.
August 2006 Tech Mahindra, a company in which we now own 35% of Much of our training and development activity remains the issued share capital, was listed on the Indian national focused on removing any barriers to the delivery of excellent and Bombay stock exchanges, following an IPO initial customer service.
Our core people engagement initiative, the public offering.
We received proceeds of 25 million for my customer programme, aims to enable all BT people to deliver great customer service through teamwork.
the sale of a 6% stake in the IPO.
Tech Mahindra, Looking forward, we aim to drive further improvements formally Mahindra BT, provides end-to-end IT services through a relentless focus on customer service measures and solutions to the telecoms industry.
As at 31 March including right first time keeping our promises and cycle 2007, Tech Mahindra had a market capitalisation of time the speed at which we deliver service.
around 2 billion, valuing BTs holding at around 700 million.
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Acquisitions and disposals prior to the 2007 October We acquired California-based Counterpane Internet financial year 2006 Security Inc. Counterpane, a leading provider of The BT of today was largely created by a radical restructuring of managed networked security services.
Counterpane the company in the 2002 financial year.
This restructuring monitors 550 networks worldwide for multinational and involved the UKs largest-ever rights issue raising 5.9 billion, Fortune 100 customers.
the demerger of O2 comprising BTs wholly owned mobile assets in Europe, the disposal of significant non-core businesses November We made a recommended cash offer for internet service and assets, the unwinding of Concert our joint venture with 2006 provider PlusNet plc, offering 210 pence per share, AT&T and the creation of customer-focused lines of business.
valuing the company at approximately 67 million net Our principal acquisition in the 2005 financial year was of cash.
In January 2007, the offer was declared wholly Infonet, one of the worlds leading providers of international unconditional, and PlusNet was fide-listed from the managed voice and data network services, for 520 million, Alternative Investment Market in February 2007. including acquisition costs.
Excluding Infonets net cash balance, Operating since 1997, PlusNet has nearly 200,000 the net value of the deal was 315 million.
We also acquired the 74% of Albacom that we did not already own for a total broadband customers.
Albacom now BT Italia February We signed a conditional agreement to acquire provides data transmission, voice and internet services to the 2007 i2i Enterprise Pvt Ltd, a Mumbai-based enterprise Italian business communications market.
services company distributing BT Infonet products and In the 2006 financial year, we acquired Radianz, the leading services to major Indian and multinational companies.
financial services extranet provider, from Reuters for a total i2i is one of the most innovative providers of enterprise consideration of 143 million.
We also acquired Atlanet, a Fiat subsidiary providing domestic telecommunications services to telecommunications services in the fast-growing Indian Fiat and other non-Fiat business customers throughout Italy, for market.
approximatelyE80 million, further reinforcing our position in March 2007 We acquired International Network Services Inc. INS, the Italian market.
During July and September 2005, the a leading global provider of IT consulting and software conditions enabling BT to redeem the exchangeable bond over solutions, based in California.
The company has almost our shares in LG Telecom were fullled.
As a result, virtually all 900 employees in 12 countries and has served 75% of the bondholders exercised their right to convert their bonds into LG Telecom shares, enabling us to dispose of all our shares.
transaction gave rise to a redemption gain of 27 million.
March 2007 We increased our stake in i.
Net from 51% to 65.4% through the purchase of a private stake and a voluntary public offer, both at a price ofE52.30 per share.
Net is our Italian hosting and managed security subsidiary, listed on the Italian stock exchange.
We also completed a number of smaller transactions in the 2007 financial year, including: a joint venture with KDDI to address the growing market for the provision of global managed network services and global outsourcing services to organisations headquartered in Japan: a venture with Jubilant Enpro, part of the Jubilant Group, an Indian conglomerate, to apply for national long-distance and international long-distance licences in India: and the disposal of our full-time satellite broadcast services assets to Arqiva.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 19 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1636616202 Report of the Directors Business review Post-balance sheet acquisition Some conditions apply to all providers of electronic In April 2007, we entered into a conditional agreement to communications networks and services: others apply to acquire Comsat International a leading provider of data individual providers which are designated as having a USO communication services for corporations and public sector universal service obligation or, following a review of relevant organisations in Latin America through its parent company, markets, are found to have SMP significant market power, CI Holding Corporation.
Comsat International employs more than which is aligned with the competition law concept of 700 professionals with in-depth knowledge of Latin American dominance.
markets and provides services directly in 15 countries.
It has a Other more general types of obligations are set out in the track record in the delivery of complex projects and the Communications Act.
management of network solutions for enterprise, public sector and carrier customers.
Conditions applying to all providers of electronic communications networks or services REGULATION, COMPETITION AND PRICES General conditions BT operates in an increasingly competitive and dynamic The general conditions made by Ofcom under the commercial environment, both in the UK and around the world.
Communications Act apply to all providers of electronic The 2006 financial year saw the most significant change to communications networks or services.
Although these conditions the UK regulatory regime since BT was privatised when, in are concerned primarily with consumer protection, they also response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, address issues such as general access and interconnection we proposed a number of legally-binding Undertakings under obligations, standards, emergency planning and numbering.
the Enterprise Act 2002 the Enterprise Act.
These Undertakings A separate condition regulates the provision of premium rate were accepted by Ofcom and came into force in September services.
See BTs Undertakings under the Enterprise Act on page 21 Electronic Communications Code conditions The Undertakings are intended to deliver clarity and certainty The Electronic Communications Code applies to communications to the UK telecommunications industry, with regulation focused providers authorised to carry out streetworks and similar on the bottleneck parts of the network, and over time rolled activities for network provision.
Its application is subject to back elsewhere, to the benefit of consumers and others in the conditions made by the Secretary of State for Trade and marketplace.
This is mainly being achieved through Openreachs operations offering certain products and services to all communications Other general obligations providers in the same way and through other widespread Other general types of obligations contained in the organisational and systems changes.
Since the Undertakings Communications Act include: came into force, we have made good progress in delivering our obligations.
r the payment of administrative charges broadly the equivalent Other regulatory highlights in the 2007 financial year of licence fees under the old framework included achieving deregulation in wholesale international r the provision of information to Ofcom when required.
services markets, the ending of retail price controls and the ending of our pricing commitments on wholesale calls.
Ofcom Conditions applying to BT specically is currently carrying out a market review of the wholesale Universal service obligation conditions BT is the designated supplier of universal service for the UK, broadband access market and is expected to carry out three further market reviews in the 2008 financial year.
See excluding the Hull area where Kingston Communications is the significant market power conditions designated provider.
The services covered by the USO are dened in an order Regulation in the UK issued by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
Our UK regulation is conducted within a framework determined by primary obligation is to provide a single narrowband connection various EU European Union directives, regulations, and to the xed telephone network which, in addition to voice recommendations.
This framework is currently under review by services, must support functional internet access dial-up to the European Commission and proposals for revised EU directives anyone who reasonably requests it.
are expected towards the end of the 2007 calendar year, although they are unlikely to take effect in the UK before 2010. significant market power conditions Our policy is to comply fully with the regulatory framework in Ofcom is required by EU directives regularly to review relevant which we operate, while competing fairly and vigorously within markets and to determine whether any communications provider the rules.
Where Ofcom nds that a provider has SMP in a market, it must impose such additional conditions Ofcom as it considers appropriate, as specified in the Communications The Ofce of Communications Ofcom was set up under the Act.
These may include obligations to meet reasonable requests Ofce of Communications Act 2002 to provide a single, seamless to supply certain services to other communications providers, approach to regulating the entire communications market.
Its not to discriminate unduly and to notify price changes and principal duties are to further the interests of citizens in relation obligations relating to regulatory accounting.
In some cases, to communications matters and to further the interests of extra obligations such as price controls have also been imposed.
consumers in relevant markets, where appropriate by promoting Following a number of market reviews by Ofcom, BT has been competition.
deemed to have SMP in certain xed telecommunications Regulation takes the form of sets of conditions, mostly laid markets, including all or parts of the markets for: xed down by Ofcom under the Communications Act 2003 narrowband retail services, xed narrowband wholesale exchange Communications Act, and directions under these conditions.
20 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1121309863 lines, call origination and conveyance, wholesale broadband quarter ended 30 September 2006, compared with 39% for the access and wholesale local access.
We supplied around 71% of During the 2007 financial year, Ofcom determined that we no exchange lines in the UK for the quarter ended 30 September longer have SMP in any of the wholesale international services 2006, compared with 78% for the quarter ended 30 September markets, and our pricing commitment on wholesale calls ended.
2005, with cable operators being the primary alternative Ofcom is currently conducting a market review of wholesale providers.
broadband access markets and is also planning to carry out market reviews of the leased lines market, and xed narrowband Competition law wholesale services and xed narrowband retail services, in the In addition to communications industry-specic regulation, BT is 2008 financial year.
subject to the competition law provisions of the Competition Act 1998 the Competition Act in the UK and of the European BTs Undertakings under the Enterprise Act Community Treaty.
Breach of UK or EU rules could lead to fines The key Undertakings given by BT are to: of up to 10% of a companys worldwide revenue in its previous financial year and or claims for damages in national courts.
A r establish Openreach company may also be ordered to cease an infringing activity.
We r deliver equivalence of input for key wholesale products, and are also subject to national competition rules in Europe and increased transparency for others elsewhere.
r introduce new rules on access to, and sharing of, certain In 2004, Ofcom launched an investigation into allegations restricted information that BT had abused a dominant position in relation to its pricing r restrict the exercise of inuence by other parts of BT on the of consumer broadband products.
Ofcom sent BT three commercial policy of both Openreach and parts of BT statements of objection to which we responded, arguing that Wholesale our pricing does not amount to an abuse of dominance.
Ofcom r ensure fair access and migration to our 21CN for other is expected to issue a decision in 2007. communications providers r publish and make available to all BT people a code of practice Pricing regulation explaining what they must do to comply with the Following a review in 2006 of retail price controls covering Undertakings public-switched telephony services, Ofcom concluded that the r create an Equality of Access Board to monitor, report and retail price control which ended on 31 March 2006 would not advise on BTs compliance with the Undertakings and the code be replaced.
BT is therefore no longer subject to retail price of practice.
The EAB was established on 1 November 2005. controls on these services.
Other services continue to be subject The EAB Annual Report 2007 which does not form part of to price controls: this report is available online at www.
com eabreport r Network charge control: We operate under interconnection The Undertakings include a number of requirements agreements with most other operators.
Our charges for a some have specic dates for delivery and others are ongoing.
range of interconnect services are controlled by Ofcom, under At 31 March 2007, we had met most of the relevant the NCC network charge control regime.
These controls are requirements with a few exceptions, two of which the EAB designed to ensure that our charges are reasonably derived reported as non-trivial.
from costs, plus an appropriate return on capital employed.
Depending on the degree of competition, charges are capCompetition controlled each year by RPI minus X for services Ofcom Competition and the UK economy considers unlikely to become competitive in the near future, The growth of mobile telephony over the past decade has been and safeguard cap-controlled ie no increases above RPI for a major factor in shaping the UKs telecommunications landscape services likely to become competitive.
X is a number specic and VoIP has also taken off in the past two years.
Mobile now to a particular market, indicating the permitted change in accounts for around 41% of total UK voice minutes.
The mobile controlled prices relative to the rate of ination.
The current and xed-line markets are currently treated as separate and NCC period began on 1 October 2005 and will last until regulated differently.
Market share was previously modelled using data from BT must notify Ofcom and other operators if it intends to internal and external sources.
For consistency with the external amend existing charges or offer new services.
market and compliance with our equivalence obligations, we are r Partial private circuit charge control: PPCs partial private reporting market shares based on the latest available information circuits are leased lines that BT sells to other network reported by Ofcom, which is for the period ended 30 September operators.
On 1 October 2004, Ofcom introduced a PPC 2006. charge control to replace the annual determinations On this basis, BTs share of the residential xed-voice calls previously carried out by Oftel.
The control is a four-year, market dened as including local, national and international three-part RPI-X formula covering low and high bandwidth minutes declined to 53% for the quarter ended 30 September services and equipment.
2006, compared with 58% for the quarter ended 30 September 2005.
CPS carrier pre-selection has been the main contributor Ofcom is planning to carry out a review of the financial to the loss of share in the xed-voice market.
framework of Openreach, which will include looking at pricing BT had 38% of the market for business xed-voice calls and costs.
The review will start during 2007. dened as including local, national and international for the BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 21 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:22 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 2107810817 Report of the Directors Business review Non-UK regulation RELATIONSHIP WITH HM GOVERNMENT BT must comply with the regulatory regimes in the countries in The UK Government, collectively, is our largest customer, but which we operate and this can have a material impact on our the provision of services to any one of its departments or business.
agencies does not comprise a material proportion of our revenue.
Except as described below, the commercial relationship European Union between BT as a supplier and the UK Government as customer Regulation in each country within the EU is conducted within has been on a normal customer and supplier basis.
the regulatory framework determined by EU directives, We can, however, be required by law to do certain things and regulations and recommendations.
The manner and speed with provide certain services for the UK Government.
General which directives have been implemented vary from country to conditions made under the Communications Act require all country and national regulators are working together in the providers of public telephone networks and or publicly available European Regulators Group to introduce greater harmonisation telephone services, including BT, at the request of and in in their approach to the assessment of SMP and the imposition consultation with the authorities, to make, and if necessary of appropriate remedies.
implement, plans for the provision or restoration of services in BT does not have universal service obligations outside the UK, connection with disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 although in certain member states we may be required to contains provisions enabling obligations to be imposed on contribute towards an industry fund to pay for the cost of providers of public electronic communications networks, meeting universal service obligations in those countries.
including BT, in connection with civil contingency planning.
In Following the European Commissions formal investigation addition, the Secretary of State has statutory powers to require into the way the UK Government set BTs property rates and us to take certain actions in the interest of national security and those paid by Kingston Communications, and whether the international relations.
Government complied with European Community Treaty rules on state aid, the Commission concluded that no such state aid had LEGAL PROCEEDINGS been granted.
The Commissions decision has now been BT does not believe that there are any pending legal appealed, but we continue to believe that any allegation of state proceedings which would have a material adverse effect on the aid is groundless, and that the appeal will not succeed.
financial position or operations of the group.
There have been criminal proceedings in Italy against 21 Rest of the world defendants, including a former BT employee, in connection with The vast majority of the markets in which we operate around the Italian UMTS universal mobile telecommunications system the world are regulated, and in most of these we have to meet auction.
Blu, in which BT held a minority interest, participated in certain conditions and obtain licences or other authorisations.
On 20 July 2005, the former BT employee The degree to which these markets are liberalised varies widely.
was found not culpable of the fraud charge brought by the Our ability to compete fully in some countries is therefore Rome Public Prosecutor.
All the other defendants were also constrained.
The Public Prosecutor is in the process of appealing We continue to press incumbent operators and their national the courts decision.
If the appeal is successful, BT could be held regulatory authorities around the world including the EU for liable, with others, for any damages.
We have concluded that it cost-related wholesale access to their networks where would not be appropriate to make a provision in respect of any appropriate.
Other significant changes and issues RESOURCES Wholesale broadband pricing Corporate reputation and brand strength We have had discussions with Ofcom about how we might BT has a strong, integrated brand that is widely recognised both ensure price-related protection for broadband consumers in in the UK and around the world.
According to global branding parts of the UK where wholesale broadband competition is less organisation, Superbrands, BT has the fourth strongest brand in likely to develop in the next few years.
The aim is to balance our the UK, up from twenty first a year ago.
Superbrands, which need to be competitive in the wholesale broadband market publishes a list of the leading 500 brands in the UK, judges while recognising that emerging LLU operators require a period companies on quality, reliability and distinction.
of stability in order to establish a sustainable business.
As a Our brand helps to shape our relationships with all our result, we have agreed a series of detailed ceiling and oor stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, suppliers and pricing commitments for certain mass market wholesale employees.
It is vital that they all have a clear understanding of broadband products BT IPStream and the proposed Wholesale what BT stands for, and that all their interactions with us Broadband Connect service.
The commitment on price oors contribute to a consistently positive image of BT.
ends on 1 July 2009, and on 31 December 2010 for price As a vital asset, the BT brand needs to be developed, ceilings.
protected and managed with the same rigour that we bring to other assets, both tangible and intangible.
And as the world and Funds for liabilities the markets in which we operate change, so our brand needs to Under the terms of the Electronic Communications Code, an reect this, becoming more confident, dynamic and forward electronic communications provider with apparatus on or in the looking.
public highway is required to make financial provision to cover Our vision for BT is to be dedicated to helping customers any damage caused by work it carries out, and for the removal thrive in a changing world.
of its network in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy.
Our mission is to be the leader in delivering converged The conditions require the company to provide Ofcom networked services.
annually with a certicate that, in the opinion of its board of By ensuring that the services we offer customers are directors, it has fullled its obligations to ensure the availability consistently focused on meeting their needs, straightforward and of the required funds.
22 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:23 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 451393527 easy to use, we will help those customers succeed in their taken into account in any decisions affecting employees business and personal lives.
We also operate a pan-European works council the BTECC.
Our Chief Executive and other senior executives have regular meetings with the BTECC and other employee representatives.
Rewarding and recognising achievement We continued to provide our employees with opportunities to acquire a stake in the company.
Under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan ESIP, BT can provide free shares to employees We are committed to contributing positively to society and a sustainable future.
and employees can buy shares in BT from their pre-tax salaries.
This is part of the heart of BT.
In the 2007 financial year, 25 million was allocated to provide free shares to employees under the ESIP.
Employees Our brand values are implicit in our new advertising strap line outside the UK received the same award of shares where Bringing it all together which captures both what we can do practicable: otherwise, they will receive cash equivalent to the for customers helping them make the most of the possibilities value of the shares.
This allocation of profits was linked to the of converged communications and our commitment to acting as achievement of corporate performance measures determined by a single BT team.
From the 2008 financial year, the award of free shares under the ESIP will be replaced by free BT Total Motivating our people and living the BT values Broadband Option 3 for all BT employees in the UK.
At 31 March 2007, BT employed 106,204 people worldwide Employees can also buy shares at a discount under our 101,701 in Europe, the Middle East and Africa: 3,688 in the savings-related share option plan.
Americas: and 815 in the Asia Pacic region.
Our commitment More than 93% of eligible employees participate in one or to meeting our customers needs means that every one of these more of these plans.
employees has opportunities to develop innovative solutions, generate new business, drive efficiencies and experience Learning now and in the future personal growth.
We believe that people, particularly at the start of their careers, Our aim is to create a team of high-performing, engaged and will increasingly want to work for companies that commit to the motivated people who can make a difference for customers, long-term development of their employees.
shareholders, the company and themselves.
Only by living our Our successful company-wide re-accreditation to Investors in values will we deliver our strategy, keep our promises to our People in February 2005, first achieved in 1998, demonstrates customers, seize new opportunities in new markets and maximise our continuing commitment to the effective alignment of our the return from our traditional business.
communications, training and development with our business strategy.
Motivating leaders We have created a learning governance model to ensure our The quality of leadership in BT is key to the successful delivery learning and development objectives and practice align with the of our strategy for transformation and growth.
We are focused key strategic objectives of the business.
Senior learning and on ensuring that leaders at all levels understand what is development representatives form the Learning Council, a body expected of them, have access to appropriate development which provides strategic and operational guidance for the whole of BT to ensure that all learning and development activity is coopportunities and are able to benchmark their performance against that of their peers.
ordinated across all lines of business.
We have, for example, rigorously dened the capabilities we R2L Route2learn, our web-based, group-wide learning expect our leaders to exhibit and have introduced a 360 degree portal, is evidence of our continuing investment in lifelong feedback tool to help them measure their performance.
In the learning and education for all BT people.
Providing all BT 2007 financial year, we conducted extensive research into the employees with an extensive range of learning programmes and capabilities of our leaders to support focused investment in their facilities, it is one of the largest corporate learning management systems in Europe.
In the 2007 financial year, R2L delivered over 310,000 online Engaging and motivating our people and 21,400 instructor-led completed courses.
Our annual employee attitude survey was conducted most recently in February 2007 and attracted a 74% response rate Embedding exibility and diversity over 78,000 responses.
The survey generates around 5,000 The changing nature of the markets in which we operate, our feedback reports for managers and their teams across the focus on cost leadership and our investment in new services all business, helping to promote effective team working.
Employees are kept informed about our business through a In the UK during the 2007 financial year, 6,391 people joined wide range of communications channels, including our online BT 2006: more than 6,600, natural attrition was running at 4% news service, bi-monthly newspaper, regular e-mail bulletins and 2006: 3% and 2,151 people left BT under our voluntary leaver senior management webchats and webcast briengs.
We have a record of stable industrial relations and enjoy The ability to support exibility and agile working practices is generally constructive relationships with recognised unions in the a key benefit of many of the products and services we offer UK and works councils elsewhere in Europe.
In the UK, we customers and is fundamental to our own employment practices.
recognise two main trade unions the Communication Workers Agile working is well established in our UK operations where Union and Connect.
We hold regular meetings between around 10,400 employees work from home and is increasingly management, employee trade union representatives and other important in our global operations.
In Budapest, for example, groups of employees in order to ensure that their views are BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 23 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:23 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1692042328 Report of the Directors Business review the introduction of exible working arrangements eliminated the EMP equivalence management platform that is helping need to acquire additional ofce space.
Openreach to serve its customers.
We continue to work to create an inclusive working During the financial year, we continued the radical environment in which employees can thrive regardless of their rationalisation of the BT systems estate through our One IT race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership programme, which aims to deliver year-on-year reductions in status, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender base costs at the same time as improving speed to market and expression or caring responsibilities.
In particular, the resources of the One IT programme people, processes and technology Pensions are focused on ensuring that customers have rapid access to the Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension Scheme products and services they want.
a dened benefit scheme or the BT Retirement Plan a money By eliminating duplication and outmoded systems, we have purchase scheme, both of which are controlled by independent closed down around 700 IT systems in BT in the past two trustees.
The BT Pension Scheme was closed to new members on financial years, just over 500 of them in the 2007 financial year 31 March 2001.
The majority of new employees are eligible to alone.
join the BT Retirement Plan.
See Pensions in the Financial We have invested in a three-year plan to develop an review on page 46 innovative and exible systems architecture for BT, based on re-usable capabilities, and able to support a wide range of Health and safety applications.
In the first year of the programme, we launched The health and safety of our people is of paramount importance around 60 core components of this new architecture.
and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on During the 2007 financial year, around 3,000 of our IT behavioural change.
In the 2007 financial year, we concentrated professionals moved to customer-facing roles working with BT our health promotion activities on mental well-being impaired Global Services, 2,500 people received a range of skills training mental health is our single greatest cause of lost time and to help meet future demand, bringing the two-year total to productivity.
Our sickness absence rate rose slightly in the year, 7,500.
In addition, we set up nine professional communities in line with the CBI average 2.43% of calendar days were lost an industry-wide, best practice way of organising professionals but is 22% lower than four years ago.
During the 2007 according to their skills in order to maximise organisational financial year, we reduced our accident rate by 10% to 2.4 lost effectiveness and contribute to individual development.
time incidents per million working hours at 31 March 2007.
Property Research and development At 31 March 2007, we occupied approximately 6,500 properties The GCTO Group Chief Technology Ofce sets and drives the in the UK and approximately 1,500 properties in the rest of the open innovation and technology strategy for BT.
a global technology intelligence scouting unit, teams focused on The majority of these UK properties are owned by and innovative new wave service opportunities, an innovation leased back from the Telereal Group, which is part of the strategy and media team, strategic technology analysis units, a William Pears Group.
network and systems architecture team and leading research and These properties mainly house exchange equipment and are venturing facilities in Adastral Park England, Malaysia and the needed as part of our continuing activities.
purpose properties consist chiey of ofces, depots and In the 2007 financial year, we invested 1,119 million in R&D computer centres.
research and development to support our drive for innovation.
We anticipate that our changing working patterns will This investment comprised capitalised software development continue to reduce property costs.
costs of 741 million and R&D operating costs of 378 million.
This compares with 870 million in the 2006 financial year, which comprised 544 million of capitalised software OUR COMMITMENT TO SOCIETY development costs and 326 million of R&D operating costs.
Corporate social responsibility We continue to focus our innovation work on key areas which Managing social, ethical and environmental issues in a way that support our business and technology strategies, ling patent grows shareholder value, builds our brand and helps us and our applications for 162 new inventions in the 2007 financial year customers become more sustainable is very important to us.
and maintaining a total worldwide portfolio of 8,150 patents This section, together with the broad statement on social, and applications.
environmental and ethical matters on page 69, conforms to the We have successfully launched eight innovative, independent Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social start-up companies through the corporate venturing partnership responsibility.
More detailed information about our social, ethical unit New Venture Partners, in which we are a limited partner.
and environmental performance is available in our independently Two further propositions are currently in incubation.
These startveried 2007 Sustainability Report at www.
com betterworld ups generate value by launching innovative solutions as highWe invest significant resources in our CSR programmes and it technology businesses in the global marketplace.
is vital that we continue to be forward looking and responsible in our everyday operations and maintain our reputation for IT support excellence.
For a number of years we have measured the link Our dedicated IT professionals have a strong track record in the between customer satisfaction and CSR performance.
Customers development and delivery of systems and solutions and in who believe that BT takes its responsibility to society seriously managing a secure and resilient infrastructure.
In addition to the are 49% more likely to be very or extremely satisfied with BT.
work for 21CN, significant systems development effort in the During the 2007 financial year, BT was ranked as the top 2007 financial year was focused on providing support for telecommunications company in the Dow Jones Sustainability Openreachs operations.
Specically, our IT teams delivered the Index for the sixth year in a row.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank companies for their success in managing social, 24 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:24 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -634497089 ethical and environmental issues for competitive advantage.
We childs call for help is answered.
In the 2007 financial year, we also hold the Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of our raised 2 million for ChildLine and also raised money for contribution to sustainable development, and in the 2006 07 There4Me, an online counselling service for children run by the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility, NSPCC.
We also helped Comic Relief, Sport Relief and Children in Environment and Community indexes, BT is one of only four Need run successful telethons which raised over 80 million for companies out of 100 to score over 95% on all six dimensions.
good causes around the globe.
We were also named for the first time as the leading corporate In the 2007 financial year, as part of our Better World organisation for sustainability reporting in a survey published by campaign, we launched our first global development partnership SustainAbility, in association with UNEP United Nations with UNICEF.
Community projects to bring education, ICT Environment Programme and Standard & Poors.
information and communications technology and communications skills to disadvantaged children will initially CSR Strategy focus on South Africa, to be followed by Brazil and China in During the 2007 financial year, the implementation of our subsequent years.
BT is investing 1.5 million over three years revised CSR strategy, which was discussed and agreed by the and this will be enhanced by fundraising activities by our Board, was a top priority.
There are four key strands to this employees around the world.
strategy: maintaining current momentum, tackling climate We recognise that we have a responsibility to the environment change, enabling sustainable economic growth and enabling a and we continue actively to manage our waste reduction and more inclusive society all issues to which we believe we can recycling.
During the 2007 financial year, we received an income make a positive contribution.
of 4.5 million from our recycling activities, offset against the 5.2 million we spent managing our waste contracts, recycling Maintaining current momentum our waste and sending waste to landll.
CSR touches every part of our business from the way we interact with our customers, suppliers and partners, look after Waste our people, give back to communities and support charities such 2004 2005 2006 2007 as ChildLine and UNICEF, right through to our practical concern for the environment.
Total waste tonnes 107,303 110,622 102,005 94,928 We commit a minimum of 1% of our UK pre-tax profits to Total waste recycled tonnes 27,626 37,421 42,340 40,007 activities which support society.
We provided a total of % recycled 26% 34% 42% 42% 22 million designed to benefit society in the 2007 financial year, of which 3 million was charitable donations.
Our key performance indicator for a number of years has been based on Tackling climate change our contribution.
In the 2007 financial year, we added a new BT is currently responsible for over 0.7% of the UKs total indicator to measure the effectiveness of our investment.
electricity consumption so we are well placed to make a Our community investment strategy aims to help individuals significant contribution by actively reducing our carbon and communities make a better world through improved emissions.
In fact, we have been actively managing our UK CO 2 communications skills and technology.
A key strand of this is our emissions for a number of years they are currently 60% below Better World campaign which has brought together our their 1996 levels.
However, given the scale of the climate education programme which provides free resources for change challenge we face, we have committed to achieving an teachers, pupils and parents and in-school activities with drama 80% reduction in CO emissions from our 1996 baseline by 2 groups and BT volunteers, both in the UK and internationally 2016. and other activities for young people.
To date, we have involved As we transform our business and increasingly provide over three million pupils at more than 12,000 schools.
innovative new wave services, our energy consumption could ChildLine, a UK charity, receives 4,500 calls every day but increase as a result, for example, of the growth in our data lack of funds means that many hundreds go unanswered.
Consequently, we have conducted an audit of the working with ChildLine on a campaign to ensure that every energy consumption of these data centres and are implementing CSR Global partnerships A student from the Mantshinga Combined School, Brian Armstrong, General Manager, Middle East and Africa, South Africa with students from the Mantshinga Combined School, South Africa Working together BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 25 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:25 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -36349496 Report of the Directors Business review energy saving recommendations.
We will also be helping and We believe that an inclusive approach to product design is good encouraging our customers, employees and suppliers to play for customers and good for business.
We are proud, for their part and this includes encouraging our suppliers to develop example, of our reputation for developing products that can be products that emit lower levels of carbon.
And we have used by all our customers, regardless of age or ability.
For launched a website to enable people to calculate their carbon example, we offer a wide range of phones with accessible footprint www.
Our Age and Disability Action team works to raise The renewal of our green energy contract until 2010 means awareness within BT of the importance of inclusive design in that approximately 50% of our electricity needs in the UK will services ranging from billing to broadband and has been working be met by renewable sources and 50% from combined heat and with The Centre for Inclusive Technology and Design on the power.
development of a toolkit to help designers and others involved The following table shows BTs CO emissions as dened in in product development, and to produce a general guide for 2 the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and therefore includes not only the inclusive design for businesses.
CO emitted directly by BT, but also that emitted in the 2 production of the electricity purchased by us.
CSR Risks For a number of years we have maintained a CSR risk register.
CO emissions During the 2007 financial year, we continued to develop our 2 knowledge and understanding of our CSR risks.
Our most 2004 2005 2006 2007 significant CSR risks continue to be: Total UK only million tonnes 0.94 0.76 0.64 0.64 r breach of the code of business ethics % below 1996 42% 53% 60% 60% r climate change Tonnes per 1m turnover 50 41 33 31 r diversity Our Chief Executive, Ben Verwaayen, chairs the CBIs climate r health and safety change task force, which has been established to set the agenda r outsourcing for businesss approach to climate change and will make wider privacy ranging recommendations to the UK Government, the CBI and r supply chain working conditions.
Each of these risks has an owner and a mitigation strategy in Enabling sustainable economic growth place.
These risks are not regarded as material in relation to the Enabling growth that benets society in both the developed group and consequently are not included in Group risk factors.
and developing worlds within environmental limits is a new area of focus for BT.
In the 2008 financial year, we will be CSR opportunities integrating sustainability into our business processes such as The increasing importance of sustainability issues both inside and product and proposition development.
As part of this outside BT is leading to a much greater focus on the programme, we are also looking at the issue of obsolescence in opportunities that CSR provides as well as the risks that need to the ICT industry.
This is not only in relation to building competitive advantage by growing our brand and reputation for CSR, but Enabling a more inclusive society also in terms of commercial marketplace opportunities.
We believe that ICT has a role to play in creating a more We believe that ICT has a positive role to play as part of the inclusive society, helping everyone get a fair chance.
Work on solution as individuals and organisations look for more this part of our CSR strategy is at an early stage, but we are sustainable ways of communicating, working and living.
looking at: We are planning to offer our business customers a carbon audit which will measure their carbon footprint and explore ways r what we need to do to build up our digital inclusion activities in which the use of ICT can reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in the UK to help even more people get online.
For a number Products such as remote working and teleconferencing, for of years, our key performance indicator for digital inclusion example, play an important part in creating sustainable related to levels of broadband penetration.
stand at more than 99.9%, we have introduced a new target: to reduce the number of digitally excluded people in the UK from 36% to 32.4% a reduction of 10% in three years.
r involving less advantaged and minority groups in ICT-enabled work r which new markets services give all members of society the same freedom and opportunities to communicate r helping the voluntary and charity sectors to become more effective through the application of ICT r working with partners and customers to release the power of diversity within our supply chain.
26 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:26 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 284796309 GROUP RISK FACTORS Reduction in our share of the xed-network market may lead to In common with all businesses, BT is affected by a number of a fall in our revenue and an adverse effect on profitability.
risk factors, not all of which are wholly within our control.
Unlike our competitors, we continue to be obliged by the Although many of the risk factors inuencing our performance current regulatory regime to provide certain services to are macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance of customers in the UK, whether or not such provision of service is businesses generally, others are particular to our operations.
This section highlights some of those particular risks but it is There is also competition for voice and data trafc volumes not intended to be an extensive analysis of all risks affecting the between xed-network operators and those operators offering business.
Some risks may be unknown to us and other risks, VoIP and mobile services.
currently regarded as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
The impact of all these factors may be to accelerate the All of them have the potential to impact our business, revenue, diversion of our more profitable customers without being able to profits, assets, liquidity and capital resources adversely.
reduce our costs commensurately, which may cause adverse They should also be considered in connection with the effects on our business, results of operations, financial condition statement on Internal control and risk management on page and prospects.
71, the forward-looking statements in this document and the Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Technological advances on page 158.
Our continued success depends on our ability to exploit new technology rapidly.
Regulatory controls We operate in an industry with a recent history of rapid If our activities are subject to significant price and other technological changes and we expect this to continue new regulatory controls, our market share, competitive position and technologies and products will emerge, and existing technologies future profitability may be affected.
and products will develop further.
Most of BTs wholesale xed-network activities in the UK are We need continually to exploit next-generation technologies subject to significant regulatory controls.
The controls regulate, in order to develop our existing and future services and among other things, the prices we may charge for many of our products.
services and the extent to which we have to provide services to However, we cannot predict the actual impact of these future our competitors.
In recent years, the effect of these controls has technological changes on our business or our ability to provide been to cause us to reduce our prices.
We cannot assure our competitive services.
shareholders that the regulatory authorities will not increase the For example, there is evidence of substitution by customers severity of the price controls, nor extend the services to which using mobile phones for day-to-day voice calls in place of controls apply including any new services that we may offer in making such calls over the xed network and of calls being the future, nor extend the services which we have to provide to routed over the internet in place of the traditional switched our competitors.
These controls may adversely affect our market network.
share, the severity of competition and our future profitability.
In If these trends accelerate, our xed-network assets may be response to Ofcoms strategic review of telecommunications, we used uneconomically and our investment in these assets may not proposed a number of legally binding Undertakings under the be recovered through profits on xed-network calls and line Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings were accepted by rentals.
Ofcom and came into force in September 2005.
In the case of a The complexity of the 21CN programme, and the risk that our breach of the Undertakings, Ofcom has the right to seek an major suppliers fail to meet their obligations, may result in injunction through the courts or issue a direction.
Third parties delays to the delivery of the expected benets.
Impairment who suffer losses as a result of the breach may also take action write-downs may be incurred and margins may decline if xed against BT in the courts for damages.
The timescales for costs cannot be reduced in line with falling revenue.
achievement of a number of the milestones in the Undertakings are very challenging.
Further details on the regulatory Transformation strategy framework in which BT operates can be found in Regulation, Our strategy for transformation includes the targeting of competition and prices on page 20. significant growth in new wave business areas.
This may result in changes to our products, services, markets and culture.
If this Competition in UK xed-network services transformation strategy is unsuccessful there is a risk that future We face strong competition in UK xed-network services.
Ofcom revenue and profitability will decline.
considers that we have significant market power in various parts In particular, we have targeted significant growth in new of the UK xed telecommunications market.
In these areas business areas, such as networked IT services, broadband and Ofcom can enforce obligations to meet reasonable requests to mobility.
In view of the likely level of competition and supply services to other communications providers, not to uncertainties regarding the level of economic activity, there can discriminate unduly, to notify price changes and in some cases it be no certainty that we will meet our growth targets in these can also impose extra obligations such as price controls.
areas, with a consequential impact on future revenue and Ofcom has promoted competition in the xed-network area profitability.
by measures including local loop unbundling, carrier We have announced a new organisational structure to help pre-selection making it easier for BT customers to route some deliver faster, more resilient and more cost-effective services to or all of their calls over our competitors networks and the all our customers wherever they are.
Failure to complete this introduction of wholesale access products.
programme of organisational change may reduce our competitiveness, with a consequential impact on our future revenue and profitability.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 27 Report of the Directors Business Filename: 51384 03.3d Time: 15:17:26 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 1451166572 Report of the Directors Business review Major contracts of factors outside our control could have a material adverse Our business may be adversely affected if we fail to perform on effect on the business and our results from operations, including major contracts.
We have a business continuity strategy We have entered into a number of complex and high-value in place, designed to deal with such catastrophic events networked IT services contracts with customers.
Our pricing, cost including, for example, major terrorist action, industrial action, and profitability estimates for major contracts generally include extreme computer virus attack, hurricane or ooding.
A failure anticipated long-term cost savings that we expect to achieve to deliver that strategy may result in a material loss and there over the life of the contract.
can be no assurance that material adverse events will not occur.
These estimates are based on our best judgment of the efficiencies we plan to deploy.
Any increased costs, delays or Pensions failures to achieve the anticipated savings could make these Declining investment returns and longer life expectancy may contracts less profitable or loss making, adversely impacting our result in the cost of funding BTs dened benefit pension profit margins.
scheme becoming a significant burden on our financial In some cases, our products and services incorporate software resources.
or system requirements from other suppliers or service providers.
As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation of the BTPS at Our ability to meet our commitments in a timely manner may 31 December 2005, BT agreed to make annual deficiency depend on the ability of these suppliers and service providers to payments of 280 million over ten years.
The first three meet their obligations.
Failure to manage and meet our instalments have been paid up front with 520 million paid in commitments under these contracts may lead to a reduction in the 2007 financial year and a further 320 million was paid in our future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
The results of future scheme valuations will be impacted by Networks and systems failures the future performance of investment markets, interest and Our business depends on our ability to transfer substantial ination rates and the general trend towards longer life volumes of data speedily and without interruption.
Any expectancy, as well as regulatory changes, all of which are significant failure or interruption of such data transfer as a result outside our control.
28 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 04.3d Time: 15:17:33 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: 178222539 Report of the Directors Financial review The financial results for the 2007, 2006 and 2005 financial years reect the continued strong growth in new wave services as we drive value from transforming the business.
9 Business review Financial review 30 Introduction to the Financial review Financial review 49 Corporate governance 31 Summarised group income statement 32 Group results 33 Line of business results for 2007 and 2006 34 BT Global Services 35 BT Retail 36 BT Wholesale 37 Openreach 38 Line of business results for 2006 and 2005 38 BT Global Services 38 BT Retail 39 BT Wholesale 40 Other operating income 40 Operating costs 40 Specic items 41 Operating profit 41 Net finance expense 42 Associates and joint ventures 42 profit before taxation 42 Taxation 42 Earnings per share 42 Dividends 42 Share buyback 42 Business transformation 43 Financing 44 Treasury policy 44 Off-balance sheet arrangements 44 Capital resources 45 Financial risk management 45 Capital expenditure 46 Acquisitions 46 Balance sheet 46 Return on capital employed 46 Pensions 47 Geographical information 47 Critical accounting policies 47 US GAAP 47 US GAAP developments Please see Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements on page 158.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 29
