Business and financial review ESAB ESABs comprehensive range of welding consumables includes electrodes, cored and solid wires and fluxes.
ESABs welding equipment ranges from small retail uses to large plant in the energy and shipbuilding sectors.
ESABs sales are split broadly evenly between the developed economies of Western and Northern Europe and North America, and the developing economies of Central, Eastern and Southern Europe, South America and Asia.
ESAB derives over 80 per cent of its sales from welding consumables and equipment and the remainder from cutting and automation solutions.
ESABs manufacturing facilities are located predominantly in low cost locations, in particular in Central and Eastern Europe, South America and Asia.
ESAB has invested heavily in new capacity in China to meet the needs of domestic customers as well as supplying other parts of the world.
Further growth will come through ESAB increasing its sales of welding consumables, particularly in emerging economies, and increasing the range and market penetration of its equipment and automation businesses, which it will do through a combination of organic growth and acquisition.
Submerged arc welding of a wind tower.
10 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 ESAB is a world-leading international welding and cutting company.
It formulates, develops, manufactures and supplies consumable products and equipment for use in the cutting and joining of steels, aluminium and metal alloys.
Revenue for the year was 970.8 million 2006: 828.4 million, 2007 highlights ESAB spread broadly equally between developed and emerging markets, an increase of 17.2 per cent 19.1 per cent at 2006 2007 restated 1 Increase constant exchange rates.
m m % Welding 813.1 698.6 16.4 ESAB achieved an operating profit in 2007 of 126.6 million Cutting and automation 157.7 129.8 21.5 2006: 102.1 million, an increase of 24.0 per cent 24.2 per cent at constant exchange rates.
Cutting and automation 14.1 10.7 31.8 ESABs cutting and automation business achieved increased Operating profit 126.6 102.1 24.0 margins and finished 2007 with a record order book.
Share of profits of associates During the year ESAB made four acquisitions: post tax 3.0 4.3 Additional shares in ESAB India, taking its holding from 37 per cent to 56 per cent: Capital expenditure 40.0 20.6 Air Liquides Argentine welding business: Depreciation 11.2 10.5 Electrodi Ihtiman, the leading Bulgarian manufacturer Operating margin 13.0% 12.3% of welding electrodes: and Employees 7,860 6,788 ATAS, a cutting technology company in Germany.
1 the 2006 comparatives have been restated to reflect the change in accounting for post employment benefits ESAB completed its programme to increase capacity for the production of welding consumables by 20 per cent 90,000 tonnes by mid-2007 and expects to increase capacity by a further 10 per cent by mid-2008.
A new welding equipment factory in China is due to open in 2008.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 11 Business and financial review ESAB continued What does the ESAB brand stand for?
The ESAB brand, with its Swedish engineering heritage, is synonymous with good designs, reliability and over 100 years of experience since Oscar Kjellberg first invented the coated welding electrode back in 1904.
Since then, ESAB has become a world leader in welding and cutting with sales, technical support and know-how available across the world, providing customers with complete confidence.
Today, ESAB produces consumables and equipment for virtually every welding and cutting process and application.
ESABs subsidiaries and distributors work in partnership to find the optimum solution for customers businesses wherever in the world that may be and however large or small the requirement.
Overview of performance Major global end-user segments are: In 2007, ESAB recorded another excellent performance, with Shipbuilding and offshore industries, which are amongst sales of 970.8 million 2006: 828.4 million, an increase of the largest and most demanding users of both welding 17.2 per cent, and operating profit of 126.6 million 2006: and cutting products: 102.1 million, an increase of 24.0 per cent.
The operating margin improved to 13.0 per cent 2006: 12.3 per cent.
Construction, where welding plays an important role in the fabrication of commercial buildings, bridges, railways Out of the total sales growth of 17.2 per cent, 8.0 per cent and other infrastructure: came from consumables volume growth, 3.0 per cent from consumables product mix and price increases, 6.1 per cent Transport including automotive and mobile machinery, from the equipment, cutting and automation businesses and which requires technically demanding welding solutions 2.0 per cent from acquisitions, reduced by 1.9 per cent due within the highly automated production environments to currency impacts, in particular the US dollar.
This segment also includes off road vehicles such as excavators, dumpers and Volumes were up in all product groups, particularly welding agricultural equipment, which generally require high levels consumables and standard equipment, continuing the trend of welding: seen in the first half of the year with continued strength in demand from shipbuilding, oil and gas and other industries.
Pipelines and pipe mills, which is focused on the production Sales grew in each region, with a particularly strong and installation of oil and gas pipeline networks across performance in South America.
countries and continents, for example from Siberia to Europe: The increases in operating profit and margin achieved by ESAB The energy sector, which uses considerable quantities in 2007 reflect on-going operational improvements and high of welding consumables in the construction of energy levels of capacity utilisation throughout the year.
Wind towers are a rapidly growing sub-segment of the electricity generating The cutting and automation business recovered from its industry, the construction of which uses relatively high disappointing first half performance as it overcame the previously levels of welding consumables: and reported difficulties and produced an overall operating margin of 8.9 per cent for the year.
As at 31 December 2007, the Oil and gas and process industries, which includes order books stood at record levels.
refineries, petrochemicals, pulp and paper and food processing.
Equipment in these industries often operates Industries and segmentation in hostile environments that demand specialists materials, The global welding and cutting market is estimated to amount including stainless steels and specialist alloy materials to in excess of US $17 billion per annum.
In monetary terms, and require technically demanding welding solutions.
Europe and North America account for just under half of the global market, and are broadly matched by the more rapidly growing emerging markets of China and the rest of the world predominantly Asia.
The welding and cutting of steel and other metals takes place in many industries.
Although steel remains the most widely used metal, aluminium and high performance alloys are being increasingly used to construct sections of ships, offshore platforms and in the automotive industry.
12 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Global welding and cutting sales by region Global welding and cutting sales by end-user 1 Europe 1 Shipbuilding 8 1 2 North America 2 Offshore 2 1 3 South America 3 Construction 7 9 4 China 4 Automotive 3 6 5 Japan 5 Mobile machinery 6 India 6 Pipeline and pipe mills 5 7 Other Asia 7 Energy 4 8 All others 8 Oil, gas and process 8 2 4 5 9 All other 7 6 3 Source: ESAB estimates Source: ESAB estimates Industry overview ESAB aims to maintain and strengthen its competitive Demand position by being able to provide comprehensive, technically Demand for welding and cutting products is determined advanced and cost effective solutions to meet customers largely by worldwide consumption of steel and, to a lesser welding and cutting demands.
ESABs brand and its Swedish but growing extent, of other metals, such as aluminium and engineering heritage are important factors underpinning ESABs advanced alloys.
relationships with existing and new customers.
Given the relatively high costs of transporting welding and cutting The International Iron and Steel Institute IISI estimates that materials, the location of welding consumables and world production of crude steel in 2007 was 1,343.5 million equipment factories close to end-users can also be metric tonnes mmt, an increase of 7.5 per cent compared an important factor in maintaining competitiveness.
China produced 489.0 mmt 2006: 422.7 mmt, an increase of 15.7 per cent, and accounted for 36.4 per cent ESAB supply chain of global steel production 2006: 33.8 per cent.
The rest Manufacturing locations of the world increased production by 3.2 per cent.
The IISI ESAB has made considerable progress in relocating its estimates that the demand for steel will continue to grow manufacturing facilities to low cost locations, in particular at around 5 per cent per year in the medium term.
in Central Europe, China and Mexico.
Certain facilities remain in relatively high cost areas, which is justified by strategic ESAB estimates that worldwide consumption of weld metal reasons such as the availability of specific expertise.
in 2007 amounted to in excess of 4.4 mmt, annual growth of around 10 per cent, of which some 70 per cent was Following the success of the pilot programmes, ESAB has consumed in Asia.
Worldwide growth is expected to continue continued to roll out its Lean-manufacturing programme to all for the foreseeable future, led by increased consumption manufacturing sites in its organisation.
During the first half of in China and other emerging economies.
2008, initial focus is being directed to ESAB India and China.
ESAB will continue to focus on Lean initiatives to ensure that The welding market continues to experience process Lean principles are adopted throughout the organisation, conversion whereby end-users migrate from the use of to include applications in logistics and administration.
welding electrodes to higher productivity welding processes, which use continuous consumables such as welding wires.
During the year, ESAB completed an increase of around Whilst this conversion process is close to maturity in markets 20 per cent 90,000 tonnes in its welding consumables such as parts of Europe, North America and Japan, it will manufacturing capacity, which is mainly located in China, continue for the foreseeable future at varying rates within the Central Europe and South America.
Further increases worlds emerging markets, particularly in China and elsewhere in capacity are scheduled for the first half of 2008, including in Asia.
the planned opening of a new consumables factory in Weihai, China and a new equipment factory in Zhangjiagang, China.
Competitive environment ESABs manufacturing presence in low cost areas was ESAB operates in a competitive environment, consisting enhanced through the increase, during 2007, of its ownership of a relatively small number of companies that operate on of ESAB India.
a multinational basis and a much larger number of smaller companies which operate in regional or product niches.
ESAB estimates that it has an 11 per cent share, by value, of the global welding and cutting markets.
Globally, ESAB is the leading supplier of welding consumables.
In the welding and cutting markets as a whole, it is the clear industry leader outside North America where it ranks behind the two market leaders.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 13 Business and financial review ESAB continued ESAB and the environment As a world leader in the welding and cutting industry, ESAB is committed to continuously improving its environmental performance.
As a demonstration of its commitment to control its environmental impact, ESAB was the first company within the welding industry to achieve ISO 14001 certification.
A significant further step forward in 2007 was the external certification of ESABs management systems to OHSAS 18001.
Additional information on ESABs commitment to the environment is contained within the Corporate social responsibility report.
Raw materials Technical developments and new products The principal raw materials used in the manufacture of welding To assist ESAB in remaining at the forefront of the welding consumables are various grades of steel and to a lesser industry, a programme of continuous development of new extent, aluminium alloys, chemicals and minerals, most of welding products is undertaken, which reflect prevailing trends which are normally available on the open market.
However, in the global industry, in particular customers seeking higher certain of ESABs more specialised welding wires require productivity from a generally less skilled workforce and the bespoke orders from steel mills.
use of increasingly sophisticated materials to be joined by thinner and stronger welding material.
In the case of welding equipment, automation and cutting, the most significant items purchased are electronic components, Welding copper and aluminium alloys.
ESABs market-leading OK AristoRod series of solid wires has been further enhanced and now offers even higher Whilst energy costs are less significant than raw material costs welding quality.
The AristoRod product is used extensively in ESABs own manufacturing process, they are significant in robotic welding applications in industries such as costs in the production of steel, aluminium and copper, and shipbuilding and the automotive sector, where higher levels therefore indirectly impact upon the cost of goods sold.
of welding performance are being demanded.
Additionally, new flux products were developed for cladding applications Human resources and for the welding of pipe steels in spiral pipe production.
ESAB recognises that human resources are a key part of its supply chain.
ESABs policy is to attract, train and retain ESAB has introduced new welding equipment products management resources within the group, which includes related to the tungsten inert gas TIG welding process that the recruitment and training of shop floor personnel.
makes mechanised and orbital TIG welding easier.
ESAB has also expanded its AC DC TIG offering including a new range Intellectual property of TIG torches with remote control capabilities and has A key component of every welding electrode or cored wire launched the Friction Stir Welding FSW robot, which greatly is the formulation of the electrode coating or cored wire filling.
enhances the possibility of the FSW range.
This produces the unique welding properties of each individual product.
ESABs international development team has market The research and development facility in Chennai, India, for leading expertise and significant experience in these areas.
welding consumables, welding equipment and cutting systems Similarly, manufacturing process knowledge is critical to is now fully operational.
It employs some 15 research engineers achieving optimal product characteristics, as well as maximising and provides global support to ESABs businesses.
production efficiency, from which the customer benefits through superior products and lower manufacturing costs.
Cutting and automation In 2007, the principal cutting and automation developments ESAB is strongly focused on providing customers with focused on improving value and productivity for the end-user.
complete process solutions, and has built a number of These included the new Production Data Management process centres throughout the world where experienced software product for data linking the production to the welding engineers combine their knowledge with ESABs available planning systems.
broad range of welding and cutting products to develop the optimal solution for each customer.
ESAB also introduced the new AUTOREX facility, which is the first encapsulated production cell for quiet, clean plasma cutting.
The AUTOREX is below the limit of noise control regulations and eliminates the need for special noise control measures in the production environment.
14 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Map of manufacturing locations Europe ESABs production of welding consumables is concentrated Lax Dalsbruk in low cost locations in Central Europe.
The largest welding St Petersburg Gothenburg consumables plants are at Vamberk in the Czech Republic, Katowice in Poland and Mr in Hungary.
Increasingly, only Perstorp specialised consumables are manufactured within the Katowice Nordic region.
Opole Karben ESAB acquired the plant at Ihtiman in Bulgaria during 2007.
Vamberk This will be used to service welding consumables markets Mr in the Balkan region.
Mesero Ihtiman Standard equipment is manufactured at Lax in Sweden, Acquired October 2007 and in Opole in Poland.
Cutting equipment is manufactured at Karben in Germany and ESAB automated welding products are manufactured at Lax.
Regional overview of performance Regional markets ESABs revenue by destination is summarised in the table Europe below.
During 2007, ESAB once again experienced sales ESAB is the leading welding company in Europe, which remains growth in all five regions.
ESABs most important region, representing 48.9 per cent of its total sales during the year.
In 2007, sales to customers In 2007, ESABs sales were split broadly equally between in Western and Northern Europe broadly matched sales the developed economies of Western and Northern Europe to customers in Central, Eastern and Southern Europe.
and North America and the developing economies of Central, Southern and Eastern Europe, Asia and South America.
Within the Western and Northern European markets, there was generally solid growth with some notable performances from Germany and the UK, where sales grew by 17.4 and ESAB: revenue by destination 13.2 per cent respectively.
Sales to customers in Central, Eastern and Southern Europe grew faster, with particularly Increase at strong performances in Russia up 31.3 per cent and constant exchange Southern Europe up 23.0 per cent.
2007 2006 Increase rates m m %% Increased volumes were seen across all types of welding Europe 474.8 398.9 19.0 18.1 consumables, driven by sales to the shipbuilding, offshore North America 213.4 210.2 1.5 8.4 energy, pipelines and pipe mills and general industrial South America 137.2 106.2 29.2 29.2 segments.
Standard equipment sales performed strongly China 24.7 20.9 18.2 22.0 during the year.
The cutting and automation business also Rest of world 120.7 92.2 30.9 35.7 produced a strong increase in revenue compared to 2006.
Total 970.8 828.4 17.2 19.1 In October, ESAB completed the acquisition of Electrodi Ihtiman, the leading manufacturer of welding electrodes in Bulgaria.
ESAB intends to use the company as a platform from which to access the Balkan region.
ESAB also completed the purchase of ATAS, a German cutting technology business.
Consumables manufacturing capacity was added at the Vamberk plant in the Czech Republic and in Russia.
North America ESAB Group Inc recorded sales in North America of 213.4 million 2006: 210.2 million, an increase of 1.5 per cent.
This result was negatively impacted by the depreciation of the US dollar against sterling compared to 2006.
In US dollar terms, sales were some 8.4 per cent ahead of the previous year.
Operating profits were markedly ahead of 2006 in both sterling and local currency terms.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 15 Business and financial review ESAB continued Map of manufacturing locations China ESAB has invested heavily in establishing a manufacturing presence in China to supply both domestic and export markets.
ESABs principal consumables factory in China is located in Zhangjiagang.
This was opened in July 2006 and was fully commissioned during 2007.
Capacity is currently 57,000 tonnes and further capacity is in the process of being added.
A new Weihai - Consumables Opening 2008 consumables plant is under construction in Weihai, strategically located near to the rapidly growing Chinese shipbuilding industry.
Zhangjiagang - Consumables Shanghai - Cutting factory Zhangjiagang - Equipment ESAB is in the process of constructing a new equipment plant Opening 2008 in Zhangjiagang, which will supply a new mid-market range of welding equipment for sale in Asia and is expected to be completed in the first half of 2008.
ESAB has also established a cutting factory in Shanghai as a centre of excellence to service the Chinese and other Asian markets.
The growth in welding sales reflected a recovery from the ESABs cutting operation in China continued to perform well effects of the strike in 2006 and the underlying strength in during 2007, with a significant order being won for a shipyard demand from its principal end-user segments.
on a limited number of industrial segments in North America, Further expansion of ESABs welding consumables in particular naval shipbuilding, energy, infrastructure and rail manufacturing capacity is underway through the construction cars, which together accounted for around one-half of welding of a new consumables plant in Weihai to serve the Chinese consumables sales.
During the year, ESAB secured a key automotive contract ESAB also expects to complete a new equipment factory next benefiting the consumables businesses.
Progress in the to its existing consumables plant at Zhangjiagang in the first cutting business continued.
This will increase the competitiveness of the South America equipment offering in China and throughout the rest of Asia.
ESABs business in South America produced an excellent Rest of world result, with sales growing by some 29.2 per cent.
Operating Asia Pacific excluding China profit was also strongly ahead.
In 2007, ESAB performed well, mainly due to volume driven The increase in turnover was driven by demand from the sales growth from key shipbuilding, mining and offshore shipbuilding, power generation, mining and sugar and alcohol oil and gas customers, particularly in Singapore, Malaysia segments in Brazil and Argentina.
ESAB increased its manufacturing presence in the region with the expansion of its consumables plant Sales of Eutectic products, which are made under licence in Indonesia.
by ESAB in Brazil, increased markedly due to strong demand from the mining industry.
India ESAB increased its holding in ESAB India from 37.3 per cent ESABs presence in the region was strengthened through the to 55.6 per cent in September 2007, from which time it became acquisition of Air Liquides Argentine welding business in July.
a subsidiary and accordingly its results were fully consolidated.
Further capacity for the production of welding consumables and equipment is scheduled to be operational in the first half of 2008.
ESAB India produced another year of strong sales growth in both its consumables and equipment businesses, driven China by energy, heavy engineering and wind turbines.
2007 saw further progress in ESABs strategy of establishing a meaningful manufacturing and sales presence in the country.
A new equipment assembly factory was opened in Chennai during the year and further expansion is planned for the first ESAB has continued its dual sales strategy for China, with half of 2008. strong growth in both domestic and export sales.
Sales to customers in China were 24.7 million 2006: 20.9 million, an increase of 18.2 per cent 22.0 per cent in local currency terms.
Export sales increased by over 300 per cent.
16 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Acquisition of ESAB India In September 2007, ESAB increased its shareholding in ESAB India from 37.3 per cent to 55.6 per cent at which time it became a subsidiary.
ESAB India is the market leader in the Indian welding market, with manufacturing facilities located in Nagpur, Kolkata and Chennai, where a new equipment factory was opened in 2007 alongside the existing consumables plant.
Kolkata - Consumables Kolkata - Equipment ESAB believes that the Indian economy will continue to enjoy NagpurConsumables sustained growth, leading to further strong growth in the demand for welding products, particularly in the construction, transportation including automotive, energy and oil and gas industries.
Chennai - Consumables There is also the prospect of ESAB India supplying product Chennai - Equipment Opened 2007 to adjacent markets in the Indian sub-continent, Asia and East Africa.
Middle East and Africa In the Middle East, ESABs revenue has seen continued growth in 2007, led by increasing sales to the energy, construction and shipyard sectors in the UAE, Qatar and Saudi Arabia.
Associated undertakings ESABs share of the post tax profits of associates was 3.0 million 2006: 4.3 million, a decrease of 30.2 per cent.
ESAB India was accounted for as an associate until September 2007, from which time it was accounted for as a subsidiary.
ESABs only remaining associated undertaking is ESAB SeAH Corporation, situated in South Korea, of which ESAB owns 50 per cent.
