Business Review This Business Review, together with the Chairmans Statement, the Review by the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director set out on pages 3 to 15, and the Corporate Responsibility Report set out on pages 23 to 25, provides a fair review of the Groups business development, performance and position at the end of the financial year: its strategy and likely future developments: key performance indicators: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
GROUP OPERATIONS Chemring Group PLC is an international leader in expendable countermeasures and energetics, with manufacturing operations in the UK, the US, Europe and Australia.
Countermeasures The Group is the worlds leading producer of expendable decoy countermeasures for protecting air, sea and land platforms against guided missile threats.
Our countermeasures products can be categorised as follows: Air Countermeasures Conventional MTV Flares Special Material Decoys Chaff Naval Countermeasures RF Decoys IR Decoys 16 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 Energetics The Group is a centre of excellence for the design, development and production of energetic materials and sub-systems for military, OEM and safety customers.
Our energetics products can be categorised as follows: Pyrotechnics and Explosive Ordnance Disposal EOD Military Pyrotechnics Smoke and Flares Distraction and Screening Grenades Markers Smoke Payloads Battlefield Simulation Products Impulse Cartridges and Cartridge Activated Devices Demolition Stores RF and Hard-wired Electrical Initiators Percussion Initiators Detonators and Charges Minefield Clearance Systems Recoilless fide-armers Disrupters ROV Weapon Carriers Marine Pyrotechnics Smokes and Flares Rockets Line Throwers Aircrew Egress Rocket Propellant Canopy Cutting Charges Linear Explosives Cartridge Actuated Devices Munitions Energetics Sub-Systems Propellants and Rockets Fuze and Safe Arm Units Flight Termination Systems Pyro-mechanisms and Actuators Warheads and Charges Primersators and Explosive Chains Ammunition and Components Medium and Large Calibre Ammunition Fuzes Propellants Manufacture of Base High Explosives Insensitive HE Material CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 17 Business Review CONTINUED Energetics strategy STRATEGY We intend to expand our Energetics division, with new Group strategy acquisitions in both the US and Europe.
We will become the clear world leader in pyrotechnics by focused investment in The Group strategy remains focused on our two core new products and by consolidation of the market through sectors of operations - Countermeasures and Energetics.
We will build on our expertise in explosive ordnance disposal and will become the OUR VISION IS TO BE THE LEADING world leader in demolition stores, particularly targeting the PRODUCER OF COUNTERMEASURES US market.
We will also focus on becoming the preferred AND ENERGETIC MATERIALS FOR THE supplier of energetic materials to the key prime contractors GLOBAL DEFENCE MARKET.
in both the US and Europe for ammunition and missiles.
This will be achieved by investment in new products, by targeted Organic and acquisitive growth in competition against single source suppliers and by further three large Energetics markets acquisitions.
We will also maintain our position as the world leader in naval ammunition, and our focus as a prime 12 contractor in special niche markets that are complementary to those of our principal customers.
10 Our geographic strategy remains unchanged.
We intend to 8 manufacture in the US for the US market and in Europe for 6 the European market.
We will then use our excellent worldwide sales network to export from both the US and Market 4 Europe.
We will also develop our capabilities to bundle third growth party products and offer a broader supply chain 2 management service to our export customers.
0 Munitions EOD Pyrotechnics STRENGTHS AND RESOURCES The Group has core competencies in the design and manufacture of energetic materials: the development of highly reliable and safe products: and volume manufacturing.
Market position and reputation CounterEnergetics Potential measures New The Group is the worlds leading manufacturer of Division countermeasure decoys, with over 50% market share.
The special material decoys manufactured by our US countermeasures business are unique to the Group, and we Countermeasures strategy are currently leading the field in the development and manufacture of other advanced technology products, such The core strategy for the Countermeasures business is to maintain our market share and to exploit the continuing as spectral or kinematic decoys.
market growth expected over the next five years.
We intend In our growing Energetics division, we are developing a to increase our investment in new products and prominent position in several niche market areas, and technologies, and to build on our current leadership in building on the Groups reputation as an expert special material, spectral and kinematic flare technologies.
manufacturer of products containing energetic materials.
We will continue to invest in new fully automated production facilities that will improve operator safety, Customer relationships significantly enhance our operational efficiency, and The Group has an extensive customer base, comprising maintain our lead role in the development of new products governments, armed forces, prime contractors and OEMs for the next generation of fixed wing and rotary aircraft.
The US Department of Defense is our 18 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 billion largest single customer.
We have an extensive distribution Solid financial base network and, with worldwide market access, our businesses The Group enjoys healthy operating margins across its currently supply to over eighty countries.
Our focus on working capital management in Manufacturing operations recent years has manifested itself in excellent cash conversion and produced a sound balance sheet for the Group.
The Group continues to benefit from significant efficiency improvements achieved through enhanced automation and Management rationalisation of manufacturing capabilities across the Management resource and expertise have been Group, and we have an ongoing investment plan for new strengthened at all levels across the Group during the last plants and technologies.
Our operational structure is now three years, and we continue to develop our operational geared to leverage strongly from future sales growth.
skills to ensure that we remain a world class manufacturer.
We have an experienced team working on business development and acquisitions, and we are focusing heavily on our post-acquisition plans to ensure that new acquisitions are effectively integrated within the Group and we achieve maximum value from our growth strategy.
OPERATING PERFORMANCE Continuing operations 2007 2006 m m Revenue Countermeasures 126.5 118.4 Energetics - continuing 107.8 69.3 - acquired 20.4 - 128.2 69.3 Total revenue 254.7 187.7 Underlying operating profit - continuing 57.2 38.5 - acquired 4.0 - Total underlying operating profit 61.2 38.5 Operating profit 57.8 37.8 Underlying profit before tax 53.2 32.5 Profit before tax 49.8 31.8 Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share 112p 72p Basic earnings per ordinary share 105p 70p Excludes intangible amortisation arising from business combinations of 3.4 million 2006: 0.7 million CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 19 Business Review CONTINUED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS review performance in the two divisions.
The Groups strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number of key financial performance indicators.
The key The Board considers the measurement of underlying and indicators that the Board utilises to assess Group divisional operating profit provides additional useful performance are set out below.
Similar indicators are used to information to users.
Orders received and order book Orders received Order book Continuing 2007 2006 2007 2006 operations m m m m Countermeasures 123.0 173.7 119.5 130.4 Energetics 172.0 95.1 177.8 84.2 Total 295.0 268.8 297.3 214.6 The closing order book at the year end of 297.3 million Interest cover represents a 39% increase on the previous year end.
This 2007 2006 reflects the significant increase in demand for the Groups Total 7.6 times 6.3 times products during the year, and provides a solid base for performance in the current financial year.
Interest was covered 7.6 times by underlying operating profit at the year end.
The Board aims to keep interest Operating profit cover at a prudent level.
Continuing 2007 2006 operations m m Operating cash flow Countermeasures 38.6 33.9 2007 2006 Energetics 27.9 10.4 m m Total 66.5 44.3 Total 60.6 45.6 Operating profits of the divisions are stated before charges for share-based payments, unallocated head office costs and intangible amortisation arising from business combinations Group operating cash flow increased by 33% to The operating profit on continuing operations increased by 60.6 million during the year.
This represents a conversion 50% during the year, reflecting the strong operating rate of underlying operating profit to operating cash of 99%.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Return on sales As described on pages 43 and 44, the Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and its risk Continuing 2007 2006 management systems.
The Board has constituted a Risk operations % % Management Committee, which meets quarterly, to review Countermeasures 30 29 the key risks associated with the achievement of the annual Energetics 22 15 budget and the five year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures implemented.
The Committee Total 26 24 reports biannually to the Board and, through this process, the Board has identified the following principal risks The return on sales percentage increased by 8% during the currently facing the Group.
The Group mitigates its risk year.
This growth is driven by improved automation, exposure through an insurance programme that covers increased process efficiencies, and rationalisation of property and liability risks, where it is appropriate and cost manufacturing facilities.
20 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 Health and safety risks Introduction of new products The nature of the Groups operations, involving energetic The Groups innovative approach and continued research and materials, is such that the Board considers health and development activity ensure that we are continually adding safety to be a key area of focus in managing risk.
new products to the range.
During the year, our position was Accordingly, health and safety is included on the agenda at further strengthened in this area by the demand for our every Board meeting and is also discussed at the monthly countermeasures on a range of new platforms.
The Board believes In order to satisfy these requirements, we need to ensure that responsibility for the delivery of world class safety that new product development is completed in a timely standards is an integral part of the operational manner to a standard which allows us to undertake volume management accountability, and managers are therefore manufacturing, and to produce products against high expected to embrace a positive safety culture and to reliability and safety criteria to meet our customers demonstrate leadership and commitment in the workplace.
New manufacturing facilities have been All employees are encouraged to report potential hazards, established in the year to accommodate the production of and to raise any health and safety concerns through the these new products, and in other areas, there has been a appropriate channels.
requirement to significantly increase capacity on our Quarterly health and safety meetings are held in Europe existing production lines.
This necessitates careful and the US, chaired by the Managing Director of the management of contractors - where construction work is Energetics division and the President of our US operations being undertaken, suppliers - where new components have respectively.
These supplement the regular health and to be qualified for use in our products, and employees - safety meetings held at each operational site, which are where training in new skills is required.
We continue to chaired by the President or Managing Director of the site.
introduce Six Sigma techniques as appropriate within the organisation to improve our manufacturing capabilities.
Our stated aim is to achieve zero injuries and to reduce This investment in new facilities is ongoing.
health and safety risks, where they cannot be eliminated altogether, to a level which is as low as reasonably Competitors practicable.
All businesses are expected to proactively The nature of the threat from missiles and other weapons manage their own risks but in addition, the top five site risks is continually changing, particularly as new platforms are at each business and their associated mitigation introduced in different countries, and countermeasures programmes are reviewed on a monthly basis by the Group solutions need to develop on an ongoing basis to meet the Executive Committee.
Technology and automation roadmaps enhanced requirements.
The number of countermeasures were developed during the year to support the Groups manufacturers is currently small but as technologies strategy for risk reduction through increased automation change, existing manufacturers compete for new products and remote operations included within its five year plan.
and new businesses can enter into the market.
The Group is On 9 October 2007, an explosion occurred at Simmel Difesa currently the world leader in the supply and manufacture in Colleferro, Italy, that tragically led to the death of one of expendable countermeasures, with a number of employee and injuries to several others.
Simmel Difesa has proprietary products, and we intend to maintain this worked very closely with the relevant authorities, its position through our continued investment in research and workforce and the unions on the investigation into the development, and world class manufacturing facilities.
Interim findings have been issued periodically, and Product design changes circulated to all other businesses in the Group who use energetic materials to ensure a consistent approach to the Many of the Groups products are required to be modified issues highlighted.
A controlled, phased restart of production and updated on a regular basis to meet our customers in the undamaged areas of the Colleferro site is underway.
There is inevitably risk associated with the implementation of product design changes, and Further details on the Groups approach to health and whilst a review of the design change and product safety are set out below.
modification process in operation at each site was undertaken last year, further process improvements continue to be driven by the Group management.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 21 Business Review CONTINUED managers have been appointed, with a reporting chain Technology transfers through to the Group Executive Committee, which The formation by the Group of  for the undertakes a regular high level review of programme status production of energetic materials has generated and supply chain issues.
We are also in the process of considerable interest from major prime contractors in both appointing additional personnel with specialist knowledge the US and Europe, who are looking for strategic partners.
of the management of offset requirements and complex Progressing the development of these relationships and export compliance issues for this growing area of business.
securing the transfer of technologies from these large Political risks prime contractors is a key objective for the Group over the next five years.
Accordingly, the Group has been recruiting It is anticipated that the nature of the military activities in new personnel to manage these activities, and reviewing Iraq and Afghanistan may change over the next three to manufacturing capabilities and investing capital where five years.
We do not believe that the Groups necessary, to ensure that we mitigate the risk associated countermeasures business will be significantly impacted by with the technology transfers and maximise the this, as our products will still be required to provide opportunities that are presented.
Growth in the countermeasures business will be delivered as our proprietary products are Management of prime contracts fitted to a range of new platforms in the US and Europe.
The Energetics division now has substantial prime Our energetics activities are less dependent on the current contracts with a number of countries, and is planning to military activity in Iraq and Afghanistan, particularly as our secure more.
The contracts provide for the supply of an product portfolio continues to grow in areas such as extensive range of our own and third party products over training and explosive ordnance disposal.
the next three years, and require a particular type of programme management expertise.
Dedicated programme 22 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
