LOCATIONS HIGHLIGHTS CHAIRMANS YOUR SPACE BUSINESS FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS STATEMENT PARTNER REVIEW REVIEW Business Review Big Yellow has achieved substantial total returns for its shareholders in the year under review In recent years, Big Yellow has established itself as the leading self storage brand in the UK.
Ipsos Mori research, July 2006 Introduction The business is financed by a mixture of debt and equity which Big Yellow has achieved substantial total returns for its shareholders improves returns to shareholders.
The level of bank debt in the in the year under review, which arise from a combination of factors business is closely monitored against the Boards policy guidelines, including: which currently require that the ratio of net debt to gross property assets is no greater than 50% and interest cover not less than 2.25 a prime portfolio of self storage properties times based on Group net operating income, comfortably ahead of its successful acquisition and development of new stores banking covenants.
However, it is acknowledged that there may be the strength of operational management limited periods where income cover temporarily falls slightly below occupancy and revenue growth 2.25 as a result of known factors, for example a number of new store improving cash flow and margins openings, as new freehold stores make a loss for the first three to six flexible and conservative financing months before breaking even at the net operating income level.
Business Objectives Risk Management In recent years, Big Yellow has established itself as the leading self The management of risk is a fundamental part of how we have storage brand in the UK Ipsos Mori research, July 2006, a key controlled the development of Big Yellow since its formation in objective set at flotation.
The Groups strategy is to continue to invest September 1998. in quality assets at the premium end of the self storage market and to build on our brand leadership nationally.
We intend to measure Self Storage Market Risk our progress by commissioning quantitative research each year.
Economic growth in the UK returned to trend in 2006, and the We opened our first store outside our core area, in Leeds in 2005 and economy has continued to grow satisfactorily in 2007, with consumer now have sites in development in Manchester, Liverpool and Sheffield, spending remaining strong.
This is in spite of the recent increases in and have recently acquired further sites in Nottingham and Birmingham.
interest rates and increased taxes and other costs, which may in due The main elements of our strategy remain: course have an impact on the consumer and the housing market.
the roll-out of new stores in major urban conurbations throughout Approximately 50% of our customers are in some way linked to the the UK, in addition to retaining a focus on London: housing market, for example with customers renting storage space conservative financing using flexible bank borrowings secured between house moves or whilst moving within the rental sector.
We against a prime freehold portfolio: estimate that 15% of customers rent storage space as a spare room locating stores in visible, convenient and accessible locations: for lifestyle purposes and approximately 20% of customers use the an unwavering focus on customer service: product because some event has occurred in their lives generating excellent operational and financial management generating the need for storage: they may be moving abroad for a job, have strong cash-flow growth: inherited furniture, are getting married or divorced, are students innovative and creative marketing: who need storage during the holidays, or homeowners developing an entrepreneurial and passionate culture, with accessible senior into their lofts or basements.
The balance of 15% of our customers management encouraging innovation and dialogue throughout are businesses ranging from start ups and market traders to retailers the business: and larger multinationals storing stock, documents, equipment, or recruiting and retaining quality people into the business.
promotional materials all requiring a convenient flexible solution to their storage either to get started or to free up more expensive space.
Financing Objectives Self storage is an immature market with further opportunity for Big Yellows financing policy is to fund its current needs through a mix significant growth.
Awareness of self storage and how it can be used of debt and equity in building out the existing portfolio and strategic by domestic and business customers is relatively low throughout the growth objectives, which we believe improves returns for shareholders.
UK, although higher in London.
The rate of growth in branded self We aim to ensure that there are sufficient medium term facilities in storage on main roads in good locations continues to be limited by place to finance our committed development program, secured the difficulty of acquiring sites at affordable prices and obtaining against the freehold portfolio with debt serviced by our growing planning consent.
11 Big Yellow only invests in prime locations, developing high quality Taxation Risk self storage centres in the large urban conurbations where the drivers The Group is exposed to changes in the tax regime affecting the cost in the self storage market and the barriers to competition are at of corporation tax, VAT and Stamp Duty Land Tax SDLT.
monitor proposed and actual changes in legislation with the help of our professional advisors and through trade bodies to understand We have a large current storage customer base of over 30,000 spread and, if possible, mitigate or benefit from their impact.
across the portfolio of open stores and many thousands more have used Big Yellow over the years.
In any month customers move in and REIT Risk out at the margin but the solidity of the occupancy of our stores when The Group converted to a REIT with effect from 15 January 2007. they lease up to maturity can be seen from the Portfolio Summary The Group is therefore exposed to potential tax penalties or loss of its on page 20.
REIT status by failing to comply with the REIT legislation.
The Group has internal monitoring procedures in place to ensure that the Property Risk appropriate rules and legislation are complied with.
The acquisition of eight to ten sites a year for development into self storage is a key strategic objective of the business.
We continue to Human Resources Risk face significant competition for sites for these quality main road At Big Yellow we have developed a professional, lively, enjoyable locations from other uses such as residential, hotel, car showroom and fun working environment and believe our success stems from and offices.
In addition we are seeing increasing competition from attracting and retaining the right people.
We encourage all our staff our main self storage competitors for sites.
to build on their skills, through appropriate training and regular The planning process remains difficult with planning taking performance reviews.
We believe in an accessible and open culture approximately nine to twelve months to achieve on average.
In this and everyone at all levels is encouraged to review and challenge competitive environment, we do take planning risk as it is necessary accepted norms, so as to contribute to the performance of the Group.
for us to acquire sites unconditionally, with planning and other property due diligence carried out under tight timescales.
Reputational Risk Big Yellows reputation with all its stakeholders is something we Big Yellows management has significant experience in the property value highly and will always look to protect and enhance.
We aim to industry generated over many years and in particular in acquiring communicate clearly with our customers, suppliers, local authorities property on main roads in high profile locations and obtaining and communities, employees and shareholders and to listen to and planning consents.
take account of their views.
The Big Yellows Intranet and Website In the year under review we were successful in acquiring 9 sites, five www.
co. uk are important avenues of communication in London and sites in Sheffield, Nottingham, High Wycombe and for both employees and shareholders.
Poole, and we have acquired a further three sites since year end, in We signed our first international franchise in October 2006 in respect Camberley, Reading and Birmingham.
We now have a portfolio of 66 of the United Arab Emirates, with expansion rights for the remaining stores and sites including one extension site of which 43 are GCC states.
We carried out due diligence on our local partners and currently open and a further seven have planning consents.
were advised on the Development Agreement by Eversheds Franchise We manage the construction of our properties very tightly.
The Development Agreement provides the requisite controls of each site is handled through a design and build contract, with the fit typical of arrangements of this nature to protect our reputation and out project managed in-house using an established professional team brand.
We have appointed an experienced International Franchise of external advisors and sub-contractors who have worked with us for Director with over 20 years experience in franchising, who will be many years to our Big Yellow specification.
responsible for growing this aspect of our business.
Treasury Risk Corporate and Social Responsibility The Group borrows in sterling at floating rates of interest and uses Big Yellow develops stores in environments in which people live and swaps to hedge its interest rate exposure.
The Group has derivatives work.
We build storage centres for our customers who live or work in place to ensure at least 35-40% of bank borrowings are hedged, the within a three to five mile radius providing a storage solution for balance is left floating paying margin over rolling 3 month LIBOR.
85% of our customers are householders renting storage rooms primarily for household contents, 15% of our Our portfolio is relatively high yielding and we believe this flexible customers occupying 30% of the net lettable space are businesses approach to our hedging is appropriate for our strategic aims, given requiring flexible storage space to operate and expand, thus contributing the conservative levels of interest cover and gearing.
to job creation and generating wealth for the local economy.
Interest Cover and Balance Sheet Risk We survey all customers at moveout to assess their views on a number The Group reviews the current and forecast projections of cash flow, of issues and seek to respond to all feedback and views in order to borrowing and interest cover as part of its monthly management improve our performance and meet our customers changing needs.
In addition, an analysis of the impact of significant We work closely with our suppliers to ensure they understand our aims transactions is carried out regularly, as well as a sensitivity analysis and objectives and can share in the Big Yellow vision of reinforcing our assuming movements in interest rates on gearing and interest cover.
position as the leading brand in the UK self storage market.
Credit Risk As a Board we are committed to ensuring that our development Our customers are required to pay a deposit when they start to rent activities do not place an unnecessary burden on future generations.
a self storage unit and are also required to pay in advance for their Big Yellow is well aware of its corporate social responsibility and four-weekly storage charges.
The Group is therefore not exposed to a significant credit risk.
12 recognises the positive contribution it can make to address There are many ways in which Big Yellow currently achieves its environmental concerns and sustainability issues.
A more detailed environmental objectives, the main examples of which are set explanation of our approach to managing and minimising the impact out below: of our development on the environment is set out below.
We clean up previously contaminated brown field sites as part Big Yellow has a committed and skilled staff of 208 people.
We have a of the redevelopment: we do not build on green field sites or responsibility to provide an attractive and safe working environment, previously undeveloped land.
equal opportunities, training to improve skills and, where practicable Access for each site is a key criteria and is therefore highly for a business of this size, career progression.
Remuneration is linked sustainable given its close proximity to the road network to performance and assessed against relevant markets at all levels.
and public transport, stores benefit from good pedestrian Our shareholders and bankers are our providers of capital and and cycle routes.
we aim through our reporting, our Investor Relations website and Big Yellow are respectful of local communities and all new announcements to keep them informed about the progress of the Construction Sites are registered with the Considerate business.
Furthermore we have a responsibility through the Contractors scheme.
successful performance and growth of the business to provide our We recycle demolition materials and endeavour to minimise shareholders with an attractive total return on their investment construction waste.
Store Operations generate minimum through dividends and share price growth.
quantities of waste although facilities are provided for recycling.
The success of Big Yellow has allowed us to put something back into We are designing new stores with products that are more the local communities in which we operate through the support of sustainable.
We select building materials responsibly with low local causes and into society generally through donations to charities.
embodied energy, with easy reuse and from sustainable sources For the first time, Big Yellow has appointed a Charity of the Year, which The buildings are in the main part constructed of steel, a material in 2007 is Cancer Research.
Employees have carried out a number which could be recycled in the future.
The mezzanine floors offers of events to raise money for the charity, and the Group has matched flexibility such that the building can be used for different purposes.
all amounts raised by staff.
Additionally, we are liaising with Big Yellow is not a high user of energy, nonetheless we meet representatives from Cancer Research with regards to the collection building regulations which require high insulation standards to of household items which could be donated at stores by customers the building envelope even though large areas of the building are and then sold at their charity shops.
We only heat or cool our reception areas which on a standard store occupy approximately 3% of the gross floor area.
Environmental Policy Maintaining and improving the quality of the built environment in We are investing in renewable energy sources where practicable which we live is an important concern for the Group, its staff, and financially viable at our stores in Barking, Balham, Fulham customers, suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
The benefits will be monitored and form the Big Yellow endeavours to balance the triple bottom line of financial, basis of a model concept for future new eco stores.
We are encouraging and improving bio diversity by replacing The Directors of Big Yellow are committed to ensuring its development previously lost habitat with green walls green roofs and the and operational activities do not place an unnecessary burden on reintroduction of landscaping.
Big Yellow is well aware of its corporate social We now install low energy lighting throughout our newer stores responsibility and the company recognises the positive contribution and plan to upgrade existing stores over a period of time.
Big it can make to address environmental concerns and sustainability Yellow obtains its electricity supplies from a services provider issues.
James Gibson, CEO, has responsibility to the Board on all with a green energy policy which generates electricity from matters of environmental policy.
a renewable source or with a company policy of investing In recognition of the UK regulatory objectives and growing in research into renewable capacity.
environmental awareness of consumers, Big Yellow has initiated On our recent stores we have moved from hydraulic lifts to more simple, straightforward alterations to its behaviour to reduce its energy efficient traction lifts.
Furthermore the Group are investing over 1.0 million in renewable energy technologies in new developments at We are now providing facilities on our new stores to encourage Barking, Balham, Fulham and Kennington.
This investment forms the use of public transport and cycling by store staff, a requirement a key part of a detailed study into the building design to quantify of planning.
the energy, material and waste usage and benefits of the new We conserve water resources by minimising the number of technologies in use and to consider where improvements could sanitary fittings and include flow control systems within the be introduced within the existing and new stores portfolio.
staff kitchen and store facilities.
Big Yellow will endeavour to use less energy, use energy from Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems SUDS and rainwater renewable sources and supply energy efficiently where practicable.
harvesting are being installed at stores under construction to To demonstrate our commitment to the environment we are recruiting meet Environment Agency requirements for surface water a full time environmental manager to increase the pace of change attenuation and irrigation.
We are raising environmental awareness and encouraging suppliers, staff and customers to change their behaviour and encourage sustainable solutions.
13 Stores a team of Area Managers who between them have a total of 40 years During the year we opened six stores, three in London at East experience in self storage to develop and support the stores and to Finchley, Kingston & Edmonton, one at Tunbridge Wells, a second continue to drive the growth of the business.
store at Bristol Ashton Gate, and one at Gloucester.
These store The store bonus structure rewards sales growth and cost control openings bring the number now trading to 43.
The available net through setting quarterly targets based on store profitability, lettable space increased by 360,000 sq ft over the year to 2.6 million including the contribution from ancillary sales of insurance and sq ft with the opening of these six stores.
Information on bonus build up is circulated monthly The maturity profile across the 43 stores open at the end of the year and stores are involved in preparing their own targets and budgets, is set out in the Portfolio Summary on page 20 and shows a blended leading to improved visibility, a better understanding of sales lines occupancy for the portfolio of 71% 1.84 million sq ft occupied, and control of operating costs.
with the 30 stores more than two years old at an average occupancy The Group manages the construction and fit-out of its stores in-house of 85%.
as we believe it provides better control and we have an excellent There are a further 23 freehold sites including an extension site at record of building stores on time and within budget.
The total Richmond at various stages of planning and construction which, construction spend in the year was 30 million and is expected to be when fully developed, will increase the total capacity of the portfolio approximately 45 million in 2007 8.
We currently have seven new to 4.1 million sq ft. stores on site, all of which are new stores under construction.
14 of the 23 stores in the development pipeline including the We believe that as a customer facing real estate business it is extension site to our first Richmond store are located in Greater paramount to maintain the quality of our estate and customer London, which we believe will continue to improve the quality of our offering.
We therefore continue to invest in a rolling programme of store portfolio.
Our store in Leeds continues to perform ahead of store makeovers, preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the budget.
We have therefore also continued with our stated intention to repair and replacement of essential equipment, such as internal and acquire sites in key Northern Cities and have recently bought sites in external gates.
Birmingham and Nottingham to add to our existing acquisitions in Sales and Marketing Manchester, Liverpool and Sheffield.
We continue to work on obtaining During the year we conducted a strategic review of our Marketing planning consents for these future stores.
We expect to open seven programme.
This was driven by comprehensive customer research, stores in the current financial year.
using both quantitative and qualitative techniques.
Highlights of the We have received planning permission in the year to demolish our research include: existing 25,000 sq ft storage facility in Sheen and replace this with a Big Yellow has achieved brand awareness of 35 to 40% in our new 60,000 sq ft facility.
We expect to start work on this in July, with target customer groups in London and the South: opening of the new store planned for early 2008.
Our Brand awareness is more than double that of our nearest During the year we moved in over 42,000 customers taking 2.5 competitor: million sq ft compared to 38,400 customers taking 2.3 million sq ft last year.
This resulted in the stores increasing occupancy by 163,000 London and the South East have the highest regional awareness sq ft 202,000 sq ft last year.
Customer move-ins per store averaged of self storage at 25-30%: 86 per month over the year, down from the 92 per month last year, Across the UK, 77% of the public are either unaware of self reflecting a larger and more mature store portfolio, with less storage, or have heard of it but know nothing about it: availability, and hence less potential activity.
Of the 43 stores open at year end 41 are now trading profitably with the other two being the 80% of our customers fall within the top three ACORN customer most recent to open.
categories Wealthy Achievers, Urban Prosperity and Comfortably Off, with Urban Prosperity being the largest.
The Big Yellow store model is now well established.
The typical store contains 60,000 sq ft of net lettable space, and takes some 2.5 years The findings of this research confirm the success of our previous to achieve 85% occupancy, leasing up at an average rate of 1,700 sq ft marketing activity, and justify our Brand positioning at the quality end per month.
The average room size is some 60 sq ft and the average of the market.
The high standards of our stores, our people and our rental achieved last year across the 43 stores was 23.79 per sq ft locations have successfully attracted customers who are looking for per annum the average rent in London is higher at 27.36 per sq ft quality and value.
Our customers are particularly attracted by our per annum.
The store is initially run by three staff adding a part modern, purpose built stores, our state of the art security systems timer once the store occupancy justifies the need for the extra and convenient locations.
Given that the operating costs The customer research helped to set the direction for our marketing of these assets are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban strategy.
Following the research we appointed CHI & Partners as our conurbations, particularly London, drive higher revenues and higher advertising agency, with a brief to overhaul all of our marketing operating margins.
communications materials, and launch a new advertising campaign.
The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency This campaign was launched in April 2007, and has been led by an across the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent intensive TV campaign on Channel 4 and linked satellite channels, customer service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a supported by additional advertising in national press, online and satisfied customer is our best marketing tool.
From our surveys 97% through direct marketing.
The campaign is already achieving good amount of customers would recommend Big Yellow to a friend.
awareness after a short period of time, and is due to last throughout We measure customer service standards through a programme of the summer.
mystery shoppers and ex-customer surveys.
We now have in place 14 The high standards of our stores, our people and our locations have successfully attracted customers who are looking for quality and value.
Our customers are particularly attracted by our modern, purpose built stores, our state of the art security systems and convenient locations.
We continually monitor local market conditions and review our We encourage a partnership culture within the business and believe promotions monthly.
Our policy is to offer targeted promotions to in staff participating in corporate performance through share ensure we are offering the best value available to our customers.
Many employees have benefited, or continue to benefit, Our embedded discount varies by store maturity: stores with 85% from share options granted in previous years and an Inland Revenue occupancy and over have discount levels of 7%, 60-85% have 9% and approved Sharesave Scheme.
This provides an opportunity to invest in new stores have 12%.
The average across the Group is 8%.
The success the future success of Big Yellow at a discount to the prevailing share of this strategy is confirmed by the high occupancy achieved by our price at the date of each invitation.
mature store portfolio 85% over the year for stores with an average In addition, a stakeholder pension scheme managed by Friends size of 60,000 sq ft of net lettable space, which is significantly higher Provident provides pension provision within the Group and is available than most of our competitors.
to all employees after six months.
We see the internet as an increasing source of prospects and We had 226 full, part time and casual employees in the business customers and continue to invest in developing our e-commerce at the year end 2006: 185 employees, and recruiting and retaining platform.
We have recently launched a ground breaking online the right calibre people remains critical to the continued success of reservation service, and we will continue to stay at the forefront of Big Yellow.
We promote the individual development of staff through innovations in this area.
training and regular performance appraisals and delivered over 500 Local marketing, selling standards and customer service at store level days training to employees in the last year, equating to an average are also critical to building the brand and achieving customer loyalty of approximately 3 days training per employee.
We have a policy on and recommendations.
We invest significantly in training and have a flexible working to meet individual needs where possible, without reward structure and performance monitoring systems which focus compromising corporate objectives.
specifically on achieving sales and customer service objectives.
Security During the year the Group spent approximately 2 million 4% of our The safety and security of our customers and stores remains a key turnover on above the line marketing, in line with the previous year.
To achieve this we invest in state of the art access control It is our intention to continue to invest this proportion of our turnover systems, individual room alarms, digital CCTV systems, intruder and to increase awareness of Big Yellow in existing and new markets, fire alarm systems and the remote monitoring of our stores out particularly as we expand into the new cities in the country that we of hours.
have not previously had a presence in.
We have implemented customer security procedures in line with The quantitative research was carried out by Ipsos Mori in July 2006. advice from the Metropolitan Police and continue to work with the regulatory authorities on issues of security, reviewing our operational People procedures regularly.
The importance of security and the need for At Big Yellow we aim to provide a lively, fun and enjoyable work vigilance is communicated to all store staff and reinforced through environment, without losing our commitment to the best customer training and we have continue to run courses to enhance the service and standards of performance.
awareness and effectiveness of our procedures in relation to security, As the business has grown it has been necessary to formalise the entitled You and your customer.
means by which ideas and policy changes are communicated and discussed with employees.
We hold regular consultation meetings with employees, both formally and informally, and our directors and senior management spend significant time in the stores and are accessible to employees at all levels.
An annual Employee Attitude Survey provides the management with key feedback and guidance as to where to focus its resources in each year.
