Business Review Strategy and objectives Asset management and development opportunities C&R is a co-investing asset manager with teams specialising in Our portfolios contain many asset management opportunities retail and leisure property.
We have three well established funds which will ultimately drive rental growth and investor returns.
in which we co-invest and, since the year end, our FIX portfolio Most of these are reconfigurations and refurbishments within the became a fund in which C&R now holds 20%.
existing portfolios and will generate rental growth with low risk relative to new builds.
We believe the long-term fundamentals for UK retail and leisure are strong.
A growing population with a high propensity to spend Brands is serviced by a restricted supply of retail space, which remains The Company has developed six brands as follows: well below other developed economies, particularly the US.
Brand Use In addition to the value of our property assets, we believe that The Mall Shopping centre portfolio there is significant value in: The Junction Retail parks portfolio X-Leisure Leisure centre portfolio Xscape Leisure destinations anchored by ski slopes and cinemas Our experienced management teams, which have strength FIX UK Trade centres in depth, specialisation and experience.
SNO!zone The ski operator at the three Xscapes Our management business with long-term fee income streams which enhances our cash flow and strengthens our business.
Our indoor ski operator, SNO!zone, which generates a significant flow of profit from a low capital base.
Key relationships Tenant relationships: our tenant relationships are of great Description of the business importance to us.
Our largest individual relationships are with Each of our three principal funds has its own specialist Cineworld in our leisure division and B&Q in our retail parks.
In each case the interests of the fund investors Our shopping centre business has nearly 1,250 retailers, the largest are represented by a fund manager.
of which is Arcadia which accounts for 3.53% of its rent roll.
In Germany the Metro Group is an important tenant with which we are beginning to cultivate a relationship.
Our Property Fund Property funds segment manager manager Fund investors: the institutional investors holding units in our The Mall Shopping centres Morley CRPM team of 74 three funds provide two-thirds of the equity on which our business The Junction Retail parks Morley CRPM team of 20 X-Leisure Leisure property Hermes CRPM team of 35 is built.
The Mall has 50 such investors, including three from overseas.
The Junction has 13 and X-Leisure has 19.
Capital & Regional Property Management Fund managers: our principal fund managers, with whom we Our trade park portfolio, FIX UK, became a fund in March 2008. operate the three funds on a day-to-day basis, are also important During 2007, whilst under C&R ownership, it consisted of a team to our business.
Morley Fund Management represents investor of nine.
interests on the Mall and Junction Funds, and Hermes does the same for the X-Leisure fund.
The fund manager contracts are A further portfolio, our German big box retail business, has been coterminous with our management contracts as follows: created over the last few years, delivering good cash returns and can potentially be developed into a fund or realised for value.
Fund Manager Termination date Mall Morley Fund Management 31 December 2016 with an option In addition we have a number of wholly-owned properties and for a further five year extension joint ventures.
We try to restrict ourselves to ventures where our Junction Morley Fund Management 31 December 2011 with an option for a further five year extension management expertise can add value.
X-Leisure Hermes Investment Management 16 March 2018 Our suppliers, professional firms, banks and joint venture partners also play an important and much appreciated role in our business.
Head ofce, London 02 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 Our people Risks Our most important resource by far.
We have three largely Any business has risks and it is our responsibility to manage them.
independent divisions, each with its own CEO supported by leasing, We have identified seven specific risk areas of which shareholders financial and marketing expertise.
Business development should be aware.
including the German portfolio, tax, corporate accounting and IT are the main functions run by the central corporate division.
Property market risks: small changes in property market yields Matters of common interest are discussed at weekly meetings can have a significant effect on the value of our portfolios.
These of the executive committee and through specialist cross issues are monitored regularly by our executive committee, and divisional committees.
the results of monthly valuations are published monthly with our unit price announcements.
Capital & Regional plc As a Company with retail and leisure tenants we are also exposed to a downturn in consumer spending.
This would reduce the Executive Committee profitability of our occupiers, which could lead to an increase in vacancies.
It would also reduce spending at our three SNO!zone Shopping centres Retail parks Leisure Corporate locations.
We manage this risk by diversification between different division division division division market segments and by deliberately targeting properties with strong defensive characteristics, where retailers are making profits.
The Mall Junction team X-Leisure Finance FIX team Xscape IT SNO!zone Germany Changes in the tax and regulatory environment: our business could be affected by tax law changes, particularly those directed at offshore structures through which we operate or by the increasing We have 1,073 people employed on three payrolls: Capital & Regional burden of regulation.
These risks are monitored by the Finance Property Management for our property management teams: Mall Director and Chief Executive.
People for the At Mall teams: and SNO!zone for the people employed by our ski operator at the Xscapes.
Loss of key management: our property management business is dependent on the skills of a few key individuals whose departure Staff numbers 2007 2006 could adversely impact on the business.
The risk is mitigated by the development of a next generation of management and through Shopping centres 74 62 the Companys long-term remuneration schemes, which defer Retail Parks including FIX UK 29 32 Leisure 35 32 payments by two to three years and align shareholder and Corporate 57 45 management interests.
CRPM employees 195 171 Employed at the Malls 309 274 Development risks: we have a substantial development Employed at the leisure centres 23 25 programme both inside and outside our funds.
This activity is SNO!zone employees 546 466 subject to significant market, construction and commercial risk, Total 1,073 936 which we mitigate by pre-letting a high proportion of the space and negotiating fixed price building contracts.
Treasury risks: interest rate or currency movements can have Property exposure by market segment see through basis an impact on our cash flow and net assets.
We normally offset between 50% and 100% of these risks through interest rate swaps Germany or forward exchange contracts.
21.8% There is also a risk of further decline in the credit markets which Shopping could make it difficult to renew our debt when it falls due for centres repayment.
We handle this risk by locking in our debt for 36.5% significant periods ahead, and planning renewals well ahead Trade parks of expiry.
8.2% Fund investors: the institutional investors who invest in our funds are important to the continued success of our business.
Our relationships are documented in long-term management Leisure contracts, but these can be terminated under certain circumstances.
17.0% Retail parks 16.5% We work closely with our fund managers, Morley and Hermes, to maintain their support, keeping them fully informed through regular briefings and listening to their input on strategy.
Internet retailing and hypermarket diversification: there are well publicised fears about trade diversion from traditional retail outlets to the internet and major supermarkets.
We monitor these trends carefully and actively manage our centres to keep them up to date and competitive.
