Business Review Chief Executives Review Our people are our key asset.
Attracting the best talent, motivating them to excel, retaining them and ensuring that they progress in their careers is a key focus of senior management across the Group.
Business Review Chief Executives Review The proposed separation of our Brokerage which actively promote share ownership across track records for environmental investment products for investors.
business is confirmation of the Groups success the business.
in developing market leading businesses and The attraction of our investment products has its focus on building shareholder value.
The Product innovation allows us to develop an separation also provides a unique opportunity extensive and flexible range of investment fuelled strong demand and high levels of sales.
To accommodate these strong asset inflows, for the Group to restate its long-term business products to meet the risk, return, liquidity and strategy.
The Man Group has a tremendous other requirements of our investors worldwide.
we have focused on building out the range and capacity of specialist managers to whom client history of performance, for our fund investors, We have developed a successful business our shareholders and other stakeholders.
model that utilises our ownership or preferred assets can be allocated.
Our strategy is to use our long established reputation in the market to Our continued focus is on driving forward access to a wide range of portfolio managers this success on a balanced and sustainable specialising in alternative investment strategies, attract experienced investment managers, and the Groups strong capital position to acquire, basis to generate continued growth, address to offer investment performance with a low changing markets and create further shareholder correlation to bond and equity benchmarks.
seed and develop managers and products to grow our investment capacity.
The core components of our business This is combined with our portfolio construction model to achieve these objectives are: capabilities and specialist structuring expertise we have the widest array of investment styles, with proven performance track records, available to tailor products which meet investor demands, People local regulatory requirements or tax treatment.
for our institutional investors and distributors.
Product innovation This set of skills continues to be an important Distribution network driver in our ability to maintain margins Our distribution network is supported by the and extend the maturity profile of our funds long-term relationships our sales force has with Investor services Governance and risk management under management, creating significant our distributors and our institutional investors.
Our distributor network covers a wide range of Performance the largest global and strongest regional financial Product innovation is a constant process.
institutions, who sell our product to their clients Our people are our key asset.
Attracting the best talent, motivating them to excel, retaining Through our relationships with distributors for a fee.
The continued trend towards open and direct dialogue with institutional investors, architecture, where financial institutions market them and ensuring that they progress in their careers is a key focus of senior management we understand prevailing investor preferences products from a variety of sources, has provided for risk and return, and can develop new us with enhanced investor access.
Our focus across the Group.
Mans long established presence in alternative investments has enabled products which meet these expectations.
in alternatives means that we do not generally We provide a broad range of guaranteed and compete with our distributors, allowing us to us to assemble a broad and deep range of talented people, with focus and experience.
open-ended products across a large number of develop long-standing and closer relationships.
Our long track record of investment This worldwide distributor network offers us This year we launched a well received global staff survey to capture the thoughts and performance and our focus on quantitative scale, flexibility and efficiency in the distribution analysis allow us to select investment strategies of our products.
motivations of all our people and to develop opportunities for personal advancement and and model product returns with high levels of confidence in expected performance over Our strategy is to continue to grow the number career progression within Man.
We use our own capital in the of distributors and to focus on those distributors search for new sources of return with low with strong franchises, high standards and an Our colleagues in the business have a direct impact on fund performance for our investors correlation to equity and bond benchmarks, international presence.
We also ensure that seeding new managers, products and styles.
we take advantage of regional opportunities and a motivation and focus to create high quality products for investment.
Their direct Recently we have made proprietary investments with local partners to broaden our network.
in climate impact or environmental projects as An expanding network of regional sales offices contribution to shareholder value is given focus through the Groups share programmes part of the process of establishing performance around the world is responsible for servicing 07 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007
