Marketplace Fig 6: US adult media consumption vs. media advertising spend TV 37% 32% Internet personal and business 1,658 29% Indias population in 8% millions, 2050 Radio 19% 402 9% USA population Newspapers in millions, 2050 8% 20% 1,409 Magazines Chinas population in % of time 7% millions, 2050 % of spend 6% Source: Forrester Broadly speaking, all this leads to complexity.
The more data For the marketing industry, these changes can seem daunting.
there is, the more important it is that insight is based on sound But they will make the agency model more relevant, not less.
Making life easier for those who have to make Creating time with consumers is at the heart of a marketers sense of data with tools for collating, interpreting, presenting challenges: not just interacting with consumers over an eight and comparing insights must now be at the top of any market week campaign, but for seven days a week, 52 weeks a year.
researchers to do list, along with the traditional values of data In an on-demand economy and culture, the consumer has much integrity and accuracy.
And now, we can also do this in more control of the agenda, and opportunity to disrupt it.
partnership with new data owners like search engines Traditional advertisements, which interrupt what a consumer is or social networking sites.
doing to bring them a brand message, are more likely to be skipped, ignored or disregarded.
Defining the media landscape So-called traditional media TV, radio, newspapers, magazines, This means that communications have to go beyond consumers expectations.
They must be targeted, relevant and engaging, outdoor, cinema commanded well over 90% of global expenditure in 2007 and look set to do so again this year.
The role of advertising agencies will be to So for all that digital is changing consumer behaviour, its share provide brand stewardship, based on consumer insight gained of global ad spend is still in single digits.
from intelligent data analysis: the creation of compelling, engaging properties: delivering measurable, high ROI-generating execution In the US, people spend 29% of their time with non-traditional across multiple channels.
media like mobile and online, while the internet only makes up 8% of spend fig.
This reveals a significant discrepancy Globalisation between behaviour and where advertisers are putting their money.
For business, the world is becoming a smaller place.
Countries, and even continents, no longer operate in isolation.
Of course, one online display ad carries a very different cost to This is a result of three major trends.
First, the fast-growing a 30-second spot during peak time at a top commercial television economies of developing countries have opened up geographical broadcaster.
But it does show that advertisers and perhaps some boundaries.
Second, the leaps and bounds of technology and the media owners need to catch up.
internet, mean that a message is global, whether this is desired or Catching up means even more rapid growth in the digital sector not.
Last is the trend to drive down costs: operating on a global and a period of intense learning for businesses as every industry basis offers economies of standardisation.
rushes to understand and capitalise on potential competitive advantages.
Agencies and the market research sector are both ideally placed to advise and provide the insight described above.
24 Aegis Group plc OUT OF % 43 The percentage of the worlds 45 population from BRIC countries of the top 100 advertisers in Brazil, Russia, India 2007 had a consolidated or roster and China.
It is arrangement, up from two-thirds these emerging in 2003 countries which are fuelling the real global growth Worlds largest countries by population, millions Technology can also play a part.
The internet is not curtailed by geographical boundaries, increasing the need for strategic 2007 2050 alignment across borders in a campaign or research study.
India 1,658 China 1,329 Take-up of platforms is following a much more rapid path than China 1,409 western markets, with mobile leapfrogging the PC as the device India 1,169 of choice, meaning that in some cases these new markets are USA 402 USA 306 developing digital content and expertise more quickly than Indonesia 297 Indonesia 232 established regions.
In addition, more of the bigger clients are Pakistan 292 Brazil 192 buying centrally.
For example, four-fifths of the top 100 advertisers in 2007 had a consolidated or roster arrangement, up from Nigeria 289 Pakistan 164 two-thirds in 2003.
Brazil 254 Bangladesh 159 Bigger projects in more than one country bring difficulties, Bangladesh 254 Nigeria 148 not least managing the pricing and management pressures of a Russia 142 Dem Rep of the Congo 187 consolidated budget, but also understanding and interpreting Ethiopia 183 Japan 128 cultural bias across nationalities.
The biggest challenge of all in global operations, however, is to retain the right blend of Source: United Nations specialism versus generalism: to protect experts at the same time as encouraging and enabling them to work as part of a Traditional markets like Western Europe and North America much bigger entity.
This is an extremely delicate balance to continue to grow in single digits.
But it is emerging countries achieve and requires ongoing commitment from staff at all levels.
like Brazil, Russia, India and China, with 43% of the worlds But once achieved, it delivers a culture which is beneficial for population, which are fuelling the real global growth in employees and clients alike.
percentage terms, even though the developed markets still hold Ultimately, however, the opportunities of this trend are clear.
Hot on the heels of these four are countries like Agencies can provide a full range of services to one client across Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia and Mexico.
These are amongst a number of territories, making the process of planning, managing the fastest growing economies, attracting rising investment in to and executing a campaign or research brief across continents the regions and with rapidly increasing consumer awareness of much simpler and easier, and boosting revenue in the process.
The surge in demand for both market research and marketing services is coming from local businesses and established brands from more developed regions.
As a result, a presence in these areas offers opportunities with both new and existing clients.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Business review Aegis delivered an extremely competitive performance in 2007.
Both Aegis Media and Synovate significantly outgrew their industries once again.
As a result, Aegis achieved Largely as a result of this organic organic revenue growth of 9.8%: growth, the Group delivered the highest rate of any global double-digit growth at constant marketing communications currency in turnover 16.2%, group, and an 11th consecutive revenue 14.2%, underlying year of industry out-performance.
profit before interest and tax Organic growth was ahead 13.7% and underlying profit of the total regional market in before tax 16.0%.
every one of our reported business segments.
26 Aegis Group plc JANUARY 2007 12 months and counting: Aegis through Aegis Media starts work on GM Europe, the year worth US$800 million in 33 countries across Europe.
According to GM, our appointment reflects the agencys established Europewide network and impressive media planning concepts for the European GM brands.
Underlying earnings per share on a fully diluted basis increased At Synovate, we saw further excellent results from the second full by 18.8% at constant currency.
Our reported results reflect the year of our Global Client Relationship initiative.
Product innovation weakness of the US dollar, which accounted for some 31.2% of also continued to help drive performance and we made a number of significant steps in delivering the operational transformation of Group revenue in 2007 2006: 33.6%, with average exchange rates down 8.6% against sterling year-on-year.
Synovate through the SmartWork programme designed to reduce cost through offshoring, outsourcing and deployment of technology Reflecting this strong 2007 performance and our continued across all areas of the business.
prospects for good growth and industry out-performance, the Outlook Board has proposed an increase of 24.3% in the final dividend, representing a 21.1% increase in the total dividend for the year.
After a strong finish to 2007, trading since the start of 2008 has been healthy across the Group.
However, in light of greater We also made good progress on our primary strategic goals uncertainty about global economic prospects, we remain alert to in both Aegis Media and Synovate: increasing revenue from any signs of softening and are taking external factors into account global clients, putting in place foundations for future years in respect of our business planning and investments in the course organic growth through global account management resource, of 2008.
We remain cautiously optimistic about the prospects for new products and services and our programme of business Aegis in 2008.
We expect to deliver further good underlying transformation.
performance at constant currency this year, based on a number We strengthened the Group through a total of 17 acquisitions, of Aegis-specific factors: bringing in new services with the potential to be scaled we expect our own organic revenue growth to exceed throughout our networks.
Their integration has gone well.
market growth in both Aegis Media and Synovate once again: Our acquisition investment was particularly focused on further at Aegis Media, we will benefit from US$1.668 billion of net geographic expansion, particularly in emerging markets, digital new business won in 2007, our leadership in digital services, and new technologies at Aegis Media and on new intellectual new technologies and services, and our investment in global property at Synovate.
client resource: at Synovate, we expect to continue to deliver superior Although the market for both media communications services growth rates from our global client relationship programme and market research remains highly competitive, trading conditions were generally favourable throughout the year, with good demand and development of new products and services: for our services from existing and new clients.
Our markets we will benefit from a full year contribution of the 17 acquisitions made in 2007, and the four made so far in 2008: remained dynamic, with major shifts taking place in the allocation we expect to broadly maintain Aegis Medias margin at its of marketing resources both geographically and by activity.
industry-leading level: In anticipation of these market developments, we continued to we will also target further operating efficiencies at Synovate: move the Aegis Media offering from regional to global, reflected and in successful international pitches, the creation of new global client we expect our net interest charge to reflect a higher level of resources and specialist practices and the roll-out of key brands average net debt and our underlying effective tax rate to remain and services to new markets.
In 2007, more than one quarter of broadly in line with our 2007 underlying effective tax rate.
Aegis Medias revenue came from digital marketing services, the fastest growing part of our industry.
We expect that percentage to increase further in 2008.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 FEBRUARY A very good start to the new Isobar enters Latin business year as Vizeum wins America with the Fox Filmed Entertainment in 18 acquisition of markets globally and Carat wins AgenciaClick, Brazils ABN Amro throughout the Asialeading independent Pacific region.
digital agency and winner of 16 Cannes Lions.
AgenciaClick also provides a platform for further digital expansion in Latin America.
18 Business review account and Pernod Ricard in the USA and a number of European Aegis Media markets in Vizeum.
We do not include retentions in our net new Revenue, m 2007 2006 Change CC change business total.
EMEA 471.1 418.1 12.7% 12.4% Additional wins in the period included Birds Eye in the UK: Americas 153.7 133.1 15.5% 25.0% Eau Eclarte in France: Red Bull in Portugal: EON in Spain: Asia-Pacific 48.6 44.5 9.2% 12.2% GEOX in Italy: Bang & Olufsen, Outback Steakhouses and Worldwide 673.4 595.7 13.0% 15.0% Discover Financial Services in the USA: Subway in Canada: ABN Amro, Korean Air and LG Shine across the Asia-Pacific Underlying operating profit 134.4 121.1 11.0% 11.9% region: Energy Australia in Australia: Procter & Gambles Underlying operating margin 20.0% 20.3% 30 bps Pampers and Whisper brands in China: and Nikon in Japan.
Constant currency We have concentrated investment in the year on building Total revenue at Aegis Media increased 15.0% to 673.4 million our capability to service global clients across all our brands.
2006: 595.7 million on a constant currency basis, and 13.0% We doubled the size of Isobars global client resource, at reported rates.
Organic revenue growth of 10.3% was well established in 2006, and we have also restructured Carat and ahead of the global advertising market, which we estimate to have Vizeums international client services around a new team of senior grown at 4.6% globally.
client presidents, drawing on internal appointments and new hires.
We have put in place new shared resources for global insight, Underlying operating profit was up 11.9% on a constant currency investment management and data.
basis, and 11.0% at reported rates, to 134.4 million 2006: 121.1 million.
Underlying operating margins of 20.0% 2006: We have also developed our capability to provide integrated 20.3% remained best-in-class for our industry, in spite of increased services.
We believe our heritage in consumer insight and investment in resources to win and service global clients.
accountability, along with a unique structure, gives us a natural advantage in providing full-service solutions.
For example, in the Aegis Media achieved significant success in local and US, Carat was behind the use of over 350,000 personalised international pitches during 2007.
Net new business of text messages and phone calls with pioneering use of callback, US$1,667.5 million 2006: US$2,691.7 million followed an webisodes starring NBA players and offline media to recruit teens exceptional performance the previous year and reflects Aegis to adidass Basketball is a Brotherhood cause.
Brand favourability Medias global leadership in insight including CCS, more than doubled, and 72% of all participants said the our proprietary consumer research, the largest study of its type, campaign made them think differently about their lives.
our planning and measurement tools, both on and offline, We have also established a central team to work on defining our consumer-planning led approach, our leadership in digital and sharing best practice approaches around the world and will and the strength of our media buying operation.
In December, be launching the next generation of our three key communications Carat was named Campaigns 2007 Media Network of the planning frameworks Carat 3Cs: The Vizeum Way and Isobars Year for the second year running.
Creating Time in the course of this year.
Key wins included Twentieth Century Fox in 18 markets by Vizeum, Isobar, our digital marketing agency network, had another Johnson & Johnson across EMEA by Aegis Media and Mattel exceptional year of growth.
We exceeded our target of one globally by Carat.
We successfully expanded a number of existing quarter of Aegis Media revenue from Isobar: at 26% it was up client relationships, including our appointment by Renault in the from 20% in 2006 and over three times ahead of the wider Nordics, Procter & Gamble in China and The Coca-Cola marketplace.
Isobar agencies continued to lead the field in digital Company in the UK.
We also retained a number of significant marketing, taking more awards at the Webbies and the Cannes client relationships in review, including Carats global Philips 28 Aegis Group plc MARCH The acquisition of Synovate publishes the Interview-NSS second round of Hotspots YEARS strengthens Synovate reports on emerging markets: Netherlands: the two including Indonesia, GOING businesses being highly Thailand, Poland, Romania, complementary.
It also Hungary, Mexico and 12STRONG brings in affluent Argentina.
Among the Carat retains the Philips account globally after media survey EMS in findings is the fact that a worldwide review.
Having worked together Europe, which fits well when it comes to choosing for 12 years already, past Carat successes for with Synovates PAX between a product made Philips includes Philips exclusive US takeover in Asia-Pacific, the locally or internationally, of CBSs 60 Minutes and a global digital Middle East and 63% of Hungarians embrace partnerships with Yahoo!
their heritage, preferring to showcase the Ambilight TV through buy the local brand.
Cyber Lions than any other network, with five Webbies and eight Insight: Cyber Lions in 2007.
Ground-breaking work in the year included Farfars Heidies campaign for the launch of Diesel underwear, Antoine Levque, CEO of a Grand Prix winner at Cannes, and wwwins search-led Marvellous France, asks interactive online soap opera for Yahoo!
Kimo in Taiwan, what the real potential which generated almost 20 million search queries in four weeks.
is for mobile internet Our 2007 digital acquisitions focused on expanding Isobar in in 2008 emerging markets and bringing new technologies into the Group, such as Marvellous in mobile marketing and Bluestreak in digital ad-serving.
The technologies and capabilities acquired, along with previous acquisitions such as iProspect in search, Much hyped in recent years, mobile internet is finally are enabling us to create new global data offerings for our becoming a reality: around 30% of mobile users have clients, integrating proprietary data and analytics for the access in the US and Europe.
But what are the real optimisation of client marketing initiatives.
By the year end, opportunities for brands?
And is it just another way Isobar was in 38 markets, with Brazil, South Africa, Hong Kong of accessing the existing internet?
and Switzerland added to the network.
Isobar was also Display campaigns on mobile sites are a given, recognised as the worlds largest digital agency network in even though audiences are still very small.
This universe RECMAs first report on interactive agencies.
will expand as media owners continue to optimise sites We started the international roll-out of iProspect and delivered for mobile access and operators finally do away with exceptional growth in search engine marketing.
Acquired in metered data charges.
2004, iProspects bidding technology and its search engine But the mobile is not just another way to get the internet: optimisation capability are both judged industry-leading.
Today, we have 10 full-service iProspects, of which nine it is personal, and it knows where you are.
So the big opportunity for brands now is to start treating mobiles were opened in 2007.
We have a further ambitious opening aswell, mobile.
Slick designed-for-mobile applications are Posterscope also achieved another year of market outstraightforward.
These might exploit the operator billing performance, helped by investment in consumer insight, relationship, allowing users to buy or test products.
Or proprietary tools and technology, continuing momentum from tailored location-based services, which could indicate the international expansion of the brand and the breadth of our out-ofnearest McDonalds, adidas store or train station.
The long anticipated loss of Mediacoms UK business forward, 3G connectivity will enable fast downloads of in the fourth quarter of 2006, following its change in ownership, bespoke games, video and music, with sponsorship, prewas more than offset through share gains elsewhere in the UK.
roll ads and social networking opportunities as standard.
New international openings in 2007 included Posterscope Netherlands and Posterscope Malaysia, taking the brand into With the right content, a targeted approach and ease-ofa total of 21 countries worldwide.
Developments in technology use, these services have the potential to become powerful, mean that digital out-of-home screens are becoming increasingly indispensable vehicles for brands.
In the UK, Guinness was able to create additional word-of-mouth by taking its Hands advertising idea beyond television and internet into digital out-of-home with positive results.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 APRIL AWARDS 41% Aegis Media wins five awards at the inaugural Synovates 21country study of attitudes to climate Venice Festival of Media.
change finds that two-thirds of respondents are concerned about global warming.
41% believe Posterscope, Isobar and 5 Carat all bring home one country is responsible and almost all of those prizes for client work look at the United States: two-thirds of them in the previous year.
blame the US before any other country.
Results of the survey are broadcast as part of the BBCs Climate Watch season.
Business review Aegis Media EMEA Insight: 2007 was another excellent year in Aegis Media EMEA.
Our digital advantage and a very strong new business Nigel Sharrocks, CEO of performance during 2006 and 2007, including the Aegis Media UK, gets $800 million GM Europe account, delivered good his head around a revenue momentum throughout the year.
fragmenting world Revenue at constant currency was up 12.4%, and up 12.7% at reported rates, to 471.1 million 2006: 418.1 million.
We enjoyed a generally stable trading environment, although traditional media remained under pressure in many Western What we are seeing now is a paradigm shift in how European markets.
We achieved particularly strong performances in Russia and The digital revolution has given consumers control over Eastern Europe, Italy, Spain and the Nordics.
In each of the how they respond to advertising.
In this new world they three largest European advertising economies of Germany, can choose what they want, and we need to understand the UK and France, our organic growth was comfortably what that means.
ahead of the respective national markets.
Traditionally the advertising industry has operated in silos We continue to pioneer new agency models, with Carat UK, above-the-line, below-the-line, direct etc.
But now things Vizeum UK and Carat France all trialling alternative structures are different and much more fluid.
We need to know how for online offline integration.
This has resulted in exceptional above-the-line can drive a search strategy, and figure out client work and new business success, with Carat and Vizeum the best way of getting advertising involved with new respectively taking the first and second positions in the Campaign formats like video on-demand.
new business league for 2007, and Carat France winning a number of full-service assignments.
As a company, we want to be at the cutting edge of this change.
And that has meant reappraising everything Our acquisitions included Trigger and Full Circle Media in South about the business from our systems and processes to Africa, taking us into digital and underpinning our commitment to the way we think because what we had was built for invest and grow in a rapidly consumerising market: a different world.
Suddenly Copenhagen, and Suddenly Stockholm along with the subsequent acquisition of White Sheep in January 2008, Clearly things arent going to change overnight.
completing our Nordics full-service digital offer under the Traditional TV advertising and conventional broadcasting Suddenly brand : Marvellous in mobile in the UK, with are going to be around for years to come.
But the international operations and a proprietary technology platform, challenges we all face are around the fragmentation that m-hub: Implicom in trade marketing and retail promotions in the digital age is bringing, and managing the transition France: and Extenseo in search in Belgium, for the iProspect between the relative simplicity of an analogue world and network.
We also launched Vizeum in South Africa and UK the complexities of a multi-dimensional digital one.
digital brand Diffiniti in Ireland during the year.
Aegis Media Americas Aegis Media Americas grew revenue at 25.0% at constant currency, and 15.5% at reported rates, to 153.7 million 2006: 133.1 million.
We experienced strong growth in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and Canada, with Brazil and Canada 30 Aegis Group plc MAY JUNE A study of the influence of social networking, The acquisition of Bluestreaks proprietary Never Ending Friending, by Isobar and Carat technology sees Isobar move into ad-serving.
USA, shows how branded material downloaded Bluestreaks systems give advertisers the 67,000 times in MySpace can translate into over power to measure activity beyond the click, 20 million online consumer contacts through the understanding how clicks are translating into power of social networking.
In the same survey, purchases and revenue.
Carat USA and 30% 17% of teens said they would most like to spend Bluestreak collaborated on the USs first ever a spare 15 minutes on social networks: the same rich media advertisement online: for Pfizers The launch of Synovates Market Value Potential percentage as said talking on their cellphone, MVP product suite brings together forecasting Zithromax in 1999. and ahead of the 14% who would watch tools from product concept and design through to television.
MVP targets the 30% of the custom research market that is in new product development.
MVP has already exceeded revenue forecasts for 2007. both helped by acquisitions in the year.
Overall, our USA creativity, having won 16 Cannes Lions.
The addition of business grew well, delivering above-market organic growth, AgenciaClick gives us an extremely solid platform to build on for driven in particular by an exceptional performance in digital future growth in the Latin America region, and was a contributing factor to a quadrupling in revenue from Latin America in the period.
and another good year in out-of-home and sponsorship and entertainment marketing.
Aegis Media Asia-Pacific The reduction of two major client budgets at the end of 2006, Revenue at Aegis Media Asia-Pacific increased 12.2% at constant as reported at the half year, impacted Carat USAs revenue and currency to 48.6 million 2006: 44.5 million and 9.2% at reported rates.
We significantly strengthened the senior team profitability, although we increased the Aegis Media Americas operating margin year-on-year.
We took advantage of the in the region, including the appointment of new CEOs in opportunity to restructure Carat USA by merging it with Carat Australia, India and North Asia, following the appointment of a Fusion, our largest digital business, creating a new integrated new regional CEO in July 2006.
We took a number of strategic agency model with unique scale in the USA, and have absorbed actions in the course of 2007 which impacted our revenue growth and profitability during the year and leave us with a significantly the cost of restructuring in our underlying results.
We are reshaping the business with new tools, metrics and an agency-wide emphasis stronger business.
These included a new service proposition at on communications planning, which will enable our planners to Carat Australia, a restructuring in India, where we now operate work across the full spectrum of marketing services, from media, as a wholly-owned business, and a move from media buying to search, word-of-mouth, out-of-home, creative and mobile.
a pure planning offer in Japan, where a different business model This has been well received by the US market, and we will prevails.
As a result, we saw a year-on-year decline in profitability of our Asia-Pacific business but are very confident of a return to continue to innovate in this area.
Having launched Posterscope USA in 2006, we saw a further year of very good performance in 2007.
We brought Elsewhere in the region we performed well.
The developing markets of Asia-Pacific continue to drive high growth rates HyperSpace, our digital out-of-home offer, to the US.
Posterscope USA is well placed to make further good progress ahead of the throughout the region.
We remain the leading player in launch of industry-wide out-of-home audience data, Eyes On, digital in much of the region, and both Carat and Vizeum in the current year.
Velocity, our sports and entertainment business, enjoy a reputation for competitive, creative work.
The June acquisition of Vivid Marketing, a full-service outstanding growth in China, Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan.
We benefited from strong market positions in China, where Aegis event and experiential marketing agency, is proving highly complementary, giving us a unique integrated sponsorship Media is the number three media agency and a leader in digital, and experiential capability.
We have also been working on the and in Taiwan, where Carat is the market leader.
creation of a free-standing co-ordinated global sponsorship and We signed three acquisitions in the region during 2007. experiential network.
This will draw together the skills of our The Korean operations of ION Global brought us strategic 500 people in 17 countries already active in this area, and technical capabilities in mobile and web-build in the worlds ahead of a new brand launch in the first half of 2008. most broadband-penetrated market.
IONs Hong Kong operations We transformed our client proposition in both Canada and Brazil.
have given us a base to build the successful wwwins brand in The acquisitions of Genesis Media and Mindblossom in Canada Hong Kong, giving us a presence in the four key cities across Greater China.
In December we announced an agreement to in the second half have enabled us to establish the Vizeum brand in Canada and to offer full-service digital services.
In Brazil, acquire Heartland, Chinas leading independent out-of-home the acquisition of AgenciaClick brought the leading independent agency.
We also acquired Apollo, the largest independent digital agency into Aegis Media, with a worldwide reputation for promotional marketing agency in Australia and New Zealand, reinforcing our sponsorship and entertainment offer in the region.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Sprites mobile-enabled social networking At the 54th Cannes Advertising platform for teens, Sprite Yard, is launched, Festival, Isobar's Farfar is awarded first in China and shortly afterwards in the its second Grand Prix in the NUMBER US.
Built by Isobar, the Sprite Yard is the Cyber Lions, this time for its first community-to-go to combine photo Heidies campaign for the launch sharing, message board, planner, and of Diesel's underwear collection.
digital downloads in one simple interface The same month, the Farfar ONE mobile phones.
Shortly after the launch, academy opens in Stockholm Isobar acquires mobile partner on The Yard, a school for digital creatives Marvellous bringing valuable mobile expertise in conjunction with Bergh School INTERACTIVE and technology into the Group.
At the end of the year, Farfar is named number one interactive agency in the AGENCY world by the Gunn Report.
Business review Synovate Our global client relationship GCR programme, based Revenue, m 2007 2006 Change CC change around dedicated account management for 16 of Synovates largest multinational clients, continues to produce excellent results EMEA 206.4 183.2 12.7% 14.3% as we increased our share of their market research budgets.
We have also launched successful GCR programmes in both Synovate Healthcare and Synovate Worldwide 433.0 401.2 7.9% 13.0% Motoresearch and have customised the programme for individual Underlying operating profit 34.9 30.8 13.3% 18.3% markets to roll-out on a national basis for local clients.
Underlying operating margin 8.1% 7.7% 40bps We created a dedicated global operations team and made Constant currency very good progress on our operations strategy, following the appointment of Synovates first COO in 2006.
In the summer Synovate delivered a year of very strong revenue growth and an we opened four data-processing centres in Bulgaria, Malaysia, improvement in operating margin.
Synovates guiding principles Egypt and China to service clients at a more competitive cost than of the 3 is international, innovative and integration continue we can in developed markets.
These are already operating well, to underpin our offer to clients and our business success.
bringing some early margin improvement, and we have set Revenue of 433.0 million 2006: 401.2 million was up aggressive targets for utilisation in 2008.
Our roll-out of new 13.0%, on a constant currency basis, and 7.9% at reported rates.
We have installed Revenue grew 8.9% organically, making for a third successive the first modules of WorkBench, our new research platform, year of growth around twice as fast as the industry, which we and are in the process of completing user acceptance testing estimate to have grown at 5.2% in 2007.
Synovates success of ManageMe, our MIS, as part of first roll-out in China.
reflects a number of factors, including our global client relationship Our revenue and profit growth was helped by a number of new programme, product innovation across a number of sectors and product launches.
In 2006 we established a worldwide Brand growing specialism in industry sectors and areas of research.
& Communications practice with BrandLab as our centre of Synovates gross profit margin declined 80bps from 63.9% to excellence for strategic thinking and new product development 63.1%.
This reflects changes in the 2007 business mix, with a in Cape Town, led by Jannie Hofmeyr, an acknowledged leader high proportion of pass-through costs in certain studies and an in brand equity.
BrandLabs first product, sales prediction tool increasing percentage of business from global clients.
Brand Value Creator BVC, was launched at the end of 2006 and has delivered exceptional results throughout 2007, Underlying operating profit was up 18.3% on a constant currency with over 400 separate projects undertaken, for many of the basis, and 13.3% at reported rates, to 34.9 million 2006: worlds best-known brands.
Today BVC can draw on a total 30.8 million, reversing the half-year decline that arose from of 4 million individual consumer observations.
An extension the second-half weighting of contract completions.
Underlying of BVC was launched in December 2007 and we have a operating margin improved from 7.7% to 8.1% as we offset series of further product launches planned for the Brand and continuing pressure on pricing from clients with good cost control Communications space.
and operating efficiencies, including moving data collection and processing to lower cost markets.
32 Aegis Group plc JULY Synovate Healthcare launches its Pyschoses monitor in five markets, covering the treatment of patients diagnosed$430M with Schizophrenia First results from Latin America and Bipolar disorders.
Aegis Medias Media Care is selected by Initial waves cover the Johnson & Johnson as its media partner for are published from Synovates PAX, the international affluent UK, France, Germany, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Johnson Italy and Spain, with & Johnsons portfolio of brands is made up of media survey, covering Mexico, the US set to launch Brazil and Argentina.
In 5 world-class household names, including combination, the EMS in 2008.
Acuvue, Band Aid, Clean & Clear, Listerine, and PAX surveys now cover and Neutrogena.
The US$430 million win 42 countries around the world.
MARKETS Synovate Healthcare delivered another strong performance Insight: in 2007.
Growth from GCR was particularly strong as we customised this Synovate-wide initiative for pharmaceutical clients.
Fredrick Marckini, chief In addition, we saw good revenue growth from new product global search officer of launches, including the development of our forecasting services Isobar, ponders the fiendish and new Therapy Monitors in Psychoses in five European markets, maths and verbal subtlety Diabetes in China and Oncology in India.
Along with expanding their geographical reach, we are also transitioning a number of of search strategies Therapy Monitors online to ensure faster data collection and delivery to our clients.
In keeping with our strategy to be in all the major and key emerging markets we extended our network All paid advertising print, radio, TV drives people to to 22 countries with the launch of Synovate Healthcare in search engines.
Unless these searchers find you at the top Germany, Turkey, Canada and Russia.
of the results page, they will find your competitors.
Synovate Motoresearch also enjoyed a very strong year, with That top spot is the holy grail for generating traffic to particular success in China and Germany, where our emphasis your site.
It can be bought, on a pay-per-click PPC on key accounts helped us increase revenues from a number of basis, or it can be sought, by optimising your site for major manufacturers, and good growth in South Africa, where natural search.
we remain the market leader.
Our customer satisfaction tool, PPC is fiendishly complicated.
Keyword bidding is NADA 24, continues to perform very well.
Originally designed affected by many variables, including particular to give real-time feedback to automotive dealers, the product keywords, time of day, creative, landing page, clickhas also proved popular with manufacturers and we are through rate and even seasonality.
continuing to customise this service for new segment and geographic applications.
And 70% of searchers click on natural search results, not paid ads.
Optimising a site needs a deep Synovate Aztec traded strongly in its heartland of Australia and understanding of search engines algorithms, as well as New Zealand, at the same time as delivering encouraging growth website architecture.
Outside this region, Synovate Aztec has now established a presence in South Africa and is establishing Attracting links and placing targeted keywords in the its consultancy services in France, Belgium, the UK and Canada.
parts of the web page deemed important to the search engines is the difference between being found in the In April we announced an agreement with online data collection top three or on page three of the results.
specialist GMI as a preferred partner for online research.
While Synovate has a number of high specification online In addition, search tools are no longer just about text.
access panels across the world, in which we continue to invest, Google already aggregates news, video, images, retail we do not believe that the online market is yet at a stage of offers and social networking content into its search results.
development to merit start-up panel investment in every market So marketers need search strategies.
Eighty per where we operate.
As a result, we have been able to service cent of all content is expected to be digital soon, and all clients with online data collection in over 60 markets, without content will be digital and searchable over time, any additional capital investment.
Through this partnership we putting search at the centre of an on-demand world.
have now carried out over 1,000 studies.
