Big Box and Light Industrial Strykow Logistics Park, Poland SEGRO initially acquired 61 hectares To date, SEGRO has completed and at Strykow, near Lodz in January 2006 let 111,000 sq m of warehousing, for the first phase of an industrial and while a further 20,000 sq m is under logistics park.
Tenants include Corning Cable Systems, Komfort, Sonoco, This first phase site has the potential Azymut, Investa, Hellmann, to build 250,000 sq m and is located Lidl and Complex.
at the key intersection of the planned A2 Berlin to Warsaw and A1 When fully built out in 2010, the first Gdansk to the Czech Border phase site is expected to have a total highways in Central Europe.
end value in the region of 155 million, and an annual income of 10.8 million.
In 2007, a further 25 hectares was acquired for a second phase.
com Christopher Ulnski Our distribution centre is a vital part of Logistics Director, Komfort our business and SEGRO supports us with a high specification facility in the heart of Poland, and a facility management team on call day and night.
SEGRO meets our needs, with a good building, good location and good people.
Finding the right location Komfort SA is Polands largest flooring retailer, with products including floor panels and carpeting sold from a nationwide chain of 110 stores.
The companys warehouse and distribution centre is based in Strykow, a location offering unrivalled connections to its stores across Poland and a direct motorway link to western Europe, from where 60 per cent of Komforts products are imported.
Employing more than 100 people, the Park also gives Komfort access to a ready workforce based in Polands second largest city, Lodz, less than 15 km away from Strykow.
Komfort came to us when they needed to centralise their distribution network and move from several older facilities into a new purpose-built centre.
We provided them with a new 10,000 sq m building within six months.
Magdalena Szulc, Regional Manager, Poland Magdalena Szulc, Regional Manager, Poland, SEGRO left and Christopher Ulnski, Logistics Director, Komfort right 10.
How SEGRO improves its returns: Corporate Partnering 11.
WHY SEGRO WORKS FOR INVESTORS AN ATTRACTIVE GROWTH BUSINESS FOCUSED ON ITS CORE SKILLS AND UNDERPINNED BY MANY DEFENSIVE QUALITIES.
Growth characteristics: High quality development and asset management skills Active recycling, highly selective acquisitions Strong reversionary potential for rental income Low risk development pipeline Geographically diversified across Europe Defensive Qualities: Prime property portfolio High yielding UK REIT Specialised in Flexible Business Space High quality of income and covenant Strong balance sheet Good average lease lengths The Right Strategy at the Right Time Corporate Partnering, Frankfurt, Germany In July 2007 SEGRO reaffirmed SEGRO will enhance the value of the but also to providing potential its commitment to the Corporate site by developing 6,000 sq m of synergies and opportunities for the Partnering programme by exchanging business space in the short-term and future in other markets throughout the UK and Continental Europe.
contracts on its largest ever transaction subsequently refurbishing and in Continental Europe.
redeveloping additional areas as they SEGRO now has a growing number are handed back.
of similar arrangements in place The sale and leaseback from with a range of companies including Neckermann.
fide GmbH of a major This marks the latest development office and distribution campus in Antalis, the largest European in SEGROs Corporate Partnering Frankfurt totalled 197 million, distributor of communication support scheme, first started in 2005 between including all acquisition costs.
products, DHL across Europe but SEGRO and KarstadtQuelle AG, Neckermann.
particularly in France, and in 2008, The assets comprise a total of 30 MPM Mannesmann Plastics hectares and have a built area in Corporate Partnering commits both Machinery in Germany.
excess of 310,000 sq m, including companies through a partnership some 86,000 sq m of high quality agreement not only to work together office space.
on extensions to existing properties SEGRO.
com Wilhelm Bellina SEGRO has been a cooperative and Director, Facilities Management Neckermann.
fide flexible partner, helping us to develop our property and create a sound base on which to optimise and grow our business.
Delivering Value With an annual turnover of 1.3 billion, Neckermann.
fide is one of the top three mail order companies in Europe, distributing over 57 million items per annum.
Advertising a product range exceeding 250,000, Neckermann.
fide is accessible to customers 365 days of the year, collecting various accolades for its performance.
Most recently, it was awarded top customer orientated service provider 2007.
Out of the companys 5,000 strong workforce, over 1,300 are employed at Neckermann.
Located approximately 4km from the centre of Frankfurt on the main artery running east from the city, Neckermann.
des latest corporate partnering scheme is ideal for ensuring the daily dispatch of over 58,000 packets from the warehouse.
Oliver Drecker, Marketing Vermietung Asset Management, Germany, SEGRO left and Wilhelm Bellina, Director, Facilities Management, Neckermann.
Nigel Rich CBE Chairman After several years of buoyant property markets and yield compression in all Dividends per share pence classes of property, 2007 saw the erosion of confidence in the sector as the credit crunch affected financial markets.
Whilst the value of SEGROs shares 23.0 and the valuation of its properties have been impacted, the lettings demand for SEGROs properties, the success of the development programme and the 19.0 17.5 Continental European expansion have enabled the Company to produce a strong 16.0 15.0 earnings performance.
Adjusted continuing profit before tax increased by 32 per cent and total adjusted diluted earnings per share by 28 per cent.
On the back of the earnings and in accordance with our status as a REIT, the Board has declared a final dividend of 14.7 pence per share, making a total of 23.0 pence, an increase of 21.1 per cent over 2006.
This is in addition to the 53 pence per share special dividend paid in August 2007 following the sale of the US business.
An exceptional profit of 135 million was earned on the successful completion 03 04 05 06 07 of the sale of the US business.
The net cash generated from the sale was used to pay a special dividend of 53 pence per share and to pay down debt and, Adjusted diluted thereafter, has mostly been reinvested in Continental Europe.
earnings per share pence As we have refocused the business towards a pan-European strategy, we have 32.2 strengthened our management team.
Walter Hens, the Executive Director who successfully led our European expansion, has now assumed responsibility for 19.0 25.1 24.4 24.3 Group Business Development, to build our customer relationships across all the European countries in which we are active.
A new head of Continental European operations, Ins Reinmann, has been appointed from outside the Group.
2007 was a year of transformation for SEGRO, beginning with our name change and the conversions to REIT and SIIC status in the UK and France.
The successful sales of our US business and of Slough Heat & Power have completed the refocusing of SEGROs business.
Considerable investment has taken place in Continental Europe which now represents over 20 per cent of our portfolio in value.
Following the sale of the US business, Marshall Lees, For the property industry 2008 will be a challenging year who had been a Director for 20 years, left the Company.
especially if the crisis in the financial markets persists for He played a key role in both building up the assets in the some time and causes a greater slow down in economic USA and then assisting in the sale.
SEGRO, however, is well placed to face the Executive Director, UK Property, will also be leaving us, challenge and in due course take advantage of the in July 2008.
He too has played an important role, in opportunities that will undoubtedly arise.
We have a developing the UK portfolio over a number of years.
John strong balance sheet, a vibrant management team and Probert, the Company Secretary, will retire shortly after the flexibility of relatively short lead times to carry out the Annual General Meeting, having provided excellent developments as and when there is demand.
We are service in that position for 18 years.
All of them have confident that your Company will continue to deliver value played their part in the development of the Company and to shareholders.
we wish them well for the future.
2007 has thus seen many changes, including name, status, direction, and people.
However the management team are totally focused on being the leading Flexible Business Space provider across Europe and are well Nigel Rich supported by very committed employees.
The Board is Chairman 5 March 2008 grateful to all of them.
Ian Coull Chief Executive David Sleath Finance Director Space today OPERATING REVIEW Current portfolio Overview of 2007 UK 2007 was a transformational year for SEGRO, in which we 56% became a UK REIT, achieved critical mass in Continental Europe, delivered a timely and well-executed disposal of our US business and divested the power station in Slough.
The Continental Europe US sale enabled us to return 250 million to shareholders in 44% the form of a special dividend accompanied by a share consolidation, and provided funds to finance the Groups Built space at the end of December 2007 4.7 million sq m. future growth and development.
Once again we have Includes trading properties and 100% of joint ventures.
produced excellent profits underpinned by our customer focus and our core skills in asset management Space tomorrow and development.
SEGROs development pipeline Adjusted profit before tax increased by 7.7 per cent to 153.7 million 2006: 142.7 million comprising profit from UK both continuing operations 131.3 million plus discontinued 25% operations 22.4 million.
This increase was driven by a strong contribution from acquisitions, rental income from the Continental letting of existing properties and new developments, trading Europe property disposal profits, and from other income.
The positive 75% impact of REIT and SIIC status were the main drivers of the reduction in our effective tax rate from 14.0 per cent in 2006 Development potential of approximately 2.5 million sq m. to 1.4 per cent in 2007.
Operating and Financial Review SEGRO plc Annual Report 2007 15.
In 2007 SEGRO entered a new phase of its strategic development and delivered a strong performance.
We produced excellent profits, underpinned by our customer focus and our core skills in asset management.
Ian Coull We have made excellent progress in the growth of our Continental European business with 425.2 million 620.8 Our Values million of attractive acquisitions at an average initial yield of approximately 7 per cent and with development expenditure To sustain our success and grow in the of 112.4 million 164.1 million.
Our acquisitions enabled future, we need to adapt and change, us to establish a presence in new markets such as Lyon and thinking innovatively about our business, Milan and strengthen our position in existing markets, such our culture and the way we reward as Frankfurt, or with key customers eg DHL.
acquisitions offer opportunities to enhance the initial yield Our values articulate our behaviour, both as through further development or asset management.
Good people and as a company: occupier demand for our existing buildings and for newly completed developments enabled us to achieve very strong Respect letting figures on the Continent of 298,000 sq m up 76 per Partnership cent on 2006.
In addition, 104,000 sq m of the current Energy construction in progress and potential 2008 development Responsibility starts are already pre-let.
The vacancy rate of 5.9 per cent at For more about SEGROs values see our year end is down significantly on the 8.7 per cent reported website, SEGRO.
Very strong lettings were also achieved in the UK with a record 298,000 sq m of space taken up by customers, some 62 per cent ahead of the level achieved in 2006 and helped by the delivery and take up of a number of well-timed and located development completions.
7.9 million of additional annualised income from developments came on stream during 2007.
Overall UK vacancy reduced from 11.6 per cent to 10.8 per cent 8.5 per cent underlying by 31 December 2007 with good levels of customer enquiries continuing into the New Year.
