A growing cosmopolitan population, Our tightly knit team has very detailed We work closely with Westminster Overview and Strategy together with exciting and varied local knowledge and specialist skills City Council and Camden Council Our strategy is to invest opportunities for employment is in urban regeneration, as well as to coordinate our respective plans only in the busiest areas giving Central London a prosperity an enterprising approach to estate and to combine resources so that which is materially greater than management.
We are able to identify the best possible environments of the West End of London that seen elsewhere in the UK and clusters of streets, where properties are created.
Between us we seek a city that is universally which is less reliant on the domestic are run down, often vacant, and to deliver regeneration of high recognised to be the best economy than other UK cities.
Through numerous quality which includes not just in Europe for present and We are seeing the benefits of this transactions and projects, we create buildings, but also pedestrian future business ventures prosperity in our villages.
over time distinctive high quality friendly environments.
Many of neighbourhoods thereby generating the issues faced are complex ones as well as being the London also has an exceptionally long term rental growth.
We always and increasingly our involvement Worlds most popular extensive, varied and historic urban take care to introduce an appropriate now includes environmental destination for overseas environment, which distinguishes mix of uses in such a way that health and licensing as well as it from other cities.
prosperity is enhanced without the public realm.
The mutual Central London and in particular destroying local identity.
benefits of this integrated approach As a consequence, Londons economy the West End especially attractive are apparent in the success and is very buoyant.
This prosperity is Using extensive local knowledge to domestic and overseas visitors, vibrancy of our villages.
stimulating the development of whose numbers and expenditure and specialist skills, we create large new business districts such as value in a number of distinctive Each year we identify new are at record levels.
Tourists are Paddington and Kings Cross, which attracted by those cultural and ways.
For example:- opportunities to invest in our have easy access to the West End.
chosen locations, which we know leisure assets which set the West We cluster our ownerships so It is also encouraging to see End apart from any other city, will deliver long term growth once that we give areas an identity with investment in several major new refurbished.
Many acquisitions namely its unrivalled cluster and an emphasis on retail, restaurant hotels in the West End as well as choice of World class theatres, are of un-modernised or derelict and leisure uses.
projects to improve Londons properties, which we can improve cinemas, museums, galleries, infrastructure, which are essential historic buildings and public to our specifications.
For example, We welcome exciting combinations if the citys prosperity is to be by conversion, we introduce new spaces, as well as the extensive of alternative shops, individual maintained.
choice of shops and restaurants.
residential accommodation into restaurants and leisure uses to former office floors as we are create a vibrant street life.
Central and Local Government are Over the past fifteen years we have aware of the strong demand from Increasingly as London continues now committed to improving public assembled a unique estate of over those wishing to live in the to prosper, we focus on higher transport upon which the success 400 buildings in the heart of the liveliest districts in London.
quality and more varied concepts of London depends.
Clustered around some which meet current expectations long-term improvements to public of Londons most vibrant areas, We make it a priority to have frequent of demand.
transport are starting to have an and direct contact with our principal we have created distinctive villages impact with the re-opening of such as Carnaby and Chinatown.
shareholders and stakeholders as We adapt our properties and St. Pancras Station, improvements well as prospective investors so Within Covent Garden we now have change our tenants as we identify to Kings Cross and the consequent a number of districts including that they are aware of our unique opportunities to reconfigure space release of Waterloo Stations strategy and how we implement it.
Seven Dials, the Opera Quarter to meet the changing needs of Eurostar platforms for domestic and our Longmartin Joint Venture, occupiers and customers.
Recently, the Government as well as holdings around the has also given a commitment to We provide a range of sizes and Coliseum, which is close to the construction of the Crossrail rental levels especially for shops Trafalgar Square.
In addition, East West route.
within each of our villages.
For we have identified other adjacent example, we are aware that there areas within the West End in which is strong demand and lack of we are investing.
availability of units over 1,000 sq.
ft. Whilst we choose areas with good so we are quick to adapt our access to public transport, generally refurbishment strategies to we avoid streets which are dominated satisfy this growing market.
by national brands and where high rents restrict the potential for long term growth.
24:7 which in aggregate were 36% above lease term of fifteen years.
Catering Portfolio activity Our Portfolio their book value at 31 March 2007. projects are long-term investments Acquisitions during the Our wholly owned portfolio Further sales are being considered.
for both landlord and tenant.
at 30 September 2007 Installation of plant essential for In the year to 30 September 2007 todays high quality restaurants can During 2007 the supply of included 292 shops we let commercial space with an present particular challenges in suitable property in our extending to 368,000 sq.
ft. aggregate rental value of 3.2 million conservation areas and often listed chosen locations was limited per annum, comprising 1.6 million and producing 41% of total structures such as our own.
Whilst of shops, 0.7 million of restaurants by vendors reluctance to income with an average such practical issues, combined and 0.9 million of offices.
New sell other than at very high unexpired lease term of with a strict planning and licensing opportunities to let or re-let vacant regime, greatly limit the supply of new prices.
Sixteen of our space have been limited by the restaurants in the West End, there uncertainty since the year 22 vacant shops available absence of large shops and is, at the same time, a growing end has led to a change in to let are small units of restaurants coming vacant and also demand from experienced and by delays in obtaining the planning sentiment, and already we under 1,000 sq.
Recently, enterprising caterers to open new consents needed to change use or are being offered a number we have identified a number ventures as the popularity of reconfigure units.
However, since the of interesting opportunities.
Consequently, of larger shops where we year end we have obtained a number we have strong interest whenever intend to secure vacant Since the year end, taking advantage of useful consents which will allow a restaurant comes vacant.
This of our REIT tax status, we acquired us to advance these projects.
the entire share capital of Offices in our wholly owned portfolio will enable us to introduce Demand from prospective tenants Carnaby Investments Limited for extend to 425,000 sq.
ft. With 334 new brands and create new is exceptionally strong and extends a consideration of 4.89 million, tenancies, they comprise the largest rental evidence.
to every use across all our villages.
satisfied by the issue of 889,000 single tenant group in our portfolio.
The However, they only represent 23% The rental value of wholly-owned We actively encourage new retail sole asset of that company is the vacant commercial space at 30 ideas.
During the year, we have of our income.
Whilst virtually all one freehold in Carnaby Street our offices are let, the unit size is September 2007 was historically introduced several exciting new which we did not already own.
low at only 2.1 million, which retailers especially in to Carnaby small 1,270 sq.
ft. on average and leases are short, with an average represents 3% of the estimated and Seven Dials.
Demand for new Capital expenditure on our portfolio rental value of our wholly-owned food based concepts both in un-expired term of four years.
We are totalled 9.8 million, equivalent to aware that the office market tends portfolio.
Almost half the vacant Chinatown and the Opera Quarter 0.7% of its year end valuation.
Of the space at the year end was under is a particularly interesting to be cyclical and in any downturn total, fees and preliminary works our office tenants, unlike our retail and offer.
Where planning consents are development, which we intend to incurred in our Longmartin project awaited, these rental values do not encourage.
Preliminary enquiries restaurant tenants, can readily find accounted for 1.8 million.
Consequently, fully reflect values expected on for shops to be created in our continuing low level of expenditure on completion of renovation works.
Longmartin project are already we continue our long-term policy our wholly owned portfolio reflects most encouraging.
of converting smaller and older our focus on improving existing In addition to the commercial space office space to other less cyclical buildings and concentration on uses under refurbishment, we have 25 new We have 153 restaurants, bars and commercial and residential uses.
where the extent of fit-out costs clubs, with a total area of 399,000 apartments currently being created and obsolescence we incur is low.
We have 254 apartments in our from former offices, of which sq.
ft. in our wholly owned portfolio.
They provide 29% of contracted wholly owned portfolio, which now nineteen are in Covent Garden.
Following our conversion to REIT represent 7% of our income.
They income with an average unexpired status in April 2007, and the are currently fully let.
Such is the consequent elimination of any strength of current demand that taxation liability on sales of properties, Analysis of Wholly Owned Vacant Commercial Space when a unit becomes vacant it is we have identified certain investments at 30 September 2007 usually re-let and income-producing which are no longer central to our Restaurants within 4 weeks.
Whilst we expect to core holdings and strategy and their Shops and leisure Offices Total make selective residential sales, potential for rental and capital growth Estimated Rental Value 000 000 000 000 we will also continue with our current does not meet our requirements.
conversion programme to create Under refurbishment 42 88 335 465 Our initial sales, which included a new flats and maisonettes.
Ready to let 257 300 92 649 restaurant, a theatre and three apartments, realised net proceeds Under offer 558 400 39 997 of 8.4 million and reflected prices Total 857 788 466 2,111 Number of units 22 5 25 Area - sq.
ft. Westminster City Councils Action Carnaby restaurant, Cha Cha Moon, which Plan for Soho was adopted in June Carnaby, our largest fronts both Ganton Street and 2007.
This includes, as a priority, village, represents 40% Kingly Court, is imminent.
Whilst the improvement and partial long awaited, this exciting new pedestrianisation of Kingly Street of our assets by value and concept is likely further to on the western boundary of our includes 47% of our wholly invigorate activity in Kingly Court, Carnaby holdings, adjacent to owned shops and 60% of which now has a canopy for most Regent Street.
We expect work to our wholly owned offices.
Ganton Street, take place on this under-utilised with its cluster of bars, cafes and street during 2008.
Whilst the shops in Carnaby Street clubs at the centre of Carnaby are substantially fully let, our priority village, is now well established as is, wherever possible, to promote an exciting leisure destination.
change by introducing fresh brands which are often new to the UK.
Recently, we have made a number Since April, lettings of larger shops of key acquisitions which will allow have included Hilfiger Denim, G-Star us to progress further development and USA Pro.
We have identified opportunities over the next new opportunities to obtain vacant three years.
possession of a number of shops in 2008 for which there is a ready demand.
Carnaby Statistics Valuation 30 September 2007 559.4 million Percentage of portfolio 40% Acquisitions during year 19.0 million Capital expenditure in year 2.6 million Valuation surplus 45.9 million Valuation uplift 9.0% Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Shops 138 186,000 47 Restaurants and leisure 36 78,000 12 Offices tenancies 189 255,000 37 Residential 58 45,000 4 23 Carnaby Business review AnnualReport2007 19 20 15:26 Carnaby 21 20:34 18:22 22:17 11:27 8:30 17.24 19:1 7 13:22 16:43 18:14 9:54 14:12 22 19:47 Opera Quarter 23 Following two key purchases Longmartin, our 50% joint venture With all of the existing space Covent Garden during the second half of the year, with The Mercers Company currently currently either vacant or let on Our holdings in Covent holdings in our Opera Quarter now includes 254,000 sq.
ft. of short term leases, we have started Garden, including our 50% include eighteen restaurants and predominantly un-modernised preliminary works and expect the cafes and nine shops.
Centred on offices and garages on an Island main contracts to be commenced share in the Longmartin four streets, this area is in the heart Site of almost two acres with in Spring 2008.
Securing vacant Joint Venture, represent of Covent Garden, next to seven of frontages to four streets including possession ahead of commencement 33% of our property Londons world famous theatres, Long Acre and close to Leicester of these works is resulting in a assets.
and adjacent to the Piazza.
It is also immediately considerable loss of income and south of our holdings in Seven Dials.
We currently Seven Dials offers a diverse We are well advanced with our Plans for regeneration envisage an estimate our share of the costs of choice of shops and schemes for a high quality food entirely new destination with retail, the scheme will be in the region of and leisure quarter as well as restaurants in a distinctive restaurant, leisure, office and 27 million, to be incurred in the improving office accommodation urban village environment.
residential uses around a central period to mid-2010.
courtyard with pedestrian access Our successful regeneration of Strong interest from occupiers of In close co-operation with our Joint leading from Long Acre and St. Monmouth Street is now having a both commercial and residential Venture partner, The Mercers Martins Lane and Mercer Street.
beneficial impact on neighbouring accommodation is leading to early Company, which also own adjacent streets, especially Earlham Street, lettings.
Recently, we have received In August, planning consent was properties along Long Acre, we are and we are experiencing strong retail two important planning consents obtained for the first four elements.
assisting Westminster Council in demand in these locations.
As with and further schemes are now being These replace 105,000 sq.
ft. of its plans to carry out significant Carnaby, we have very few vacant prepared.
principally offices and garaging environmental and street shops, but, with our proactive with 112,000 sq.
ft. of mixed use Improvements to Long Acre and We welcome Westminster Councils management style, we already with a balance of shops, offices, to its busy junction at St. Martins proposals to improve the neighbouring have projects in hand, which offer residential and restaurant Cross.
This work is expected to streets as part of its Covent Garden opportunities to introduce exciting accommodation.
We are now commence early in 2008.
submitting further applications to new retailers in 2008.
During 2008, we expect to advance replace 58,000 sq.
ft. predominantly plans for the improvement of the In October, we secured the purchase of offices with 84,000 sq.
ft. of shops, remaining buildings on the site, of a small but strategically offices and residential uses.
In total, which currently extend to 90,000 significant building in Neals Yard, these projects will comprise 25 sq.
ft. of completing our ownership of the shops, six restaurants, bars and offices, 42 apartments, two shops, south side of the yard.
ft. of offices and two clubs and a bar.
also identified a number of potential 33 apartments.
24 Longmartin - Covent Garden Statistics Shaftesbury Groups Wholly owned 50% share Valuation 30 September 2007 381.1 million 81.7 million Percentage of portfolio 27% 6% Acquisitions during the year 8.4 million - Capital expenditure in year 4.0 million 1.8 million Book value of disposals 6.2 million - Valuation surplus 29.6 million 9.2 million Valuation uplift 8.1% 12.7% Longmartin Total Area % of current Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Number sq.
ft. of garaging 11:03 11:03 11:03 Opera Quarter Covent Garden Carnaby Business review 25 26 17:54 Carnaby 27 16:45 Opera Quarter 28 20:20 Opera Quarter 29 17:01 30 AnnualReport2007 5:00 24:7 AnnualReport2007 31 12 Chinatown 32 Chinatown comprises 25% of our Thames Waters extensive works to Chinatown replace the Victorian water mains assets.
Substantially all space is let, Our holdings, which now with most of the restaurants let on in Wardour Street, Shaftesbury extend to much of Londons Avenue and Lisle Street have been long leases with an average unexpired term of sixteen years.
Vacant hugely disruptive for our tenants for Chinatown, include 57 restaurant and retail units are rare.
However, these works restaurants and 53 shops.
These uses produce 87% Raising the overall quality of Whilst further street improvements Chinatown remains a priority and of its income, which and neighbouring developments we have made further investment represents the highest will inevitably cause further disruption in street improvements in conjunction in the short term, we are confident concentration of restaurant with Westminster City Council.
that, based on our experiences in and retail uses in our The resurfacing of Lisle Street is other locations, these initiatives portfolio.
well advanced and our next project will materially enhance the with Westminster City Council attractiveness of the area.
involves proposals for pavement widening in Wardour Street and a raised carriageway at the important junction of Wardour Street and Gerrard Street, to facilitate pedestrian flows.
Chinatown Statistics Valuation 30 September 2007 341.6 million Percentage of portfolio 25% Acquisitions during year 4.7 million Capital expenditure in year 1.3 million Valuation surplus 15.9 million Valuation uplift 4.9% Area % of current Number sq.
ft. gross income Shops 53 55,000 26 Restaurants and leisure 57 177,000 61 Offices tenancies 64 48,000 7 Residential 70 45,000 6 :49 Business review AnnualReport2007 33 The key risks identified by the Groups Over the last two years we have Risks and uncertainties Results assessment processes specific to its acquired a number of properties facing the business Our profit before taxation for the business arise from the concentration which were either vacant or producing year, adjusted as shown on page 9 Operational and financial risks of the Groups assets in the centre a low initial income.
Our estate to eliminate the surplus realised facing the business are monitored of the West End of London.
The management plans usually reduce on property disposals, the loss on through a process of regular prosperity of the West End economy, income still further in the short term purchase of debenture stock and assessment by the executive team and therefore of the Groups retail as we secure vacant possession, the fair valuation movements in and reporting and discussion at and restaurant occupiers, is heavily obtain planning permissions and respect of investment properties meetings of the Audit Committee dependent on large numbers of carry out improvement works prior and financial derivatives, amounted and the Board.
domestic and overseas visitors to to re-letting.
In the long term these to 12.7 million, a small decrease this high profile area.
With such a initiatives are expected to lead to The valuation of all property assets on the 2006 equivalent figure of diverse visitor base, our experience much increased income, which will involves assumptions regarding 13.5 million.
Profit on ordinary is that visitor numbers and spending reverse the initial funding deficit, and income expectations and yields that activities before taxation reported in are less influenced by economic deliver higher capital values.
We do investors would expect to achieve the Income Statement amounted to considerations than other domestic not currently capitalise any interest.
on those assets over time.
However, any external economic and market This years administration expenses external events in our high profile Our rental income has continued to factors, such as interest rate include a charge of 0.1 million locations, such as security and rise, with rents invoiced adjusted expectations, bond yields, the 2006: 1.6 million in respect of the public safety or health concerns or for lease incentives increasing availability of finance and the relative National Insurance liability on share transport disruption, which might from 52.2 million to 55.6 million.
attraction of property against other awards and share options expected result in a sustained and significant Eliminating the impact of property asset classes, could lead to a to vest in the future.
During the year, reduction in visitor numbers could, acquisitions and disposals, on a reappraisal of the assumptions used a substantial number of share options over time, lead to a reduction in like-for-like basis rents receivable to arrive at current valuations.
In were exercised at market prices occupier demand and the rental have increased by 6.2% this year adverse conditions, this reappraisal materially in excess of the share price potential of the Groups property compared with the previous year.
could lead to a reduction in property of 6.00 prevailing at the last year assets.
The pattern of rent reviews and lease values and a loss in net asset value, end.
However, the additional national renewals means that the growth in amplified by the effect of gearing.
insurance costs which resulted from All of the Groups properties are rental income has been less than located within the jurisdictions of these exercises have been offset by the growth in the estimated rental the effect of the reduction in share Westminster City Council and the value of our portfolio.
price in the second half, which has materially reduced the provision in Although the Group works closely Property outgoings have increased in many aspects of day-to-day respect of options not yet exercised this year by 0.8 million to 6.0 million at the year end.
business with these local authorities, 2006: 5.2 million.
Of this increase, changes to their policies, particularly 0.3 million relates to increased The tax charge on the adjusted those relating to planning and expenditure on the marketing and profit for the year was 1.2 million, licensing, could have a significant promotion of our villages both in compared with 3.9 million last year.
impact on the Groups ability to the UK and overseas.
Tax losses within the wholly-owned maximise the long term potential Interest payable rose by 4.1 million Group effectively eliminated the of its assets.
liability to Corporation tax in the during the year to 30.3 million and was covered 1.41 times 2006: 1.51 first half.
No tax liability arose in the second half as, from 1 April 2007 times by operating profits before investment property disposals and when the Group converted to REIT status, virtually the entire taxable valuation movements.
The increase in interest costs arose from the higher profits within the wholly-owned Group arose from its tax-exempt rates of interest payable on the capped and un-hedged elements activities.
Longmartin remains outside of the Groups REIT election, of the Groups borrowings and the cost of financing recent property so that our share of Longmartins profit continues to be subject to additions to our portfolio.
Virtually all of the proceeds of this years corporation tax and deferred tax continues to be provided in respect of property disposals were received after the year end.
our share of its property revaluation surpluses.
Results 34 AnnualReport2007 Business review The taxation credit reported in the During the year, we secured Dividends Finance additional bank facilities of 25 Income Statement of 140.6 million Following our conversion to REIT The nominal value of bank borrowings 2006: charge - 50.1 million million, bringing our total committed status, the level of our dividends at the year end totalled 487.7 million, facilities to 525 million.
The includes both the charge incurred must now reflect the requirement an increase of 27.1 million over the in converting to REIT status of maturity of our largest facility was of REIT legislation, which requires previous year end.
Cash outflows 27.5 million and the release of net extended during the year, which us to distribute a minimum of 90% during the year on acquisitions less deferred tax liabilities of 171.4 accounted for the increase in of income arising from our rental disposals of investment properties million as a result of conversion.
weighted average maturity of our business calculated by reference amounted to 31.6 million and facilities to 9.9 years 2006: 8.8 to tax rather than accounting rules.
expenditure on refurbishments The major refinancing of half of years.
Committed unutilised our long term Debenture debt was For this year, these requirements totalled 9.9 million.
Revenue facilities at the year end totalled apply to the second half only.
operations after interest and taxation completed in October 2006, with the 98 million 2006: 107 million.
purchase of 6.5 million of Debenture produced a net cash surplus of Our interest in Longmartin is not 13.5 million, compared with Stock at a cost of 9.3 million, At the year end, the weighted average currently within our REIT election, realising a loss of 2.5 million.
12.2 million in the previous year.
cost of our borrowings including so that our share of its rental income The refinancing of Debenture Stock The Board continues to be alert to margin was 6.54%, compared with and the cost of financing our opportunities to refinance further in October 2006 cost 9.3 million, 6.01% at the previous year end.
Base investment in the joint venture are largely met out of cash balances stock if the terms for both purchase rate increased over the year from excluded from the calculation of and the cost of alternative finance held at the last year end.
The turbulence in taxable rental profits for REIT offer a clear long term benefit to financial markets since July has purposes.
During the initial stages Gearing at the year end, calculated the Group.
resulted in LIBOR rates at up to 1% of this major scheme, Longmartins by reference to our adjusted net higher than base rate, although we Adjusted diluted post-tax earnings net rental income is reduced and is assets referred to above and the have mitigated some of this additional per share for the current year less than the cost of financing our nominal rather than book value of cost by taking short term LIBOR amounted to 8.55p compared with investment.
Excluding this deficit our Debenture and net bank debt, fixtures, where the rates have been 7.18p last year.
Unadjusted diluted from the calculation of taxable profits was 56% 2006: 57%.
The ratio of much closer to base rates.
post-tax earnings per share shown across the Group means the amount the nominal value of debenture and in the Group Income Statement for we are currently required to distribute net bank debt to the market value At the year end, 226 million of the current year amounted to 196.92p to meet our REIT obligations exceeds of our property assets was 35% borrowings, equivalent to 46% of compared with 103.32p last year.
our bank and debenture debt was in the second half.
Looking forward, either at fixed rate or hedged at fixed Unadjusted Shareholders funds at Our strategy is to secure flexible long this situation will persist until such rates.
In addition, 125 million of the year end shown in the Group and medium term finance together time as the eligibility rules permit borrowings, equivalent to 26% of Balance Sheet totalled 866.8 million, with non-speculative hedging of us to include Longmartin in our our bank and debenture debt, was equivalent to a diluted net asset value the interest rate exposure on a REIT election or as Longmartins subject to interest rate hedges under of 6.41 per share, an increase over substantial portion of our floating scheme progresses and the which we pay floating rate LIBOR the year of 259.9 million, or 187p rate debt.
This finance strategy is financing deficit reverses.
but our exposure to three month per share.
Adjusting these amounts intended to match our funding with LIBOR rates is capped at a maximum to exclude the deferred tax liability Apart from our interest in Longmartin, our assets which are held for long of 6.5%.
In November 2007 we arising on the valuation of investment virtually all of the Groups activities term investment, and provide entered into forward start interest properties and the fair value of are within the REIT ring fence.
Our reasonable certainty of finance rate hedges for an average term of financial derivatives and associated proposed final dividend, together with costs whilst limiting the Groups seven years on a further 45 million deferred tax, our adjusted net asset a substantial element of dividends exposure to adverse movements notional principal at an average value becomes 872.7 million in the foreseeable future, will in interest rates.
Together with equivalent to a diluted net asset therefore be Property Income existing arrangements, these new The Board keeps under review the value per share of 6.46 per share Distributions PIDs, which we level of current and forecast debt and hedges, which commence in April 2006: 788.7 million - 5.90 per expect will increase in line with 2008, bring our fixed and hedged the Groups strategies regarding share, an increase of 84.0 million the growth of our underlying income.
the appropriate levels of debt and debt to a total of 396 million, or 56 pence per share.
Clearly, the introduction of REIT equivalent to 81% of year end equity finance, the maturity profile distribution obligations is an of loan facilities and interest rate borrowings.
additional factor which will need to exposure and hedging.
be taken into account in setting the level of dividends, so that the pattern of increase may be less smooth than in the past.
We expect that from next year interim and final dividends will be more evenly balanced.
