DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW 2007 was another strong year for CSR with revenue up 20% to $848.6 million in 2007.
CSR plc is the holding company of an international group of companies with its headquarters in Cambridge, in the UK.
CSR plc listed on the London Stock Exchange in March 2004 and is a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
Principal Activities We design and supply single chip wireless devices.
Through our BlueCore range of products, we are the market leader in the supply of single chip solutions for Bluetooth wireless voice and data communications, providing low cost, high performance integrated circuits ICs or silicon chips to manufacturers of a wide range of electronic devices.
These include mobile phones, headsets, laptop PCs, PC peripherals, games consoles, stereo headphones, MP3 players and automotive based systems.
We supply over 450 end customers including Dell, LG, Motorola, Nokia, NEC, Panasonic, RIM, Samsung, Sharp, Sony, TomTom Paul Goodridge and Toshiba.
We are extending beyond Bluetooth to bring a Finance Director broader range of short-range wireless technologies to market, namely Wi-Fi, GPS, FM radio, UWB Ultra Wideband and Ultra Low Power Bluetooth.
We are organised around our research and development team of 714 staff as at the year end 2006: 609.
The majority of these are based in Cambridge in the UK, with teams in Aalborg in Denmark: Stockholm and Lund in Sweden: Dallas and Detroit in the US: Sophia Antipolis in France and Bangalore in India.
Our sales and marketing function is centred in Cambridge in the UK with sales liaison offices in Dallas and Detroit in the US: Taipei in Taiwan: Seoul and Gumi in South Korea: Tokyo in Japan and Shanghai in China.
CSR is a fabless semiconductor company.
All wafer fabrication, assembly and test, and shipping is subcontracted to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company TSMC and Advanced Semiconductor Engineering ASE in Taiwan.
Currently, the majority of manufacturing is located in Taiwan to minimise production cycle time and inventory, simplify logistics and to take advantage of a common language and culture.
We use a number of TSMC wafer fabrication sites: four different sites in Taiwan and a fifth in the US, in addition to two test sites with ASE with a third being added in 2008.
By increasing sourcing options, we are better placed to deal with any unplanned interruptions at any single location, as well as having access to additional capacity to respond to increases in demand.
Our partnerships with TSMC and ASE provide us with leadingedge manufacturing technology and strong support in satisfying capacity requirements and controlling costs.
Using this production process has enabled us to successfully ship nearly one billion Bluetooth single chip devices lifetime to date, whilst aggressive cost management has maintained margins as selling prices come down.
This quality of production process encourages adoption of our technology in the products of current and potential customers.
24 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 We market to Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs Markets and Original Design Manufacturers ODMs, principally through The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and our own direct sales force and, in North America, through sales are characterised by rapid technological change, evolving industry representatives.
We also market our chips through a network standards and declining costs.
Our primary competition includes of distributors.
Our marketing efforts are supported by a team of applications We provide our customers with industry-leading solutions, engineers who provide technical support and assistance to including a wide range of benefits which are discussed in more existing and potential customers in designing, testing and detail on pages 9 to 21. qualifying systems that incorporate our products.
Operating review This support is generally provided without charge to customers The Bluetooth market continued to grow strongly in 2007 in both who have the potential to purchase large volumes of products.
cellular and non cellular applications.
An important part of our marketing effort involves providing technical support to product developers to encourage them We have maintained our leading position in the Bluetooth to design products using our chips.
For this purpose, we provide market with a strong design win record.
During 2007, the a range of development kits and tools.
Bluetooth SIG Special Interest Group changed the basis on which it reported the successful supplier of Bluetooth for Bluetooth Strategy product qualifications, hence it is no longer possible to provide Our objective is to be the supplier of choice of single chip independently verifiable design win market share data.
However, solutions for wireless voice and data communications.
we do maintain internal records of our own design wins.
As a rule, The key elements include: these design wins will be an indicator of future revenue although some design wins are for products such as mobile phones Bluetooth in Cellular Applications which sell in more volume than others, whilst some product Our core strength is in mobile handsets and headsets and qualifications never go to production.
our strategy is to strengthen our position in this market.
Revenue increased for the seventh consecutive year to $848.6 Bluetooth in Non Cellular Applications million and represented a 20% increase on 2006 revenue The second element of our strategy is to take the products $704.7 million.
and technologies we have developed for handsets and headsets and develop derivatives for the PC, automotive and consumer In 2007, we reorganised into two reportable segments: Cellular: marketplaces amongst others.
which includes mobile phones and headsets and Non Cellular: which includes applications beyond the mobile phone including Beyond Bluetooth in Cellular and Non Cellular Applications PC, automotive and consumer applications.
We will continue to add value beyond Bluetooth, in both the cellular and non cellular markets by integrating GPS, Wi-Fi and other We have identified business segments based on the internal wireless technologies.
reporting within the Group and have chosen to aggregate those business segments which meet the aggregation criteria specified in International Financial Reporting Standard 8 for disclosure as reportable segments.
REVENUE INCREASED Cellular Segment FOR THE SEVENTH We believe that the attach rate for Bluetooth in handsets CONSECUTIVE YEAR was between 45% and 50% in 2007.
TO $848.6 MILLION During the year, we achieved significant design wins including importantly, successes in Korea, China and Japan for both AND REPRESENTED GSM and CDMA handsets which are expected to generate revenues in 2008.
A 20% INCREASE ON 2006 REVENUE OF $704.7 MILLION.
Paul Goodridge CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 25 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Our BlueCore4-ROM chip is the biggest selling Bluetooth chip in The automotive market continues to provide significant growth history and remained very popular in 2007.
BlueCore5-FM began opportunities as Bluetooth connectivity is being incorporated into to be designed into products and went into volume production in a growing range of new build cars.
We experienced a strong level 2007, while BlueCore6 is in mass production with significant of design wins in 2007, cementing our market leading position in design-in activity and BlueCore7 taped out on schedule.
The Bluetooth attach rate in new build cars has increased to around 10% and is expected to continue growing.
Significant long term growth is forecast in the global wireless Aftermarket car-kit solutions remain a growth market due to headset market.
Due to a superior product offering, we enjoy a tougher legislation in the UK and the US.
leadership position across all sectors of the headset market and our market share was estimated to be around 80% for 2007.
Revenues for the supply of Bluetooth in PCs increased in 2007.
We continue to add new functionalities to our Vista Features Pack Our leading position in the mono headset sector continued.
which works with Microsofts Vista Bluetooth software, including The demand for stereo headsets is being driven by the growing the ability to integrate Skype with our audio drivers so that a user number of mobile phones designed to support Bluetooth stereo can, for example, answer an incoming Skype call by pressing a audio streaming, and other products such as MP3 players, button on their Bluetooth headset.
Production process and supply chain The market for embedded Wi-Fi has been slower to grow We continue to invest in advanced production processes and than anticipated.
With demand concentrated on a relatively have strong relationships with our major subcontractor partners, small number of high-end phones, revenues from Wi-Fi solutions TSMC and ASE.
We use five of TSMCs wafer fabrication plants, have been modest in 2007. including one in the US and one which is specifically for 300mm wafers, allowing us to achieve dual sourcing objectives, along with Non Cellular Segment geographical separation of manufacturing sites.
Similarly, we now Significant Bluetooth growth is happening in the non cellular dual source assembly and test operations between ASE Chung-Li segment, where we are the wireless connectivity provider of and ASE Kaohsiung in Taiwan with plans to add a third qualified choice and achieve the majority of all product qualifications.
In 2007, the increasing trend of incorporating Bluetooth into applications beyond cellular continued.
We extended our IC test strategy during 2007, with a further three Teradyne Flex Testers consigned to ASE production sites in Revenue from non cellular applications has increased by over Taiwan.
This strategy has been effective in reducing production 50% from 2006 and now comprises over 22% of revenues.
costs and avoiding capacity issues.
Revenues from the games console sector more than doubled GPS Acquisitions in 2007 and we continue to target new customers in the gaming On 12 January 2007, we completed the acquisitions of the entire market where low latency is a key differentiator.
issued share capital of NordNav Technologies AB NordNav and Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited CPS.
NordNav, Wireless connectivity is now widely demanded in the consumer based in Sweden, was acquired for an initial cash consideration sector.
We believe that wireless connectivity will be a major of $40 million.
A further cash consideration of up to $35 million is differentiator in MP3 players in 2008.
We launched BlueCore payable subject to future performance objectives being met by Player in 2007, a single-chip example reference design for wireless NordNav with $7.9 million of this being paid in 2007.
CPS, based MP3 players which offers OEMs and ODMs a radically new in Cambridge, UK, was acquired for a total cash consideration approach to a music player design: a solution that is compatible of $35 million.
with standard Bluetooth wireless stereo headphones and implemented in a single chip, replacing as many as six or more The development of our software based GPS solution is on schedule.
During 2007, we continued to drive wireless connectivity into HiFi systems with Bluetooth design-ins at Sony and Philips.
26 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Research and Development To measure growth of the business: We devote substantial effort to R&D, which underpins and Revenue representing sales of single chip radio devices to sustains our success.
We are conscious of the need to ensure customers, sales of services to customers and royalty income adequate financial and human resources are available for R&D, from products sold under a royalty earning licence net of any and these issues and future planning are considered at an estimated provisions for credit notes and returns.
operational level and at each Board meeting.
In 2007, underlying R&D costs were $140.9 million 2006: $107.3 million representing To measure performance of the business: 16.6% 2006: 15.2% of turnover.
Underlying earnings per diluted share is used as a measure of the interest each potentially dilutive share has in the performance of Patents the business.
Underlying earnings per diluted share is calculated As a result of our R&D effort and recent acquisitions, we have as net profit for the period before the impact of amortisation of nearly 200 granted patents and a significant number of further acquired intangible assets and the patent dispute settlement in applications in process.
2007, referred to under Patents divided by the number of potentially dilutive shares outstanding.
During 2007, we reached an agreement with the Washington Research Foundation WRF to settle the patent infringement suit To measure working capital management: issued against 12 of our customers.
We remained of the view that Inventory turns is used as a measure of the management of WRFs infringement suit against our Bluetooth chips was without inventory levels in the business and represents the number of merit.
Notwithstanding this, we believed that an early resolution times inventory turns-over in a period based on the previous three of the claim was both in our and our customers best interests months cost of sales.
and accordingly a payment of $15 million was made in April 2007.
Days sales outstanding DSO is a measure of the average We obtained an undertaking from WRF not to sue us, our number of days that it takes us to collect revenue after a sale suppliers, customers or end users for the alleged infringement has been made.
We calculate DSO by taking the balance of trade by our products of the patents asserted in the suit.
receivables outstanding at the end of a period, dividing by the revenue for the period and then multiplying by the number of Key Performance Measures days in the period.
We use a range of financial performance measures, reported on a periodic basis, to assess the Groups performance over time.
Free cash flow is used to represent the cash that we are able to generate after cash outflows on capital expenditure.
We calculate free cash flow as cash generated by operations less expenditure on tangible and intangible assets in the financial period.
2004 2005 2006 2007 Revenue $m 253.1 486.5 704.7 848.6 Underlying diluted earnings per share $ 0.48 0.63 0.83 0.94 Inventory turns turns 5.7 5.0 3.5 6.3 Days sales outstanding days 40 42 45 37 Free cash flow $m 28.6 84.6 37.8 222.9 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 27 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Financial Review including critical accounting policies Investment income The table below summarises certain financial statistics for the Investment income increased to $7.9 million in 2007 compared 52 week period ended 28 December 2007.
Underlying results to $6.1 million in 2006 as a result of increased levels of cash and exclude the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and, cash equivalents and treasury deposits.
in 2007, the patent dispute settlement explained on page 27.
A statutory format income statement is on page 60 of the Taxation financial statements.
The tax charge for the period was $42.8 million 2006: $43.2 million giving an effective tax rate for the period of 27.5% 2006: Financial performance 28.0%.
This is below the statutory rate of 30.0% principally due to 2007 2006 Change 06 07 the availability of enhanced tax relief on R&D expenditure and also $ Million $ Million due to the change in the carrying amount of deferred tax assets Revenue 848.6 704.7 20% and liabilities as a result of the reduction in the UK statutory rate Gross Profit 396.3 328.7 21% from 30% to 28% from April 2008 that has now been fully enacted.
Gross Margin 46.7% 46.6% 0.1% Underlying R&D 140.9 107.3 31% Earnings per share % of revenue 16.6% 15.2% 1.4% Underlying diluted earnings per share was $0.94 an increase of Underlying SG&A 83.6 70.4 19% 13% compared to $0.83 in 2006.
Basic earnings per Underlying operating share was $0.86 compared to $0.86 for 2006. profit 171.7 151.1 14% % of revenue 20.2% 21.4% -1.2% Cash Flow Operating profit 150.1 149.0 1% 2007 2006 % of revenue 17.7% 21.1% -3.4% $ Million $ Million Underlying earnings Operating profit 150.1 149.0 per share $ Diluted 0.94 0.83 13% Non-cash items 42.4 28.4 Earnings per share $ Operating cash flows before Diluted 0.83 0.82 1% movements in working capital 192.5 177.4 Underlying numbers exclude the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and, Working capital 59.9 93.9 in 2007, the patent dispute settlement.
Taxation 29.8 17.8 Interest paid 0.4 0.2 Revenue increased for the seventh consecutive year to Net cash from operating activities 222.2 65.5 $848.6 million and represented a 20% increase on 2006 Treasury management 14.3 1.1 revenue 2006: $704.7 million.
Acquisitions 81.9 Capital expenditure 29.5 45.7 Through wafer cost and other product cost reductions, Financing 0.1 2.3 we have continued to maintain gross margin at over 46% Purchases of CSR shares by EBT 20.0 of revenue in 2007.
Net cash inflow 76.4 18.6 Operating expenses During 2007 there has been a cash inflow of $76.4 million Continued investment in R&D, including costs associated with 2006: $18.6 million.
Operating cash flow before movements in the acquired GPS technology, and investment in current and working capital contributed $192.5 million 2006: $177.4 million, future wireless solutions projects led underlying R&D costs to with movements in working capital resulting in a cash inflow of increase by 31% when compared to 2006 2006 increase over $59.9 million 2006: outflow $93.9 million.
Investment in applications engineers and sales working capital reflects management of inventory holding levels people continued during 2007 and general and administration from approximately 15 weeks of historic cost of sales at the end costs have increased to support the growing levels of business.
of 2006 down to 8 weeks at 28 December 2007.
Free cash flow defined on page 27 has increased by $185.1 million from Underlying operating profit was $171.7 million at 20.2% margin $37.8 million in 2006 to $222.9 million in 2007 as a result of our compared to $151.1 million in 2006, 21.4% margin.
Operating continued excellent cash generation.
profit in 2007 increased to $150.1 million compared to $149.0 million in 2006.
28 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Capital expenditure of $29.5 million on tangible assets and Our financial instruments comprise cash and cash deposits intangible assets, 2006: $45.7 million reflects the continued and items such as trade receivables and creditors which arise investment in test equipment, computer equipment and CAD in the normal course of business.
It is our policy not to enter into software required to support current and future R&D projects speculative transactions.
as well as the purchase of production testers to enable more cost effective IC testing.
This expenditure represents 3.5% of revenue Foreign exchange 2006: 6.5%.
Our longer term expectation for expenditure on Substantially all sales and costs of sales are denominated tangible and intangible assets is estimated at 4% to 5% of revenue.
in US dollars, our functional currency.
Approximately 40% of operating costs are denominated in Sterling.
This Sterling Net tax paid was $29.8 million 2006: $17.8 million of which currency exposure would result in gains or losses with respect $28.7 million was paid to the UK tax authorities.
to movements in foreign exchange rates and the impact of such fluctuations could be material.
The cash outflow from financing was $0.1 million principally due to the repayment of obligations under finance leases offsetting Accordingly, we enter into hedging transactions pursuant to the proceeds on issues of shares 2006: outflow of $2.3 million.
which we purchase Sterling under forward purchase contracts in order to cover the majority of our Sterling exposure.
These During 2007, there was a cash outflow of $20.0 million for transactions necessarily involve judgements and assumptions the purchase of shares in CSR plc by the Trustee of the CSR about future expense levels, and, as a result, do not entirely Employee Benefit Trust.
eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations.
Further, whilst the hedging transactions provide fixed currency rates for periods Capital management and treasury policy covered by the contracts, the transactions will not protect us from Our policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain long term underlying movements in currency rates.
The average investor, creditor and market confidence as well as to sustain US dollar Sterling rate achieved in 2007 was 1.89 and 2008 future development of the business.
We intend to reinvest cash contracts are in place at an average of 1.98. balances in the business either through higher levels of investment in working capital and fixed assets or through M & A activity, CSR Employee Benefit Trust EBT to support the long-term ambitions of the Group.
From time to time, the Trustees of the CSR Employee Benefit Trust purchase shares in CSR plc in the open market: the timing of these The issued share capital at 28 December 2007 was 132,073,576 purchases depends on market prices.
The shares are intended ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each 2006: 130,206,208.
As a result to be used for issuing shares under our share option programmes, of the funds raised through the initial public offering in March 2004 thereby reducing dilution and maintain headroom in respect of ABI and the subsequent positive operating cash flows, we had a total dilution guidelines.
of $245.4 million of treasury deposits, cash and cash equivalents at 28 December 2007 2006: $147.5 million.
During 2007, the EBT purchased 1,466,767 ordinary shares in CSR plc.
The shares held by the EBT are shown as a deduction Neither CSR plc nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to any in shareholders equity in the balance sheet on page 61. externally imposed capital requirements.
Dividend Policy We maintain a prudent policy in the placement of cash deposits In accordance with our stated policy, we do not intend to pay and investments with counterparties such that no more than a dividend for the foreseeable future.
We currently intend to retain 20% of the total cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits future earnings to fund the development and growth of the Group.
balance at any time is placed with counterparties with a credit Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of the rating of less than aa1.
Board, after taking into account various factors, including the Groups financial condition, operating results, current and We have well defined and consistently applied policies for the anticipated cash needs and plans for expansion.
management of foreign exchange and interest rate exposures.
There has been no change since the period end in the major financial risks faced by the Group.
The Audit Committee of the Board reviews and agrees policies for managing foreign exchange and interest rate exposure risks.
The principal risks and uncertainties of the Group are discussed on pages 34 and 35.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 29 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Financial Position Inventory stands at $77.3 million 2006: $106.5 million, which represents 58 inventory days 2006: 105 days.
The 27% Net Assets up 25% decrease in inventory represents managed decreases in inventory $ millions holding levels from the higher levels seen in the second half of 2006 which resulted from lower customer orders than anticipated 2007 509 at the time wafer orders were placed with sub-contractors.
We aim to keep sufficient inventory to meet the often short customer order 2006 406 lead times in this industry which results in inventory days between 2005 277 75 and 95 days.
2004 155 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of these financial statements under IFRS requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the 28 December 29 December reported amount of assets, liabilities, turnover and expenses, 2007 2006 $ Million $ Million and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
On an Non current assets ongoing basis, we evaluate estimates, including those related Goodwill 144.2 52.0 to uncollectable accounts receivable, inventories, investments, Other intangible assets 45.1 31.7 intangible assets, income taxes, financing operations, warranty Property, plant and equipment 52.9 45.4 obligations and contingencies and litigation.
Our estimates are Deferred tax asset 7.1 11.3 based on historical experience and on various assumptions 249.3 140.4 that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, Current assets the results of which form the basis for making the judgements Inventory 77.3 106.5 about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not Cash flow hedges 0.7 4.5 readily apparent from other sources.
Because this can vary in Trade and other receivables 97.2 101.8 each situation, actual results may differ from the estimates under Treasury deposits 52.0 30.0 different assumptions and conditions.
Cash and cash equivalents 193.3 117.5 420.5 360.3 We believe the following critical accounting policies are important Total assets 669.8 500.7 in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements: Current liabilities 152.8 91.3 Inventory valuation Non current liabilities 8.3 3.2 Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Total liabilities 161.1 94.5 Provisions for excess or obsolete inventory are recorded based Net assets 508.7 406.2 upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
If actual market conditions are less favourable than those projected Goodwill arose on the acquisitions of CPS and NordNav in 2007 by management, additional inventory provisions may be required.
and Clarity and UbiNetics in 2005.
Intangible assets include the net book value of the Groups software licences of $15.8 million Impairment of non current assets including goodwill 2006: $19.3 million which support R&D, along with the $29.3 An annual impairment test is performed in respect of goodwill.
million of in-process R&D and customer contracts purchased as In addition we assess our non current assets for possible part of the acquisitions in 2007 and 2005 2006: $12.4 million.
impairment if there are events or changes in circumstances that indicate that carrying values of the assets may not be recoverable.
Trade receivables decreased slightly to $81.6 million Indicators of potential impairment include changes in our business 2006: $87.2 million.
Days sales outstanding decreased to plans, failure to meet performance projections included in our 37 days 2006: 45 days due to a higher concentration of sales forecasts of future operating results, and a slowdown in the through distributors.
worldwide economy or the semiconductor industry.
The assessment of impairment entails comparing the carrying value of the non current asset with the recoverable amount of the asset that is the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
Value in use is usually determined on the basis of discounted estimated future net cash flows.
Significant management judgement is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted estimated future net cash flows.
The estimates we have used are consistent with the plans and estimates that we use to manage our business.
30 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 It is possible, however, that the plans and estimates used may Share options and awards granted after 7 November 2002 be incorrect.
If our actual results, or the plans and estimates used and vested after 1 January 2005 in future impairment analyses, are lower than the original estimates IFRS 2 Share-based payments is effective in respect of options used to assess the recoverability of these assets, we could incur and share awards granted after 7 November 2002 and which additional impairment charges.
had not vested as at 1 January 2005.
We issue equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled Provisions and liabilities share-based payments are measured at the fair value at the Provisions and liabilities are recognised in the period when it date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a resulting from past operations or events that can be reasonably straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on our estimate estimated.
The timing of recognition requires the application of of the number of share options that will eventually vest.
The fair judgement to existing facts and circumstances, which can be value of the majority of options granted is measured by use of subject to change.
a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
For certain The carrying amount of provisions and liabilities are reviewed share awards which include total shareholder return related regularly and adjusted to take account of changing facts and performance conditions, the fair value is estimated through the circumstances.
Any change in the carrying amount would use of a Monte-Carlo simulation.
result in a charge or credit to profit for the period in which the change occurs.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of shares that vest.
Non-market vesting conditions Research and Development are included in assumptions about the number of shares that are Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the expected to become exercisable.
The estimates of the number prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and of share options and awards that are expected to become understanding is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
exercisable are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
The impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Where a product can be identified, its cost can be measured, income statement and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
it is technically feasible and it is probable it will generate future The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction economic benefits, development costs are capitalised and costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life premium the balance when the option or awards are exercised.
We believe our current process for Share options and Taxation developing products is essentially completed when products have achieved the Transfer to Production status, as it is only then In the UK and US we are entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employees share that technical feasibility of the products to be manufactured and sold to the commercial marketplace is confirmed.
Accordingly, options under each jurisdictions tax rules.
This gives rise to a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases and development costs incurred after the establishment of technical feasibility have not been significant and, therefore, no costs have hence a deferred tax asset is recorded.
This asset is calculated by comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained been capitalised to date.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised in the future based on the share price at the balance sheet date with the share-based payment expense recorded in the income as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction exceeds the cumulative amount of share-based payment expense Tangible assets purchased for R&D purposes are capitalised and depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
life in line with Group policy.
As explained above, no share-based payment expense is Share options The share option schemes allow Group employees to acquire recorded in respect of options granted before 7 November 2002.
Nevertheless, tax deductions have arisen and will continue to arise shares in CSR plc.
The tax effects in relation to these options are recorded directly in equity against retained earnings.
Share options granted before 7 November 2002 or granted after 7 November 2002 and vested before 1 January 2005.
No expense is recognised in respect of these options.
The shares are recognised when the options are exercised and the proceeds received and allocated between share capital and share premium.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 31 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued Segmental analysis We recognise the need for effective communication with all We have chosen to early adopt IFRS 8 Operating Segments our employees and considerable focus is given to ensuring for the purposes of the 2007 financial statements.
employees are well informed about the Company and matters that affect them and the organisation.
This is achieved through We have identified two reportable segments based on both formal and informal communication methods: including a the information provided internally to management: regular CEO newsletter sent via our intranet to all staff and team briefings across all offices worldwide.
To assess the effectiveness Cellular: which includes mobile phones and headsets and of employee communication and the impact of our investment audio-related: in people in its various forms, we will during 2008 undertake a global employee opinion survey.
This will assist in determining Non Cellular: Beyond the mobile phone including PC, where current practices are working and where improvements automotive and consumer applications.
Employees We also recognise our responsibilities to ensure fair treatment Headcount has increased from 923 at the end of 2006 to 1,062 at of all employees in accordance with national legislation in the the end of 2007.
This predominantly reflects continued investment territories in which we operate.
Equal opportunities for appropriate in engineers to support new R&D projects and further recruitment training, career development and promotion are available to all in sales, marketing, applications engineering and operations to employees, regardless of any physical disability, gender, religion, support business growth.
In particular, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities, we give full and fair consideration to applications for Our employees play an important part in our success.
We aim employment received from disabled persons.
Provisions for to attract and retain people who possess the requisite skills and pension are available for all employees either through participation knowledge as well as the personal commitment to respond in the state pension schemes operated by the country in which the effectively to the challenges of working in a highly technical and employee is resident or provision of a defined contribution pension demanding environment.
We invest in providing competitive scheme.
Such defined contribution schemes are maintained in benefits packages that support this objective recognising that accordance with legislative requirements, custom and practice we compete in a global market.
and Group policy as appropriate.
Our remuneration packages are the subject of benchmarking Social Responsibility against companies competing in our sector.
We also seek to offer, We recognise the importance of social, environmental and where possible flexible benefits that allow our employees to tailor ethical SEE matters and during 2007, continued to work their compensation arrangements to suit them.
In 2007, our UK towards compliance with the ABI disclosure guidelines on social responsibility.
This includes the impact through our operations HR department won the Professional Pensions award for the quality of our interactive website which explained options available on the environment, on the safety and well being of our employees, and end users of our products as well as those who contribute to to employees for establishing and then assistance in maintaining their personal pension plan online.
the process of the development and manufacture of our products through our suppliers, distributors and customers.
We invest in training and career progression that support the We have a Health, Safety and Environmental HSE Committee individual in their career development, benefit our customers in the quality of service and enable us to remain a world leading which meets regularly and is chaired by the Facilities Manager.
Our Health and Safety and Environmental policies are available wireless solutions provider.
The Company promotes and supports individuals and teams through both on-the-job and formal training.
to all employees on our intranet site as are the minutes of the HSE Committee and current HSE initiatives.
Current initiatives In 2007, we initiated a comprehensive portfolio of learning and development opportunities available to all employees depending are explained below.
During 2007, the Board director responsible for health and safety matters was Paul Goodridge, the Finance upon their needs and career aspirations.
During 2007, our financial investment in training and development grew by 39%.
Mr Goodridge met regularly with those who manage our health and safety issues including the Chair of the HSE During the past year, employees from two acquisitions were Committee.
An annual report is presented to the Board covering health and safety matters, which includes statistics on accidents welcomed into our operations, in addition to the successful recruitment of a further 200 people, with the result that by the and incidents, progress against targets from the previous period and objectives for the next year.
end of the year, we employed 1,062 people.
32 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 It is the intention that the existing monitoring and reporting of We encourage employee initiatives that will support the health and safety matters will be strengthened during 2008 commitment to improved environmental practices.
As an example through roll out across overseas locations of a formal health of this, in January 2008 we instigated a scheme to use recycled and safety programme.
The project will be co-ordinated from paper as our stationery following employee-based representations the UK, drawing on existing personnel in each overseas location, to switch suppliers to a more eco-friendly source.
for whom appropriate training will be provided.
An assessment of water consumption conducted internally and The Company expects the highest of ethical standards of all its validated against data from external sources across our leasehold employees and its policies and procedures support its stated aim premises in the UK was also completed.
This established that of acting with integrity in all aspects of its operations.
many of our existing practices were in accordance with UK best practice, although further measures to reduce water usage As detailed last year, in January 2007, we achieved certification including installation of water flow dampers on taps across all UK against the internationally recognised environmental standard sites have been implemented.
Measures introduced in 2007 have ISO 14001.
During December 2007, we successfully concluded resulted in a saving of approximately 30% on water consumption surveillance visits for both our ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 via taps.
We are working with contractors and local agencies, registrations, following a combined assessment by Lloyds including our water supplier to ensure that accurate measures Register Quality Assurance LRQA.
of water consumption are regularly reported to assist in identifying any possible areas for further improvement.
Certification requires that we have an Environmental Management System EMS which defines the environmental policy of the As part of our EMS for 2008, we have identified further targets for Group and sets objectives intended to drive continuous improvement, in addition to those mentioned above on energy and improvements in environmental awareness and practices.
This includes as part of its focus on recycling, Our EMS, which has the support of the Board of Directors, investigating opportunities to reduce the generation of waste has been developed reflecting our existing low eco-footprint, material in the first instance and encouraging recycling.
In 2007, with all employees working in office based environments, an analysis conducted at CSRs UK locations determined that whilst recognising that high standards should be established 1,845,000 litres of landfill waste is created each year.
and maintained across all aspects of our operations.
Due to recycling initiatives introduced in parallel with this work, Our environmental policy includes commitments to: by the end of 2007, we had reduced the amount of waste consigned to landfill by 31%.
Through recycling in other areas e mployee consultation and training during 2008, the objective is to further reduce the waste sent to landfill by an estimated 9%.
assessment of our activities and product related environmental impacts to identify targets for continuous improvement and We also look at ways in which we conduct our business and how we can make changes that benefit the Company and the legal compliance and due consideration of other stakeholder environment.
As part of the implementation of improved IT environmental requirements.
systems, using state of the art technology we have successfully reduced power consumption in respect of our IT systems in the UK As part of employee consultation and training, during 2007, by 20% per annum, or the equivalent of over 180 physical servers, we introduced a UK based awareness campaign to encourage providing both direct financial as well as environmental benefits.
employees to take steps to reduce energy usage.
The campaign was introduced to all staff by the Chief Executive Officer.
This is part of ongoing initiatives to assess opportunities to save Employees are being encouraged to reduce energy consumption on power consumption across our IT systems.
and save on electricity through a variety of measures.
Using benchmark data derived from work performed in 2007 which for An ongoing objective is to optimise the use of greener materials in the first time established fossil fuel energy consumption levels, our end products.
We are committed to developing and supplying we plan to publicise internally data on a quarterly basis showing products which meet the highest standards as regards minimising actual consumption with the objective of improving employee the use of hazardous substances and increasing the recyclability awareness and encouraging all staff to take steps to reduce of constituent materials and the finished product.
As a result of initiatives already introduced, the Group has been able to reduce its CO2 emissions by 1% and its Kwh power consumption by 10%.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 33 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued We have dedicated internal resource which assists in the To mitigate this risk, we maintain an internal manufacturing development of all new products and the review of existing support group which directs product supply, helps to ensure product lines targeting the use of greener materials.
Part of their a high level of quality and reliability and works with the wafer role is to monitor established and pending legislation and foundry and production assembler to resolve issues.
standards published by national and international governments and agencies and to ensure that we are proactive in going beyond Product Design Cycle the minimum requirements in our compliance with the types and The design cycle for our ICs in Bluetooth enabled products quantities of materials used.
In this respect we work closely with can take up to 24 months to complete and achieving volume both customers and suppliers in developing products which production of products using our ICs can take an additional six reduce the use of hazardous materials, and through testing and months or more.
This lengthy design cycle makes it difficult to certification ensures ongoing compliance.
Our standard forecast product demand and the timing of orders.
In addition, integrated circuits are fully compliant with existing European the delays inherent in lengthy design cycles increase the risk that RoHS legislation as well as in other territories where equivalent our customers may seek to cancel or modify orders.
Delays in new products due to complexity We have processes in place to make sure that customers are Our products are complex and may contain undetected hardware supported with up to date materials information and laboratory and software errors or failures when first introduced or as new analysis to prove environmental compliance of our products.
The resolution of these errors could cause us to invest significant capital and other resources and divert We have considered the implications on our products of the technical staff from other development efforts.
If we deliver European Waste from Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE products with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the Directive which came into effect in 2007 and we are satisfied that market acceptance and sales of our products could be harmed.
for our principal business of the supply of integrated circuits, the Errors in hardware and software could also result in customer WEEE Directive does not directly apply.
Where the Directive does warranty claims, resulting in additional costs.
apply in limited circumstances is in the supply to third parties of development kits and certain modules intended to support Integration of Bluetooth The Bluetooth standard has evolved during its ten year existence potential customers in the development of their products.
Whilst this represents a small part of our operations, the impact of the and more technology and functionality has been added to Bluetooth chips.
At the same time our ability to optimise chip Directive has been assessed and steps taken to ensure compliance have been implemented.
design and industry-wide manufacturing improvements means the physical size of the Bluetooth-only function has reduced.
We recognise the importance of ensuring that our key suppliers There is a potential risk of integration of the Bluetooth function into one of the cellular-chips in the phone.
However, given the high have appropriate policies and practices on SEE matters.
Key manufacturing partners are selected and assessed based on attach rate of Bluetooth in mobile phones and the consumer demand for more non cellular technology in the phone e. g. FM, certification to appropriate globally recognised standards such as ISO14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA8000.
Audits of their GPS, etc, we believe Bluetooth will continue to be used as a centre around which to integrate other technology.
operations are undertaken regularly to ensure that appropriate standards and certification exists.
Transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies Principal risks and uncertainties To remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could adversely impact our long term performance: width geometries.
This transition requires modifications to the manufacturing processes and the redesign of some standard Fabless Business Model cells and other integrated circuit designs that may be used in multiple products.
This may result in reduced manufacturing We use independent suppliers to manufacture, assemble and test all products resulting in a less capital intensive business yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses.
We are therefore reliant on these independent suppliers to provide the required capacity to manufacture, assemble and Product life cycle: declining prices The life cycle of our ICs can be relatively short.
The average test all products and to provide high quality products on time.
Any interruptions in manufacturing or testing at supplier sites selling prices of our ICs will generally fall over the products life cycle.
Our ability to increase turnover, therefore, depends on would have an adverse impact on the business.
our ability to increase unit volume and to introduce new products that are accepted by customers.
34 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Terms of Sale Inability to protect our intellectual property Sales are made through purchase orders with specific terms Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual and conditions.
Industry practice does, however, allow customers property and trade secrets.
Despite taking prudent steps to reschedule and cancel orders on relatively short notice.
As a to protect our proprietary rights, third parties may attempt to result, backlog may not be an accurate indicator of future turnover.
copy aspects of our products and seek to use information that Customer order cancellations could result in a loss of turnover we regard as proprietary.
There is a risk that our means of and excess inventory.
protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and weaknesses or failures in this area could adversely affect Seasonality our business.
Principally all of our customer design wins have been in products with consumer electronic applications.
As a result, we expect our Infringement of third party intellectual property rights business to be subject to seasonality, with increased turnover in Companies in the semiconductor industry often aggressively the period April to November with a slowdown in activity in protect and pursue their intellectual property rights.
Claims December and into the first quarter of the following year.
against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products, require us to redesign products or seek licences from Economic conditions third parties, and seriously harm our operating results.
In addition, Our products are predominantly supplied for adoption into the defence of such claims could result in significant costs and devices intended for the consumer market.
In the event of a divert the attention of our management or other key employees.
slowing in economic growth generally, demand for our customers and therefore our products may be affected by changes in Management is constantly considering and reviewing risk.
In addition we have put in place formal processes for the identification and, where possible, the management of significant Cyclicality risks which are reviewed regularly by senior management.
The semiconductor industry is cyclical and has experienced This is formally reported on a regular basis to the Audit Committee, significant downturns, often in connection with maturing products as a result of which the directors are aware of the potential cost and declines in general economic conditions.
Such periods have and resources involved in managing these risks.
Details on the reflected production overcapacity, excess inventory levels and identification and management of risks are also addressed on accelerated erosion in average selling prices.
pages 39 to 41 in the Corporate Governance Report.
New revenue sources Our future success is dependent upon our ability to develop new semiconductor solutions for new and existing markets, introduce Paul Goodridge those products in a cost-effective and timely manner and convince Finance Director leading equipment manufacturers to select those products for 27 February 2008 design into their own new products.
Reliance on success of customers products We rely on equipment manufacturers to select our products to be designed into their products.
Furthermore, even if an equipment manufacturer selects our product, we cannot be assured that their product will be commercially successful.
As a result, sales of our products are dependent on the commercial success of our customers products.
Systems and infrastructure We are dependent on the continued availability and operational integrity of our computer systems.
We continually review our Information Technology infrastructure and develop plans to address and, where relevant, test and rectify areas of potential weakness.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 35
