buSiNESS REviEW of approximately 38p per therm.
This available also ensure the debt markets THE maCRO ENviRONmENT upward momentum has continued strongly remain open to the sector despite the buSiNESS baCKGROuND in 2008 with the summer gas price reaching current tightness in the credit markets, Over the course of 2007 there was a huge a new high in excess of 60p per therm, although this factor will likely impact the change in sentiment.
Oil prices dropped while winter gas is being purchased for competition from private equity and junior sharply in the first couple of months of the around 85p per therm.
In future gas prices independents who may well have their year breaking below $50 per barrel, but are increasingly expected to track the oil financing ambitions curtailed by the current rallied strongly over the course of year, price trend.
conditions in the banking markets.
particularly in the final quarter, when $100 per barrel was exceeded for the first Costs all the way through the value chain pRiNCipal buSiNESS RiSKS time.
Continuing strong demand from the remain under pressure with increasing faCiNG THE COmpaNy burgeoning economies of China and India investment activity levels in the industry As a participant in the Upstream Oil & allied to ongoing geo-political tension in being spurred by the strength of commodity Gas industry, Dana encounters, to varying Iran, Nigeria and South America were key prices, creating significant competition degrees, the macro risk factors noted causal factors.
A further contributory factor for the resources necessary to support above.
In addition, the Board conducts an to the strength of the oil price increase upstream activity, particularly with annual review of the Companys system of over the final quarter of 2007 and to date in reference to people, drilling rigs and risk assessment at the micro level for the 2008 is the effect of speculative investment equipment.
Demand for oil field services specific risks faced by the Company.
in oil as a commodity to hedge against the and experienced resources is expected to concurrent weakening US dollar.
These risks are considered typical for an the average Brent oil price for 2007 was upstream company of Danas size, as can The competitive landscape for new approximately $72 per barrel, compared be illustrated from the following extract opportunities in the upstream acquisition to approximately $65 per barrel in 2006. from the most recent Board review in and divestment market also remains strong, Since the year end, prices have continued December 2007. driven by the strong free cash flows being to surge with a year to date average at generated by the industry.
The returns the time of writing of over $100 per barrel, with the Brent benchmark price having peaked at over $130 per barrel.
There is therefore substantive evidence from Loss of key employees Material fall in oil and gas price the past two years that there has been Delays in implementing work programmes a sea change in energy markets with the Taxation legislation changes supply-demand tensions creating a higher price environment although there remains considerable uncertainty as to the predicted future trading range.
UK gas prices followed a similar trend with Significant cost over-runs or delays on major Exploration well failure prices depressed and typically below 20p development projects per therm for the first half of 2007 as a result of the mild winter weather creating Lack of operational resources unseasonably low demand.
However, Commercial misalignment with co-venturers the UK, now being a net importer of gas, Unfulfilled PSC work obligations increasingly saw gas supply and LNG deliveries constrained or diverted to Europe Poor reservoir performance and elsewhere, for higher prices.
Allied to the strengthening oil price, these factors dragged the gas price curve up substantially MEDIUM PROBABILITY HIGH PROBABILITY in the second half of the year to an average 20 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 MEDIUM IMPACT HIGH IMPACT 1 balaNCiNG iNvESTmENT Dana focuses on a Balancing investment between exploration, development and production opportunities, and four pronged strategic between North-West Europe and international investment.
Traditionally Dana has focused approach to its less on the development stage of the lifecycle.
However, as the company grows this stage will become an increasingly important element for building value, as demonstrated with business and the risks the Enoch and Cavendish developments in 2007, and recent project sanctions of Babbage, facing the Company.
2 maximiSiNG THE pRObabiliTy Of SuCCESS Maximising the probability of success by spreading the exploration portfolio between NorthWest Europe and international spend, and by drilling a range of prospects with different risk profiles and varying geology.
The Company strongly believes that exploration success should be driven by the highest standards of technical analysis and by taking a portfolio approach.
To that end, Dana is planning 17 exploration and appraisal wells during 2008.
3 uSiNG ExplORaTiON aS lEvERaGE Using exploration as leverage to accelerate growth by trading exploration positions for production and development opportunities and by trading between geographical areas.
This strategy accelerates cash flow, reduces the requirement for large capital expenditure in the development phase and delivers assets in the core focus areas.
4 OpERaTiNG a SOuND fiNaNCial fRamEWORK The Company is in a strong financial position, with good cash flow generation from the existing production portfolio and will seek to maintain this platform so that it can leverage future growth opportunities with confidence.
Over recent years, this approach has allowed the Company to remain unhedged with respect to commodity prices, thereby providing full exposure to the strong commodity price environment.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 21 Business Review continued DaNaS STRaTEGy iN aCTiON BALANciNg our iNVEstMENt Norway focusing on the North sea UK Production & Development Exploration portfolio and Exploration & Appraisal active investment driving production growth Netherlands Morocco focusing on Africa Stable production and portfolio of exploration Egypt opportunities Mauritania senegal Kenya Diversifying our Exploration portfolio Geography WestofShetland25% NorthernNorthSea22% CentralNorthSea17% SouthernNorthSea15% Norway12% Holland9% Environment Equity Deepwater40% 33% Shallowwater30% 33-66% Onshore30% 66% 22 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 BALANCING RISK WITH LEVERAGING EXPLORATION TO RIGOROUS PORTFOLIO ACCELERATE GROWTH MANAGEMENT Generate cashow with sale of non-core assets Active deal making High risk drilling largely free carried Causeway: $40m cash from sale Focused new country entries Accelerate timescale to value creation Low cost entry where possible, active in licence rounds Babbage: approval of well 2006 project sanction 2008 2007 prospects first gas 2009 2005 prospects Grouse: appraisal drilling 2007 project sanction 2008 first oil 2009 Swap appraisal for production Mauritania: lucrative asset swap with Gaz fide France high risk lowrisk OPERATING A SOUND FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK 250,000 Growing cashow from operations 200,000 150,000 Manageable debt, low gearing 100,000 Facilitating unhedged position 50,000 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 -50,000 -100,000 Cashow from Operations Net Cash Debt Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 23 volume GBP 000's Business Review continued In the Northern North Sea and Norway, producing field in GKA.
From a production 2007 buSiNESS pRiORiTiES production growth was attributable to the performance point of view, GKA was The following indicators were considered Jotun field in Norway Dana 45%.
This adversely impacted by an incident in April key to assessing the Companys 2007, when the shuttle tanker ruptured the was added to the portfolio in July 2007, as performance and progress during 2007: offtake mechanism resulting in a 28 day part of the acquisition of Ener Petroleum Production growth: field shutdown.
This was an operational ASA and, in total for the year, the field issue outwith the Operators control, and Reserves replacement: contributed 6.3% of total Group production.
an insurance claim for repair costs is being Hudson field production Dana 47.5% Execution of the planned exploration actively progressed.
During the final quarter was lower than anticipated for the year.
drilling programme: of 2007, GKA was also successfully tied The Otter field Dana 19.5% produced in Delivery of development projects: into the Forties Pipeline System, which line with expectation for the year.
Both should considerably improve field uptime Delivery and completion of new Hudson and Otter produce across Shell in the future.
Elsewhere, first production commercial transactions: operated infrastructure, which is currently was achieved at the Enoch oil field Dana the subject of disposal negotiations.
Health, Safety and Environmental 8.8% in May 2007, and the field continued Dana looks forward to working with the performance: to perform well throughout the remainder new infrastructure owners to exploit the Financial performance.
of the year, in line with expectations.
The remaining potential in these areas, as Banff, Claymore and Caledonia fields all A review of each of these areas now follows.
evidenced by the recent discoveries at East performed in line with original expectations and West Rinnes to the South West of for the year.
Overall, in this area, production pRODuCTiON GROWTH Hudson.
2007 was another year of record oil and In the Central North Sea, the Greater In the Southern North Sea and The gas production.
Annualised average Kittiwake Area GKA Dana 50% continues Netherlands, production was enhanced production for the year was 30,514 boepd to be a key focus of investment and during the second half of the year by new 2006: 22,285 boepd, with 89% delivered return for Dana.
The area highlight of the production from two wells in the newly from Europe 2006: 93%.
Oil accounted for year was the successful appraisal of the developed Cavendish gas field Dana 50%.
Grouse field, which has now progressed Whilst this field has since performed A regional analysis of the source of production to the development phase for first oil extremely well, first production was is provided in the following graphic.
This will be the fifth somewhat later than originally anticipated at the start of 2007.
The other key activity in this sector was the drilling of the J5 well Dana Group Production by Geographic Area on the Johnston gas field Dana 49.89%.
This was a successful well, but delays with 35,000 the operational tie-back, meant there was little positive impact on 2007 production.
30,000 As a result, this was unable to mitigate 25,000 the effects of nearly four months of field shutdowns, as a result of drilling, problems 20,000 Egypt Western Desert with the host facilities on Ravenspurn North and a subsea leak in the hydraulic system.
Egypt Gulf of Suez 15,000 Nonetheless, total production from this Russia geographic area increased by approximately 10,000 Europe SNS & Netherlands 86% over 2006.
5,000 Europe CNS Europe NNS & Norway 0 20062007 24 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 Production boepd In common with the difficulties encountered in the Western Desert, namely East Beni project sanction decision.
These were by other upstream international ventures Suef Dana 50%, West Abu Gharadig Dana however offset by the change in the status in Russia, Dana experienced challenges 30% and Qarun Dana 25% which together of the Russian asset where, following the to its rights to continue to operate and include 13 fields.
Both areas contributed decision to change to a service contract manage the South Vat-Yoganskoye field equally to group production during the final arrangement, reserves are no longer in Siberia.
This culminated in a series of quarter of 2007, and together for the year, recognised by the Group.
Secondly, there court actions brought by field licence holder Egypt accounted for 7.3% of total Group were acquisition related additions in and minority shareholder OOO LUKoil-West production.
These fields contain a number Egypt and Norway, at the Cavendish gas Siberia Lukoil seeking termination of of further identified growth opportunities field in the UK, and the completion of the the commercial contract pursuant to which that the Group is seeking to exploit during acquisition of the Bligh discovery.
The Danas subsidiary, Yoganoil managed 2008, when Egypt, on a full year basis, acquisitions in total added 53.3mmboe.
and operated the South Vat-Yoganskoye is expected to contribute 20-25% of The acquisitions were partly offset by the field the General Contract.
divestment of the Causeway discovery.
successfully defended legal proceedings on Thirdly, reserves were added through the three separate occasions: however a further RESERvES REplaCEmENT new exploration discoveries at E18-7 in action initiated by Lukoil was decided The Netherlands and an upgrade following 2007 was a very successful year for Dana in Lukoils favour in September 2007. testing of the Grouse discovery.
Further in terms of oil and gas reserves additions, Accordingly, Dana ceased to recognise reserves growth is being sought in 2008, with a substantial increase in proven and production from South Vat-Yoganskoye from with Danas 17 exploration well drilling probable reserves to a new record level of this date.
programme targeting a range of prospects.
165.8 mmboe for the Group at the year end.
The loss of production in Russia was Overall, some 46.3 mmboe of proven and Increases in reserves arose in three areas.
however, more than replaced by the probable reserves were added during Firstly, there were upward revisions in completion in October 2007, of the Devon 2007 due to the net effect of discoveries, a number of producing fields, which Energy Egyptian acquisition.
This added four acquisitions, disposals and field revisions.
have outperformed earlier forecasts, and new producing concessions to the Dana This increase replaced Group production developments, principally in the Babbage portfolio, the operated East Zeit field Dana of 11.1 mmboe more than three-fold.
discovery where extensive subsurface work 100%, offshore Gulf of Suez, and interests Overall, net additions replaced 316% of has taken place leading up to the recent in three non-operated concessions onshore production over the calendar year.
Group Business Review continued proven and probable oil and gas reserves 2007 Reserves Movements Commercial & Potentially Commercial at 31 December 2007 reached a new high 180 of 165.8 mmboe, of which 81.5% are now held in Europe.
Danas end 2007 contingent 170 resources technically recoverable hydrocarbons not yet determined to be commercial were a further 114.2 mmboe, 160 an increase of 12.5 mmboe, due principally to the discovery at Storskrymten in Norway.
150 Therefore the total recoverable hydrocarbon resources available to the Group at the 140 end of 2007 were 280.1 mmboe, of which 59% are currently classed as proven and 130 probable reserves.
120 End 2006 Production Discoveries & Acquisition Disposal Revisions End 2007 ExECuTiON Of THE plaNNED Extensions ExplORaTiON DRilliNG pROGRammE As planned, Dana participated in six The range of exploration opportunities has undertaken comprehensive subsurface wells in 2007, five in Europe and one being drilled, and the proximity of a geoscience and surface facilities study internationally, with three further wells significant proportion of these to existing work, with project sanction expected early delayed into the early part of 2008. infrastructure, should result in a significant in 2009.
Sanction of the Monkwell project Successful wells were drilled at Grouse increase to Danas reserve base by the end in the UK Southern North Sea is dependant in the UK, E18-7 in The Netherlands and of 2008 through organic growth.
on appraisal drilling planned for third Storskrymten in Norway.
At the Pomboo quarter 2008. well, offshore Kenya, although the DElivERy Of presence of significant reservoir sands was The addition of these fields, along with DEvElOpmENT pROjECTS encouraging, no hydrocarbons were found.
active infill drilling and other projects in Building on the performance of 2006 when Also the Cygnus well in the Norwegian Sea existing fields, will provide the basis for the Goosander field was brought on stream, and the Watling well in the UK Southern increasing production in coming years.
two further fields, namely Cavendish and North Sea failed to encounter hydrocarbons.
Enoch were successfully brought on stream 2008 will see a significant increase in DElivERy aND COmplETiON in 2007.
Together with the addition of fields activity with 17 wells scheduled, focused Of NEW COmmERCial in Norway and Egypt this means that Dana on the three core areas of the UK, Norway TRaNSaCTiONS now has interests in 30 producing fields.
By the end of May 2008, six Dana continues a high level of commercial In 2008, the Company has already wells had already been drilled, with four activity in line with its strategy of adding sanctioned the E18-A gas development in significant successes at Kerloch, West and value through its front-end exploration work The Netherlands, the Babbage gas field East Rinnes in the UK, and West El Burullus and then accelerating cash flow wherever in the UK Southern North Sea and the in Egypt, with one further well in progress.
The Company also undertakes Grouse oil field in the UK Central North Rigs have been secured for the majority of carefully selected asset and corporate Sea.
Good progress is being made at the the remaining wells planned in 2008 and Barbara Phyllis joint gas development in acquisitions.
The two most significant the Company is in advanced negotiations the Central North Sea.
Dana, as operator, transactions in 2007 were the acquisition regarding the outstanding operated rig slots.
26 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 Net Reserves mmboe of Devon Energy Corporations Egyptian In addition, during 2007 the Company Dana completed the divestment of its 14% assets, completed in October, and the continued to develop both the quality and interest in Blocks 211 22a SE and 211 23d, acquisition of the Norwegian oil company extent of its asset portfolio through a series including the Causeway discovery.
This Ener Petroleum ASA now Dana Petroleum of commercial deals.
equity was considered to be non-material Norway AS in July.
and the consideration of $40 million was Dana increased its interest to 64.85% significantly in excess of Danas carrying The Devon acquisition is Danas largest and operatorship in Block 210 24a in the value for the block, generating a pre-tax single transaction to date.
The assets Northern North Sea.
The Company has gain on disposal of nearly 17 million.
acquired include eight concessions in Egypt, since made the West and East Rinnes including 14 producing fields, one of which oil discoveries in this Block, which also Finally, the Company farmed down its is operated, and four operated exploration contains the Melville oil discovery and interest in the Monkwell discovery in concessions.
There are active work further exploration potential.
the UK Southern North Sea for a carry of programmes in each of the concessions certain costs through the appraisal well, Dana equalised its equities across Blocks with drilling or seismic planned in 2008.
The scheduled for third quarter of 2008, and any 211 8a and 211 13a in the Northern North deal added approximately 10,000-12,000 subsequent development.
Subsurface study work is ongoing to bopd to the Group, with very significant identify drilling targets in these blocks.
Each of these deals adds value to the infill drilling and exploration upside.
Since Group by building on core areas, adding closing the deal, Dana has benefited from The Group consolidated its position in additional activity or optimising the capital higher commodity prices, access to new the GKA by acquiring an additional 9.8% expenditure programme.
opportunities and the value of having a equity in Block 21 20a, including the Bligh team on the ground in country.
Egypt now discovery, where Dana now holds a 30.5% HEalTH, SafETy & represents a significant proportion of the interest.
Bligh was discovered in 1995 by ENviRONmENTal Groups activities and capital investment the 21 20a-5 well where a drill stem test pERfORmaNCE H, S&E programme and will be a growth area for flowed at 2,750 bopd of 45.6 degrees API Dana going forward.
condensate and 15.4 million cubic feet of A review of the Companys H, S&E gas per day.
Recent detailed technical work performance is provided in the Operations In Norway, Dana has a strong team focused has increased the expected recoverable Highlights on pages 16 and 17. on identifying new opportunities through volumes to around 30 million boe gross.
licence rounds, business development and Planning is underway to develop the field as fiNaNCial pERfORmaNCE investigating further development activity a tie-back over the Kittiwake platform.
The A review and commentary of the Companys in the Jotun area.
Dana has participated development of Bligh will extend the life financial performance during the year is in two wells in Norway, including the of the platform by several years and create provided in the Financial Review on pages Storskrymten discovery, acquired interests additional value for Dana as a joint owner 28 to 32. in seven additional blocks in the APA 2007 of the infrastructure.
Round, and been approved as an operator since the completion of the Ener acquisition.
Norway will be an exploration focus area for Dana in the coming years.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 27
