p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 6 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 06 Business review 4.9 million 79% The Group has invested 4.9 Funeral services represent 79 million improving the Groups per cent of the Groups revenues.
eet of hearses, limousines and other vehicles.
We are investing in our growth responsibly by Introduction It is unclear at present whether the new computerised The Groups operations are managed across three main system will cause similar or smaller differences between areas, namely funeral services, crematoria and prethe initial and final published deaths in any period and arranged funeral plans, which respectively represent 79 therefore it is unclear to what extent the 2007 estimates per cent, 16 per cent and 5 per cent of the Groups are directly comparable to the 2006 estimates, which were revenues.
Funeral services revenues relate to the provision reported under the old system.
of funerals and ancillary items such as memorials and oral tributes.
Crematoria revenues arise from cremation Nonetheless, the gures continue to give a good general services and the sale of memorials and burial plots at the background to the Groups performance.
Pre-arranged funeral plan income represents amounts to cover the costs of The initial publication recorded total estimated deaths for marketing and administering the sale of plans.
Ofce for National Statistics data Funeral services Some of the Groups key performance indicators rely The Group operates a network of 540 2006: 521 funeral on the total number of estimated deaths for each period.
locations throughout Britain, trading under local established This information is obtained from the Ofce for National names.
During the period, the Group conducted 66,500 Statistics ONS.
funerals 2006: 66,500 representing approximately 12.0 per cent 2006: 12.1 per cent of total estimated deaths In April 2007, the ONS suspended the provision of in Britain.
this information, pending the implementation of a new computerised births, marriages and deaths system.
Underlying operating profits were 42.1 million 2006: 39.3 million, an increase of 7.1 per cent.
This reects In October 2007, provision of the information the benefit from increased spend per funeral and recommenced.
Historically, the estimates were updated continued cost control.
Reported operating profits were by the ONS from time to time, with such results typically 42.2 million 2006: 39.3 million, an increase of uctuating by approximately one per cent.
consistency of its key performance indicators, the Group has not amended its reporting for these changes in 2007 has been the busiest period for funeral acquisitions the past.
since otation, with a total of 16.6 million being invested in 21 funeral locations.
All acquisitions matched the Below: Listening to the needs of our families and giving our full Below: We receive thousands of testimonials every year from families attention to every detail is a high priority for all our staff, offering we have helped at a very difficult time.
We listen to their needs and our clients peace of mind.
understand that giving less than 100 per cent of our attention is never an option.
p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 7 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 07 Valuing our people and relationships Client service excellence remains at the heart of our strategy to grow the business and we recognise the significant part our people play in the Groups performance.
During 2007 we invested 16.6 million in acquiring a further 21 funeral locations that complement the key Dignity values of quality, tradition of service, dedication and trust, further enhancing our reputation in the marketplace.
These acquisitions add great value to the growing Dignity family of businesses.
p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 8 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 08 Business review continued 98% 22 locations 98 per cent of families say that The Group is the largest private Our quality of client service is borne they would either definitely or operator of crematoria, with probably recommend our services.
22 locations serving families out in the responses to the surveys across Britain.
that are sent out to each family we care for.
Groups criteria for investment and have complemented As a result, close monitoring of local survey results, regular the existing core business well with their geographical training and detailed procedures are in place to ensure locations and client service ethic.
The Group closed two 2006: six unprofitable locations Crematoria in the period.
The Group operates 22 crematoria and performed 38,900 cremations 2006: 38,500 in the period.
This market The division has continued to benefit from financial share of 7.0 per cent 2006: 7.0 per cent reects the investment in the period to help maintain and improve Groups position as the largest single operator of crematoria the network.
4.9 million has been spent in the period in Britain.
The market share in 2007 includes approximately to acquire 46 new hearses and limousines and 99 other 500 additional cremations at two locations following the vehicles.
Furthermore, the Group has spent 2.4 million temporary closure of a nearby local authority crematorium.
on ongoing maintenance capital expenditure to refurbish and improve 84 locations.
Revenues of 25.7 million 2006: 23.2 million have resulted in operating profits of 14.0 million 2006: Client service 12.1 million, an increase of 15.7 per cent.
This reects The Group has always been clear that client service an improved performance in memorial sales following excellence is at the heart of our strategy for growth.
Our detailed training and focus in the period.
This programme quality of client service is borne out in the responses to of training continues into 2008. the surveys that are sent out to each family we care for.
During the period, the Group opened new memorial areas These results continue to demonstrate exceptional levels at its locations in South London and Crawley, at a cost of of service, with 98 per cent 2006: 98 per cent of families 0.5 million.
These developments will in time hold many responding saying that they would either definitely or commemorative memorials and provide space for quiet probably recommend our services.
contemplation when families visit in the following years to remember their loved ones.
Maintaining this level of service is of key importance, given that 75 per cent of the Groups funeral business comes In addition to this investment, the Group has spent from reputation and recommendation.
0.7 million improving the facilities at its 22 locations.
Below: We offer a wide range of memorials through our 22 crematoria in Below: Our gardens of remembrance offer visitors a place for quiet response to the growing and diverse needs of our clients.
We aim to offer contemplation for generations to come.
We have invested heavily to the best possible choice to our families.
ensure that every crematorium offers a tranquil environment in which friends and family can remember their loved ones.
p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 9 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 09 Improving our facilities and services The needs of families are at the centre of everything we do.
This year we have opened two new memorial gardens at our crematoria, including a four acre memorial garden at Surrey and Sussex Crematorium in Crawley.
We continue to invest in improving our facilities and providing more choice for families and as part of this we have refurbished 84 funeral locations.
Recognising the needs of the whole community, we held our first ever memorial service for Hindu families in London.
p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 10 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 10 Business review continued 10 year 21locations The Group has a 10 year The Group acquired 21 new funeral agreement to use the Age Concern locations in the period and continues brand, continuing an established to seek well established, respected relationship that has been in place businesses that can contribute to for many years.
Pre-arranged funeral plans Costs in the period were 10.9 million 2006: 9.7 The Group continues to be the market leader in this area.
million, an increase of 12.4 per cent.
This primarily unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans were 197,300 at the reects the increased pay-out of bonus arrangements end of the period 2006: 188,800.
These plans represent and a payment to a former director in lieu of notice.
future incremental business for the funeral division, as the Group expects to perform the majority of these funerals.
Investment for the future Acquisition activity in funeral services has continued On 8 January 2007, the Group acquired the minority in the first quarter of 2008, with a further six funeral interest in Advance Planning Limited from Age Concern locations being acquired for a total consideration of 4.4 Enterprises Limited ACEnt.
As part of this arrangement, million.
Consistent application of our acquisition criteria the Group has a 10-year marketing agreement in place will continue, ensuring only well established, respected with ACEnt to provide pre-arranged funeral plans using the businesses are acquired that will contribute to the future Age Concern brand during this time.
This is an excellent growth of the Group.
development, as this route to market has proved to be successful in the past.
The Group continues to seek opportunities with local authorities to manage their crematoria and cemeteries.
In order to grow this part of the business, our focus has We continue to be the preferred bidder for Rotherham been on two distinct areas: developing the Dignity Funeral Metropolitan Borough Councils crematorium and Plan endorsed by the actor Christopher Timothy and cemeteries and anticipate legal completion in the developing marketing and distribution relationships with second quarter of 2008. further reputable afnity partners.
In both cases, successful tests lead us to expect further progress in 2008.
In the pre-arranged funeral plan division, testing of various opportunities continues, each focused on the overall goal Head ofce of increasing the number of unfulfilled pre-arranged Head ofce costs relate to central services that are not funeral plans.
specically attributed to a particular operational division.
These include the provision of IT, finance, personnel and Directors emoluments.
In addition, the Group records the costs of incentive bonus arrangements such as Long Term Incentive Plans LTIPs and management incentives for 95 managers across all divisions within this segment.
Below: We have invested heavily in our client services team, ensuring Below: This year our pre-arranged funeral plan sales have been that our training, coaching and development programme reects ongoing supported by the launch of the Dignity Funeral Plan endorsed by the product training, telephone skills, and the delivery of excellent customer actor Christopher Timothy.
service to our clients at all times.
p1-19 tp Q6 8 4 08 12:18 Page 11 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 11 Continuing to lead and develop Dignity continues to be the UKs leading provider of pre-arranged funeral plans and through our UK wide network of funeral locations and afnity partnerships, we have already helped over 300,000 people plan and pay for their funerals in advance.
Our pre-paid funeral plans continue to grow and as part of our ongoing commitment to delivering client service excellence we invest in training and support of our staff to ensure that we are able to best meet the needs of our customers and where appropriate, we look to explore and develop new opportunities to market our plans with other added-value afnity partners.
