Business and Financial Review Business and Financial Review Group Chief Executives Overview The year was, overall, one of significant change for the Group, in which many of the foundations for future growth were laid.
In that context, I am pleased with the performance we have delivered in most of our core businesses, including UK, Nordics, Greece and Ireland, and also in our start up businesses in Central Europe and Spain.
Our new e-commerce division has also delivered strong growth.
However, our overall Group result was disappointing, largely because of a weak performance in Italy.
During the year, we stepped up the pace of transition towards our goal of becoming Europes leading specialist electrical retailer and e-tailer.
John Clare CBE Firstly, we chose to discontinue or sell businesses that did not present good Group Chief Executive opportunities to deliver future value to shareholders, PC City France and the communications businesses.
Secondly, we invested significantly to improve the service we offer our customers through the introduction of The TechGuys, and a major colleague engagement programme in our UK stores that included moving from personal sales commissions to team bonuses based on store performance.
We also invested in changes in both the people and physical infrastructures that support our current operations.
This included the significant change programme in Italy, completing the reorganisation of our UK logistics infrastructure and the development of international buying teams.
Finally, we have invested in creating or acquiring the business base to drive our growth into the European e-tailing market.
We acquired a majority interest in PIXmania, Europes leading electrical e-tailer.
We reinvigorated the Dixons brand by taking it off the High Street and giving it the freedom to grow on the internet and, with sales almost trebling in its first year, it has got off to an excellent start.
We have also enhanced our multi-channel offerings with the introduction of reserve and collect options for our customers in Currys and PC World, and will be rolling them out to our other operations.
Since we signed our option agreement with Eldorado, we have learnt a great deal about both the company and the market in which it operates.
This due diligence has led the Board to conclude that it is not appropriate to proceed with this investment.
The Board has therefore notified Eldorado that it is terminating the option agreement.
We secured this agreement for no cost.
Russia remains an interesting and exciting market and we will continue to watch the developments there, both commercially and politically, and I expect the Group to re-examine opportunities for entering this market in the future.
In view of this decision the Board now plans to return up to 100 million to shareholders through a share buy back programme over the next 12 months, representing the capital that would have been invested in the first tranche of Eldorado shares.
8 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
