Business Review Customer relationships Key performance indicators 2007 2006 We supply nearly 1.5m customers from all Group revenue growth 9.0% 5.0% industrial sectors.
We have relationships with International 14.5% 11.8% both the end users who utilise our products UK 1.9% 3.0% and also with the companies for whom they e-Commerce revenue share 28% 25% work.
Our customers are typically R&D and Headline Group return on sales 9.6% 8.8% 1 Headline EBITDA 118.2m 100.3m maintenance engineers.
Free cash flow 45.3m 26.9m 2 Headline ROCE 20.5% 16.7% Supplier relationships Stock turn per year 2.7x 2.5x The relationships with our suppliers are an 3 Revenue per head 000 161 155 important element in allowing us to maintain Number of customers millions 1.5 1.4 high standards of product availability for our 1 Headline earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation customers.
We purchase 350,000 products Simon Boddie 2 Return on capital employed is dened as headline operating profit expressed as a percentage of net assets plus net debt Group Finance Director from 2,300 major suppliers throughout the 3 Revenue on a like for like basis 2006 and 2007 adjusting for trading days and foreign exchange world with increasing focus on global purchasing agreements.
Our offer to R&D Headline profit before tax has increased by engineers is valuable to many of our suppliers, 11.6m 15.9%.
The main areas of improvement who would otherwise nd the small order and were an increase in the contribution of our immediate dispatch requirements of such NATURE OF THE BUSINESS International business of 10.0m and a customers difficult and costly to satisfy.
Electrocomponents plc is a high service reduction in EBS costs by 6.1m.
Against distributor of electronic, electromechanical and this, the UK contribution declined by 1.0m Employees wider industrial products.
The Group operates in and Process costs and interest costs increased The skills and support from our employees are 27 countries and sells to most of the remaining by 1.0m and 2.5m respectively.
major assets to the Group.
During the year we countries of the world via third party distributors.
profit before tax was adversely affected by the The Group offers a wide range of products to The geographic spread includes: 1,900 in the strengthening of Sterling by ca.
0.9m year on customers who are typically research and UK, 1,300 in Continental Europe, 600 in North year.
Adjusting for this effect headline profit development R&D or maintenance engineers America, 800 in Asia Pacic and 900 in the before tax would have grown by 17.2%.
A large number of high quality Groupwide processes.
Within the Operating goods are stocked, which are dispatched the The contribution of our International business companies an increasing proportion of same day that the order is received.
The average has again increased due to a combination employees are focused on our sales and customer order value is generally less than of high revenue growth and improved cost marketing activities.
100 although the range of order values is wide.
The UK contribution fell slightly OPERATING PERFORMANCE AND KEY The number of customer contacts is very large despite the revenue growth as operating costs PERFORMANCE INDICATORS and their product demands diverse.
This means increased, principally as a result of additional Operating performance that the Group manages tens of thousands of operating costs to support the new EBS markets.
Revenue 877.5m 828.5m EBS costs were reduced following higher costs Gross margin 50.5% 51.5% PROGRESS ON 3 YEAR PLAN associated with the UK implementation in the Contribution 192.2m 183.2m As explained in the Chief Executives Review last financial year.
Interest costs increased Group Process costs 82.9m 81.9m we have continued to make good progress due to the higher level of debt and rising EBS costs 19.0m 25.1m Headline operating profit 90.3m 76.2m implementing the new strategy announced interest rates.
Headline profit before tax 84.4m 72.8m e-Commerce is a key enabler of the strategy.
It Headline earnings per share 12.8p 11.2p allows the Group to make a very wide range of STRENGTHS AND RESOURCES Dividend per share 18.4p 18.4p Brands products available globally at a lower cost.
It also allows rapid new product introductions and The Group has a number of major brands.
The most significant of these is RS which is used all price changes.
In addition, supplier relationships have been leveraged through brand shops on over the world, except in North America, France and Ireland where the Allied, Radiospares and the web.
e-Commerce revenue growth remains strong at 23% and it now represents 28% of Radionics brands are used respectively.
8 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group revenue, including 57% in Japan and 32% Net debt was 136.2m at 31 March 2007, Continental Europe 2007 2006 across Europe and the UK.
In several operating 15.4m higher than last year with interest Revenue 287.5m 267.9m companies we now take more orders through cover remaining high.
The pension deficit Revenue growth 10.1% 8.3% our e-Commerce channels than by telephone.
net of deferred tax fell by 0.6m to 29.1m.
Contribution 64.5m 59.9m % of revenue 22.4% 22.4% Gross profit increased by 17.1m in 2007 with The reorganisation income of 0.8m comprised growth in all regions.
The Group gross margin costs, relating to the creation of a lower cost During the year, the European region maintained reduced by 1% point year on year with different infrastructure 1.1m, and a one-off profit strong revenue growth of 10.1%, which was patterns by region.
consistent throughout both halves of the year.
The UK gross margin was stable throughout Free cash ow at 45.3m was up 18.4m on This performance was achieved against the year.
The selling price realignment, last year principally due to higher profits, and the backdrop of the preparation for and undertaken over the last few years to improve the sale of the head ofce.
These improvements implementation of EBS in seven out of the competitiveness, was largely complete and were offset, in part, by increased gross capital eight European businesses: Austria, Benelux, the gross margin has benefited from reduced expenditure associated with the build of the new Germany, Ireland, Italy, Scandinavia and Spain.
product costs, through better buying and ofce and warehouse facilities in our North Our French business implemented an upgrade rationalisation of the MRO range, as well as American business.
to EBS in September 2006. greater use of the higher margin RS own INTERNATIONAL brand products.
2007 2006 The European business continues to implement the strategy.
This has included refocusing The International gross margin declined year Revenue 521.3m 474.9m Revenue growth 14.5% 11.8% local sales forces towards the EEM offer with on year by 1.6% points but with the rate of Gross margin 48.7% 50.3% dedicated EEM sales forces being established decline slowing during the year with a decline Operating costs % of revenue 30.2% 32.1% in France and Germany.
The EEM offer has of 0.3% points first half to second half.
The Contribution 96.3m 86.3m improved with the North American extended % of revenue 18.5% 18.2% strong growth of our lower, but stable gross range being made available to the majority of margin business in North America, was The International business comprises the European markets.
Our quotations and responsible for a proportion of the full year Continental Europe 55% of revenue of the larger order business, which delivers good decline.
The underlying gross margin decline International business, North America 30% margins, has continued to grow in response was in the European and Asia Pacic regions.
During the year the to the more exible approach we have taken In Europe, selling price realignments and the International business continued to grow and with our customers.
growth of profitable larger order business have now accounts for 59% of Group revenue and impacted gross margins while in Asia Pacic The level of best practice sharing and focus on 50% of Group contribution.
After adjusting for the foreign exchange movements have been key supplier initiatives across businesses has 1.9m adverse impact of the strengthening of significant.
In the future the European region, been increased.
Sterling, contribution from the International the largest region in the International business, business increased by 11.9m year on year.
North America will benefit from the completion of the selling 2007 2006 price realignment and the full year impact of Revenue growth increased during the year with Revenue 157.2m 137.5m product cost savings coming through.
all regions growing faster than in 2006.
Revenue growth 21.8% 18.0% Contribution 23.4m 19.2m Both Operating and Process costs have been Operating costs reduced as a percentage of % of revenue 14.9% 14.0% reduced as a percentage of revenue due to tight revenue by 1.9% points demonstrating the management control and the beneficial scale ongoing operational gearing benets of higher Allied, our North American business, increased effect of higher revenue.
Actions in the year sales in the region.
its revenue growth during the year.
This is the have realised a further 3.2m of annualised third consecutive year of growth at around 20%.
cost reductions comprising headcount savings, Contribution grew to 14.9% of revenue, due to catalogue paper savings and the sale of the strong revenue growth, limited cost increases head ofce in Oxford, combined with a move to and a stable gross margin.
The total of annualised cost reductions achieved so far is 7.6m and The business has continued to pursue its further actions are planned to deliver the proven sales growth strategy.
This has involved annualised 10m targeted for 2008. the strengthening of the eld sales team Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 Business Review continued throughout the businesss 55 local branches.
UK element of the European roll out was completed 2007 2006 Allieds close relationships with its suppliers in May 2007, with the businesses in Benelux, Revenue 356.2m 353.6m is another key strength, with joint promotion Ireland, Scandinavia and Spain migrating to the Revenue growth 1.9% 3.0% programmes and suppliers often accompanying EBS platform.
During their first few months post Gross margin 53.3% 53.0% Allied staff on customer visits.
In addition, implementation these businesses are being Operating cost % of revenue 26.4% 25.6% customer service and stock turn have improved Contribution 95.9m 96.9m supported by teams from the rest of the Group % of revenue 26.9% 27.
The development of the new warehouse and The benets of an integrated system are The UK returned to revenue growth with the ofce in Fort Worth is proceeding according to starting to be realised.
While there are some strategy delivering results.
The full year growth plan.
The new ofce move is now complete and of 1.9% was 4.9% points higher than last year.
higher operating costs initially after the warehouse move is planned in the middle of implementation of the new system, the costs Growth improved during the year from around 1% the next financial year.
Move costs of around in the first half to nearly 3% in the second half.
are expected to be lower in the medium term.
1m are expected to be incurred in the next This was the pattern experienced in France after The business benefited from the improvement financial year.
In 2007, the in the UK manufacturing economy and the UK benefited from the additional exibility of Asia Pacic implementation of the strategy.
There has been 2007 2006 technology-based customer discounts which increased sales focus with the sales force have helped drive its sales growth.
In the future, Revenue 76.6m 69.5m realignment to the two customer offers of EEM Revenue growth 17.3% 14.5% we expect increased stock turn in Europe due and MRO, the growth in larger order business at Contribution 8.4m 7.2m to the improved stock visibility and regional good margins and continued large account wins.
e-Commerce grew signicantly and accounted Asia Pacic also accelerated its revenue growth The EBS implementation in our Asian operations for 32% of the UK businesss revenue.
All regions grew signicantly was virtually completed during the year, with internet trading channel has continued to be including North Asia 19%, South Asia 38%, the Chinese sales ofces being brought onto upgraded with additional functionality being Australasia 8% and Japan 15%.
The timing of the roll out of EBS created to support our EEM customers.
strengthened the senior management across into our North American business will be This was the first full year for the UK on the the region.
determined after the completion of the local EBS platform and while certain operational warehouse move.
In China, the business started implementing its costs have increased post go-live, there has plan to accelerate its revenue growth.
The been a focus on realising the benets of the The EBS costs have reduced by 6m year on business recently launched its fifth Chinese system.
The system facilitates the use of year to 19m.
This is as a result of the lower language catalogue with 50,000 locally stocked targeted technology-based discounts which implementation costs 10m following the products and another 100,000 extended range have increased sales.
In addition, an ongoing high prior year costs as a result of the UK products from Japan and North America available continuous improvement culture is being implementation, offset in part by the higher via the web.
The sales force and number of local used to drive enhanced customer service depreciation 4m as the asset has now been sales ofces have been increased and there are and greater efficiency in the business.
The cash outow has now nearly 300 employees involved in sales and reduced by 22m year on year principally due EBS marketing in China.
The revenue investment by 2007 2006 to the lower implementation costs 10m and the Group on this initiative in the financial year Depreciation and the prior year safety stock, associated with the was around 1.3m.
amortisation 10.7m 6.8m UK implementation, coming out in this financial Project and local South Asias strong growth was due to the year 14m.
business cost 8.3m 18.3m successful customer acquisition programme Total 19.0m 25.1m In the next financial year the total EBS costs, and the contribution from the new Thailand including depreciation, implementation costs, Cash outflow 16.0m 38.0m sales ofce, which started trading during and system development costs incurred post the year.
The roll out of EBS in Europe is now complete.
implementation, are expected to be slightly Both Australasia and Japan continued to grow By the year end, a single integrated regional lower than in 2007.
As there have been strongly during the year.
e-Commerce now system supported our businesses in Austria, implementation costs incurred in early 2008, represents some 57% of Japans revenue.
France, Germany, Italy and the UK.
The final the depreciation and implementation costs will 10 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 continue to be disclosed as EBS costs.
The costs Product Management The Groups main sources of debt are The role of Product Management is to manage a syndicated facility for $120m and 110m of developing the system post implementation to drive the strategy and benets will be the selection and purchase of some 350,000 from nine banks and a syndicated facility distinct products around the world.
included with the other information system for 63.5m from three banks, both maturing in February 2010.
At 31 March 2007, the costs and disclosed within Process costs.
During the year, Product Management As in prior years the depreciation and Group also had a bilateral facility for $100m strengthened relationships with key EEM in place which was terminated in early implementation costs will be disclosed as and PCA suppliers.
This has led to more joint April 2007.
From 2009 it is anticipated that the initiatives, focusing on product range EBS costs will not be separately disclosed and development, marketing and web promotions TAXATION the ongoing EBS depreciation costs will be across all geographies.
Examples extend to The Groups effective tax rate is 34% of profit included within Process costs.
suppliers where their European customers, before tax which represents a 1% point increase who wish to buy small volumes of certain from the prior year due to the increasing PROCESSES 2007 2006 products, are directed to our local operating proportion of Group profits realised in higher companies for fullment.
Process costs 82.9m 81.9m tax countries outside the UK.
This rate includes Process costs % of revenue 9.4% 9.9% the effect of a significant, and ongoing, increase Media Publishing in the deferred tax liability due to the tax The Media Publishing Process is responsible The Processes support our operating companies amortisation of overseas goodwill.
The deferred for the design and production of the Groups by ensuring that they have the products, tax liability is not expected to crystallise in publications and associated content infrastructure and expertise to provide the foreseeable future.
This, together with for e-Commerce.
consistently high service levels around the the differing timing of payments, causes a world.
The costs have reduced year on year Further strides have been made by Media discrepancy between the effective tax rate as a percentage of revenue even after allowing Publishing to reduce costs particularly in the of 34% and the cash tax rate, of 26% of profit for the 3.1m one off Information Systems print and paper costs of our catalogues whilst before tax.
PENSION Information Systems The Group has dened benefit schemes in The role of Information Systems is to support the UK, Ireland and Germany.
All these Headline profit before tax and develop the enterprise system applications schemes are now closed to new entrants.
that are required by the business.
Elsewhere including the replacement schemes in the UK and Ireland the schemes The recent focus has been on consolidating are dened contribution.
the operations of the businesses on the up15.9% EBS platform.
Other activities have included Under IAS 19 the combined deficit of the completing the global technology refresh dened benefit schemes was 38.7m at of desktop hardware, software and email 31 March 2007.
The ongoing move of core Net debt of 136.2m comprised gross The most recent valuation of the UK dened applications to our data centres has also borrowings of 155.3m currency split: 52.6m benefit scheme was carried out as at strengthened our disaster recovery capabilities.
This disclosed a gross deficit Japanese Yen, 10.3m in Sterling and the Supply Chain of 31.9m.
To eliminate the deficit, based on balance of 20.0m in other currencies, and The Supply Chain Process is responsible the assumptions used in the valuation as at financial assets of 19.1m currency split: for all the logistics surrounding product 31 March 2004, the Group will make additional 1.9m in Sterling, 13.3m in Euros and the supply and the management of stock levels.
annual payments to the scheme for the next balance of 3.9m in other currencies.
This 12 years 2007: 4.5m and increasing at The dual objectives have been to maintain high currency mix is due to the hedging of translation 3% per year.
levels of customer service whilst also starting exposure, interest differentials and tax to exploit the regional planning capabilities efficiency.
The peak net borrowing during the RISKS Electrocomponents has an established risk provided by EBS.
This has now started, year was 179m.
In addition the pension deficit net of associated deferred tax was 29.1m assessment and management process that evidenced by the improvement in stock turn from 2.5 to 2.7 times.
at 31 March 2007. provides regular reports to the Board and the Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 Business Review continued Executive Committee on the principle risks expertise, commitment and strong support As we build our experience of operating in the and uncertainties facing the business, and on new systems environment we are confident of our employees.
Developing the appropriate progress with their control and mitigation.
skills and a high performing, supportive that this risk will be progressively mitigated.
organisational culture are therefore key It is a key element of our management Summary ongoing challenges.
strategy to respond to the risks identied The identication, assessment and control and to the challenges they present.
To ensure individuals have a clear understanding of these risks are an integral part of the We have summarised our most significant of their contribution to the Group Strategy, management of the business, and we believe we have made significant and positive risks as follows: personal objectives and rewards are being aligned with Group Strategy delivery to ensure improvements over the past 12 months.
Group Strategy there is successful operational implementation.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Considerable progress has been made on the We continue to enhance technical skills by the Corporate Responsibility CR is part of our implementation of the Groups strategy as development of internal competencies and to business philosophy and we have established outlined in the Group Chief Executives Report supplement these by adding new expertise a set of CR principles both to guide our trading and the Business Review.
The most significant through external appointments.
practices and to set ethical standards for our risk to the Group strategy is that it does not Our values and culture activities continue to be management processes.
Electrocomponents deliver the anticipated results.
promoted throughout the Group emphasising is a member of the FTSE4Good index and we The risk is being responded to in many ways, the positive attributes of speed, exibility and participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
focusing on the development of the EEM and customer service.
These values are embedded Our CR procedures and processes form part MRO ranges, supported by robust customer into the UK organisation by continuous of our established procedures for the research and dedicated sales teams to ensure improvement workshops where employee identication, management and control of the relevance and competitiveness of the offers teams are encouraged to identify, develop and risk to the business.
Our CR principles are in meeting customer needs.
The effectiveness implement process improvements to promote communicated to all employees in our Group of these actions are closely monitored and customer satisfaction and process efficiency.
Policy Manual and in induction and other assessed for their contribution to the success IT and Communication Systems training courses.
We support independently of the strategy.
We are heavily dependent on our data managed procedures for the condential Pricing processing and communications systems reporting of breaches of these principles.
We operate in highly competitive and innovative to support our worldwide distribution The General Managers of each business have markets worldwide.
To be successful we must businesses.
The completion of our EBS systems operational responsibility and, in practice, all continue to improve value for money rating implementation in Europe, and the systems employees are responsible for ensuring that our through market pricing, high service and upgrade in our Asian businesses have CR policies are implemented and for identifying effective customer communication.
The risk substantially replaced our Legacy data opportunities for further development.
is that we do not maintain our service processing systems and has signicantly differential or price positioning with our improved the Groups risk prole.
Ethical Trading competitors, and that we fail to communicate As we develop and expand our product range The introduction of an integrated data network with our customers effectively.
and supplier base, we ensure that all new and infrastructure does, however, introduce new To address the risk we closely monitor market and existing direct suppliers are aware of risks of region-wide dependencies on common our corporate responsibility principles and developments and competitor pricing, and systems solutions.
undergo a process of assessment and, where assess the potential these may have to inuence We have made significant investments in the market.
We have robust market pricing appropriate, audit based on Ethical Trade resilient systems infrastructure, systems frameworks in place to respond quickly and Initiative ETI guidelines.
knowledge and region-wide disaster recovery decisively to these risks, with continuing activities To date we have conducted ethical audits at provision.
New Incident Management processes to rene, improve and effectively communicate 64 direct suppliers in countries of concern as and updated business continuity arrangements our service offer in each of our markets.
have been introduced to support our business dened by the ETI.
These suppliers are audited People on a three year cycle.
If suppliers are unable units should systems disruption occur.
These The successful implementation of our processes are subject to ongoing testing and to satisfactorily address matters raised in an Strategy is ultimately dependent on the review with sharing of experiences and solutions.
audit assessment they will be rejected.
12 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Health and Safety analysed below.
Currently 53% of our staff are Our catalogues continue to use optimised Our Group-wide health and safety management employed in ISO14001 Environmental grades of paper to reduce paper consumption processes are based on the application of risk Management Standard certied operations.
and where practicable distribution costs.
All pulp management techniques and on the is obtained from Forestry Stewardship Council During 2006 our environmental performance Occupational Health and Safety Management FSC or Sustainable Forestry Initiative SFI was inuenced by a period of significant Standard OHSAS18001.
We use Group-wide approved sources.
Catalogues and other business activity with high growth, and major metrics to monitor performance, with quarterly promotional literature are printed in facilities Group projects including EBS rollout, the global summaries to the Executive Committee and accredited to the ISO14001 standard as technology refresh and the US warehouse build.
a minimum, whilst two thirds of catalogues and all CDs are produced in EMAS Energy intensity at our premises i. e. indexed Health and Safety KPIs Eco-Management and Audit System 2007 2006 to Group turnover was reduced by some five and Nordic Swan accredited facilities.
Freight transport emissions indexed to All accidents per 100,000 hours worked 3.39 3.92 turnover rose slightly in the year however, Waste KPIs Lost time accidents per Total Waste Total Waste Tonnes reecting business growth and more shipments Tonnes per m Turnover 100,000 hours worked 0.33 0.43 from the UK warehouses into Europe and Asia.
2006 2005 2006 2005 Lost time accidents are those where the employee is off work for at least The completion of the EBS systems integration 24 hours Total Waste 2,507 1,947 2.9 2.4 project in Europe will reduce dependence on the Waste reused In 2007, 33 lost time accidents were reported recycled 1,812 1,401 2.1 1.7 UK warehouses for European order fullment.
Underlying accident trends reect Major Group projects also contributed to an this improvement with the total number of A small reduction in water consumption was increase in business travel in 2006 over 2005. accidents including lost time accidents, per recorded for 2006 over 2005, with the main A number of initiatives are underway to improve 100,000 hours worked, also down on 2006.
European businesses in particular reporting performance, with more business units now The working time lost due to accident or reductions in overall water usage rates.
sourcing electricity generated from renewable occupational ill health conditions for the Water KPIs sources compared to 2005, although this 3 year to 31 March 2007 was 0.3 days m Water Total Water Consumption remains low as a percentage of total electricity per 1,000 days worked.
Our investigations into renewable 2006 2005 2006 2005 Manual handling activities, and slips, trips and sources of energy for the UK warehouses Total Water Use 40,972 41,900 6.9 7.2 falls accidents continue to be the most frequent continue.
The programme to replace Legacy cause of accidents.
These areas will be the focus computer equipment across the Group with at Employee involvement has been encouraged of continuing accident reduction initiatives in screen technology has now been completed.
with the launch of the Bright Ideas initiative 2007 including targeted investments in process sponsored by the Group Chief Executive, where improvements, employee training and Emissions KPIs employees contribute their ideas on business Total Emissions workplace inspection processes.
Environmental suggestions Tonnes CO2 per m Turnover The Group health and safety objectives for 2008 featured strongly in the feedback and a number 2006 2005 2006 2005 will continue to focus on accident reduction are being investigated for adoption.
Premises together with the development of safety Energy Use # 19,945 19,290 22.7 22.3 Verication Freight auditing and external benchmarking.
Electrocomponents evaluates its CR policies and Transport 10,759 9,594 12.3 11.6 Environment performance as part of its risk management includes CO2 due to electricity constant CO2 factor for all Our business activities are concerned with and internal audit processes and those countries states, natural gas and fuel oil use based on supplier estimates, subject to approximations distribution, and as such we are not an intensive locations accredited to ISO14001 and # 2005 data amended to correct under reporting on gas emissions user of energy or generator of large amounts of OHSAS18001 have periodic external audits.
The total quantity of waste generated by our waste.
We are committed to minimising the We have considered external verication of business activities increased during 2006 impact of our activities on the environment, the Groups CR performance, but have decided reecting both international growth and which we measure by calendar year.
Our primary to limit this to external professional advice on environmental impacts are carbon emissions also the routine large scale purchase of specic matters as required.
due to the use of energy in our facilities, the materials such as pallets as part of periodic generation of waste and water usage which are replacement programmes.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
