Business Review Independently of this, Tilbury received a number of enquiries from existing GROUP and potential customers interested in utilising Tilburys geographical location Forth Ports performed strongly in 2007, delivering growth in all four key for the supply and distribution of construction materials to the Olympic site.
financial performance indicators: This resulted in a number of new and restructured contracts.
As part of this, Hughes Associates Green Barge have established a dedicated barging Growth in underlying port operating profits service to the site.
Growth in the value of property assets Growth in the value of the port assets At the end of December, the port submitted a planning application to erect Growth in dividend per share four large wind turbines within the port to provide electricity for its own and third party use as part of our drive to lower our carbon energy footprint.
Group revenue increased to 165m from 153.6m in 2006.
Port revenue The planning process is expected to take several months.
Property revenue amounted to 5.5m compared with 13.3m in 2006.
Prior to the year end, we exchanged contracts for the purchase of 65 acres of land just outside the port.
Although this land is currently designated as The underlying port operating profit amounted to 38.7m compared with greenbelt, a significant proportion of it is zoned for industrial use in the draft 34.1m in 2006, an increase of 13%.
The revaluation increase in the port Thurrock Local Development Plan TLDP.
This transaction was completed investment properties amounted to 12.2m compared with 23.8m last year.
With no commercial plot sales in 2007 compared with two in 2006, the Work has also progressed on a mixed-use regeneration Scheme around the underlying property operating loss amounted to 1.3m 2006 underlying cruise liner landing stage at Tilbury.
This project should gain more momentum operating profit of 4.2m.
during the course of 2008 when we intend to select a development partner.
It is also to be included in the TLDP.
Good progress has been made with the integration of the Nordic Group Nordic since its acquisition in June 2007.
Tilbury Green Power, on behalf of one of our port tenants, Cargill, has submitted a planning application to the Thurrock and Thames Gateway Ports Development Corporation to build a waste to energy plant within the Port.
The total volume of trafc through the ports division increased by 12% to Extensive public consultation has already been carried out.
It is expected reach 46.3 million tonnes in 2007 compared with 41.3 million tonnes in 2006. that it may take up to two years to go through the planning process.
Dry cargo tonnages amounted to 14.2 million tonnes 2006 14.5 million tonnes.
Liquid bulk tonnages increased to 32.1 million tonnes, an increase Tilbury Container Services Limited TCS contributed an operating profit of 20% over the previous year.
of 3.7m to the Group compared with 3.2m in 2006.
Container volumes increased by 8% to reach over 306,500 boxes.
TCS has benefited from At the end of 2007, the Directors valued the Groups port investment winning new business including the EPIC 2 service Pakistan India and properties at 178.8m compared with 161.8m in 2006.
The Tilbury port further business for Hapag Lloyd Hamburg Sud Trident service.
It also investment properties benefited from an increase in the underlying rent per won temporary business from another port due to congestion at that port.
acre combined with an improvement in the yield reecting the underlying In February 2008, a new Far Eastern service operated by ZIM Lines started demand and scarcity of land.
which will increase the volume signicantly this year.
Tilbury Nordic Group There was a strong financial performance from the business at Tilbury with Following the acquisition of Nordic at the end of June 2007 at a cost of throughput up 4% at 8.3 million tonnes: volumes grew across a range of 46m, the second half of the year has seen the integration of that business commodities and sectors.
Ro-Ro trafc achieved 42,000 units moved during into Forth Ports.
The financial performance of Nordic is in line with the plan 2007 of which over 18,000 units were moved in the second half of 2007 at the time of acquisition.
The Groups knowledge base has assisted in compared with 13,000 in the second half of 2006.
Grain tonnages were up improving trafc ows and productivity within the Forest Products Terminal at over 10% at 648,000 tonnes with a positive change in the mix which favoured Chatham and also in the completion of the commissioning process of the new imports.
Short sea container volumes were up by 5% at 152,900 units.
The MRF, which has increased Nordics recycling capacity by over 50%, became operational in October 2007 and had already, by January Good progress has been made by Cemex on its new blending and milling 2008, started a two shift system with the resulting processed waste being facility which should be operational in the second half of 2008.
This capital expenditure was undertaken with the benefit of a longreached agreement with Cemex to provide an additional land area for the term contract with Holmen of Sweden, a large paper customer at Chatham.
Nordic has made a small investment in a recycling joint venture in Lincoln During 2007, the port was heavily involved in presentations to various parties which could result in another MRF being built, subject to planning approval.
on the benets of using Tilbury as a multi-modal distribution hub for the In addition, Nordic is looking at the best location for a MRF at one of our Olympic games.
In January 2008, it was announced that the port had been Scottish Ports.
Nordic has a number of opportunities for expansion and shortlisted to tender for the East London Logistics Centre for the Olympics.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 16 17 As part of a Scottish dry cargo review, the Board has agreed to the purchase Scottish Ports and Marine of four hydraulic handling machines at a cost of 3.1m which will improve the The business in Scotland produced a strong growth in operating profit in productivity and overall efficiency of our bulk handling operations.
Grangemouth benefited from the new working arrangements and new these machines will commence in July and they should be fully commissioned container equipment.
Volumes increased by nearly one third at Hound Point by the end of 2008. with a full years throughput from the Buzzard Field.
Braefoot Bay tonnages, as expected, were down marginally.
Leith The total throughput amounted to 2 million tonnes which was approximately It was announced during 2007 that the Mossmoran petrochemical complex 13% less than that handled in 2006.
Coal tonnages amounted to 1.3 million which services the Braefoot Bay Terminal was to be upgraded to accommodate tonnes, the same as in 2006.
We have recently signed a new three year product from the new Norwegian wet gas deal signed between the UK and contract with Scottish Power to supply its Cockenzie Power Station.
This should enable volumes through Braefoot Bay to remain at or expected, steel pipe and iron ore tonnages from Bredero Shaw were around the 3 million tonne level for many years.
negligible in 2007 compared with 300,000 tonnes in 2006.
Grain tonnages were marginally down.
Cement imports were ahead of last year, however, We announced in February that we were not proceeding with an application there were little or no cement exports which resulted in total cement trafc for ship-to-ship STS oil transfers in the Firth of Forth.
In our role as the declining by 20% to 218,000 tonnes.
harbour authority for the Firth of Forth we have a statutory duty to assess all applications to undertake commercial activity on the river.
We believe Further work was carried out on the proposed cruise liner berth which will the Appropriate Assessment exercise was one of the most thorough and require public sector funding but would provide significant additional income comprehensive ever carried out.
We used both internal expertise and from tourism for Edinburgh and Scotland.
independent expert advisors, taking into account all safety and environmental considerations and undertook one of the most extensive consultation Dundee exercises ever carried out in the UK.
Although overall tonnage at Dundee reduced from 1.2 million tonnes This assessment clearly demonstrates that, taking into account the extremely to 1 million tonnes, the port performed well nancially.
Timber tonnages increased by over 50% to reach 66,000 tonnes.
Agripod agricultural high safety stipulations which would be placed on any vessels and the extensive support operations, STS is feasible in the Firth of Forth and could commodities were marginally up on last year.
A new five year grain drying contract was concluded with J. P. Simpson of Berwick which involved the be undertaken without any adverse impact on the integrity of the environment, a paramount factor in any such exercise.
purchase of a new grain drier and associated facilities.
Dundee is well placed to take advantage of increased market opportunities in agriculture and value However, given the uncertainty surrounding the scope of the proposed added facilities for the distilling and brewing industries.
project, we decided that this application was not in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
We will be fully involved in the consultation This year, a 60 acre site at the east end of the port is being released and marketed in partnership with Dundee City Council as one of Scotlands exercise announced by the UK Government into proposed ship-to-ship transfer regulations.
We are in discussions with two potential tenants for most of this area.
One possible customer is looking Grangemouth for a renewable energy project and the other is looking to utilise an existing inter-connector site within the port for the production of electricity.
After a weak first half in which container volumes declined by 4%, the second half of the year saw an increase in container volumes of 5% giving an overall Rosyth and Fife Ports 1% increase in the year to reach 141,300 boxes.
The service levels throughout Tonnage through Rosyth and the Fife Ports amounted to 0.6 million tonnes the year were excellent and the financial performance of the Terminal improved signicantly.
One new service was started towards the end of the year last year, with coal, timber and plasterboard being the main imports.
Coal trafc ceased at Rosyth in March 2007.
Good cost control and improved between Grangemouth and the Continent bringing to 14 the total number of sailings weekly.
ancillary revenue contributed to an improving financial position at the ports.
We have assisted INEOS in their plans to create a new biodiesel facility at We have agreed terms, in principle, to lease Oceaneering Multiex UK an additional 16 acres at the port of Rosyth for a fifteen year period.
This will their Grangemouth operation.
Commercial terms have been agreed and planning consent for the development has been granted.
A decision by INEOS not only bring in additional business through the port but will also increase employment and add value to the port which will have created over 1,000 to proceed is awaited.
We are in discussions with a customer who is looking to provide a new warehouse facility for the whisky industry at Grangemouth.
Dry cargo through Grangemouth was marginally lower than in 2006 with reductions in timber, paper and pulp and iron and steel.
After a period of destocking during 2007, Vallourec Mannesman are hopeful that imports will improve in 2008. Business Review continued In common with the property sector generally, the value of the Ocean Terminal Property Shopping Centre at 31st December 2007 declined, with a market value of The milestones set for the property team for 2007 were achieved.
This was a reduction of nearly 11% in value of which the for Leith Docks was submitted in September 2007 and the masterplan for Groups share was 7.7m.
Rental income grew and the valuation adjustment the Hub is currently on schedule to be submitted as an OPA in the first half was solely as a result of a shift in yields reecting general market conditions.
A substantial amount of work has gone into the preparation of these Several new tenants commenced trading during 2007 and tenant interest two projects.
Infrastructure works have been progressed at Western Harbour remains strong.
with the inll of the site well ahead of programme.
In addition, conrmation that the tram project in Edinburgh is to proceed enabled the initial diversion During the year we completed a major marketing study which has helped of utilities to take place in and around the dock estate.
This was achieved with inform us on the way forward for Ocean Terminal.
With the benefit of a tram considerable assistance and good co-operation between Transport Initiative stop outside the main entrance of Ocean Terminal from 2011, we are now Edinburgh Tie, the tram developer, and members of our property team.
close to concluding our review of the different options to create a new entrance and to recongure parts of the building internally.
This will result Following conrmation of funding for the tram by the Scottish Parliament, in a planning application being submitted in the first half of this year.
It is the second half of the year saw the initial utilities diversion works being encouraging that we now have a high level of interest in some of the larger carried out along part of the dock estate.
This should be completed during units on the top oor of Ocean Terminal for retail use.
An agreement has been reached to release land and forward fund road diversion works with Tie which should enhance the development of the Hub.
Some time ago we submitted a revised masterplan for Granton to allow for a greater mix of townhouses rather than ats.
In tandem with these discussions, The OPA for the Leith Docks Planning Application was submitted to the CEC has aspirations for a wide boardwalk stretching from Cramond in the CEC on 4th September.
The interim statement, sent out in September 2007, West to Portobello in the East.
Whilst the Group is supportive of the concept, detailed the masterplan content.
Since then, there has been a constructive there are many details which require to be resolved by both parties.
As a dialogue with the planning ofcials on the OPA and it is hoped that a positive result, the revised masterplan is now expected to be concluded late in 2008. recommendation will go before the Planning Committee in the first half of 2008.
The Company is delighted to announce that it has formed a joint venture with Applecross Properties Limited, a leading Edinburgh developer, to construct The proposed masterplan for the Hub, which incorporates two villages up to 179 units on four plots at Western Harbour.
It is hoped that planning around the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre in the areas known as approval will be granted this year with a commencement on site before the Waterfront Plaza and Britannia Quay, has been further rened by RTKL, end of the year.
The development will be a statement of quality which will the masterplanning architects.
This masterplan has recently been considered set the tone for the remainder of the development.
by the Board with a view to its submission as a planning application in the first half of 2008 which is in line with the milestones set for this year.
Renewable Energy We have been examining how we can exploit our asset base further in creating During 2007, two plots were sold for social housing at Western Harbour.
energy generation and distribution opportunities from renewable sources.
As a result, we are now well in advance of our obligation to provide affordable Within the ports of Tilbury and Leith, we already have major electrical ring housing plots under the Section 75 Agreement.
mains as part of our utility infrastructure which provide electricity not just for port usage but also for our tenants.
We engaged a consultancy rm to carry Within Western Harbour, infrastructure works around the new Southgate out a renewable energy desk top study to look at the generation of green Junction have taken place with the completion of roads, utilities and street energy for self consumption and for commerical sale: this study confirmed lighting.
The surcharging of the ground for the crescent road around the park the commercial viability of the following opportunities: is well advanced.
Large quantities of demolished material are being brought on to site during the first half of 2008 to complete the reclamation which is 1.
Energy from waste bio-products signicantly ahead of programme.
Offshore wind A new revision to the masterplan at Western Harbour is being taken forward to change the mix of the residential development to give more townhouses We have established a project team to examine these commercial and fewer ats in keeping with current market demands.
Further land areas opportunities in more detail with an experienced partner.
Work carried around Western Harbour are being considered for reclamation.
out to date indicates that this initiative has major potential for the Group.
At Newhaven, the refurbishment of the listed building was completed earlier At Tilbury, we have submitted a planning application for onshore wind in 2007.
The first two units were let to Loch Fyne Restaurants and the third energy which can easily be applied to Scotland, both onshore and offshore.
unit has recently been let to Prezzo PLC, for an Italian restaurant.
Through various approaches at Tilbury and Scotland, we are aware of various proposals for the generation of power.
We are in a unique position to carry forward a variety of renewable energy projects as part of the broad portfolio of opportunities in our ongoing business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 18 19 The trends in trafc type suggest that container and Ro-Ro trafc will continue Key Performance Indicators to increase at a rate greater than the average GDP of the UK but nearly all of The Board uses the annual budget as the base for measuring the Groups this trafc will be European and therefore can easily be handled by our ports.
Financial and non-financial targets are set for individual senior managers and for the businesses within the Group.
At the Annual Strategy Liquid bulk continues to be an important constituent of the make up of the Review, the Board considers the financial projections over a three year time Groups business.
This tonnage has gradually declined over the last five to horizon.
The overarching aim is to increase the value of the Group for the seven years although with the Buzzard Field now on stream, there has been benefit of the shareholders.
The management of the balance and interface an increase in liquid bulk movements in 2007 which should continue for the between ports and property is an essential part of maximising the overall next few years.
Prior to North Sea oil coming on stream in the mid-1970s, the value for shareholders.
UK was a net importer of liquid bulk and already there are signs that this may repeat itself with the import of LNG through various ports in the UK.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs which are used to measure this increase in value are: Dry bulk cargoes have been consistent in total volume terms over many years, however, the individual commodity mix has changed over that period of time.
Underlying port operating profit A good example of this would be that although grain has played an important 2.
Growth in value of the property assets part in the Tilbury trafc for many years, it was only in the mid-1990s that bulk 3.
Growth in value of the port assets animal feed was imported through the port.
4. Dividend per share The thrust of our ports business is to manage our assets efficiently and These KPIs are discussed in more detail earlier in the Business Review and improve the return we get from individual operations through more efficient Chairman and Group Chief Executives Statement.
In using the underlying use of our resources thereby releasing further assets for future development port operating profit as a KPI, the Board is looking to increase the trading either in the ports or property businesses.
This is unlikely to change in the profit from the ports business excluding certain other financial effects such near future.
as revaluation changes to investment properties and significant one-off costs.
Resources The movement in the value of the property assets is measured on an annual Our two greatest resources are our employees and our physical asset base.
basis by the independent valuation carried out on the property development We employ 1,250 people throughout the Group and our pension scheme assets.
encompasses over 900 pensioners and 400 deferred pensioners.
If the total number of persons employed within our various ports is included, then our Trends in the Ports Business economic activity encompasses many thousands more who are reliant on Ports are increasingly nding themselves as active participants in the supply the trade through our ports.
chain for the movement of goods.
This means that, rather than just marketing shipping and handling capabilities to shipping lines, there are a variety The ports industry is such that our employees tend to remain with us for many of customers who, at various points in the supply chain, can control the years as evidenced by the fact that 7 employees at Tilbury and 1 employee in movement of goods and to whom the port will be marketing its services, Scotland achieved 40 years service last year.
Health and safety is paramount including the producer of the commodity, the shipping line, the distributor of and we pay particular attention to the training and retraining of our employees, the commodity and in some cases agents and trade boards.
Our main ports encouraging dialogue between workforce and management to identify all have good access for landside distribution and also, in the case of both potential problem areas to minimise risk.
We encourage national vocational Tilbury and Grangemouth, good access for the export of goods from the UK.
qualications and support staff who wish to broaden their experience by attending day release or night classes.
We currently have 3 graduate trainees None of the ports has the depth of water to handle the new generation of whom we place throughout the Group with the aim of deploying them as container ships of 12,000 TEUs and more.
The normal capacity at Tilbury our managers of the future.
Our labour stability index remained steady at is ships of about 4,500 TEUs and at Grangemouth less than 2,000 TEUs, 91% in 2007. although in 2007, a Maersk vessel of over 8,000 TEUs came alongside the berth at TCS.
As ship size increases in the container market, fewer main ports in Europe will be able to handle the largest vessels but this will also entail a more developed network of transhipment and feedering terminals which may also see an increase in vessel size.
With this in mind, both Tilbury and Grangemouth are well placed to see growth in this sector of the market with additional capacity for at least the next five years and with an anticipation of increased feedering vessel size.
Business Review Underlying port operating profit continued 2007 2006 m m Underlying port operating profit 38.7 34.1 Adjusted for: investment property revaluation 12.2 23.8 one-off items 0.0 1.8 Amortisation arising from acquisition 0.4 Total 50.5 56.1 The land under our ownership covers 622 hectares and we also own over The Group operates a dened benefit scheme which is more fully explained 1,900 hectares of seabed adjacent the waterfront at Edinburgh.
The way in in Note 32 on page 86 of the accounts.
The scheme had an accounting net which we manage these land assets is critical to the future success of the deficit under IAS19 of 0.4m at 31st December 2007 2006 14.7m, Group.
We have shown in Tilbury that we have the expertise to work with our however, this is likely to have increased since then.
As has been seen over customers to move businesses around the port to obtain greater value from the last two years, the deficit position can vary widely.
The Group paid in 9.5m the asset but we also work with our customers to help them maximise the to the Pension Scheme in 2007 2006 9.5m and has made the commitment benets that they receive from being located in our ports.
In Leith, a similar to continue with a further significant payment into the scheme in 2008. type of expertise is required except that the interaction is between the continuing port business at Leith and the requirements to develop the assets Whilst the Board believes that the Group has a good reputation in the market for property use.
In our view, this can only be achieved by a unied place, it cannot be complacent.
The nature of the ports industry is such that management structure which, although decentralised for the day-to-day the day-to-day work carried out requires our employees to be totally aware business, is controlled centrally at a strategic level.
We are therefore, as a of their working environment as there is always the possibility of accidents Group, seeking to increase the value of our port assets by encouraging longoccurring.
Some of the cargoes which are handled are dangerous and require term agreements with major customers to secure income stream and enhance to be handled in accordance with specic procedures.
There is always the risk value and at the same time, develop our property assets over a long-term of accident but we have emergency plans in place which are reviewed period to regenerate the area around the port and so increase the value of our regularly and updated where necessary.
land both absolutely and by reducing the value gap between the Waterfront and the City centre.
Any significant risk from any of the above risk categories would be debated by the Board and an agreed procedure of handling that risk would be delegated to the relevant Executive Director as appropriate.
The Board has an Risk annual review of the key risks likely to be faced by the Group.
This risk matrix The management of the business and the execution of the Groups strategy is updated annually by the Group Risk and Insurance Manager who oversees are subject to a number of risks.
The key business risks affecting the Group the procedures involved in the identication of business risks and their are considered to relate to the retail and property markets and the global compliance by the Group.
Essential Business Relationships The Board does not consider that the Group faces any substantive strategic risks as both business segments are in business areas where there will be As part of the normal operation of the Group, we have many business ongoing demand for those services.
The ports business has evolved over relationships to maintain be they with major customers, major suppliers, many years and with existing trade patterns, our ports are ideally located for elected members of Parliament UK, Scottish and European, local elected that business, whether it be mainly within Europe as regards the Scottish Ports councillors and council ofcials.
We also deal with many Government or serving London and the South East of England from Tilbury and Chatham.
agencies such as the MCA, Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, The Group has a strong record of investing in modern plant and equipment Scottish Natural Heritage and others.
In the Boards view, there is no one and this, together with increased training for our employees, will enable us to single business relationship or group of business relationships which is, in meet the challenges of the future in offering our port customers a quality cost itself, material to the success of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is important for effective service for their needs.
both business segments to be able to communicate effectively with all the stakeholders with whom we have a business relationship and to work with The ports business has a very wide spread of customers and commodities them to achieve our joint aims.
and is capable of adapting to market change as witnessed over the last ten years by the business in sludge trafc, bauxite, fertiliser manufacture and Finance export of coal being replaced by increased container volumes, the import of Group revenue amounted to 165m 2006 153.6m.
Group operating profit coal, new business such as animal feed, Ro-Ro trafc and new paper customers.
Within these gures the operating profit from the ports division amounted to 50.5m compared with 56.1m in 2006.
The property business has its foundation in the ownership of land which the The underlying port operating profit amounted to 38.7m 2006 34.1m Group has, particularly at Leith.
With the benefit of being able to develop such as shown above.
a significant browneld site over many years, the main variable is what the take-up rate for this land might be.
Given the extent of our landholding, it is more important to put in the infrastructure and add value, development by development, rather than aim for an articial target of land sales.
The financial risks are limited to the normal commercial risks associated with running a business.
We have no major currency exposure as all our business is done within the UK.
We have a risk exposure to rising interest rates.
Historically, we have accepted this risk and not entered into financial instruments which convert oating rates into xed rates.
As a result, based on our average debt of around 200m, our interest rate exposure is approximately 500,000 for every 0.25% increase in the interest rate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 20 21 Taxation Pension Scheme The effective rate of tax for the Group for the year was 18.7% compared with The gross actuarial deficit within The Forth Ports Group Pension Scheme 25.6% in 2006, excluding joint ventures and associates.
As reported in the the Scheme amounted to 0.5m compared with 18.1m at 31st December Interim Statement, the rate is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax 2006.
The reduction in the deficit reects an improvement in the discount rate because it incorporates the effect on the Groups deferred tax liability position used to calculate the liabilities, increased payments made into the Scheme of the change in the rate in corporation tax from 30% to 28% with effect from by the Group together with a good investment return on the assets.
The net effect of this change amounted to a credit of 2.7m year, one of the Fund Managers was replaced by Lazard Asset Management in the Income Statement.
The funds held by the previous Fund Manager were distributed approximately 50% to LAM and 50% to Legal & General.
Overall, the The Chancellor of the Exchequer also announced his intention to withdraw allocation of the assets has not changed from the prior year with approximately Industrial Buildings Allowances progressively over the next three years.
60% of the assets being invested in equities and 40% in Government If this measure is approved by Parliament in 2008, then the Groups deferred gilts corporate bonds.
tax liability will increase by 26.3m.
This charge to the Income Statement will be reected in the 2008 accounts as and when the legislation is substantially The total cash payments made by the Group into the Scheme amounted enacted.
As this increase in liability relates to long life assets which are to 9.5m 2006 9.5m.
This payment included the second of three unlikely to be sold, there should be no major cash effect from this change additional special payments of 3m which the Group agreed to pay in although it will increase the cash tax paid to HM Revenue & Customs by over the period 2006-2008.
The cash rate contribution by the Company approximately 2.0m annually.
to the Scheme remained at 21.9% of pensionable salaries together with the additional special payment.
The triennial valuation of the Scheme will Cash Flow take place as at 5th April 2008.
The Group operating Cash Flow amounted to 65.8m 2006 40.4m.
Relatively modest changes to the assumptions can have a significant effect The property debtors contributed 22.4m towards the cash inow during on the liability position of the Pension Scheme.
Full details of the assumptions 2007 leaving 14.0m to be collected.
used are given in Note 32 to the Accounts on page 86, however, a 0.25% increase or decrease in the discount rate would result in a reduction increase Capital expenditure spend in 2007 amounted to 13.4m compared with in the liabilities of 9m.
If the ination assumption was varied by 0.25% the over 20m in 2006.
Just under 50% of the 2007 spend related to investment effect would be 7.6m.
The other significant assumption is life expectancy.
expenditure, the balance being stay in business expenditure.
The major The assumption used by the Group is that, for members aged 60, males will items of capital expenditure incurred during the year related to paving and live for a further twenty one years and females for twenty four years: where infrastructure works 2.3m, completion of the MRF 1.1m, work on an a member is currently aged 45, he she will live for a further twenty three and additional area for the Ro-Ro facility 1.7m and continuation of the works twenty six years respectively above the age of 60.
A one year increase in life for the Cemex facility 1.6m all of which were at Tilbury.
In Scotland, a new expectancy would increase the liabilities by nearly 5.5m.
The life expectancy grain drier was commissioned at a cost of 0.5m and further works carried gures were last updated at the time of the triennial valuation in 2005. out on the Container Compound at Grangemouth 0.6m.
It is intended that they will be reviewed during the course of this current triennial valuation.
A net sum of 26.3m was paid to acquire Nordic.
A further 13.9m was used to repay its borrowings and 4.2m to repay the loan notes issued on acquisition.
Business Review continued Capital Structure Accounting Policies The Company has 45.6 million shares in issue with a nominal value of As with most companies, the critical accounting policies are Revenue 50p per share.
During the year, 53,620 shares were issued as part of the Recognition and Employee Benets.
In the former, the two key areas of acquisition of Nordic.
The net debt at 31st December 2007 amounted to judgement are first the determination of any shortfall positions on guaranteed 205.5m 2006 176.6m : this net debt has increased principally as a result minimum tonnage minimum revenue contracts in the ports business and of the Nordic acquisition.
The level of gearing as measured by total net debt second, determining the liability for costs to complete the various property divided by total shareholders equity amounted to 70% compared with 65% developments and allocating those costs over the various developments.
The charge to the Income Statement for pension costs will be determined by the assumptions made by the Actuary and accepted by the Company The Company has committed banking facilities of 250m 2006 250m.
in relation to the discount rate on gilts and corporate bonds, the expected 125m is covered by a ten year term loan taken out in 2004.
Repayments rate of return on the assets and the mortality assumptions.
These are commence in June 2010 and continue until the loan is repaid in 2014. discussed further in Note 32 to the accounts on page 86.
The Company also has one revolving credit facility of 100m 2006 100m which is due for repayment in 2009.
The balance of the facility is a 25m New IFRS adopted in the year are discussed in the Accounting Policies working capital facility.
Agreement has been reached for an additional 50m section.
New accounting policies during the year affect revenue recognition five year revolving credit facility.
The bank funding is on an unsecured basis.
on paper sales and recognition and measurement of customer relationships The banking covenants cover tangible net worth, gearing and interest cover.
The Company is well within the covenanted ratios.
Should the Group, for any Property Valuations reason, renance its borrowings with another financial institution then the bank has the right to demand a pre-payment fee equal to 1% of the amount prepaid At the end of the year, DTZ carried out its annual valuation of the Groups and or cancelled.
property development assets which produced a Market Value at 31st December 2007 of 282m.
Separately, the Directors, on advice from Bidwells, The Groups business is not particularly seasonal in nature, however, valued the Groups investment properties at 182.9m, an increase of 18.8m its cashow requirements may be affected by the timing of major capital since 31st December 2006.
The investment properties largely comprise port expenditure projects and the receipt of cash from property sales.
In 2007, related properties located within the dock estate.
the peak borrowing requirement net of cash was 213m in June with a minimum requirement of 154m in April.
If the valuation of the property General development assets was recorded at Market Value in the Balance Sheet as Certain sections of the Business Review contain forward-looking statements opposed to cost, then the level of gearing would be 42% compared to a that are based on managements expectations, projections and assumptions.
On the basis of the budget for 2008, the Group will not We believe these expectations, projections and assumptions are reasonable, require an increase in its facility over the next twelve months.
based on the information available to us.
However, these statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve inherent risks and uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual achievements to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
The Group does not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward looking statements in light of new information or future events.
