BUSINESS REVIEW GREG FITZGERALD INTRODUCTION Galliford Try has had an excellent year.
On revenue CHIEF EXECUTIVE up 65 per cent to 1.4 billion the Group achieved a pre exceptional profit before tax up 63 per cent to 53.0 million with post exceptional profits up 75 per cent to 60.2 million.
Basic earnings per share pre exceptional increased 29 per cent to 12.5 pence with post exceptional up 32 per cent to 14.3 pence.
The two acquisitions made in our previous financial year have both delivered profits ahead of expectations.
The Chartdale Homes landbank has continued to grow and Morrison Constructions skills have signicantly broadened the resource and expertise available to the Group leading to good growth, particularly in our water, highways and renewable energy businesses.
Linden Homes, acquired in March 2007, has exceeded its profit expectations for the first four months of our FRANK NELSON ownership.
The integration is going well and we are FINANCE DIRECTOR already seeing the benets of our greater critical mass across the South of England.
The synergy savings projected are ahead of our forecasts at the time of acquisition, with restructuring costs remaining in line.
With our construction and housebuilding divisions performing very well, we are harnessing the skills we have across the Group to grow our presence in the expanding affordable housing and regeneration market, where we have a competitive advantage and are rapidly becoming an industry leader on the larger, more complex schemes.
STRATEGY Galliford Trys strategy is to grow profits by expanding both its construction and housebuilding activities with a specic focus on affordable housing and regeneration.
In construction, the market comes both from the private and public sectors.
Public expenditure on buildings, particularly in the education and health sectors, has continued to grow, and in infrastructure there are long term improvement programmes in place for the countrys water, transport and other networks.
Galliford Try has developed a leading position in framework and long term relationship contracting which comprises an increasing proportion of the overall workload for clients requiring a number of projects to be carried out over a period.
By targeting our expertise at specic market sectors the Group aims to achieve growth in both revenues and profits.
Our involvement in public sector projects through the private finance initiative is supported by equity stakes taken by Galliford Try Investments to both earn an equity return and give the opportunity for negotiated construction work.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 04 Key performance indicators, together with a number of other measures, are used by the board to measure PROFIT FROM PROFIT FROM the overall progress of the Group against its business OPERATIONS OPERATIONS objectives and its strategy: CONSTRUCTION HOUSEBUILDING M M profit before tax Our objective is to achieve consistent increases in profit before tax each year.
Our measure is profit on ordinary activities, excluding exceptional items, stated before tax.
This rose 63 per cent to 53.0 million in the year.
Earnings per share Our objective is to provide yearon-year growth in earnings per share.
The relevant earnings per share is measured based upon profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before exceptional items, divided by the average number of shares in issue during the year.
This rose 29 per cent to 12.5 pence.
Dividend per share Our objective is to pay a 05 06 07 05 06 07 progressive dividend each year.
The measure is the sum of the interim dividend and the final proposed dividend per share for the financial year.
This rose 20 per cent to 3.0 pence in the year.
In housebuilding the Group has significant scope to grow its market share in its areas of operation within Cash and capital management Our objective is the UK, which spread from the South West of England for our construction activities to generate cash and for across the South East to the Eastern counties.
With an our housebuilding businesses to maximise their return expertise and track record in browneld development on capital employed.
We measure our use of capital and conversions as well as traditional new-build properties, by the number of times in the year we turn our capital, we aim to differentiate our homes by individual designs, calculated as housebuilding revenue divided by average avoiding standard house types, sensitivity to local capital employed.
architecture and excellent customer service.
Staff churn Our objective is to attract and retain the We are an increasing force in the regeneration highest calibre of employees by being an employer of and affordable housing markets.
Our measure is the number of employees within regeneration schemes in particular require the the Group who voluntarily leave during the year divided development skills we have in our housebuilding by the average number of employees expressed as a division, our building expertise and infrastructure percentage.
This was 18 per cent in the year, unchanged skills to remediate land, construct the infrastructure from the previous year.
and contract for the commercial elements of schemes that create whole new communities.
Health and safety Our objective is to ensure our operations are carried out safely and without causing Our strategy is to continue with a joint construction and injury.
The measure is the total number of reportable housebuilding business model.
In addition to the business injuries in the financial year divided by the average synergies described above the model supports the number of direct employees and sub-contractors nancing of our operations.
Our construction operations employed during the year expressed as an incident generate cash which is used to invest in our housebuilding rate per 1,000 people.
business, which, to generate its profit margins, has Further details are on page 16. a significant cash requirement.
We therefore minimise our need for external borrowings.
The Group aims to deliver its strategy through a combination of organic growth and by selective acquisition when suitable opportunities arise.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 05 9.1 13.2 22.1 27.9 32.1 48.9
