Business review The business review discusses GSKs financial and nonfinancial activities, resources, developments and performance during 2007 and outlines the trends and factors which are likely to affect its future development.
2007 performance overview 10 Financial trends and ratios 12 Optimising the performance of marketed products 13 Delivering the product pipeline for patients 14 Being the best place for the best people to do their best work 22 Improving access to medicines 23 Corporate responsibility and community investment 24 Global manufacturing and supply 26 Regulatory environment 27 World market 31 Products and competition 32 Financial review 2007 36 Financial position and resources 45 Outlook and risk factors 50 Financial review 2006 54 Accounting presentation This report is prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union and also with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Data for market share and market growth rates are GSK estimates based on the most recent data from independent external sources, and where appropriate, are valued in Sterling at relevant exchange rates.
Figures quoted for product market share re ect sales by GSK and licensees.
Business performance Business performance, which is a supplemental non-IFRS measure, is the primary performance measure used by management and is presented after excluding costs relating to the new Operational Excellence programme, which commenced in October 2007.
Management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better re ection of the way in which the business is managed and gives a more useful indication of the underlying performance of the Group.
This information, which is provided in addition to the total results prepared under IFRS, is given to assist shareholders to gain a clearer understanding of the underlying performance of the business and to increase comparability for the periods presented.
Exchange rates The Group operates in many countries and earns revenues and incurs costs in many currencies.
The results of the Group, as reported in Sterling, are affected by movements in exchange rates between Sterling and other currencies.
Average exchange rates prevailing during the period are used to translate the results and cash ows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into Sterling.
Period end rates are used to translate the net assets of those entities.
The currencies which most in uence these translations are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates used to determine the results of overseas companies in Sterling had remained unchanged from those used in the previous year.
CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth at actual exchange rates.
All commentaries in this Report are presented in terms of CER unless otherwise stated.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 9 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Business review 2007 performance overview GSKs performance is driven by a number of important strategies Key performance indicators Turnover, business performance earnings per share growth and total shareholder return Strategies Turnover Optimising the performance of marketed products Both the Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare businesses bn CER growth % focus on ways to improve the return from the Groups intellectual property by maximising sales of key products.
2007 22.7 2 GSKs activities include: achieving worldwide sales force excellence 2006 23.2 9 achieving Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare marketing excellence 2005 21.7 7 maintaining the highest ethical standards improving the cost-effectiveness of operations Business performance earnings per share pence CER growth % 2007 99.1 10 2006 95.5 19 Delivering the product pipeline for patients GSK aims to create the best product pipeline in the industry for the 2005 82.6 18 bene t of society.
This includes developing a focused strategy to support the pipeline and manage the full life cycle of compounds from launch as prescription medicines through to potentially becoming over-the-counter products.
Total shareholder return GSK measures R&D productivity by the number and level of innovation of the products it creates, and by the ability to address unmet patient needs.
175 150 Being the best place for the best people to do their 125 best work 100 GSK is committed to creating the best place for the best people to do their best work by: 75 01 01 05 31 12 05 31 12 06 31 12 07 recruiting and developing the best people in the industry GSK Total Return Index GSK Pharma Peers Return Index supporting a culture of high reward for high performance FTSE 100 Total Return Index ensuring good communication and employee involvement maintaining a diverse and healthy workforce Share price Improving access to medicines US$ GSK is nding innovative ways to bring medicines, vaccines and 16 60 health education to patients in all countries, including those 15 suffering from epidemics and neglected diseases.
55 14 50 13 45 12 Maximising total shareholder return TSR GSK continues to work to maximise TSR through EPS growth, 11 40 dividend increases and share repurchases.
01 01 05 31 12 05 31 12 06 31 12 07 UK share price US ADR price US$ At 22nd February 2008, the share price was 11.10 $44.20 per ADR The calculation of business performance, a supplemental non-IFRS measure, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, Presentation of the financial statements.
10 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 2007 performance overview Key developments in 2007 Group turnover was 22.7 billion, up 2% at constant exchange rates compared with 2006 Top ten Pharmaceutical products: Seretide Advair 3,499 million, up 10% Imigran Imitrex 685 million, up 3% Vaccines products 1,993 million, up 20% Flixotide Flovent 621 million, down 1% Avandia products 1,219 million, down 22% Coreg 587 million, down 18% Lamictal 1,097 million, up 18% Seroxat Paxil 553 million, down 6% Valtrex 934 million, up 18% Augmentin 530 million, down 6% Other key pharmaceutical growth drivers, Arixtra, Avodart, Boniva and Requip delivered combined sales of 892 million up 47% Top five Consumer Healthcare products: Lucozade 347 million, up 16% Panadol 262 million, up 14% Aquafresh 308 million, up 12% Horlicks 174 million, up 12% Sensodyne 293 million, up 16% The launch of alli in the USA in June was very successful, with sales of 150 million achieved Business performance operating margin improved by 1.3 percentage points to 34.9% of turnover More details on page 13.
In February 2008, GSK had 157 pharmaceutical and vaccine projects in clinical development, compared with 158 in February 2007 34 major product opportunities were in phase III development or registration, including: elesclomol metastatic melanoma Promacta thrombocytopenia Entereg post-operative ileus Rezonic chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting H5N1 pandemic u vaccine Syn orix S. pneumonia and non-typeable Haemophilus in uenzae ofatumumab rheumatoid arthritis Tykerb Armala in ammatory breast cancer Late stage projects terminated included odiparcil for prevention of blood clots More details on page 14.
The Group carries out a global leadership survey of over 10,000 managers every two years The last survey in 2006 showed a strong commitment to performance with integrity Management has been working since then on addressing the areas for improvement The Group is committed to encouraging diversity amongst its employees and in 2007 37% of the global management population was female 2006 36% More details on page 22.
Global community investment was valued at 282 million, 3.8% of total pro t before tax The lymphatic lariasis elimination programme continued with another 150 million albendazole treatments donated, making almost 750 million treatments in total GSK shipped 13 million Combivir tablets and nearly 72 million Epivir tablets to developing countries at not-for-pro t prices.
Approximately 183 million tablets were supplied by generic manufacturers licensed by GSK Other international humanitarian product donations totalled 16 million More details on page 23. Business performance EPS was 99.1p, up 10% CER Total EPS was 94.4p, up 5% CER Dividend declared for 2007 of 53p, up 10% A new share buy-back programme of 12 billion over two years was announced in July, of which 2.5 billion was spent in 2007 and a further 6 billion is expected in 2008 GSK Annual Report 2007 I 11 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 2007 performance overview Financial trends and ratios 2007 Growth 2006 Growth 2005 Total results m CER% % m CER% % m Turnover Pharmaceuticals 19,233 4 20,078 9 8 18,661 Consumer Healthcare 3,483 14 11 3,147 6 5 2,999 Total turnover 22,716 2 2 23,225 9 7 21,660 Cost of sales 5,317 8 6 5,010 6 5 4,764 Selling, general and administration 6,954 4 7,257 7,250 Research and development 3,327 1 4 3,457 11 10 3,136 Other operating income 475 307 364 Operating pro t 7,593 3 3 7,808 17 14 6,874 Pro t before taxation 7,452 2 4 7,799 19 16 6,732 Pro t after taxation for the year 5,310 3 3 5,498 17 14 4,816 Pro t attributable to minority interests 96 109 127 Pro t attributable to shareholders 5,214 5,389 4,689 Basic earnings per share pence 94.4p 5 1 95.5p 19 16 82.6p Diluted earnings per share pence 93.7p 94.5p 82.0p Business performance results Turnover 22,716 2 2 23,225 9 7 21,660 Cost of sales 5,206 6 4 5,010 6 5 4,764 Selling, general and administration 6,817 2 6 7,257 7,250 Research and development 3,237 3 6 3,457 11 10 3,136 Other operating income 475 307 364 Operating pro t 7,931 8 2 7,808 17 14 6,874 Pro t before taxation 7,790 6 7,799 19 16 6,732 Pro t after taxation for the year 5,571 8 1 5,498 17 14 4,816 Pro t attributable to minority interests 96 109 127 Pro t attributable to shareholders 5,475 5,389 4,689 Basic earnings per share pence 99.1p 10 4 95.5p 19 16 82.6p Diluted earnings per share pence 98.3p 94.5p 82.0p Research and development total Pharmaceuticals 3,219 3,353 3,030 Consumer Healthcare 108 104 106 Total 3,327 3,457 3,136 Net finance cost cover Net finance costs 191 65 194 Cover 40 times 121 times 36 times Net finance cost cover is pro t before tax plus net finance costs, divided by net finance costs.
Tax rate total 28.7% 29.5% 28.5% Tax rate business performance 28.5% 29.5% 28.5% Borrowings Net debt 6,039 2,450 1,237 Gearing 61% 25% 16% The gearing ratio is calculated as net debt as a percentage of total equity.
Sterling% or % represents growth at actual exchange rates.
The calculation of business performance, a supplemental non-IFRS measure, is described in Note 1 to the financial statements, Presentation of the financial statements.
12 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial trends and ratios Business review Optimising the performance of marketed products Marketing codes GSK undertakes a range of activities to GSK is committed to ethical, responsible and patient-centred marketing.
The Groups Pharmaceutical Marketing and Promotional maximise the commercial potential of Activity policy governs marketing activities and applies to all its intellectual property by introducing employees, suppliers, contractors and agents.
This policy requires that innovative products, accelerating the all marketing and promotional activities are based on valid scienti c process of bringing them to as many evidence and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
markets as possible, increasing brand This policy is supported by regional marketing practices codes in recognition and improving access to Europe, GSKs International region, Japan and the USA.
These codes apply the same ethical standards but re ect differences in new medicines.
market structures, national healthcare systems and regulations.
They incorporate the principles of industry codes of practice such as the Worldwide pharmaceutical sales force excellence European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries Associations, the GSKs sales force has always ranked high in surveys with healthcare International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations, professionals.
Worldwide Sales Force Excellence WSFE aims to Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association and Pharmaceutical improve customer satisfaction even further.
Research and Manufacturers of America marketing codes.
The time available for physicians to learn about new medicines Next Generation Now and clinical studies is precious.
Through the WSFE initiative, sales The US pharmaceutical businesses have created and implemented representatives strengthen product knowledge and learn to deliver the Next Generation Now operating model for advertising agencies.
patient-specific treatment options more efficiently and more Design of this model, which aims to improve creativity and productivity effectively.
Research shows that a sales visit is highly effective when and achieve signi cant cost savings, involved a number of key areas.
a representative engages the physician in dialogue around patient As a result professional brand accounts were consolidated under a types and supports the message with visual aids that illustrate clinical single agency, which increased access to the best talent, streamlined results.
account management and reduced rates.
The team also instituted A single global sales call model has been introduced that focuses key changes for agency reviews and created financial parameters and on treating the patient through a dialogue about when a resource guides to improve decision making and processes.
GSK medicine is appropriate, why it is effective and how to Health literacy administer it safely.
All eld staff in GSKs key markets have been To help patients understand basic information about their disease trained in this new approach.
The entire sales organisation is involved and treatment options, US pharma launched a Health literacy in WSFE to bring about a cultural change that raises ethical standards programme.
Over 1,000 employees and agency staff have gone and helps build long-term, trusting relationships with the healthcare through training to learn how to improve the materials, with a goal of community.
In addition, a dashboard of key performance indicators, helping patients learn more about their disease and how to manage a product knowledge certi cation process and an effective leadership it.
The result is obvious improvements to patient-directed materials training programme have been established.
by making them easier to read, trimming content, incorporating Superior product knowledge is essential in serving the needs of more user-friendly design and including step-by-step instructions on healthcare professionals.
Physicians rely on GSK to keep them abreast health behaviours.
Health literacy is gaining ground in other parts of of changes in prescribing information or new clinical studies involving GSK as colleagues begin adopting the concepts of simpler, clearer GSK medicines.
As a key goal of WSFE, GSK expanded its Annual patient communication.
Certi cation program to all countries.
Over 30,000 representatives Consumer Healthcare marketing excellence passed certi cation tests on the pathology, prescribing information Teams comprising marketing and R&D are dedicated to each and key messages of their leading products.
Scores were consistently of seven global brands and focused on delivering pipelines and around 98%, with many representatives achieving a perfect score.
global marketing programmes for in-country commercial teams to Pharmaceutical marketing excellence execute.
These efforts are driving signi cant sales growth in many Large numbers of patients suffering the effects of disease continue markets.
For other large brands that have one dominant market, to be unable to bene t from innovative medicines and treatments.
but may be available in several territories, a dedicated team drives For example within Europe, around 50% of patients suffering from each of these lead market brands for their dominant market.
The Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD are diagnosed and of remaining assets, termed enterprise brands, are locally managed those, only 80% receive regular maintenance drug therapy.
by in-market commercial teams to retain their entrepreneurial spirit and local relevance.
GSKs marketing initiative implements programmes to overcome the barriers to proper diagnosis and treatment, by providing accurate and balanced information on its products, to allow as many people as possible to bene t from GSKs medical advances.
While these programmes are beginning to show effects, more needs to be done before the societal costs of disease will decrease.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 13 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Optimising the performance of key products Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients Metabolic Research Triangle Park, USA GSK spent over 3.2 billion on R&D in 2007 Oncology Upper Providence, USA and employs over 16,000 staff in R&D.
The Macrolide Drug Discovery Zagreb, Croatia Neurology Harlow, UK number of major product opportunities in Psychiatry Verona, Italy phase III or registration has increased each Respiratory Stevenage, UK.
year since 2000 and now stands at 34.
Each CEDD is responsible for identifying the targets of most relevance in its therapeutic area and building on the lead compounds transferred Research and development Pharmaceuticals from MDR to produce a potential medicine.
The fundamental steps in turning a lead compound into a medicine are optimising it for GSK R&D has developed one of the most robust pipelines of potential potency, ef cacy and safety and fide ning the biology in animals and new medicines in the industry.
In 2007, Pharmaceutical R&D was humans so that the medicine can be tested for effects in the right actively managing over 150 projects in human clinical trials across patient groups.
Delivering this pipeline to patients safely and ef ciently is the number one goal.
Once a candidate compound is selected, the CEDDs are responsible for undertaking the clinical studies necessary to demonstrate a bene cial Focus on the patient effect suf cient to declare proof of concept the first indication One objective unites the 15,000 people who work at GSK in patients that the new medicine works.
Based on the programmes Pharmaceutical R&D, and that is staying focused on the patient.
pro le of safety and ef cacy a decision is then made on whether to It drives them to discover potential treatments for disease and to progress the medicine into late-stage drug development.
develop innovative medicines that offer true bene t to patients.
Reaching out to and speaking with patients and their families to As part of GSKs commitment towards pursuing the best science understand the impact of disease on their lives, their work and their anywhere in the world, the Centre of Excellence for External Drug community are an essential part of this.
GSK knows patients are Discovery CEEDD was established in 2005.
The CEEDD has the waiting, and the focus on the patient is the driver to deliver the best same objective as the CEDDs: delivering medicines into late-stage every day.
development, but does so by establishing and managing long-term strategic collaborations with biotech and small to medium-sized Pharmaceutical R&D at GSK is organised around the discovery and pharmaceutical companies.
In 2007, the CEEDD exercised its first development of medicines for patients.
Discovery is conducted option to bring in a compound to clinical development: XL880, an by GSKs Centres of Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDDs, and anti-cancer inhibitor from Exelixis.
development by GSKs Medicine Development Centres MDCs.
Along the way, many other groups provide critical scienti c input, As part of this same strategic intent, in 2007 GSK established conduct important experiments, and aid in managing the R&D a dedicated R&D centre in Shanghai.
R&D in China will focus on process.
These groups are described in more detail below.
research into neurodegeneration with the objective of creating new medicines for such severe disorders as multiple sclerosis, Parkinsons Discovering potential medicines disease and Alzheimers disease.
The centre will eventually direct the Two components are needed in the discovery of new medicines global discovery and development activities within its therapeutic identi cation of the most important molecular targets that have area, from drug-target identi cation to late-stage clinical studies, potential to impact human disease and discovery of compounds that while collaborating with research institutions elsewhere in China and can modulate these targets to alleviate disease in an effective and other countries.
Establishing R&D China re ects GSKs commitment safe way.
to ally with talented researchers wherever they are located and to Molecular Discovery Research MDR produces the lead compounds further encourage within R&D the contest of ideas needed to create that may interact with targets which form the basis of drug discovery new medicines.
In 2007, MDR progressed over 220 preclinical Developing medicines for patients drug discovery programmes and in so doing performed hundreds of Progression into late-stage development referred to at GSK as assays per week and provided the CEDDs with over 30 leads.
medicines development, consists of optimising both the physical When GSK R&D designed the CEDDs, it integrated groups of product properties of the medicine, that is, the chemical steps and scientists and clinicians and organised their work around speci c formulation required to manufacture and deliver it, as well as the disease areas, with the intent to produce nimble and entrepreneurial large scale con rming studies of ef cacy and safety.
activity is the responsibility of Preclinical Development, while the latter is the responsibility of the clinical development and development GSKs 11 CEDDs, based in Europe and the USA, are: operations teams.
The combination of the results of these two Biopharmaceuticals Stevenage, UK steps into a regulatory le for submission to regulatory agencies Cardiovascular & Urogenital Upper Merion, USA and approval for patient use is the responsibility of the regulatory Centre of Excellence for External Drug Discovery Upper Merion, team.
The integration of all steps above into a coherent project is the USA responsibility of the project teams, which are grouped therapeutically Immuno-in ammation Stevenage, UK into Medicine Development Centres.
These roles are described in Infectious Disease Upper Merion and Research Triangle more detail as follows: Park, USA 14 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Preclinical Development PCD includes a wide range of activities Safety data are routinely collected throughout development throughout the entire medicines development process.
In addition, programmes and are reported to national and regional regulatory this function is involved in the enhancement of existing products by agencies in line with applicable regulations.
Early in the development GSKs Chief Medical Of cer, working with the Global Safety Board, is process, the metabolism and safety of compounds are evaluated in ultimately accountable for oversight of all major decisions regarding laboratory animals before testing in humans.
The testing required in patient safety.
The GSK Global Safety Board is responsible internally animals is highly regulated see Animals and research, page 16. for approving pivotal studies and investigating any issues related Processes and supporting analytical methods for drug synthesis and to patient safety arising during the development programme.
product formulation and delivery are scaled up to meet increasing Information from GSK clinical trials is widely and easily available at supply requirements.
This leads to the technical transfer of the the Clinical Trial Register on GSKs website.
processes and methods to manufacturing.
The new product supply In-licensing process, a partnership between R&D and Global Manufacturing and GSK continues to identify compounds from other companies that Supply, ensures that a robust product is developed for large-scale would enhance the portfolio and to create innovative collaborations commercial manufacturing and launch.
to ensure that the Group is regarded as the partner of choice for Medicines Development is the collection of six therapeutically large and small companies.
Each MDC has ultimate accountability for developing The subjects of acquisitions, in-licensing, co-marketing co-promotion, experimental drugs into regulatory-approved medicines for patients.
or future options arrangements in 2007 included: The MDCs are responsible for creating value through the execution of full product development plans and ensuring strong partnerships Xenoport XP13512, phase III for RLS and phase II for neuropathic with the rest of GSK, in particular the CEDDs and the other late-stage pain development groups.
Sepracor Lunesta Lunivia excluding USA, Canada, Mexico and Japan, GABA-A agonist, insomnia, pending EU ling The MDCs are based at the major USA and UK sites and are aligned Synta STA-4783, HSP70 upregulation, melanoma, sarcoma, solid with the following therapeutic areas: tumors, phase III Cardiovascular Metabolic ToleRx anti-CD3 mAb for autoimmune diseases, phase II Infectious Diseases including Diseases of the Developing World Targacept TC-2696 in phase II for acute post-operative pain and DDW novel leads for Central nervous system diseases Musculoskeletal In ammation Gastrointestinal Urology Anacor novel candidates for viral and bacterial diseases, preclinical Neuroscience Psychiatry Neurology OncoMed cancer stem cell therapeutics, preclinical Galapagos novel anti-bacterials and antivirals, preclinical Oncology Santaris novel antiviral agents, preclinical Respiratory Managing the portfolio The MDCs discharge their responsibilities through project teams for Key projects reaching signi cant milestones are reviewed each month each medicine in development.
These project teams are responsible by the Product Management Board PMB, which is responsible for for maximising the worldwide development opportunities for determining if a medicine has met criteria for passing into the next each product within their remit and to see that all the information phase of development.
needed to support the registration, safety programmes, pricing and formulary negotiations is available.
Commercial input from Global Progress of the portfolio is communicated to investors and the Product Strategy and Commercial Operations ensures that regional media at regular intervals during the year.
Details of GSKs product marketing needs are integrated into development plans at an early development pipeline are given on pages 18 to 21. stage.
Risk in R&D Development Operations drives operational excellence in the Pharmaceutical R&D, by its very nature, is an inherently risky venture.
execution of the projects clinical studies.
This is done by establishing From the time a potential medicine is discovered until it becomes an integrated planning to ensure consistent and predictable drug approved medicine can take 10-15 years.
Further, only one in ten project plans and supplying clinical operations capabilities.
In 2007, molecules that starts human clinical trials ever reaches regulatory development operations managed clinical trials with over 30,000 approval.
The nine out of ten that fail can be discontinued for a active patients, handling everything from patient recruitment to data variety of reasons, from insuf cient safety thresholds to lack of management to project planning.
ef cacy to manufacturing hurdles.
These discontinuations occur despite extensive predictive testing.
Late-stage projects terminated The Of ce of the Chief Medical Of cer is charged with the safety of during 2007 included Ari o for COPD and odiparcil for stroke patients involved in clinical trials, as well as the proper ling of the prevention.
All clinical trials sponsored by GSK, irrespective of where they take place, are conducted according to international standards of good clinical practice and applicable laws and regulations.
The protocols are reviewed by the external regulatory agencies in the relevant countries where required and all protocols are considered by an ethics review committee, whose responsibilities cover the sites where the studies will take place.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 15 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Diseases of the developing world Research and development vaccines Continued investment in research into diseases that disproportionately GSKs vaccine division activities include research, clinical affect the developing world is essential if there is to be a long-term development, regulatory strategy, commercial strategy, scaling up, improvement in the health of people who live in these regions.
As vaccine production, packaging and all other support functions.
The part of GSKs response to this challenge, it operates a drug discovery discovery and development of a new vaccine is a complex process unit, based at Tres Cantos Spain, primarily dedicated to nding new requiring long-term investment.
In R&D over 1,500 scientists are medicines for malaria and tuberculosis.
Additional research sites in devoted to developing new vaccines and more cost-effective and the USA and the UK are focused on discovering new medicines to convenient combination vaccines to prevent infections that cause treat HIV AIDS and drug resistant bacteria, while vaccine research is serious medical problems worldwide.
GSKs vaccine division is also conducted in Rixensart Belgium.
developing therapeutic immunotherapeutics aimed at educating the patients immune system to identify and attack cancer cells in a Medicines and vaccines that enter clinical trials are taken through highly speci c manner.
Thanks to the use of innovative technologies development and regulatory processes by dedicated groups based and its global business model, GSK is a fast-growing vaccine maker, in the UK, USA and Belgium.
Through these R&D efforts, GSK is delivering value by contributing to the health and well-being of addressing the prevention and treatment of all three of the World people in every generation around the world.
Health Organizations WHO priority infectious diseases.
Recently, GSK has developed scored-tablets for its key anti-retroviral products Vaccine discovery involves many collaborations with academia and to simplify the treatment of children living with HIV.
the biotech industry to identify new vaccine antigens which are then expressed in yeast, bacteria or mammalian cells and puri ed to a GSK currently has 12 clinical programmes of relevance to the very high level.
developing world, seven of which are aimed at producing vaccines and medicines for diseases that disproportionately affect developing This is followed by formulation of the clinical lots of the vaccine.
may involve mixing antigens with selected GSK novel proprietary adjuvant systems, which are combinations of selected adjuvants Public Private Partnerships PPPs remain essential to fund research designed to enhance the immune response.
The first step is where there is no commercially viable market for a potential product.
to evaluate the safety and ef cacy of the candidate vaccine in a GSK is a leader in working in PPPs and continues to collaborate preclinical setting, usually involving an animal model.
The candidate closely with many governments, academic centres, United Nations vaccine is then tested in clinical trials in healthy individuals to evaluate agencies and other global funding bodies in this area, to maximise safety and effectiveness in inducing an immune response to protect expertise and knowledge.
This has the dual bene t of encouraging the body from infection encountered later in a natural setting phase research and development and accelerating access to the medicines I II.
Large-scale eld trials in healthy individuals follow to establish in the developing world.
safety and ef cacy in a cross section of the population phase III.
Animals and research The results obtained during clinical trials and data regarding the For ethical, regulatory and scienti c reasons, research using animals development of a quality and large-scale production process and remains a small but vital part of research and development of new facilities are then combined into a regulatory le which is submitted medicines and vaccines.
GSK only uses animals where there is no to the authorities in the countries where the vaccine will be alternative and only in the numbers required for each test.
strives to exceed regulatory standards in the care and use of the animals it uses and undergoes internal and external review to assure After launch, post marketing studies of considerable size are set up these standards.
to assess vaccination programmes and to monitor vaccine safety phase IV.
The vast majority of the experimental methods do not use animals.
GSK is actively engaged in research to develop and validate more Vaccine manufacturing is particularly complex as it requires the use tests that either avoid the use of animals in research or reduce the of innovative technologies and living micro-organisms.
When animals are used in research unnecessary quality assurance and quality control procedures are in place to ensure pain or suffering is scrupulously avoided.
both quality and safety of the vaccines and this commonly includes animal use according to health authorities requirements.
Due to their GSK understands that use of animals for research purposes biological nature, individual health authorities may subject vaccines commands a high level of public interest.
The GlaxoSmithKline Public to a second control to guarantee the highest quality standards.
Policy Position The care and ethical use of animals in research, and further information and reports, are available on GSKs website or GSK has been increasing its capacity to supply vaccines by from Secretariat.
developing its global manufacturing network see page 26, Global manufacturing and supply.
16 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Products led: Research and development Consumer Healthcare Avodart & alpha blocker co-prescription The focus of R&D is to identify and develop novel products that Cervarix USA & Japan bene t consumers in the over-the-counter OTC, oral healthcare Entereg POI and nutritional healthcare markets.
To achieve a signi cant increase H5N1 vaccine EU in innovation from internal and external sources, R&D has been Kinrix USA remodelled to deliver a more valuable pipeline of products.
With this Lamictal XR USA change, speci c tasks that can be performed at lower cost outside Lunivia EU GSK have been transferred to external development partners.
This Promacta USA transfer, along with other headcount reductions and savings, releases Requip XL USA substantial funds for investment in additional innovation projects.
Rotarix USA The remodelling builds on the Consumer Healthcare operating Syn orix EU & International model whereby, for the Global brands, R&D mirrors the commercial Treximet structure, with brand-dedicated R&D teams paired with commercial Volibris EU brand teams and both located together at the Innovation Centres at GSK expects a sustained ow of new products in the next two years.
Weybridge, UK or Parsippany, USA.
For further details of these developments, and information on other GSKs pipeline important launches lings see GSK outlook on page 50.
At the beginning of February 2008, GSK had nearly 210 pharmaceutical The content of the drug development portfolio will change over time and vaccine projects in development.
Of these, 157 are in the clinic as new compounds progress from discovery to development and comprising 96 NCEs, 37 PLEs and 24 vaccines, compared with 123 from development to the market.
Owing to the nature of the drug in 2001. development process, many of these compounds, especially those in early stages of investigation, may be terminated as they progress In the last 12 months, GSK commenced 9 new phase III clinical through development.
Phase I NCEs with multiple indications are development programmes including 2 vaccines and now has 34 counted only once.
NCEs in later phases are counted by each key assets in phase III registration.
For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical Compounds in phase III registration development have not been disclosed and some project types may not have been identi ed.
40 GSKs policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable 34 31 inventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities.
Patent 30 protection for new active ingredients is available in all signi cant markets and protection can also be obtained, for example, on new 20 pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses and special devices for administering products, see page 28 10 Intellectual property.
2006 2007 GSK has maintained momentum in delivering its late-stage pipeline, receiving 10 product approvals and ling 10 product applications in 2007.
Currently it has 13 new product opportunities led with regulators.
Development programmes progressed into phase III in 2007: belimumab LymphoStat B elesclomol GSK 1838262 XP13512 MAGE-A3 therapeutic vaccine MenACWY vaccine ofatumumab RA Promacta Hep C Tykerb Armala IBC Tykerb Head & Neck GSK Annual Report 2007 I 17 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Key In-license or other alliance relationship with third party MAA Marketing authorisation application Europe NDA New drug application USA S Date of first submission A Date of first regulatory approval for MAA, this is the first EU Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers approval letter Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of ef cacy, conducted in a AL Date Approvable or Complete Response Letter received indicates small number of patients that ultimately approval can be given subject to resolution of Phase III Large comparative study compound versus placebo and or established outstanding queries treatment in patients to establish clinical bene t and safety.
BLA Biological License Application Estimated submission dates are only disclosed where they are within 12 months of the date of the chart.
This date represents the most likely year of submission where it is considered that there is a reasonably high probability of successfully meeting the date assuming the clinical data meets the expected end-points of the clinical trials.
Estimated submission dates Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Cardiovascular & Metabolic Cardiovascular projects 256073 high af nity nicotinic acid receptor dyslipidaemia I HM74A agonist rilapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis I 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also chronic obstructive pulmonary II disease COPD, neuropathic pain & rheumatoid arthritis 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor atherosclerosis also COPD, depression & rheumatoid II arthritis darapladib Lp-PLA2 inhibitor atherosclerosis ll III Coreg CR ACE inhibitor beta blocker angiotensin converting hypertension xed dose combination III N A 2008 enzyme inhibitor Volibris endothelin A antagonist pulmonary arterial hypertension Submitted S:Mar07 N A Arixtra synthetic factor Xa inhibitor treatment of acute coronary syndrome Approved A:Aug07 AL:Feb07 & Sep07 Metabolic projects remoglifozin etabonate sodium dependent glucose transport SGLT2 obesity I 189075 inhibitor 376501 PPAR gamma partial agonist type 2 diabetes I 756050 bile acid receptor agonist type 2 diabetes I otelixizumab TRX4 anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody type 1 diabetes II remoglifozin etabonate SGLT2 inhibitor type 2 diabetes II 189075 Syncria glucagon-like peptide 1 agonist type 2 diabetes II Avandamet XR PPAR gamma agonist metformin type 2 diabetes extended release III N A Avandia PPAR gamma agonist atherosclerosis in type 2 diabetes III Avandia simvastatin PPAR gamma agonist statin type 2 diabetes III N A Avandia PPAR gamma agonist prevention of disease progression Submitted S:Feb07 Infectious Diseases 580416 ribosome inhibitor treatment of bacterial infections I 945237 topoisomerase ll inhibitor treatment of bacterial infections I 1349572 HIV integrase inhibitor HIV infections I farglitazar PPAR gamma agonist hepatic brosis II sitamaquine 8-aminoquinoline treatment of visceral leishmaniasis II N A tafenoquine 8-aminoquinoline Plasmodium vivax malaria II 18 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Estimated submission dates Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Musculoskeletal, In ammation, Gastrointestinal & Urology 315234 monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis I 768974 parathyroid hormone agonist osteoporosis I 962040 motilin receptor agonist delayed gastric emptying I 971086 androgen modulator sarcopaenia I 1827771 interleukin 1 antagonist rheumatoid arthritis I belimumab anti-B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus I antibody s. c. pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor age-related macular degeneration also cancer indications I 221149 oxytocin antagonist threatened pre-term labour II 232802 3G-selective oestrogen receptor modulator treatment of menopausal symptoms II 274150 selective iNOS inhibitor rheumatoid arthritis II 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor oral rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis, COPD II & neuropathic pain 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral rheumatoid arthritis also atherosclerosis, COPD II & depression 876008 corticotrophin releasing factor CRF1 antagonist irritable bowel syndrome also depression & anxiety II ronacaleret calcium antagonist osteoporosis & fracture healing II solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist irritable bowel syndrome II solabegron beta3 adrenergic agonist overactive bladder II Avodart 5-alpha reductase inhibitor reduction in the risk of prostate cancer III Avodart alpha blocker 5-alpha reductase inhibitor alpha blocker benign prostatic hyperplasia xed dose combination III 2008 2009 belimumab anti-B lymphocycte stimulator monoclonal systemic lupus erythematosus III antibody i. v. Bosatria mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody hypereosinophilic syndrome also severe asthma & nasal III 2008 2008 polyposis Entrareg Entereg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist opioid-induced bowel dysfunction III ofatumumab anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody rheumatoid arthritis also cancer indications III Entrareg Entereg peripheral mu-opioid antagonist post operative ileus Approvable AL:Jul05 & AL:Nov06 Neurosciences 163090 5HT1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 239512 histamine H3 antagonist dementia I 249320 monoclonal antibody neuronal injury I 424887 NK1 antagonist SSRI depression & anxiety I 561679 CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 586529 CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 598809 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I 618334 dopamine D3 antagonist drug dependency I 729327 AMPA receptor modulator schizophrenia I 933776 monoclonal antibody Alzheimers disease I 1014802 sodium channel inhibitor bipolar disorder I 1018921 type 1 glycine transport inhibitor schizophrenia I orvepitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety I 189254 histamine H3 antagonist narcolepsy II 372475 triple 5HT noradrenaline dopamine re-uptake depression II inhibitor 468816 glycine antagonist smoking cessation II 649868 orexin antagonist sleep disorders II 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor neuropathic pain also atherosclerosis, COPD & II rheumatoid arthritis 742457 5HT6 antagonist dementia II 773812 mixed 5HT dopaminergic antagonist schizophrenia II 842166 non-cannabinoid CB2 agonist in ammatory pain II 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor depression also atherosclerosis, COPD & rheumatoid II arthritis 876008 CRF1 antagonist depression & anxiety also irritable bowel syndrome II 1838262 XP13512 voltage-gated calcium channel modulator migraine prophylaxis II 1838262 XP13512 voltage-gated calcium channel modulator neuropathic pain II casopitant NK1 antagonist depression & anxiety also as Zunrisa Rezonic for chemoII therapy induced & postoperative nausea & vomiting rategrast dual alpha4 integrin antagonist VLA4 multiple sclerosis II 1838262 XP13512 voltage-gated calcium channel modulator restless legs syndrome III 2008 Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy partial generalised tonic-clonic seizures, III N A 2008 once-daily rosiglitazone XR PPAR gamma agonist Alzheimers disease III Lunivia non-benzodiazepine GABA agonist insomnia Submitted S:Jul07 N A Lamictal XR sodium channel inhibitor epilepsy partial seizures, once-daily Approvable N A AL:Sep07 Treximet 5HT1 agonist naproxen migraine xed dose combination Approvable N A AL:Jun06 & Aug07 Requip Modutab XL non-ergot dopamine agonist Parkinsons disease once-daily controlled release Approved A:Mar07 AL:Dec07 formulation GSK Annual Report 2007 I 19 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Estimated submission dates Compound Type Indication Phase MAA NDA Oncology 461364 polo-like kinase inhibitor cancer I 690693 AKT kinase inhibitor cancer I 923295  protein E CENP-E cancer I inhibitor Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor colorectal cancer I iboctadekin rituximab lL18 immunomodulator anti-CD20 non-Hodgkins lymphoma I monoclonal antibody totrombopag thrombopoietin agonist thrombocytopaenia I 1363089 XL-880 C-met kinase inhibitor papillary renal cell carcinoma, gastric cancer and head & II neck squamous cell carcinoma ofatumumab anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody relapsed diffuse large B cell lymphoma II Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor non-small cell lung cancer II Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ovarian cancer II Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor sarcoma II Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ErbB-2 metastatic breast cancer II Tyverb Tykerb and epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR dual kinase inhibitor Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ErbB-2 other cancers II Tyverb Tykerb and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor Revolade Promacta thrombopoietin agonist chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopaenia II Tyverb Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinomas II unresectable disease Tyverb Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory in ammatory breast cancer II Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor renal cell cancer III Armala pazopanib multi-kinase angiogenesis inhibitor ErbB-2 in ammatory breast cancer III Tyverb Tykerb and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor elesclomol STA-4783 oxidative stress inducer metastatic melanoma III Hycamtin topoisomeraseI inhibitor ovarian cancer first-line therapy III ofatumumab anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody refractory chronic lymphocytic leukaemia III 2008 2008 also rheumatoid arthritis ofatumumab anti-CD20 human monoclonal antibody refractory follicular lymphoma also rheumatoid arthritis III Revolade Promacta thrombopoietin agonist hepatitis C III Revolade Promacta thrombopoietin agonist long-term idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura III 2008 2008 Tyverb Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, adjuvant therapy III Tyverb Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, brain metastases III Tyverb Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor breast cancer, first-line therapy III Tyverb Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor head & neck squamous cell carcinomas resectable disease III Zunrisa Rezonic NK1 antagonist chemotherapy induced & postoperative nausea & III 2008 2008 vomiting also depression & anxiety Revolade Promacta thrombopoietin agonist short-term idiopathic thrombocytopaenic purpura Submitted 2008 S:Dec07 Hycamtin topoisomerase I inhibitor oral small cell lung cancer, second-line therapy Approved S:May07 A:Oct07 Tyverb Tykerb ErbB-2 and EGFR dual kinase inhibitor refractory breast cancer Approved S:Oct06 A:Mar07 Respiratory 656933 interleukin 8 antagonist cystic brosis I 835726 histamine H1 H3 dual antagonist oral allergic rhinitis I 1004723 histamine H1 H3 dual antagonist intranasal allergic rhinitis I 2190914 AM-103 5 lipoxygenase activating protein FLAP inhibitor respiratory diseases I 159797 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 159802 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 256066 PDE IV inhibitor inhaled COPD II 256066 PDE IV inhibitor inhaled asthma II 256066 PDE IV inhibitor intranasal allergic rhinitis II 573719 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II 642444 long-acting beta2 agonist COPD, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II glucocorticoid agonist 679586 monoclonal antibody severe asthma II 681323 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also atherosclerosis, neuropathic pain & II rheumatoid arthritis 685698 glucocorticoid agonist asthma, also COPD & asthma in combination with a II long-acting beta2 agonist also as Avamys Veramyst for allergic rhinitis 856553 p38 kinase inhibitor oral COPD also atherosclerosis, depression & rheumatoid II arthritis 870086 novel glucocorticoid agonist asthma II 961081 muscarinic antagonist, beta2 agonist COPD II darotropium 233705 muscarinic acetylcholine antagonist COPD II mepolizumab anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody severe asthma & nasal polyposis also hypereosinophilic II syndrome Avamys Veramyst glucocorticoid agonist allergic rhinitis Approved A:Jan08 A:Apr07 20 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Delivering the product pipeline for patients continued Estimated submission dates Vaccine Type Indication Phase MAA BLA Paediatric Vaccines Hib-MenCY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups C & Y disease & III Haemophilus in uenzae type b disease prophylaxis MenACWY-TT conjugated Neisseria meningitis groups A, C, W & Y disease III prophylaxis Infanrix-IPV Kinrix subunit inactivated diptheria, tetanus, pertussis poliomyelitis prophylaxis Submitted S:Apr07 booster-5th dose Syn orix conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease and non-typeable Submitted S:Dec07 Haemophilus in uenzae prophylaxis for children Rotarix live attenuated oral rotavirus-induced gastroenteritis prophylaxis Approved A:Feb06 S:Jun07 Other Vaccines Cytomegalovirus recombinant cytomegalovirus infection prophylaxis I HIV recombinant HIV infection prophylaxis I S. pneumoniae adult recombinant conjugated Streptococcus pneumoniae disease prophylaxis l Dengue fever attenuated tetravalent vaccine Dengue fever prophylaxis ll Epstein-Barr virusrecombinant EBV infection prophylaxis ll Hepatitis E virusrecombinant hepatitis E prophylaxis ll Mosquirix recombinant malaria prophylaxis ll Tuberculosis recombinant tuberculosis prophylaxis II Varicella Zoster virus recombinant Varicella Zoster prevention II Flu pandemic H5N1 inactivated split monovalent pandemic in uenza prophylaxis III 2008 Quebec Flu pre-pandemic H5N1 inactivated split monovalent pandemic in uenza prophylaxis III 2008 2008 Quebec New generation u inactivated split trivalent seasonal in uenza prophylaxis for the elderly III vaccine Simplirix recombinant genital herpes prophylaxis lll Boostrix subunit adult booster for diphtheria, tetanus & pertussis Submitted S:Feb08 Flu pandemic H5N1 inactivated split monovalent pandemic in uenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Feb07 Dresden Flu pre-pandemic H5N1 inactivated split monovalent pandemic in uenza prophylaxis Submitted S:Jan07 Dresden Cervarix recombinant human papilloma virus infection prophylaxis Approved A:Sep07 AL:Dec07 Antigen Speci c Cancer Immunotherapeutic ASCI MAGE-A3 ASCI recombinant treatment of melanoma II MAGE-A3 ASCI recombinant treatment of non-small cell lung cancer III GSK Annual Report 2007 I 21 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Delivering the product pipeline for patients Business review Being the best place for the best people to do their best work Business ethics and reputation GSK employs over 100,000 people GSK expects employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects of business by conducting activities with honesty and integrity, in more than 100 countries and is adhering to corporate responsibility principles and complying with committed to creating the best place for applicable laws and regulations.
The 2006 GLS showed 91% the best people to do their best work.
believed that people in their department showed commitment to performance with integrity and 82% agreed that they can report Recruitment, talent management and leadership development unethical practices without fear of reprisal.
A half-day workshop Attracting and recruiting the best people is critical to enhancing and on Ethical Decision-making has now been extended to three sustaining GSKs performance.
Recruiters across GSK are focused e-learning modules, which are being implemented across GSK.
on actively targeting the best talent and assessing their t with the Commitment to the GSK Code of Conduct is reinforced by a senior organisation for many key roles.
GSK seeks to recruit people with management certi cation programme, and each year over 12,000 the highest level of integrity.
Interview questions with speci c ethical managers certify that they have complied with Performance with and integrity components have been developed for inclusion in the Integrity principles.
GSK audits its operations regularly to ensure that standard interview questionnaire during 2008. relevant standards, such as those in marketing practices, are reached The annual performance and development planning PDP or exceeded.
process ensures that employees set business-aligned objectives Diversity and behavioural goals.
PDPs are reviewed throughout the year, The diversity and inclusion initiatives focus on improving performance.
culminating with an end of year review that is factored into In the fifth year of the annual Multicultural Marketing and Diversity compensation decisions.
The annual talent management cycle Awards, award winning projects repeatedly demonstrated the identi es the highest performing people in each business and key business value of understanding diverse perspectives and leveraging talent is developed through tailored management and leadership those differences to make a positive difference in the workplace, programmes, exposure to top management through programmes with customers and in the communities served.
In 2007, the such as the Chief Executive Forum and stretch assignments.
A pool global management population was 63% male and 37% female.
of potential successors is identi ed for each Vice-President position For more details on diversity measures, see the Groups Corporate and other critical roles throughout the Group.
Performance and reward The Group is committed to employment policies free from Reward systems are designed to support a culture of high performance discrimination against existing or potential staff on the grounds of and to attract and retain the best people.
Performance based pay and age, race, ethnic and national origin, gender, sexual orientation, faith bonuses, share awards and share options align employee interests or disability.
GSK is committed to offering people with disabilities with the meeting of business targets.
access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
Communication and employee involvement Every effort is made to retain and support employees who become The Group conducts a Global Leadership Survey GLS every two disabled while working with the Group.
The most recent survey was conducted in 2006 among more Healthy high performance than 10,000 managers to gauge opinions on critical issues such as Healthy, energised and engaged employees together with healthy culture and con dence in the Groups future.
Scores on morale and and sustainable ways of working contribute to the performance engagement have steadily increased since 2002 and compare very of the Group.
Global policies on employee health are supported favourably with global benchmarks 42 top-ranked companies.
In by mandatory standards that integrate employee health and the 2006 survey, 90% of managers were proud to be part of GSK safety and environmental requirements.
A commitment to exible and 86% would gladly refer a friend or family member to work working through exi-time, tele-conferencing, remote working and for GSK.
Each business develops action plans to address areas for exible work schedules, recognises that employees work best in improvement based on results from the GLS and other surveys.
an environment that helps them integrate their work and personal The Group also consults employees on changes that affect them and lives.
discusses developments in the business with a European Employee The Groups Employee Health Management function is actively Consultation Forum and similar bodies in countries where this is delivering and implementing team and personal resilience national practice.
programmes which are now available in 13 languages.
In 2007, in Employee numbers by region partnership with the Groups Leadership and Development function, Energy for Performance training has been introduced in order to 7 6 improve further the potential of employees.
5 1 USA 24,838 1 4 2 Europe 46,869 3 Asia Pacific 17,525 3 4 Japan 3,284 5 Middle East, Africa 3,156 6 Latin America 5,249 7 Canada 2,562 2 22 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Being the best place for the best people to do their best work Business review Improving access to medicines Looking ahead GSK is committed to contributing to GSK will continue to build on its product, pricing and partnership health improvements in a sustainable commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing world.
In the developing world, However, a signi cant increase in funding from the global community this includes not-for-pro t pricing, is still needed.
It is also important to maintain incentives for R&D through protection of intellectual property.
community investment programmes and While much has been achieved, sustainable progress will only occur other innovative solutions, while in the if the signi cant barriers that stand in the way of better access to developed world the focus is on patient healthcare are tackled as a shared responsibility by all sectors of global assistance programmes.
society governments, international agencies, charities, academic institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and others.
Access to healthcare in the developing world Access to medicines in the developed world Access to healthcare in developing countries remains a major Programmes in the USA challenge to the global community.
The problem, which is rooted in GSK is working to provide access to medicines for people with limited poverty, demands a signi cant mobilisation of political will, additional financial resources and without prescription drug insurance.
resources and a true spirit of partnership.
GSK continues to play a vital role, through its commitment to R&D into diseases particularly 2007 marked the launch of GSKs newest patient assistance prevalent in the developing world, through its programme of not-forprogramme, GSK Access, for eligible patients enrolled in Medicare pro t prices for its anti-retrovirals ARVs, anti-malarials and vaccines, Part D prescription drug plans.
Enrolment in this new programme through its community investment programmes see page 24 and was encouraged through a multi-million dollar national advertising through its willingness to seek innovative solutions, such as voluntary campaign in major magazines and newspapers.
For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid, Preferential pricing programme GSK and 11 other pharmaceutical companies created Together Rx GSK has offered its vaccines to key organisations for vaccination Access, a programme for quali ed individuals offering reductions programmes in developing countries at preferential prices for over in the pharmacy cost on more than 300 medicines.
The Group also sets a single not-for-pro t price for each Together Rx Access cardholders saved about $24 million in 2007. of its ARVs and anti-malarials to a wide range of customers in the GSK also participates in the Partnership for Prescription Assistance PPA, Least Developed Countries UN fide nition and sub-Saharan Africa, a national service that helps match people in need with prescription as well as Country Coordinating Mechanism-projects fully funded by medicine access programmes.
To date, PPA has provided patients in the the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria and the US Presidents USA with information about assistance to obtain necessary medicines.
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief PEPFAR.
Launched with Tykerb to help with access to this medicine, Tykerb GSK is committed to contributing to health improvements in a CARES is a single point of contact for physicians and patients.
The prices for its ARVs and anti-malarials are CARES provides reimbursement support and adherence support through therefore set at levels at which no pro t is made, but direct costs services like pre-therapy counselling from a trained oncology nurse.
are covered, allowing supply to be sustained for as long as required.
During 2007, GSK shipped to developing countries 13 million tablets Patient Advocacy of not-for-pro t-priced Combivir and 72 million tablets of not-forThe Patient Advocacy initiative has demonstrated signi cant progress pro t-priced Epivir.
Some of GSKs licensees are now supplying key since its inception in 2002.
Initially launched as a US programme, it markets in a more signi cant way.
is now a critical initiative throughout GSK.
Patient Advocacy teams in the USA and Europe share best practices and established processes to The offer of not-for-pro t prices requires a sustainable framework, optimise interaction with patient groups.
Typically these relationships combining GSKs commitment to preferential pricing with commitments provide mutual opportunities: to learn about patient needs and from governments of the developed world to avoid price referencing priorities and for patient groups to develop an understanding of drug against preferentially priced medicines and from all governments to help development challenges.
GSK has taken steps to minimise the threat of diversion with the registration of speci c access packs or access tablets In 2007, GSK continued to work with patient groups to educate them differentiated red tablet as opposed to the traditional white for its key on issues of mutual concern, to advocate for access to medicines and ARVs.
GSK remains the only Group to have registered its ARVs under treatment and to improve its reputation with them, governments and the European Unions Anti-Diversion Regulation.
the media through efforts to promote transparency.
GSK is considered to be a trustworthy partner with patient groups, and has developed Innovative solutions guidelines and procedures for working with patient groups that are GSK has shown industry leadership in granting voluntary licences to being imitated throughout the industry.
eight generic companies for the manufacture and supply of ARVs to both the public and private sectors in sub-Saharan Africa.
GSK is also Programmes in other countries a leader in collaborating in Public-Private Partnerships to enable new The Group has also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on drug discovery and development to take place more effectively.
certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in a number of other countries.
The nature of the discounts varies between countries and the way in which its healthcare system operates.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 23 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Improving access to medicines Business review Corporate responsibility and community investment GSKs cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education initiatives as follows: In 2007, GSK made product, cash and other donations valued at 282 5 million to support over 100 community 1 Health 50% 4 3 programmes around the world 2 Education 28% 1 3 Arts and Culture 4% 4 Environment 2% Commitment to corporate responsibility 5 Other 16% 2 GSK is committed to connecting business decisions to ethical, social and environmental concerns.
Thus, corporate responsibility is an integral and embedded part of the way GSK does business.
In the UK, GSK contributed 6 million in 2007 to its continuing programme of charitable activities supporting over 70 organisations In 2003, GSK published a set of Corporate Responsibility principles to in health, medical research, science education, the arts and the provide guidance on the standards to which the Group is committed.
This sets out the approach to 10 areas: standards of ethical conduct, research and innovation, products and customers, access Programmes in North America focused on improving public to medicines, employment practices, human rights, community education and access to better healthcare for children and seniors investment, caring for the environment, leadership and advocacy, both nationally and locally with funding of $35 million.
On National and engagement with stakeholders.
The Group reports annually on Philanthropy Day in the USA, GSK received the Excellence in progress in upholding these principles in its Corporate Responsibility Corporate Philanthropy Award from the Committee Encouraging Report, which is available on GSKs website.
Partnership success GSK does not operate a single charitable foundation for its GSK works as a partner with under-served communities in the developed community investment programmes, but has a number of country and developing world.
It supports programmes that are innovative based foundations.
The grants made by these foundations in 2007 and sustainable and that bring real bene ts to these communities.
are included in the investment total.
The Group engages with numerous external stakeholders, funds Global Health Programmes community led initiatives around the world and donates medicines to Eliminating lymphatic lariasis support humanitarian efforts and community based healthcare.
The Groups effort to eliminate the disabling disease, lymphatic lariasis LF from the world, continued in close partnership with the Community investment governments of countries where the disease is endemic, the WHO GSKs global community investment activities in 2007 were valued and over 40 partner organisations.
GSK is committed to donate as at 282 million, equivalent to 3.8% of Group total pro t before tax.
much of the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as required to treat the This comprised product donations of 224 million, cash giving of 41 one billion people at risk in over 80 countries.
In 2007, 150 million million, other in-kind donations of 3 million plus costs of 14 million to albendazole treatments, worth 14 million at wholesale acquisition manage and deliver community programmes in over 100 countries.
cost, were donated to 19 countries.
Since the global elimination programme started in 2000, a cumulative total of almost 750 million Product donations in 2007 were as follows: albendazole treatments have been donated.
3 2 Positive Action on HIV AIDS 1 Patient Assistance Programs Positive Action is GSKs pioneering global programme working 194 million with communities affected by AIDS.
Started in 1992, it supports 2 Albendazole for LF community-based organisations to deliver effective HIV and AIDS 14 million education, prevention and healthcare services.
During 2007, 3 Humanitarian Product Donations Positive Action worked with 16 partners to support programmes 16 million in 19 countries.
Positive Actions larger programmes operate in 1 Mexico, Kenya, India, China, Cambodia and Vietnam.
The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership All product donations valued at wholesale acquisition cost WAC.
GSKs malaria advocacy programme Mobilising for Malaria has launched country Coalitions Against Malaria in the UK, Belgium, France, Ethiopia and Cameroon to increase awareness of malaria and mobilise resources.
During 2007 Innovation Grants for Malaria Advocacy were awarded to four organisations in Africa, working in Nigeria, Congo, Senegal and Uganda.
The bene ts of GSKs three previous behavioural development programmes targeting malaria in eight African countries continue to be seen.
24 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate responsibility and community investment Business review Corporate responsibility and community investment PHASE Education initiatives The PHASE programme Personal Hygiene And Sanitation Education, During 2007, GSK continued to support the Institute for a initiated by GSK in 1998, is now providing education to thousands of Competitive Workforce, a business coalition staffed by the Business school children in Kenya, Uganda, Zambia, Nicaragua, Peru, Mexico, Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce.
This is Tajikistan and Bangladesh to improve their health and hygiene to aimed at improving education and creating a skilled workforce for ght infectious diseases.
In 2007, the Group committed three year the future.
funding of over $1.8 million to extend the programme to Indonesia GSK also supports a range of local initiatives in the USA.
For example and Bolivia in partnership with Save the Children, USA.
This also Science in the Summer, a free library-based science education includes funding to introduce PHASE to the Millennium Village programme in the Philadelphia area teaching basic scienti c concepts, project which employs science-based interventions to meet the continued to receive support with a grant of nearly $427,000.
has also been a major sponsor of the University of North Carolinas Humanitarian product donations travelling science laboratory, Destiny, since its inception in 1999.
During 2007, GSK donated essential products, such as antibiotics, Destiny serves approximately 100 under-served secondary schools through non-pro t partners including AmeriCares, Direct Relief and reaches 4,000 students per year.
International, MAP International and Project HOPE, to support In 2007, GSK helped to launch the CREST Star Investigators education humanitarian relief efforts and community healthcare.
This programme has been developed in partnership with value of the Groups international humanitarian product donations the British Association for the Advancement of Science to provide was 16 million.
This excludes albendazole donated as part of science activities and awards for after school clubs in UK primary the Groups commitment to the lymphatic lariasis elimination schools.
5,000 schools and 55,000 children are expected to be taking programme.
Product donations are valued at wholesale acquisition part by 2010. cost, which is the wholesale list price, not including discounts, and is a standard industry method of valuation.
Only 25% of secondary school science teachers in England are chemistry specialists.
Chemistry for Non-Specialists has been Community initiatives developed by the Royal Society of Chemistry to train teachers to teach GSK is dedicated to strengthening the fabric of communities through chemistry with con dence, air and enthusiasm.
GSK is supporting providing health and education initiatives and support for local civic the programme with a donation of 450,000 over three years.
and cultural institutions that improve the quality of life.
Employee involvement GSKs contribution to improve healthcare includes a grant of almost GSK employees are encouraged to contribute to their local communities $3 million over three years to the Childrens Health Fund to expand through employee volunteering schemes.
Support includes employee their Referral Management Initiative RMI to sites in Philadelphia, time, cash donations to charities where employees volunteer and including the Delaware Valley Community Health Center.
The RMI matching gift programmes.
ensures continuity of specialist medical care for high-risk children who are often homeless.
In 2007 in the USA, the Group matched 16,500 employee and retiree gifts at a value of $5 million.
The Group also matched 2007 marked the tenth anniversary of the annual GlaxoSmithKline $1.1 million of employee donations to GSKs annual United IMPACT Awards to recognise excellence in the work of non-pro t Way campaign.
GSKs GIVE program provided grants of over community health organisations across the UK and in the Greater $390,000 to almost 380 organisations where US employees Philadelphia area of the USA.
Each year over 20 charities receive have volunteered.
unrestricted awards for their work dealing with diverse and dif cult social issues such as domestic violence, sexual health services for GSKs Making a Difference programme in the UK provided grants young people, community health support and counselling services.
of almost 260,000 to nearly 380 non-pro t organisations and registered charities based on employee involvement.
To further medical research, over 490,000 was provided to three UK medical charities, Primary Immunode ciency Association, Research into Ageing and WellChild.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 25 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate responsibility and community investment Business review Global manufacturing and supply Operational excellence GSKs manufacturing operations comprise Within GMS, operational excellence provides the capability to drive improvements in process robustness, quality, performance and a network of 79 sites in 37 countries and customer service.
Operational excellence is underpinned by extensive employ over 33,000 people.
education and a culture of continuous improvement.
Vision Factory GSK manufactures a large portfolio of products, ranging from tablets GSK introduced the Vision Factory initiative to work towards a and toothpaste to inhalers and complex capsules, in over 28,000 simpler, more ef cient operating model within GMS.
Vision Factory different pack sizes and presentations.
is enabling manufacturing operations to accelerate the improvement Manufacture of medicines starts with the development of a in performance and cost control.
therapeutic active ingredient bulk active in a selected formulation.
Quality Global Manufacturing and Supply GMS develops manufacturing The quality organisation oversees product quality across the supply processes for full scale volume production of active compounds at chain, from suppliers and third party manufacturers through primary manufacturing sites.
Secondary sites then convert these manufacturing to the supply operations that deliver products into active compounds into nished medicines.
The quality organisation focuses on improving quality Each year GMS produces around 6,000 tonnes of bulk actives and and compliance by increasing product quality understanding, and more than four billion packs, which are sold in over 140 countries.
It harmonising the quality approach across all sites.
also supports about 2,000 new product and line extension launches External suppliers every year.
GMS spends over 2 billion annually with many external suppliers, By adopting leading edge practices and developing its people, purchasing active ingredients, chemical intermediates, packaging GMS provides: components, and partnished and nished products.
It takes appropriate steps to protect its supply chains from any disruption.
a secure source of supply of high quality products compliance with regulatory requirements and customer Procurement expectations Widely recognised by industry analysts as a best practice leader, best in class cost.
procurement works collaboratively to develop and implement sourcing strategies which ensures that GSK receives best value when Organisation buying goods and services.
GSK leverages its procurement activities across the Group.
GMS operates as a single global network of 79 sites in 37 countries.
The sites are grouped into four supply divisions, based on common Vaccines supply chain business drivers, areas of expertise and the commercial activities that GSKs global vaccine manufacturing network is managed from the they support.
vaccine divisions headquarters in Belgium.
By being present in all the three major regions, GSK aims to ensure effective supply of vaccines Primary supply across the globe: Primary supply has 12 sites in six countries, supplying high quality, competitively priced bulk actives.
The division is focused on in Europe, vaccine manufacturing is located primarily at Rixensart improvements in primary technologies and processes.
and Wavre in Belgium, with three other sites in France, Germany and Hungary where the site is being extended.
New product and global supply There are 10 new product and global supply sites in seven countries.
in North America, GSK established its vaccine production network Sites work closely with R&Ds development team to ensure that in 2005 through three major acquisitions.
It has a production site in the right technical competencies are in place to support rapid and Hamilton, Montana manufacturing MPL, a key component of GSKs successful new product introduction.
These sites also ensure secure novel and proprietary adjuvant systems, a vaccine production site supply of key brands that are sold across many markets.
This division in Marietta, Pennsylvania and u vaccine manufacturing facilities in is the focal point for developing and introducing new secondary Laval and Ste Foy, both in Quebec, Canada.
in the International region, new vaccine production facilities are Regional pharma supply being built in India, Singapore and China where some packaging Regional pharma supply operates to supply key products in particular activities are already performed in Shanghai.
regions or markets and tailor packaging to meet speci c local Managing the vaccine supply chain involves anticipating market requirements.
This division focuses on reducing costs, allowing GSK needs and using a exible approach to be able to meet uctuations in to compete more effectively in all its markets.
These are based on forecasts from the different markets and pharma supply sites in 22 countries.
rm orders from health authorities for mass vaccination campaigns.
Consumer Healthcare supply Production of bulk vaccines, lling and packaging activities are carefully Consumer Healthcare supply delivers high-quality, competitively balanced and planned.
Storing of vaccines helps manage short-term priced products and supports rapid new product introduction in increases in demand.
Such increases can result from disease outbreaks a highly innovative and competitive business with far shorter time or increased demand from the public prompted by disease awareness frames than pharmaceuticals.
New technologies have become a campaigns.
fundamental platform for driving innovation, lowering costs and providing exibility in operations.
There are 28 sites in 21 countries.
26 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Global manufacturing and supply Business review Regulatory environment The regulatory environment in the International region continues to evolve.
GSK is participating in a number of regional regulatory GSK operates in a highly regulated initiatives, for example in China where proposed changes to the environment, encompassing product regulatory framework have provided GSK with an opportunity to approval, pricing restrictions, work directly with the State Food Drug Administration SFDA.
GSK maintenance of intellectual property continues to include broader sets of patient populations from the International region in global development programmes in order and environmental, health and safety to increase global patient access to new innovative medicines and responsibilities.
Price controls Regulation Pharmaceuticals In many countries the prices of pharmaceutical products are controlled by law.
Governments may also in uence prices through GSK operates within a highly regulated environment.
Regional and their control of national healthcare organisations, which may bear a country-speci c laws and regulations fide ne the data required to show large part of the cost of supplying medicines to consumers.
safety and ef cacy of pharmaceutical products, as well as govern testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of drugs.
Recent government healthcare reforms in countries such as France, These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining Spain and Germany may restrict pricing and reimbursement.
whether a marketable product may be successfully developed and In the USA, recent legislative proposals on healthcare reform, crossthe amount of time and expense associated with the development.
border trade, the acceleration of generics to market, and comparative In the USA, the FDA continues to seek to encourage innovation in effectiveness have further increased the focus on pricing.
Currently, drug development via its Critical Path Initiative and new tools and there are no government price controls over private sector purchases, processes are being pursued to enhance development of safe and but federal law requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay effective drugs.
GSK and others in the pharmaceutical industry are prescribed rebates on certain drugs to be eligible for reimbursement collaborating with the FDA and National Institutes of Health in a under Medicaid and other state and federal healthcare programmes.
number of these areas, including evaluation of new biomarkers and For the 2008 Presidential elections healthcare is one of the leading bene t risk assessments.
Though prices are part of the discussions, increasingly the leading candidates are proposing health reforms to address Drug safety remains a primary focus of the FDA and congressional chronic disease as the primary healthcare cost driver.
oversight committees and, as in Europe, evaluation of bene t and risk continues to be a paramount consideration for approval of a Medicare new drug.
New legislation passed in 2007, the FDA Amendments From 2006, the US Medicare program, a federally funded healthcare Act, renews the User Fee system for drug reviews and mandates insurance programme bene ting senior citizens and certain disabled a rigorous FDA review of safety from approval through the postAmericans, included coverage for prescription medicines.
The marketing phase of the product.
The legislation also provides the coverage is voluntary, includes brand-name and generic drugs and is FDA with new tools to require sponsors to complete post-marketing open to the 41 million Americans with Medicare coverage.
studies and to make labelling changes.
A number of competing private organisations provide the bene t Regulations requiring development of prescription drugs and with premiums subsidised by the government.
Bene ts must satisfy biologics for paediatric populations were reauthorised by the US a minimum standard outlined in federal law.
While the law provides Congress in 2007.
Similarly in Europe new paediatrics regulation has incentives for manufacturers to negotiate prices with private health now been implemented.
GSK fully supports the objective of ensuring insurance plans, it does not provide for government price controls.
the development of better medicines for children.
The government provides additional help to more than 14 million people on Medicare with limited incomes and resources.
Those In Europe, pharmaceutical companies and government regulators qualifying bene ciaries pay no or reduced premiums and deductibles, continue to implement the new medicines legislation introduced and low co-payments for their prescriptions.
This involves signi cant changes to the EU regulatory system, including changes to product approval The bene t has proved to be a marked success.
Competition has procedures, post-marketing requirements, manufacturing controls, reduced the estimate of total costs made by the Congressional labelling requirements, pharmacovigilance processes and increased Budget Of ce by $387 billion over a ten year period.
Recent polls of transparency of regulatory processes.
Medicare bene ciaries enrolled in the new bene t show satisfaction rates of 85-89%.
EU regulators are also engaged in Better Regulation initiatives to cut red tape and over-regulation of the pharmaceutical industry.
GSK Value for money welcomes the recognition that unnecessarily burdensome regulatory Payers around the world are concerned about the cost of healthcare requirements can damage competitiveness and may negatively and the pricing of medicines.
The requirement to satisfy healthcare impact public health, and is therefore active in supporting these purchasers on value for money is becoming an additional hurdle for initiatives.
product acceptance over and above the regulatory tests of safety, ef cacy and quality.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Regulatory environment Business review Regulatory environment continued While it is appropriate for payers to seek value for money when Since the term of a patent in most countries is a set period from purchasing medicines, this often translates into cost-containment the ling date, typically 20 years, the effective term depends on measures that delay patient access to new medicines and make it how long a product is in development before launch.
This leads to a dif cult even for signi cantly improved therapies to achieve a price variation in patent term on a product by product basis, although in that re ects added value.
Healthcare budgets could be managed in a a number of markets, including the USA and Europe, it is possible in more strategic and long-term manner.
Focus should shift to value not certain circumstances to obtain a partial restoration of patent term to cost, and pricing should re ect value.
Value should be fide ned broadly.
compensate for the length of the development process.
What matters is whether a medicine works and responds to medical The patent position with respect to the active ingredients in signi cant and patient needs.
If so, it should be rewarded appropriately.
products is as follows: Payers must also allocate their resources ef ciently to provide the Advair Seretide.
The patent on the speci c combination of salmeterol best health outcomes.
Attention should be focused in three areas: xinafoate and uticasone propionate is not due to expire until 2010 prevention, innovation and better management of chronic diseases.
The US Patent has been re-issued by the As part of this triple solution, innovative medicines and vaccines will e US Patent and Trademark Of ce USPTO.
Litigation under patents play a key role by preventing, or providing better treatments for e protecting the product is ongoing in certain European markets.
expensive diseases such as cervical cancer, breast cancer, asthma, The UK patent has been revoked by the UK courts.
Patents on the Alzheimers and diabetes.
individual ingredients have expired except the patents on salmeterol xinafoate in the USA August 2008, France December 2008, and It is not possible to predict whether and to what extent, the Groups Italy 2009. business will be affected by future legislative and regulatory developments relating to speci c pharmaceutical products or their price.
The patent on rosiglitazone is a, c b not due to expire until 2012 USA and 2013 Europe.
Patents on Regulation Consumer Healthcare the commercial form of the active ingredient rosiglitazone maleate b are not due to expire until 2015 USA and 2014 Europe.
Litigation The consumer healthcare industry is subject to national regulation challenging the validity of the patents protecting these products in for the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling and marketing of e the USA has been settled on terms allowing for generic entry late products.
In many countries, high standards of technical appraisal e in the first quarter 2012. involve a lengthy approval process before a new product is launched.
The patent on dutasteride is not due to expire until 2015 National regulatory authorisation is also required to approve the switch b USA and 2017 Europe.
Litigation challenging the validity of the of products from prescription to OTC.
The requirements include longe patent protecting this product in the USA is ongoing.
term experience of the quality, safety and ef cacy of the product in a wide patient population and data to con rm that the relevant Avamys Veramyst.
The patent on uticasone furoate is not due to condition is both self-limiting and easily diagnosed by the consumer.
expire until 2021 in the USA and 2022 in Europe.
GSK has co-promotion rights under the patent on Intellectual property a b ibandronate which is not due to expire until 2012 USA and 2011 Intellectual property is a key business asset for GSK.
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting e protection of intellectual property is critical in ensuring a reasonable this product is ongoing in the USA.
Intellectual property can be protected Combivir.
The patent on the speci c combination of lamivudine by patents, trademarks, registered designs, copyrights and domain b and zidovudine is not due to expire until 2012 USA and 2013 name registrations.
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting e Certain markets, including the USA, the EU and Canada also the combination is ongoing in the USA.
provide a period of regulatory data exclusivity to qualifying drugs Coreg.
GSK is the exclusive licensee under the US patent on carvedilol, which are new chemical entities or which are new formulations a, c which expired in 2007.
Coreg CR is protected by a formulation or uses of marketed drugs.
Manufacturers of generic drugs may, patent that is not due to expire in the USA until 2016, and a patent following any period of data exclusivity, launch, or attempt to launch, on the active form carvedilol phosphate that is not due to expire until generic versions of patented drugs prior to normal patent expiry, 2023.
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent on the active arguing that the relevant patents are invalid and or are not e form is ongoing in the USA.
Signi cant litigation concerning these a, c Epivir.
The patent on lamivudine is not due to expire until 2010 challenges is summarised in Note 44 to the financial statements, b USA and 2011 Europe.
The patent on sumatriptan is not due to expire Patents c until 2009 USA and has expired in Europe except Italy December GSKs policy is to seek to obtain patent protection on all protectable 2008.
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent protecting inventions discovered or developed through its R&D activities.
Patent this product in the USA has been settled allowing generic entry in protection for new active ingredients is available in most signi cant the fourth quarter 2008. markets, and protection can also be obtained for example for new pharmaceutical formulations, manufacturing processes, medical uses a, c Lamictal.
The patent on lamotrigine is not due to expire until 2009 and special devices for administering products.
Litigation challenging the validity of this patent in the USA new active ingredients are generally applied for early in the has been settled on terms allowing for generic entry of tablet forms development process.
In Europe, the corresponding patent has expired and generic competition exists.
28 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Regulatory environment Business review Regulatory environment continued d Levitra.
GSK has co-promotion rights under the US patent on Trademarks vardena l, which is not due to expire until 2018.
All of GSKs pharmaceutical products are protected by registered trademarks in major markets.
There may be local variations, for Lexiva Telzir.
GSK is the exclusive licensee under the patent on example, in the USA the trademark Paxil is used instead of Seroxat fosamprenavir, which is not due to expire until 2017 USA and and Advair is used instead of Seretide.
Trademark protection may generally be extended for as long as the Lovaza.
The formulation of omega-3 acid ethyl esters is protected by trademark is used by renewing it when necessary.
GSKs trademarks a patent that expires in the USA in 2018. on pharmaceutical products are important for maintaining the brand Paxil Seroxat.
The patent on the commercial form of paroxetine has identity of the product upon expiration of the patent.
expired and generic competition exists on Paxil instant release IR The Consumer Healthcare trademarks are particularly important, as forms in the USA, Europe and other markets.
Litigation relating to the business is very brand oriented and many products do not have e patents protecting the product is ongoing in the USA.
Paxil CR is patent protection.
protected by a patent issued in June 2007 relating to a delayed and controlled release formulation of paroxetine hydrochloride.
Litigation Responsibility for environment, health and safety relating to this patent has been settled on terms allowing for generic e entry on all strengths of Paxil CR no later than fourth quarter 2008.
Environment, health and safety EHS is a key element of corporate responsibility for the Group and has a high priority.
The patent on ropinirole expired in 2007 in the USA and is EHS is at the highest level.
There is a corporate department reporting b due to expire in November 2008 in Europe.
A patent relating to the to the General Counsel that has overall responsibility for providing use of ropinirole in Parkinsons disease is not due to expire until May governance and leadership on EHS issues.
The head of this department b 2008 USA and 2011 Europe.
Litigation challenging the validity of makes regular reports to the Corporate Executive Team CET and the the Parkinsons use patent in the USA has been dismissed by the court, Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees of the Board.
Within and generic entry is not expected until after expiry of the patent in the businesses all executives and managers are responsible for EHS e May 2008. and are supported by site-based EHS and occupational medical staff.
The patent on salmeterol xinafoate expires in August 2008 EHS strategy and plan in the USA.
In Europe, the patent has expired, except in France GSK has a 10-year strategic plan for EHS that extends to 2015 with b b December 2008 and Italy 2009. annual action plans.
The plan is aligned with the GSK business drivers Trizivir.
The patent on the method of treatment using a combination and includes management objectives with performance measures of lamivudine, zidovudine and abacavir does not expire until 2016 and targets.
In 2007, GSKs progress was evaluated against the USA and 2016 Europe.
targets set in 2006. a Tykerb Tyverb.
The Patent on lapatinib is not due to expire until 2020 The focus for 2007 was EHS Stewardship which is about building a b in the USA and 2022 in Europe.
It involves caring for the present while thinking to the future in making decisions.
This supports all three aspirations in the a Valtrex.
The patent on valaciclovir is not due to expire until 2009 2006 to 2015 plan embedding EHS in the business, environmental b USA and 2009 Europe, except Greece and Spain August 2008. sustainability and open and transparent stakeholder relations.
Litigation challenging the validity of the patent in the USA has been e settled on terms allowing for generic entry in late 2009.
Accomplishments in 2007 Wellbutrin SR, Wellbutrin XL and Zyban.
The patent on the active Climate change: A comprehensive strategy on climate change and ingredient has expired.
There is now generic competition for the energy ef ciency was approved and is available on GSKs website.
sustained release SR instant release IR and 300mg dosage form of A climate change and energy reduction team has been formed to Wellbutrin XL in the USA.
Litigation in the USA relating to formulation manage a special fund which is used to support climate change patents covering Wellbutrin XL has been settled on terms allowing projects.
The team identi ed more than 400 projects for 2007 and generic entry for the 150mg form in 2008.
In Europe, regulatory data 2008 to reduce energy consumption and to increase GSKs use of exclusivity provides protection until 2009 in some markets.
The patent on abacavir is not due to expire until 2012 Manufacturing ef ciency: In the ongoing effort to improve the b USA and 2014 Europe.
ef ciency of manufacturing processes and therefore signi cantly decrease both the purchase of raw materials and the production Zofran.
The patent on ondansetron has expired in the USA of waste, GSK has selected the best candidate medicines for b and Europe, except Italy November 2008.
A patent on use in improvement.
The mass ef ciency of processes in development treating emesis has also expired.
Generic competition exists in the continues to improve and progress is being made to achieve the USA, Europe and other markets.
target to double mass ef ciency and thereby halve the waste per a Including granted or pending patent term restoration under the Hatch-Waxman Act unit of product for the manufacturing processes for all phase III b Including granted or pending extension of term by national or European compounds by 2010.
Late stage products have been evaluated supplementary protection certi cates c Including granted or pending extension of term for paediatric exclusivity since 2005 for ef ciency with an improvement to 2.8% on average.
d A registered trademark of Bayer AG Certain marketed products, with a known market potential, have e See Note 44 to financial statements Legal proceedings.
also been selected for improvement of the ef ciency of their manufacturing processes.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Regulatory environment Business review Regulatory environment continued Workplace chemical exposure: Occupational hygiene Most of the measures selected are similar to those reported by other measurements have been completed for over 50% of GSK tasks companies and are recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative, a involving exposure to the most potent materials.
Most results long-term, multi-stakeholder, international undertaking, to develop and show that exposures are adequately controlled by the respiratory disseminate globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines.
protective equipment worn, with 9% veri ed as respirator free Targets have been set to eliminate chlorouorocarbons CFCs from all meaning respiratory protection is not necessary.
Immediate action uses by 2010 and each year to reduce non-hazardous waste disposed was taken to control exposures in the few instances where levels by 1%, reduce water use and volatile organic compound VOC were found to be higher than predicted.
Manufacturing sites have releases to air by 2%, reduce pollution of wastewater, measured a target of 80% respirator free by the end of 2010. as chemical oxygen demand, by 3% and reduce energy usage and Process safety: GSKs Process Safety Management System is being related greenhouse gas emissions by 1%.
During the year, a further enhanced, with new engineering standards and training programmes target was set to reduce energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions under development.
The standards will be used to design new by 20% by 2010 and 45% by 2015.
All targets are normalised by process plant and to upgrade existing plants where needed.
The sales based on a constant exchange rate.
training programmes will increase process safety awareness and In 2007, GSK remained on track to eliminate the use of CFCs by competencies for engineers, chemists and managers.
2010 and to meet its 2010 targets for energy use and related External stakeholders: In addition to the ongoing UK stakeholder greenhouse gas emissions.
Progress towards the 2010 energy and group meeting in March, a panel of US stakeholders met in October related greenhouse gas emissions target is expected to accelerate to provide input on EHS issues from a US perspective.
In a benchmark in 2008 and beyond.
The annual targets were met for reduction in assessment of environmental programmes, carried out by the UK water use and wastewater pollution.
GSK did not meet its targets charity, Business in the Environment, GSK was ranked with the top for non-hazardous waste disposal or VOC releases to air.
GSK is also included in both the FTSE 4Good index and of non-hazardous waste disposal, this was because there was an the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
83% increase in solid waste disposal in the vaccines business due to its expansion programme in the development and launch of EHS audits new vaccines.
In the case of VOC releases, this was because, due As part of its governance responsibility, GSK conducts EHS audits of its to product mix changes, solvent recovery equipment at some of sites, operating entities and key suppliers, assessing the management the manufacturing sites was inadequate to completely capture and of key risks and impacts and performance against GSKs global EHS recycle certain solvents used in the manufacturing process.
This includes providing audited sites with quantitative performance information as well as highlighting areas for risk reduction Final EHS performance data for 2007 with explanations of the trends and improvement.
In 2007, 33 operating entities were audited, 17 of will be published in the Corporate Responsibility report on GSKs these achieved audit scores of 80% or better, which re ects our long website.
term goal to have all of our sites score above 95%.
No site scored less Sustainability than 50% but seven critical findings were raised.
These have been In working towards sustainability, GSK is addressing the economic, corrected.
To ensure continuous improvement, progress was monitored environmental and social issues in research, manufacturing, sales and on corrective and preventive action plans arising from all audits.
distribution of its medicines and consumer healthcare and nutritionals As part of the commitment to corporate responsibility and the proproducts.
Sustainability starts with healthcare solutions found by active management of the GSK manufacturing and supply base, R&D and continues with innovations to improve the ef ciency of 55 current and potential suppliers were also assessed.
This process manufacturing processes for new products.
This reduces resource evaluated the management of key EHS risks and impacts, including use which in turn lowers waste and cost.
With lower cost our re and explosion risks, aspects of process safety and loss prevention, products can be available to a wider population around the world.
control of exposure to hazardous substances and environmental In the future, the EHS plan for excellence proposes investigating the protection as well as core human rights issues, based on the Groups use of renewable resources in manufacturing.
Recommendations were made for The Group seeks dialogue with external stakeholders and considers improvements where needed and 75% of the potential suppliers their views when developing approaches to sustainable development.
failed to achieve GSKs recommendations.
GSK plans to partner only More information on EHS programmes and performance may be with the successful candidates to improve their overall environment, found on GSKs website.
health, safety and loss prevention performance.
EHS targets As part of the EHS plan, targets are set every five years with 2006 as the baseline year for the targets to 2010.
GSK selected its measures of performance improvement based on the potential for adverse impact on people, the environment, business continuity or business reputation.
30 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Regulatory environment Business review World market World economy World market pharmaceuticals The global economy continued to be broadly positive during 2007, Global pharmaceutical sales in 2007 were 329 billion compared with buoyed by growth in developing markets such as China, although the 328 billion in 2006. mortgage-related issues in the USA had an adverse effect in several World market by Value % of Growth countries.
World Gross Domestic Product GDP growth eased from bn total % geographic region 3.9% in 2006 to 3.6%.
The International Monetary Fund forecasts USA 140.8 43 3 global GDP growth to be 4.1% in 2008.
Europe 97.6 30 5 Equity markets struggled in 2007, against a backdrop of recordFrance 18.6 6 5 breaking oil prices and continued concerns over the situations in Germany 17.2 5 3 Iraq and Afghanistan.
Oil prices, which averaged $71 per barrel UK 11.3 3 5 throughout the year, rose to $100 later in the year.
In ation in the Italy 10.3 3 2 OECD countries was 1.9% but is expected to increase to 2.5% in Japan 28.6 9 9 2008.
Asia Paci c 24.6 7 10 The US economy weakened signi cantly, led by a slump in new Latin America 16.5 5 7 housing starts and exacerbated by the sub-prime lending crisis.
GDP Middle East, Africa 12.4 4 4 growth slowed from 2.9% in 2006 to 2.2% in 2007 and many Canada 8.3 2 analysts expect it to fall below the 2% mark during 2008.
The Dow Total 328.8 100 Jones Industrial Index gained 6.4% over the period while interest rates dropped by 1% to 4.25% before a signi cant cut in January The US market has decreased by 3%, but it still represents 43% of 2008 took them down to 3%.
In 2007, the US dollar continued to the global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with 30% decline against both the Euro and Sterling.
Having fallen throughout a decade ago.
the year, the US dollar was worth less than 50p in November, its lowest point since 1992.
At 30th September 2007, GSK held second position in the world pharmaceutical market with a market share of 5.9%, behind P zer The Chinese economy continued to make sound progress, growing with a market share of 7%.
GSK had four of the worlds top 60 by 11.3% during 2007.
Growth is forecast to dip slightly in 2008, pharmaceutical products.
These were Avandia, Lamictal, Seretide Advair particularly as problems in the USA may impact on demand for and Valtrex.
In Japan, GDP was 1.9% and the Nikkei 225 fell by 11.1% during the year, marking its first annual decline in five World market Value % of Growth top six therapeutic classes % years.
The Indian and Brazilian economies both achieved double-digit bn total growth in 2007.
Central nervous system 54.4 17 1 Cardiovascular 50.715 6 In the Eurozone, GDP growth slowed from 3.3% in 2006 to 2.7% and is expected to fall to 1.9% in 2008.
France expanded by 1.8% Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.7 12 1 in 2007, Germany by 2.5%, the UK by 3.1% and Spain by 3.3%.
Antineoplastic Immunomodulatory 35.6 11 8 European Central Bank interest rates closed the year at 4%, up 0.5% Anti-infectives bacterial, 32.9 10 1 on the end of 2006.
UK rates started the year at 5%, rose in three viral and fungal excluding steps to 5.75% and fell back to 5.5% at the year-end while the vaccines FTSE 100 Index gained just 3.8%, its weakest annual performance Respiratory 22.1 7 2 since 2003.
Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2007 Exchange The currencies that most in uence the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
In 2007, the US dollar fell by 2% against Sterling, to $1.99 at the year-end.
The year-end rates for the Euro strengthened by 8% and the Japanese Yen by 5% against Sterling.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS World market Business review Products and competition Requip is a speci c dopamine D2 D3 receptor agonist indicated for the Both the prescription pharmaceutical treatment of Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome RLS.
and consumer healthcare industries are Anti-virals highly competitive.
Despite being the Combivir, a combination of Retrovir and Epivir, has consolidated the position of these two reverse transcriptase inhibitors as the second largest pharmaceutical company cornerstone of many multiple anti-HIV product regimens.
Physician in the world, GSK has only a 5.9% share acceptance has clearly demonstrated the value placed on minimising of the world market.
the pill burden faced by patients.
Ziagen is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
The products potency, Pharmaceutical products ease of use and resistance pro le allow it to play a signi cant role in a variety of highly active, well tolerated and simpli ed HIV GlaxoSmithKlines principal pharmaceutical products are currently directed treatment regimens.
to eight main therapeutic areas.
An analysis of sales by therapeutic area, with a description of the principal products, is set out below: Trizivir is a combination of Combivir and Ziagen, combining three anti-HIV therapies in one tablet, for twice-daily administration.
2007 2006 2005 m m m Turnover by therapeutic area Epzicom Kivexa, approved for use in the USA and Europe, is a Respiratory 5,032 4,995 5,054 combination of Epivir and Ziagen that is taken as one tablet with Central nervous system 3,348 3,642 3,219 once-daily dosing for HIV AIDS in combination with at least one Anti-virals 3,028 2,827 2,598 other anti-HIV drug.
Metabolic 1,514 1,875 1,495 Lexiva Telzir is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV that is well Vaccines 1,993 1,692 1,389 tolerated and more convenient than Agenerase, which it supersedes.
Cardiovascular and urogenital 1,554 1,636 1,331 Lexiva may be taken twice-daily or once-daily when boosted Anti-bacterials anti-malarials 1,330 1,369 1,519 with ritonavir.
Oncology and emesis 477 1,069 1,016 Other 957 973 1,040 Zef x has been approved for marketing in the USA, Europe, China and other markets for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.
19,233 20,078 18,661 Valtrex is a treatment for episodic genital herpes as well as the long Products and all their formulations may not be approved for all term suppression and reduction of transmission of genital herpes, indications in all markets where they are available.
zoster shingles, cold sores and chicken pox.
Valtrex supersedes Respiratory Zovirax, which is also used to treat herpes infections.
Seretide Advair, a combination of Serevent and Flixotide, offers Metabolic a long-acting bronchodilator and an anti-in ammatory in a single Avandia is a potent insulin sensitising agent which acts on the inhaler.
It is approved for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
underlying pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes.
Flixotide Flovent and Becotide Beclovent are inhaled steroids for the Avandamet is a combination of Avandia and metformin HCI that treatment of in ammation associated with asthma and COPD.
targets insulin resistance and decreases glucose production in one Serevent is a long-acting bronchodilator used to treat asthma and convenient pill.
COPD, and Ventolin is a selective short-acting bronchodilator used Avandaryl Avaglim is a combination of Avandia and Amaryl, a Sano - to treat bronchospasm.
Avandaryl Avaglym targets insulin resistance and Veramyst Avamys, Flixonase Flonase and Beconase are steroid intrastimulates pancreatic insulin production.
nasal preparations for the treatment of perennial and seasonal rhinitis.
Bonviva Boniva is a long-acting bisphosphonate available in onceCentral nervous system CNS monthly oral and quarterly injection forms for the treatment Seroxat Paxil is a selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor SSRI for the of osteoporosis co-promoted with Roche.
treatment of major depressive disorder, panic, obsessive compulsive Vaccines disorder, post traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder and GSK markets over 30 vaccines worldwide, of which more than half generalised anxiety disorder.
A controlled release formulation, Paxil are combination vaccines to protect children, adolescents and or CR, is available in the USA.
adults against up to six diseases at the same time.
Wellbutrin is an anti-depressant, available in the USA and many Infanrix is GSKs range of paediatric vaccine combinations.
Infanrix European and international markets in normal, sustained-release SR provides protection against diphtheria, tetanus and pertussis whooping and once-daily XL formulations.
Infanrix penta Europe Pediarix USA, Canada provides additional Imigran Imitrex is a 5HT1 receptor agonist used for the treatment protection against hepatitis B and polio.
Infanrix hexa adds protection of severe or frequent migraine and cluster headache and has become against Haemophilus in uenzae type b, which is a cause of meningitis.
the reference product in this sector.
Naramig Amerge is also a 5HT1 Boostrix is available to add protection against pertussis whopping cough receptor agonist indicated for the treatment of migraine.
to the routine tetanus diptheria booster administered to teenagers.
Lamictal, a well established treatment for epilepsy, is also indicated In GSKs hepatitis vaccines range, Havrix protects against hepatitis A for bipolar disorder.
32 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS World Market Business review Products and competition continued Twinrix is the only available combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, Fraxiparine is a low-molecular weight heparin indicated for prophylaxis protecting against both diseases with one vaccine and available in of thromboembolic disorders particularly deep vein thrombosis and both adult and paediatric strengths.
In Europe, FENDrix, a vaccine to pulmonary embolism in general surgery and in orthopedic surgery, prevent hepatitis B in patients with renal insuf ciency including hightreatment of deep vein thrombosis and prevention of clotting risk groups such as pre-haemodialysis and haemodialysis patients, is during haemodialysis.
available from 15 years of age onwards.
Integrilin is a GP IIb-IIIa inhibitor, approved in the EU for the prevention GSK added Fluviral to its portfolio of products when it acquired of early myocardial infarction in patients with unstable angina or the Canadian vaccine manufacturer ID Biomedical Corporation in non-Q-wave MI.
Fluviral is marketed in Canada and, following FDA Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials approval, the USA where it is approved for the active immunisation Augmentin is a broad-spectrum antibiotic suitable for the treatment of adults 18 years and older against in uenza disease under the of a wide range of common bacterial infections and is particularly brand FluLaval.
Fluviral and FluLaval add to Fluarix GSKs seasonal u effective against respiratory tract infections.
Augmentin ES-600 is vaccine, which is distributed in 79 countries including the USA.
an extra strength suspension speci cally designed to treat children GSK also markets Priorix, a measles, mumps and rubella vaccine, with recurrent or persistent middle ear infections.
Augmentin XR is Typherix, a vaccine for protection against typhoid fever, and Varilrix, an extended release formulation for the treatment of patients with a vaccine against varicella or chicken pox.
Priorix-Tetra, GSKs new community acquired pneumonia or acute bacterial sinusitis.
combination vaccine to prevent measles, mumps, rubella and Altabax Altargo, approved in 2007 for the topical treatment of varicella MMRV was first launched in Germany in August 2006. certain bacterial skin infections, represents the first new class of In addition, the Group markets a range of vaccines to prevent topical antibiotics approved by the FDA in nearly two decades.
meningitis under the umbrella name Mencevax.
GSKs new HibMenC vaccine, Menitorix is now available in the UK.
GSKs meningitis Ceftin Zinnat is an oral antibiotic used primarily for communityvaccine portfolio will be complemented by new meningitis conjugate acquired infections of the lower respiratory tract.
vaccines in the near future.
Malarone is an oral anti-malarial used for the treatment and As part of its paediatric franchise, GSK continued to roll out the prophylaxis of malaria caused by Plasmodium falciparum.
launch of its vaccine against rotavirus induced gastroenteritis, Oncology and emesis Rotarix, which is now launched in 90 countries worldwide.
Rotavirus Tykerb is an oral treatment for patients with advanced or metastatic vaccination has been included in the national vaccination calendar of breast cancer whose tumours overexpress HER2 and who have five Latin American countries where Rotarix will be available free at received prior therapy including an anthracycline, a taxane and public health clinics, as part of governmental paediatric immunisation trastuzumab.
Tykerb was approved in the USA in 2007 and is programmes.
Cardiovascular and urogenital Hycamtin is a second line treatment for ovarian, cervical and small Coreg is an alpha beta blocker which has been proven to be effective cell lung cancer.
in treating patients with mild, moderate and severe heart failure, heart attack or hypertension.
GSK has sole marketing rights in the Bexxar is a treatment for patients with CD20 follicular, nonUSA and Canada.
A controlled release formulation, Coreg CR is also Hodgkins lymphoma with and without transformation whose available in the USA.
Generic versions of Coreg are available in the disease is refractory to rituximab and who have relapsed following USA and Canada.
Levitra is a PDE-5 inhibitor indicated for male erectile dysfunction.
Arranon nelarabine a treatment for patients with T-cell acute GSK has co-promotion rights in the USA and more than 20 lymphoblastic leukaemia and T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma.
Zofran is used to prevent nausea and vomiting associated with Avodart is a 5-ARI inhibitor currently indicated for benign prostatic chemotherapy and radiotherapy for cancer, and is available in both hyperplasia.
A large clinical study is underway examining its ef cacy oral and injectable forms.
It is also approved for use in the prevention in reducing the risk of prostate cancer.
and treatment of post-operative nausea and vomiting.
Vesicare is an anti-muscarinic indicated for overactive bladder.
GSK has Other co-promotion rights with Astellas in the USA.
Its major competitors This category includes Betnovate, the higher potency Dermovate are Detrol LA, Ditropan XL generic oxybutynin, and Enablex.
and the newer Cutivate, which are topical anti-in ammatory steroid products used to treat skin diseases such as eczema and psoriasis, Arixtra, a selective Factor Xa inhibitor, is indicated for the treatment of Relafen, a non-steroidal anti-in ammatory drug for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis DVT and pulmonary embolism PE and for the arthritis, and Zantac, for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and a prevention of DVT and PE in patients undergoing major orthopaedic range of gastric acid related disorders.
surgery, abdominal surgery and acutely ill medical patients EU only.
Also in the EU, Arixtra is indicated for the treatment of patients with acute coronary unstable angina, NSTEMI and STEMI.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Products and competition Business review Products and competition continued Anti-virals Pharmaceuticals competition GSK is a pioneer in the HIV market, launching AZT Retrovir in 1987 The pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive.
GSKs principal and Epivir in 1995, which today are available as Combivir in a single competitors range from small to large pharmaceutical companies tablet, a cornerstone of HIV combination therapy.
The launches of often with substantial resources.
Some of these companies and their Ziagen, Agenerase, Trizivir, Lexiva and Epzicom have broadened the major products are mentioned below.
Groups portfolio of HIV products.
Major competitors in the HIV market include Gilead, Bristol Myers Squibb, Abbott, Roche and Pharmaceuticals may be subject to competition from other products Boehringer Ingelheim.
during the period of patent protection and, once off patent, from generic versions.
The manufacturers of generic products typically Valtrex has strengthened the Groups position in the anti-herpes do not bear signi cant research and development or education and area, where GSKs Valtrex and Zovirax compete with Novartis Famvir.
marketing development costs and consequently are able to offer their Valtrex is a market leader, whilst Zovirax faces competition from products at considerably lower prices than the branded competitors.
In the hepatitis B market, GSKs Zef x was the first A research and development based pharmaceutical company will anti-viral on the market.
Gileads Hepsera was the second.
The Group normally seek to achieve a suf ciently high pro t margin and sales has secured marketing rights to Hepsera in some key markets.
volume during the period of patent protection to repay the original Metabolic investment, which is generally substantial, and to fund research The major competitor for Avandia is Takeda Chemicals Actos, for the future.
Competition from generic products generally occurs whose co-promotion with Eli Lilly in the USA ended in 2007.
Takeda as patents in major markets expire.
Increasingly patent challenges are also market Actoplusmet Competact a combination of metformin made prior to patent expiry, claiming that the innovator patent is not HCI and Actos in the USA and some EU markets and DuetAct a valid and or that it is not infringed by the generic product.
Following combination of glimepiride and Actos in the USA.
the loss of patent protection, generic products rapidly capture a large share of the market, particularly in the USA.
Monthly Boniva Bonviva competes with Mercks weekly Fosamax and Proctor & Gamble SanoAventis twice-monthly Actonel, GSK believes that remaining competitive is dependent upon the and Novartis Reclast Aclasta which is dosed as an annual infusion.
discovery and development of new products, together with effective marketing of existing products.
Within the pharmaceutical industry, Generic Fosamax alendronate is now available in many markets, the introduction of new products and processes by competitors including the USA, UK, Germany and Canada.
may affect pricing levels or result in changing patterns of product Vaccines use.
There can be no assurance that products will not become The vaccine market is dominated by five key players.
GSKs major outmoded, notwithstanding patent or trademark protection.
In competitors are Sano Pasteur SP, Merck, Novartis and Wyeth.
addition, increased government and other pressures for physicians Within the paediatric vaccine eld, Infanrixs main competitor is SPs and patients to use generic pharmaceuticals, rather than brandrange of DTPa-based combination vaccines, although the Infanrix hexa name medicines, may increase competition for products that are no combination is the only available hexavalent paediatric combination in longer protected by patent.
Merck and the joint venture between Merck and SP in Europe market two new vaccines against rotavirus induced infection and HPV, Respiratory that respectively compete against Rotarix and Cervarix.
GSKs respiratory franchise is driven by the growth of Seretide Advair.
Major respiratory competitors are Singulair from Merck, especially Cardiovascular and urogenital in the USA, Symbicort from AstraZeneca and Spiriva from P zer GSK markets Coreg in the USA where its major competitors are Toprol XL Boehringer Ingelheim.
Avodart competes directly with Mercks Proscar within the BPH enlarged prostate market.
The Group has co-promotion CNS disorders rights in the USA for Levitra, which faces competition from P zers Viagra Major competitors in the USA to Paxil are its generic forms, as well and Lillys Cialis.
The major competitor for Arixtra is the low molecular as generic uoxetine, the generic form of Eli Lillys Prozac, generic weight heparin enoxaparin, a product marketed by SanoAventis.
sertraline, the generic form of P zers Zoloft, Cymbalta from Eli Lilly, Forest Laboratories Celexa and Lexapro, and Effexor XR from Wyeth.
Anti-bacterials and anti-malarials The principal competitors in the USA for Wellbutrin are generic forms Generic versions of both Augmentin and Ceftin Zinnat are available of bupropion, the generic forms of SSRIs, Lexapro, Effexor XR, and in the USA.
Augmentin also faces generic competition in various Cymbalta.
Generic competition for Seroxat Paxil has also occurred in European countries.
Augmentin XR and Augmentin ES compete a number of other markets.
against a broad range of other branded and generic antibiotics.
Malarones safety pro le and convenient dosing regimen have The major competitors for Lamictal in epilepsy are J&Js Dilantin helped put this product in a strong position versus me oquine for and generic phenytoin, Novartis egretol Tegretol XR and generic malaria prophylaxis.
UCBs Keppra and Abbots Depakote Depakote ER.
In bipolar the major competitors are generic lithium, other Altabax Altargo competes in the topical antibiotic market against a anti-epileptics including Abbotts Depakote Depakote ER and the number of generic competitors, including generic mupirocin and atypical anti-psychotics including AstraZenecas Seroquel.
Altabax Altargos offers less frequent and shorter duration competitors for Imitrex Imigran are AstraZenecas Zomig, Mercks of therapy and lack of cross resistance to other established classes of Maxalt and P zers Relpax.
34 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Products and competition Business review Products and competition continued Oncology and emesis Over-the-counter medicines Major competitors in the diverse therapeutic market include Roche The leading products are Panadol, a widely available paracetamol Genentech, Novartis, SanoAventis and Bristol Myers Squibb.
acetaminophen analgesic, Nicorette gum in the USA, the NicoDerm, GSKs therapeutic portfolio led by the recently approved Tykerb and NiQuitin CQ and Nicabate range of smoking control products, Tums, Hycamtin, currently holds a relatively small market position.
Zofran a calcium-based antacid, Citrucel laxative, Contac for the treatment provided GSK with a leadership position in the anti-emetic market of colds, Abtei, a natural medicines and vitamin range, and Zovirax where competitor companies include Roche, MGI and Merck.
and Abreva for the treatment of cold sores.
Recent additions to the Generic competitors became available late in 2006. portfolio include Breathe Right nasal strips that gently lift open nasal passages to provide better breathing, and FiberChoice daily bre Consumer Healthcare products supplements, through the acquisition of CNS, Inc. in 2006, and the switch of orlistat from prescription-only status in the United States to GlaxoSmithKlines principal consumer healthcare products are in three over-the-counter, marketed as the weight control product, alli.
An analysis of sales by these areas is set out below: Oral care 2007 2006 2005 The leading Oral care products are toothpastes and mouthwashes m m m under the Aquafresh, Odol, Sensodyne and Macleans brand names, OTC medicines 1,718 1,496 1,437 and a range of toothbrushes sold under the Aquafresh and Dr Best Oral care 1,049 993 943 names.
In addition, denture care products are available principally Nutritional healthcare 716 658 619 under the Polident, Poligrip and Corega brand names.
3,483 3,147 2,999 Nutritional healthcare The leading products in this category are Lucozade energy and sports Major products, which are not necessarily sold in all markets, are: drinks, Ribena, a blackcurrant juice-based drink, and Horlicks, a range Category Product of milk-based malted food and chocolate drinks.
Over-the-counter medicines Consumer Healthcare competition Analgesics Panadol Dermatologicals Zovirax GSK holds leading global positions in all its key consumer product Abreva areas.
Worldwide it is the third largest in Oral care and in OTC External nasal dilators Breathe Right medicines.
In Nutritional healthcare it holds the leading position in Gastro-intestinal Tums the UK, India and Ireland.
Citrucel The environment in which the Consumer Healthcare business Respiratory tract Contac operates has become ever more challenging: Beechams consumers are demanding better quality, better value and Smoking control Commit improved performance Nicorette NicoDerm CQ retailers have consolidated and globalised which has strengthened NiQuitin CQ their negotiation power Nicabate CQ manufacturers are consolidating, leading to more aggressive Natural wellness support Abtei competition across all elements of the marketing mix FiberChoice cycle times for innovation have reduced.
Weight control alli Oral healthcare Aquafresh The main competitors include the major international companies Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, Unilever Dr Best and Wyeth.
In addition, there are many other companies that Macleans compete with GSK in certain markets.
Odol Polident The major competitor products in OTC medicines are: Poligrip in the USA: Metamucil laxative, Pepcid indigestion and private Sensodyne label smoking control products Nutritional healthcare Lucozade in the UK: Lemsip cold remedy, Nurofen and Anadin analgesics, Ribena and Nicorette and Nicotinell smoking control treatments.
Horlicks In Oral care the major competitors are Colgate-Palmolives Colgate and Procter & Gambles Crest.
In Nutritional healthcare the major competitors to Horlicks are Ovaltine and Milo malted food and chocolate drinks.
The competitors to Ribena are primarily local fruit juice products, while Lucozade competes with other energy drinks.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 35 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Products and competition Business review Financial review 2007 CNS GSK turnover grew 2% in 2007, and CNS sales decreased 2% to 3.3 billion.
Sales decreased in the USA and Europe, re ecting generic competition to Seroxat Paxil business performance EPS grew 10% to in both regions.
International sales grew 6% which included 4% 99.1p.
The dividend was raised 10% to 53p.
Total Seroxat Paxil sales declined 6% to Share repurchases were 3.8 billion in 2007, 553 million.
Total Wellbutrin sales declined 37% to 529 million, with a further 6 billion expected in 2008. owing to US generic competition to Wellbutrin SR IR and Wellbutrin XL 300mg tablet.
Pharmaceutical turnover Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, grew 18% to 1.1 billion, driven by sales in the USA which were up All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant 26% to 892 million, benefiting from its new indication.
Lamictal is exchange rates CER unless otherwise stated.
Sterling growth rates may also the only medicine with long-term clinical data that demonstrates be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area that it can delay the onset of depressive episodes of bipolar disorder.
on page 37 and by geographic region on page 38.
Total pharmaceutical GSK expects to respond to the US FDAs approvable letter for Lamictal turnover in 2007 was 19,233 million compared with 20,078 million XR in the middle of 2008. in 2006, in line with 2006 turnover at CER.
In sterling terms total pharmaceutical turnover decreased 4%, four percentage points less than Sales of Requip, for Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome CER, principally due to the strength of Sterling against the US dollar.
Requip XL, a new once-daily formulation for Parkinsons disease, has now been approved in 13 Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area European countries and launched in seven markets.
Further European approvals are anticipated during 2008.
In the USA, GSK expects a GSKs turnover in 2007 was in line with 2006 as high-value growth response from the FDA on its application for Requip XL during the products were offset by lower Avandia sales and US generic first half of 2008. competition to Coreg IR, Flonase, Wellbutrin XL and Zofran.
The high-value growth products included Seretide Advair, vaccines, Anti-virals Lamictal, Valtrex, Requip, Avodart and Boniva.
Total sales of HIV products were 1.4 billion, down 1%.
Competition to older products, Combivir down 10% to 455 million and Epivir Respiratory down 20% to 156 million, was largely offset by strong sales growth GSK continues to be a global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals of new products Epzicom Kivexa, which grew 39% to 324 million with sales of its three key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent and Lexiva Agenerase, up 13% to 141 million.
and Serevent amounting to 4.4 billion, up 8%.
Total sales of Seretide Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 10% to 3.5 billion.
In Sales of Valtrex, for herpes, rose 18% to 934 million, with US sales the USA, sales grew 9% to 1.9 billion.
In Europe sales grew 9% to up 20% to 668 million driven by increased use of the product for 1.2 billion and in International markets sales grew 23% to 372 prevention of disease transmission.
Sales in Europe grew 9% to million, enhanced by its launch in Japan in June.
120 million and in International grew 13% to 146 million.
Sales of Relenza, an antiviral treatment for u, were 262 million 2006 Market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD therapy class 91 million, driven primarily by one-off government orders for was 29% in Europe and 31% in the USA.
Market share by value for Seretide Advair Metabolic In 2007, sales of the Avandia product group, for type 2 diabetes, declined 40% 22% to 1.2 billion.
In the USA sales fell 29% to 780 million, with 33 31 29 29 fourth quarter sales down 55% to 130 million following publication of 30% an article in the New England Journal of Medicine.
This article suggested that there may be cardiovascular risk associated with Avandia.
Despite 20% GSKs efforts, doctors became reluctant to start new patients on Avandia 10% without further guidance from the FDA.
Following clari cation from the FDA in October, there is now a new approved label for Avandia.
Outside the USA, sales in Europe grew 4% for the year to 227 million, and in Europe USA International markets, sales declined 7% to 212 million.
September 2006 September 2007 GSK recorded in turnover a 161 million share of co-promotion GSK continues to see increased use of Seretide Advair in the treatment income for Boniva Bonviva, a once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for of COPD and is in ongoing discussions with the FDA to expand the the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis.
indication for use in this patient group, including assessment of data Vaccines supporting a claim for reduction of exacerbations.
Vaccine sales increased 20% to 2.0 billion, with good performances in all regions: US sales rose 44% to 628 million: European sales grew 14% to 814 million and sales in International were up 8% to 551 million.
Sales of hepatitis vaccines grew 14% to 529 million, driven by US growth of 33%.
Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages 168 to 171.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2007 Business review Financial review 2007 continued Infanrix Pediarix grew 9% to 543 million, again driven by US growth Sales and constant exchange rate growth by region of 23%.
Sales of the new two-dose vaccine, Rotarix, to prevent rotavirus gastroenteritis, doubled to 91 million, with strong growth m in both Europe and International.
Sales of Cervarix, GSKs vaccine to 25,000 prevent cervical cancer, were 10 million.
It has been approved in 20,078 over 50 countries and licensing applications have been submitted in 19,233 20,000 4,178 28 countries including Japan.
GSKs pre-pandemic in uenza vaccine 6% CER 4,268 achieved sales of 146 million.
Discussions regarding further orders growth 15,000 continue with a number of governments.
5,547 2% CER 5,692 growth Cardiovascular and urogenital 10,000 10,353 Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, fell 18% to 587 million, following the 3% CER 9,273 introduction of US generic competition to Coreg IR in September.
Sales decline 5,000 of Coreg CR, which was launched in March 2007, were 88 million.
Avodart, for benign prostatic hyperplasia enlarged prostate, continued 0 to perform strongly with sales up 38% to 285 million.
Positive data 2006 2007 from the CombAT study, assessing use of Avodart and the alphaUSA Europe International blocker, tamsulosin, as combination therapy, were recently published in the Journal of Urology.
GSK has led for a co-prescription indication in the USA, Europe and some International markets.
A response is Individual governments determine the pricing of medicines in most expected from the FDA during the second quarter of 2008. countries within Europe, which can result in wide price variations for Anti-bacterials the same product.
Parallel trade occurs when third parties exploit this Anti-bacterial sales declined 1% to 1,330 million reecting generic price differential by purchasing products in markets where low prices competition in all regions.
are enforced and selling them to governments and other purchasers in those markets where higher prices have been agreed.
This parallel trade is Oncology and emesis permitted under the single market rules in the European Union.
GSK does Tykerb achieved sales of 51 million in its first year, 36 million of which not derive any benefit from the profit on resale at the higher price.
arose in the USA following its launch in March.
Sales of Zofran declined 77% to 196 million, re ecting generic competition in the USA, Europe As a result, management believes that within the European region, and International where sales declined 88%, 34% and 21% respectively.
turnover by market, on an invoiced basis as presented above, does not properly represent the consumption of the products within each Other therapeutic areas market.
GSK employees based in each market are instrumental in Sales of Zantac fell 24% to 168 million, with declines in all regions.
the promotion of the Groups products within their market, thereby Regional analysis creating a product sale and final consumption in that market.
Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2007 on The following table gives the adjustments made in order to restate an invoiced basis the turnover for markets within Europe on a turnover created basis.
The turnover reported in the table below represents sales invoiced Pharmaceutical turnover for Europe region in 2007 on a by GSKs local entity to its customers in the local market plus coturnover created basis promotion income within each market.
Management believes that this turnover created Asia Paci c 1,441 1,377 6 5 basis of reporting turnover by market provides a better reection of Japan 867 860 10 1 the performance of the businesses in each market within Europe.
Middle East, Africa 774 744 7 4 Latin America 709 714 4 1 The total turnover for the Europe region is unaffected by this Canada 477 483 2 1 restatement.
100 19,233 20,078 0 4 Parallel trade occurs occasionally elsewhere in the world, but it is not sufciently material to affect signicantly the turnover data by CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth market presented on an invoiced basis.
38 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2007 Business review Financial review 2007 continued Pharmaceutical turnover by geographic region in 2007 on a Europe turnover created basis The discussion of individual market performance in the Europe region Turnover by market within Europe has been adjusted for the effects of is on a turnover created basis.
parallel trade to show turnover on the basis of the country where the Sales in Europe contributed 30% of pharmaceutical turnover and product is nally consumed, not where the product was sold by GSK.
grew 2% to 5.7 billion, with strong sales of Seretide and vaccines Region % of 2007 2006 Growth offsetting the impact of generic competition to a number of products major markets total m m CER% % and continued price cuts resulting from government healthcare USA 48 9,273 10,353 3 10 reforms.
Europe 30 5,692 5,547 23 All major markets recorded growth with the exception of Italy, France 948 901 5 5 which was adversely impacted by pricing restrictions and generic UK 923 888 4 4 competition.
Major growth drivers were Seretide, GSKs largest Italy 606 639 6 5 selling product in Europe, with growth of 9%, and the vaccines Germany 689 664 3 4 franchise, up 14%.
Spain 593 563 5 5 Generic competition adversely impacted sales of Seroxat, down Other Europe 1,933 1,892 1 2 19%, Lamictal, down 18%, Zofran, down 34% and Imigran, down 25%.
Sales of anti-bacterials decreased 3% due to a combination of International 22 4,268 4,178 62 a weaker u season than in 2006 and generic competition.
Middle East, Africa 774 744 7 4 International Latin America 709 714 4 1 The International region reported year on year turnover growth of Canada 477 483 2 1 6%.
Faster growing markets included Japan, up 10%, China, up 100 19,233 20,078 4 24% and Middle East Africa, up 7%, while there was more modest CER% represents growth at constant exchange rates.
% represents growth at sales growth of 2% in Canada, 3% in Australia and 4% in Latin actual exchange rates.
Turnover by quarter is given in the Financial record on pages America.
The Canadian sales performance reected lower sales of 168 to 171.
Avandia and generic competition for Zofran whilst the Australian USA business was adversely impacted by government pricing and lower Sales in the USA declined 3% to 9.3 billion, re ecting generic government orders for Relenza.
competition to Wellbutrin, Zofran, Flonase and Coreg IR which The good performance in Japan was driven by the launch in the year declined 38%, 88%, 60% and 31% respectively and a decline in of Adoair and strong demand for Relenza.
These were partially offset the sales of Avandia products, partly offset by growth in sales of by declines in the older products Zantac and Zovirax.
Advair, anti-virals, vaccines, Lamictal and Requip.
Across the remaining markets in International, the key products Sales of the Avandia product group declined 29% following the driving growth were Seretide, which grew 23% to record sales of publication of an article in the New England Journal of Medicine in May, 372 million, Valtrex which grew 13% to 146 million, the vaccines which suggested there may be a cardiovascular risk associated with franchise, which recorded growth of 8% and achieved sales of 551 Avandia.
Following clari cation from the FDA in October, there is now a million, and the HIV products which grew 5% to 193 million.
new approved label for Avandia.
The Avandia range of products declined 7% to 212 million, with Advair sales grew 9% to 1,891 million owing to the increased use declines in Canada and Korea, partly offset by growth in Australia.
Sales in the anti-virals therapeutic area grew 19% to 1,494 million Consumer Healthcare sales with herpes products up 20% and HIV products down 2%.
Within HIV, An analysis of Consumer Healthcare sales is set out in the competition to older products, Combivir down 11% and Epivir down following table: 16%, was partly offset by the growth of new products Epzicom Kivexa up 2007 2006 Growth 23% and Lexiva up 14%.
Valtrex, for herpes, grew 20% to 668 million, m m CER% % driven by patients switching to suppression therapy.
Sales of Relenza, an OTC medicines 1,718 1,496 20 15 anti-viral treatment for u, were 131 million, primarily driven by one-off Analgesics 410 380 11 8 government orders for stockpiling against a possible u pandemic.
Dermatological 175 165 10 6 Vaccines grew 44% to 628 million reecting the good performance Gastro-intestinal 262 252 9 4 of the Hepatitis family of products, Pediarix, Fluarix Flulaval and the Respiratory tract 244 172 45 42 launch of Boostrix.
Smoking control 314 353 6 11 Natural wellness support 125 132 3 5 Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, Weight management 150 grew 26% to 892 million, benefiting from its new indication to treat one of the most serious forms of epilepsy primary generalised Oral care 1,049 99386 tonic-clonic seizures.
Nutritional healthcare 716 65899 Sales of Requip, for Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome 3,483 3,147 14 11 RLS, grew 46% to 238 million following launch of the RLS indication in 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 39 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2007 Business review Financial review 2007 continued OTC medicines Research and development Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 20% to 1.7 billion, with R&D expenditure declined 1% and included charges related to the new Panadol up 14% to 262 million and alli sales of 150 million since Operational Excellence programme of 90 million 2006 nil.
The launch in the USA in June.
Smoking control products declined 6% bene t arose from lower impairment charges and the winding-down of to 314 million due to strong competition in the US market.
Excluding these items, R&D expenditure Right and FiberChoice, added to the portfolio with the acquisition declined 2% on last year.
Pharmaceutical R&D expenditure represented of CNS in December 2006, achieved combined sales of 81 million.
Oral care Other operating income Oral care sales grew 8% to over 1 billion.
Sales of Aquafresh were Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment up 12% to 308 million, helped by the success of the new Aquafresh disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value White Trays.
Sensodyne also grew strongly, up 16% for the year to adjustments to financial instruments.
Other operating income was 293 million, driven by a successful launch of Sensodyne ProNamel.
The increase is primarily due to higher royalty income 216 million in 2007 compared with Nutritional healthcare 94 million in 2006, favourable fair value movements on financial Nutritional healthcare product sales grew 9% to 716 million.
instruments 41 million in 2007 compared with 29 million in Lucozade grew 16% to 347 million, and Horlicks grew 12% to 2006, and the Roche litigation settlement relating to carvedilol, 174 million.
Ribena sales were down 7% to 156 million.
partially offset by lower asset disposal pro ts.
Operating pro t total results Operating pro t Overall, the operating profit margin decreased 0.2 percentage points Total results include restructuring costs related to the new Operational as operating profit decreased 3% in sterling terms to 7,593 million.
Excellence programme, which commenced in October 2007.
Operating profit increased 3% at constant exchange rates and the 2007 2006 Growth CER margin increased 0.5 percentage points, reecting at SG&A m % m % CER% % expenditure and higher other operating income, partially offset by Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 2 an increase in cost of sales.
Cost of sales 5,317 23.4 5,010 21.6 8 6 In the year, gains from asset disposals were 109 million 169 million Selling, general in 2006, costs for legal matters were 255 million 333 million in and administration 6,954 30.6 7,257 31.2 4 2006, fair value movements on financial instruments resulted in Research and an income of 41 million income of 29 million in 2006, charges development 3,327 14.7 3,457 14.9 1 4 related to old restructuring activity were 92 million 205 million Other operating in 2006 and charges related to the new Operational Excellence income 475 2.1 307 1.3 programme were 338 million 2006 nil.
The total operating pro t impact of these items was a 535 million charge in 2007 340 Operating pro t 7,593 33.4 7,808 33.6 3 3 million charge in 2006.
Cost of sales Pro t before taxation total results Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.8 percentage points.
At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage Net finance costs of turnover increased by 1.3 percentage points, re ecting charges 2007 2006 m m related to the new Operational Excellence programme of 111 Finance income million 2006 nil and unfavourable product and regional mixes Interest and other finance income 255 285 compared with 2006.
Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2 Selling, general and administration 262 287 Selling, general and administration SG&A costs as a percentage of turnover reduced 0.6 percentage points.
At constant exchange rates, Finance costs the decrease was 0.7 percentage points, reecting at expenditure Interest costs 432 314 compared with the prior year on a turnover growth of 2%.
SG&A Unwinding of discount on liabilities 27 36 costs included charges related to the new Operational Excellence Fair value adjustments and hedges 6 2 programme of 137 million 2006 nil.
Advertising and promotion increased by 2%, selling and distribution increased by 2%, and 453 352 general and administration expenditure declined 5%.
Finance costs increased owing to increased levels of debt to finance the share buy-back programme.
40 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2007 Business review Financial review 2007 continued Share of after tax pro ts of associates and joint ventures Selling, general and administration The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Groups Selling, general and administration SG&A costs as a percentage of holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. turnover reduced 1.2 percentage points and at constant exchange rates, the decrease was 1.3 percentage points, reecting a 2% decline profit before taxation total results in expenditure compared with prior year on a turnover growth of Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from 2%.
SG&A costs were down 2% due to lower selling and general associates, total pro t before taxation was 7,452 million compared and administration expenditure partly offset by higher advertising and with 7,799 million in 2006, an increase of 2% at constant exchange promotion.
Advertising and promotion increased 2% and accounted for rates, but a 4% sterling decline.
less than a 1% increase in total SG&A.
Selling and distribution declined 1% and general and administration expenditure declined 7%.
Collectively Operational Excellence these items accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of which one In October 2007, GSK announced a signi cant new 1.5 billion percentage point was due to lower charges related to legal matters.
Operational Excellence programme to improve the effectiveness and Research and development productivity of its operations.
R&D expenditure decreased 3% partly as a result of lower impairment This new programme is expected to deliver annual pre-tax savings charges and the winding-down of previous restructuring activities.
GSK expects to realise the majority of Excluding these items, R&D expenditure was at.
Pharmaceutical R&D annual savings within the first two years of the programme, with expenditure represented 16.2% 2006 16.7% of pharmaceutical approximately 350 million expected by 2008 and 550 million by turnover.
These savings will partly mitigate the expected impact to 2008 Other operating income earnings from generic competition and lower Avandia sales and the Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment associated adverse impact on GSKs gross margin.
One-off charges of disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value 338 million before tax relating to the programme were recorded in adjustments to financial instruments.
There were no signi cant acquisition-related restructuring 475 million in 2007 2006 307 million.
The increase is primarily costs incurred in 2006 or 2007. due to higher royalty income 216 million in 2007 compared with Because of the signi cance of this new programme, a columnar 94 million in 2006, favourable fair value movements on financial presentation has been adopted in the income statement in order to instruments 41 million in 2007 compared with 29 million in illustrate GSKs underlying performance in 2007.
The analysis below of 2006, and the Roche litigation settlement relating to carvedilol, operating pro t and the subsequent discussion excludes restructuring partially offset by lower asset disposal pro ts.
costs related to the new Operational Excellence programme, which Operating profit commenced in October 2007.
Management believes that exclusion of Overall, the operating profit margin increased 1.3 percentage points these items provides a more useful re ection of the way in which the as operating profit increased 2% in sterling terms to 7,931 million.
business is managed, and accordingly this supplemental information Operating profit increased 8% at constant exchange rates and the is provided in addition to that contained in the consolidated income margin increased 2 percentage points, reecting declines in SG&A statement on page 90 prepared in accordance with IFRS.
and R&D expenditure on turnover growth of 2%, and higher other operating income.
Operating profit business performance In the year, gains from asset disposals were 109 million 2006 2007 2006 Growth 169 million, costs for legal matters were 255 million 2006 333 m % m % CER% % million, fair value movements on financial instruments resulted in an Turnover 22,716 100.0 23,225 100.0 2 2 income of 41 million 2006 29 million and charges related to Cost of sales 5,206 22.9 5,010 21.6 6 4 old restructuring activity were 92 million 2006 205 million.
The Selling, general operating pro t impact of these items was a 197 million charge in and administration 6,817 30.0 7,257 31.2 2 6 2007 2006 340 million.
Research and development 3,237 14.3 3,457 14.9 3 6 profit before taxation business performance Other operating Net finance costs income 475 2.1 307 1.3 2007 2006 m m Operating pro t 7,931 34.9 7,808 33.6 8 2 Finance income Interest and other income 255 285 Cost of sales Fair value adjustments and hedges 7 2 Cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 1.3 percentage 262 287 points.
At constant exchange rates, cost of sales as a percentage of turnover increased by 0.8 percentage points, re ecting unfavourable Finance costs product and regional mix.
Interest costs 432 314 Unwinding of discount on liabilities 27 36 Fair value adjustments and hedges 6 2 453 352 GSK Annual Report 2007 I 41 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2007 Business review Financial review 2007 continued Share of after tax profits of associates and joint ventures GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing The share of profits of associates arises principally from the Groups methodology and in seeking to manage transfer pricing and other holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. taxation issues to a satisfactory conclusion and, on the basis of external professional advice, continues to believe that it has made profit before taxation business performance adequate provision for the liabilities likely to arise from open Taking account of net finance costs and the contribution from assessments.
The ultimate liability for such matters may vary from the associates, business performance pro t before taxation was 7,790 amounts provided and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation million compared with 7,799 million in 2006, an increase of 6% proceedings and negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
CER, but at in sterling terms.
Pro t for the year Taxation 2007 2006 Growth 2007 2006 m m CER% % m m Total pro t after taxation UK corporation tax 452 400 for the year 5,310 5,498 3 3 Overseas taxation 1,962 2,310 Total pro t attributable to Current taxation 2,414 2,710 shareholders 5,214 5,389 3 3 Deferred taxation 272 409 Basic earnings per share pence 94.4p 95.5p 5 1 Basic earnings per ADS US$ $3.77 $3.53 2,142 2,301 Business performance pro t after The charge for taxation on total pro t amounting to 2,142 million, taxation for the year 5,571 5,498 8 1 represents an effective tax rate of 28.7% 2006 29.5%.
The charge Business performance pro t for taxation on business performance pro t, amounting to 2,219 attributable to shareholders 5,475 5,389 8 2 million, represents an effective tax rate of 28.5% 2006 29.5%.
The Adjusted earnings per share pence 99.1p 95.5p 10 4 Group balance sheet at 31st December 2007 included a tax payable Adjusted earnings per ADS US$ $3.96 $3.53 liability of 826 million and a tax recoverable asset of 58 million.
Weighted average number The Groups main open tax issues are in the UK, USA, Canada and of shares millions 5,524 5,643 Japan.
Diluted total earnings per share pence 93.7p 94.5p GSK continues to be in dispute with HM Revenue & Customs Diluted total earnings per ADS US$ $3.75 $3.50 HMRC primarily in respect of transfer pricing and Controlled Weighted average number Foreign Companies CFC matters for the years 1994 to date.
HMRC of shares millions 5,567 5,700 have not yet formalised claims in respect of these matters and GSK is seeking to resolve them in discussions with HMRC.
There continues, Total results including restructuring costs related to the new however, to be a wide difference between the Group and HMRC Operational Excellence programme produced a basic EPS of 94.4p positions, which may ultimately have to be settled by litigation.
This was a 5% increase in CER terms compared with 2006, but a 1% decline in sterling terms.
Following its audit of the period 2001 to 2003, the US Internal Revenue Service IRS has in Notices of Proposed Adjustment challenged Business performance pro t for the year was 5,571 million, an increase deductions arising from intercompany nancing arrangements for of 8% 1% in sterling terms.
profit attributable to minority interests those years, with which GSK disagrees and which it will vigorously was 96 million and profit attributable to shareholders was 5,475 contest.
GSK estimates that the IRS claim for tax and interest at 31st million, an increase of 8% 2% in sterling terms.
The interest cost of December 2007, net of federal tax relief for these years, is $680 the share buy-back programme adversely impacts the Groups pro ts million.
GSK believes, supported by external professional advice, but bene ts EPS.
Business performance EPS increased 10%, reecting that this claim has no merit and that no adjustment is warranted.
higher profits and also the reduction in the weighted average number If, contrary to GSKs view, the IRS prevailed in its argument before a of shares resulting from the Groups share buy-back programme.
court, GSK would expect to have an additional liability for the four At actual rates of exchange, earnings per share increased 4%.
The year unaudited period 2004-2007 proportionate to its liability for the unfavourable currency impact on EPS of six percentage points reected three year audited period 2001-2003.
In the event that GSK is not a strengthening of Sterling against the US dollar and compared with a able to resolve this issue with the IRS, a court decision would not be four percentage point unfavourable currency impact on turnover.
expected before 2010. Dividend Lower courts in Japan have upheld claims by the tax authorities for The Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of 16 pence per share Yen 39 billion 177 million relating to Japanese CFC legislation.
GSK resulting in a dividend for the year of 53 pence, a five pence increase has paid and fully provided for the full tax but is pursuing a claim for over the dividend of 48 pence per share for 2006.
The equivalent refund to the Japanese Supreme Court.
In Canada a court hearing in fourth interim dividend receivable by ADR holders is 62.7264 cents respect of transfer pricing in the early 1990s was completed in July per ADS based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.9602.
GSK is still awaiting the courts judgement.
date will be 13th February 2008, with a record date of 15th February 2008 and a payment date of 10th April 2008.
42 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2007 Business review Financial review 2007 continued Where there is historical experience of customer returns, GSK Critical accounting policies records an accrual for estimated sales returns by applying historical The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance experience of customer returns to the amounts invoiced, together with IFRS, as adopted for use in the European Union, and also with with market related information such as stock levels at wholesalers, IFRS as issued by the IASB, following the accounting policies approved anticipated price increases and competitor activity.
by the Board and described in Note 2 to the financial statements, A reconciliation of gross turnover to net turnover for the US Accounting policies.
Management is required to make estimates pharmaceuticals business is as follows: and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses reported in the financial statements.
Actual amounts 2007 2006 2005 and results could differ from those estimates.
The critical accounting m % m % m % policies adopted relate to the following areas: Gross turnover 11,826 100 13,131 100 11,875 100 Turnover Chargebacks 917 8 846 6 786 7 Taxation Managed care, GPO Legal and other disputes rebates and Medicare Impairment of property, plant & equipment Part D 727 6 912 7 686 6 Intangible assets US government and state programmes 481 4 507 4 775 6 Pensions and other post-employment bene ts Cash discounts 208 2 248 2 227 2 Information on the judgements and estimates made in these areas Customer returns 131 1 140 1 155 1 is given in Note 3 to the financial statements, Key accounting Prior year adjustments 73 69 34 judgements and estimates.
Other items 162 1 194 1 174 1 In respect of the Turnover accounting policy, the Groups largest Total deductions 2,553 22 2,778 21 2,769 23 business is US pharmaceuticals, and the US market has the most Net turnover 9,273 78 10,353 79 9,106 77 complex arrangements for rebates, discounts and allowances.
The following brie y describes the nature of the arrangements in Chargebacks have increased in 2007 as a result of signi cant sales existence in the Groups US pharmaceuticals business.
of product into US government stockpiles.
Customer rebates have fallen compared with 2006 as a result of products with traditionally GSK has arrangements with certain indirect customers whereby the higher rebate percentages becoming subject to generic competition customer is able to buy products from wholesalers at reduced prices.
A and being replaced with sales of newer products with lower rebate chargeback represents the difference between the invoice price to the percentages.
wholesaler and the indirect customers contractual discounted price.
Accruals for estimating chargebacks are calculated based on the terms The total accruals for rebates, discounts, allowances and returns in of each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates.
the US pharmaceuticals business were as follows: Customer rebates are offered to key managed care and group At 31st At 31st December December purchasing organisations GPO and other direct and indirect 2007 2006 customers.
These arrangements require the customer to achieve m m certain performance targets relating to value of product purchased, Chargebacks 38 50 formulary status or pre-determined market shares relative to Managed care, GPO and competitors.
Rebates given under Medicare, Part D are included in Medicare, Part D rebates 340 435 this category.
The Medicare, Part D programme was introduced in US government and state programmes 240 283 2006 and replaced the Government Medicaid subsidies for some Cash discounts 21 24 individuals with subsidised coverage provided through private Customer returns 194 184 prescription plans.
The accrual for these rebates is estimated based Other 37 69 on the speci c terms in each agreement, historical experience and product growth rates.
Total 870 1,045 The US Medicaid programme is a state-administered programme A monthly process is operated to monitor inventory levels at providing assistance to certain poor and vulnerable patients.
In wholesalers for any abnormal movements.
This process uses gross 1990, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program was established to sales volumes, prescription volumes based on third party data sources reduce state and federal expenditure on prescription drugs.
GSK and information received from key wholesalers.
The aim of this is to participates by providing rebates to states.
Accruals for Medicaid maintain inventories at a consistent level from year to year based rebates are calculated based on the speci c terms of individual on the pattern of consumption.
On this basis, US pharmaceutical state agreements using a combination of historical experience, inventory levels at wholesalers and in other distribution channels at product and population growth, anticipated price increases and 31st December 2007 were estimated to amount to approximately the impact of contracting strategies.
This calculation uses third party information, the accuracy of which cannot be totally veri ed, but is believed to be Cash discounts are offered to customers to encourage prompt suf ciently reliable for this purpose.
These are accrued for at the time of invoicing and adjusted subsequently to re ect actual experience.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 43 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2007 Business review Financial position and resources continued Property, plant and equipment Financial position GSKs business is science-based, technology-intensive and highly 2007 2006 regulated by governmental authorities.
The Group allocates m m significant financial resources to the renewal and maintenance of its Assets property, plant and equipment to minimise risks of interruption of Non-current assets production and to achieve compliance with regulatory standards.
A Property, plant and equipment 7,821 6,930 number of its processes use chemicals and hazardous materials.
1,370 Goodwill 758 The total cost of the Groups property, plant and equipment at 31st Other intangible assets 4,456 3,293 December 2007 was 15,087 million, with a net book value of 7,821 Investments in associates and joint ventures 329 295 million.
Of this, land and buildings represented 2,978 million, plant 517 Other investments 441 and equipment 2,968 million and assets in construction 1,875 Deferred tax assets 2,196 2,123 million.
In 2007, GSK invested 1,583 million in new and renewal Derivative financial instruments 1 113 property, plant and equipment.
This is mainly related to a large 687 608 Other non-current assets number of projects for the renewal, improvement and expansion of Total non-current assets 17,377 14,561 facilities at various worldwide sites.
Property is mainly held freehold.
New investment is nanced from Group liquid resources.
At 31st Current assets December 2007, GSK had capital contractual commitments for future Inventories 3,062 2,437 expenditure of 597 million and 2008 operating lease commitments 58 Current tax recoverable 186 of 360 million.
GSK believes that its facilities are adequate for its Trade and other receivables 5,495 5,237 current needs.
Derivative financial instruments 475 80 The Group observes stringent procedures and uses specialist skills 1,153 Liquid investments 1,035 to manage environmental risks from these activities.
Environmental Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005 issues, sometimes dating from operations now modied or Assets held for sale 4 12 discontinued, are reported under Responsibility for environment, Total current assets 13,626 10,992 health and safety page 29 and in Note 44 to the financial Total assets 31,003 25,553 statements, Legal proceedings.
Goodwill Liabilities Goodwill has increased during the year from 758 million at 31st Current liabilities December 2006 to 1,370 million.
The increase re ects the goodwill Short-term borrowings 3,504 718 arising on the acquisition of Reliant Pharmaceuticals of 350 million 4,861 Trade and other payables 4,831 and Domantis of 181 million as well as a strengthening of overseas Derivative financial instruments 262 40 currencies on the translation of existing foreign currency goodwill Current tax payable 826 621 balances.
892 Short-term provisions 1,055 Other intangible assets Total current liabilities 10,345 7,265 Other intangible assets include the cost of intangibles acquired from Non-current liabilities third parties and computer software.
The net book value of other Long-term borrowings 7,067 4,772 intangible assets as at 31st December 2007 was 4,456 million Deferred tax provision 887 595 2006 3,293 million.
The increase in 2007 reects additions of 1,298 million and currency movements partly offset by the Pensions and other postamortisation and impairment of existing intangibles.
The largest employment bene ts 1,383 2,339 element of the additions is 613 million relating to the acquisition Other provisions 1,035 528 of Reliant Pharmaceuticals Inc. which added a range of speciality Derivative financial instruments 8 60 medicines combating heart disease to the GSK portfolio, including Other non-current liabilities 368 346 the US marketing rights to Lovaza.
Total non-current liabilities 10,748 8,640 Investments Total liabilities 21,093 15,905 GSK held investments, including associates and joint ventures, with Net assets 9,910 9,648 a carrying value at 31st December 2007 of 846 million 2006 736 million.
The market value at 31st December 2007 was 1,517 Equity million 2006 1,461 million.
The largest of these investments is Share capital 1,503 1,498 in an associate, Quest Diagnostics Inc. which had a book value at Share premium account 1,266 858 31st December 2007 of 299 million 2006 262 million.
The 6,475 Retained earnings 6,965 investments include equity stakes in companies where the Group Other reserves 359 65 has research collaborations, which provide access to biotechnology 9,603 Shareholders equity 9,386 developments of potential interest or interests in companies that arise from business divestments.
Minority interests 307 262 Total equity 9,910 9,648 44 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial position and resources Business review Financial position and resources Derivative financial instruments: assets Total equity GSK held both non-current and current derivative financial A summary of the movements in equity is set out below.
instruments held at fair value of 476 million 2006 193 million.
2007 2006 The increase primarily re ects uctuations in far forward valuations m m on foreign exchange contracts hedging inter-company loans and Total equity at beginning of year 9,648 7,570 deposits.
Exchange movements are largely due to changes in Euro, Total recognised income and expense US dollar and Yen market rates.
for the year 6,134 5,395 Trade and other receivables Dividends to shareholders 2,793 2,598 Trade and other receivables of 5,495 million have increased from Ordinary shares issued 417 316 2006 reecting the impact of strengthing overseas currencies on the Ordinary shares purchased and held as translation of foreign currency receivables partly offset by lower VAT Treasury shares 3,537 1,348 recoverables.
Ordinary shares purchased and cancelled 213 Consideration received for shares transferred Derivative financial instruments: liabilities by ESOP Trusts 116 151 GSK held both non-current and current derivative financial Ordinary shares acquired by ESOP Trusts 26 instruments held at fair value of 270 million 2006 100 million relating primarily to hedging exchange on translation of currency Share-based incentive plans 237 226 assets on consolidation.
The increase again re ects the impact from Tax on share-based incentive plans 4 21 Euro, US dollar and Yen currency uctuations.
Changes in minority interest shareholdings 2 Minority interests 77 87 Trade and other payables Total equity at end of year 9,910 9,648 Trade and other payables amounting to 4,861 million have marginally increased from 2006 with the impact of strengthening overseas currencies on the translation of foreign currency payables At 31st December 2007, total equity had increased from 9,648 partly offset by a decrease in customer return and rebate accruals.
million at 31st December 2006 to 9,910 million.
The increase arises principally from retained earnings and actuarial gains on dened Provisions benefit pension plans in the year, partially offset by further purchases The Group carried deferred tax provisions and other short-term and of Treasury shares.
non-current provisions of 2,814 million at 31st December 2007 2006 2,178 million in respect of estimated future liabilities, of Share purchases which 1,152 million related to legal and other disputes.
In 2007, the Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trusts acquired Provision has been made for legal and other disputes, indemnified 26 million of shares in GSK plc 2006 nil.
Shares are held by the disposal liabilities and the costs of restructuring programmes to Trusts to satisfy future exercises of options and awards under the the extent that at the balance sheet date an actual or constructive Group share option and award schemes.
A proportion of the shares obligation existed and could be reasonably estimated.
held by the Trusts are in respect of awards where the rules of the scheme require GSK to satisfy exercises through market purchases Pensions and other post-employment bene ts rather than the issue of new shares.
The shares held by the Trusts are The Group accounts for pension and other post-employment matched to options and awards granted.
arrangements in accordance with IAS 19.
The net deficits before allowing for deferred taxation were 411 million 2006 1,276 At 31st December 2007, the ESOP Trusts held 134.5 million GSK million on pension arrangements and 972 million 2006 1,063 shares against the future exercise of share options and share awards.
million on unfunded post-employment liabilities.
The pension The carrying value of 1,617 million has been deducted from other liabilities decreased following improvements in asset values, further reserves.
The market value of these shares was 1,721 million.
special funding contributions to the UK pension funds of 285 GSK repurchased 3,537 million of shares in 2007, to be held as million 2006 346 million to the UK and US pension schemes and Treasury shares and purchased a further 213 million for cancellation.
a strengthening of long-term interest rates, including an increase in In July 2007, GSK announced an increased buy-back programme the rate used to discount UK pension liabilities from 5.0% to 5.75%.
to 12 billion, representing a 7.7 billion increase compared with These bene ts were partly offset by an improvement in mortality continuation of the existing programme.
This new programme is rates and a higher in ation assumption in the UK.
expected to be completed over a two year period including 6 billion in 2008.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the Net debt extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares 2007 2006 m m rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
At 31st December Cash, cash equivalents and 2007, GSK held 504.2 million shares as Treasury shares, at a cost of liquid investments 4,532 3,040 6,683 million, which has been deducted from retained earnings.
Borrowings repayable within one year 3,504 718 Borrowings repayable after one year 7,067 4,772 28.9 million shares have been purchased in the period 1st January 2008 to 22nd February 2008 at a cost of 323 million.
All purchases Net debt 6,039 2,450 were made through the publicly announced buy-back programme.
Net debt increased by 3,589 million primarily due to the higher share repurchases and acquisition of businesses partly offset by increased cash in ows from operating activities.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 45 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial position and resources Business review Financial position and resources continued Commitments and contingent liabilities In 2006, GSK formalised an agreement with the trustees of the UK Financial commitments are summarised in Note 39 to the financial pension schemes to make additional contributions of up to 325 statements, Commitments.
Other contingent liabilities and million per year, in addition to the normal contributions, over a fourobligations in respect of short and long-term debt are set out in Note year period ending 31st December 2009 in order to eliminate the 31 to the financial statements, Contingent liabilities and Note 32 to then pension deficits on an IAS 19 basis by that point.
The table the financial statements, Net debt.
opposite shows this commitment, but excludes the normal ongoing annual funding requirement of approximately 200 million.
GSK Amounts provided for pensions and post-retirement benets are has also committed to eliminate any future deficits that may arise set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, Pensions and other over a rolling five-year period.
No other commitments have been post-employment benets.
Amounts provided for restructuring made past 31st December 2009.
For further information on pension programmes and legal, environmental and other disputes are set out obligations, see Note 28 to the financial statements, Pensions and in Note 29 to the financial statements, Other provisions.
Contractual obligations and commitments Contingent liabilities The following table sets out the Groups contractual obligations and The following table sets out contingent liabilities, comprising commitments at 31st December 2007 as they fall due for payment.
discounted bills, performance guarantees, letters of credit and other Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs items arising in the normal course of business, and when they are m m m m m expected to expire.
Loans 10,448 3,474 370 2,195 4,409 Total Under 1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs Interest on loans 5,170 393 646 634 3,497 m m m m m Finance lease obligations 123 40 61 13 9 Guarantees 166 37 10 119 Finance lease charges 14 5 5 3 1 Other contingent liabilities 40 13 9 4 14 Operating lease Total 206 50 19 4 133 commitments 360 101 134 74 51 Intangible assets 5,730 618 745 805 3,562 In the normal course of business GSK has provided various Property, plant & equipment 597 459 137 1 indemni cation guarantees in respect of business disposals in which Investments 65 38 27 legal and other disputes have subsequently arisen.
A provision is made Purchase commitments 159 72 54 24 9 where a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of Pensions 650 325 325 the dispute and this is included in Note 29 to the financial statements, Other commitments 32 20 7 5 Other provisions.
Total 23,348 5,545 2,511 3,74911,543 It is the Groups policy to provide for the settlement costs of asserted claims and environmental disputes when a reasonable estimate Commitments in respect of loans and future interest payable on loans may be made.
Prior to this point no liability is recorded.
Legal and are disclosed after taking into account the effect of derivatives.
environmental costs are discussed in Risk factors on pages 50 to 53 The Group has entered into a number of research collaborations and Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
to develop new compounds with other pharmaceutical companies.
GSK uses the best advice in determining its transfer pricing The terms of these arrangements can include up-front fees, equity methodology and, on the basis of external professional advice, investments, loans and commitments to fund speci ed levels of continues to believe that it has made adequate provision for the research.
In addition the Group will often agree to make further liabilities likely to arise from open taxation assessments.
The ultimate payments if future milestones are achieved.
As some of these liability for such matters may vary signi cantly from amounts provided agreements relate to compounds in the early stages of development, and is dependent upon the outcome of litigation proceedings and milestone payments will continue for a number of years if the negotiations with the relevant tax authorities.
This is discussed further compounds move successfully through the development process.
in Note 14 to the financial statements, Taxation.
Generally the closer the product is to marketing approval the greater the possibility of success.
The payments shown above within intangible assets represent the maximum that would be paid if all milestones are achieved.
A number of new commitments were made in 2007 under licensing and other agreements, including arrangements with Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Santaris Pharma A S and Targacept, Inc. 46 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial position and resources Business review Financial position and resources continued Cash ow Free cash ow was 3,857 million, an increase of 47% over 2006, A summary of the consolidated cash ow statement is set out principally reecting the impact of the US tax settlement in 2006 below partly offset by higher levels of capital expenditure.
Free cash ow is the amount of cash generated by the business after meeting 2007 2006 its obligations for interest, tax and dividends paid to minority m m interests, and after capital expenditure on non-current tangible Net cash in ow from operating activities 6,161 4,357 and intangible assets.
Net cash out ow from investing activities 3,009 1,521 Free cash ow is used by GSKs management for planning and Net cash out ow from nancing activities 1,741 4,792 reporting purposes and in discussions with and presentations to Increase decrease in cash and bank overdrafts 1,411 1,956 investment analysts and rating agencies.
GSKs free cash ow measure is not dened in IFRS.
This measure may not be directly Exchange adjustments 48 254 comparable with similarly described measures used by other Cash and bank overdrafts at beginning of year 1,762 3,972 companies.
A reconciliation of net cash inow from operating Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year 3,221 1,762 activities, which is the closest equivalent IFRS measure, to free cash ow is shown below.
Cash and bank overdrafts at end of year Reconciliation of free cash ow comprise: Cash and cash equivalents 3,379 2,005 2007 2006 Overdrafts 158 243 m m 3,221 1,762 Net cash in ow from operating activities 6,161 4,357 Purchase of non-current tangible assets 1,516 1,366 The net cash inow from operating activities after taxation paid was Purchase of non-current intangible assets 627 224 6,161 million, an increase of 1,804 million over 2006, arising Disposal of non-current tangible xed assets 35 43 mainly because a gross taxation payment of $3.3 billion 1.8 billion Interest paid 378 414 under the US transfer pricing dispute settlement was made in 2006 Interest received 247 299 see Note 14 to the financial statements, Taxation.
Dividends received from joint ventures and The net cash outow from investing activities was 3,009 million, associated undertaking 12 15 an increase of 1,488 million which reected increased capital Dividends paid to minority interests 77 87 expenditure and the purchase of businesses, including Reliant Free cash ow 3,857 2,623 Pharmaceuticals for 794 million and Domantis for 218 million, net of cash acquired.
Movements in net debt Cash returned to shareholders 2007 2006 m m m Net debt at beginning of year 2,450 1,237 7,000 Increase decrease in cash and 6,544 bank overdrafts 1,411 1,956 3,751 6,000 Cash out ow from liquid investments 39 55 Net increase in long-term loans 3,276 5,000 Net increase in repayment of short-term loans 1,632 739 3,946 Exchange and other movements 131 51 4,000 1,348 Net debt at end of year 6,039 2,450 3,000 2,793 2,598 2,000 1,348 1,000 1,000 2006 2007 Dividends Buybacks GSK Annual Report 2007 I 47 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial position and resources Business review Financial position and resources continued Investment appraisal A Treasury Management Group TMG chaired by the Groups GSK has a formal process for assessing potential investment proposals Chief Financial Of cer, meets on a monthly basis to review treasury in order to ensure decisions are aligned with the Groups overall activities.
Its members receive management information relating to strategy.
This process includes an analysis of the impact of the project treasury activities.
The Corporate Executive Team CET also review a on earnings, its return on invested capital and an assessment of the monthly finance report which focuses on operational finance issues.
return based on discounted cash ows.
The discount rate used to The Groups internal auditors review the treasury internal control perform financial analysis is decided internally, to allow determination environment regularly.
of the extent to which investments cover the Groups cost of capital.
Capital management For speci c investments the discount rate may be adjusted to take into GSK operates globally, primarily through subsidiary companies account country or other risk weightings.
established in the markets in which the Group trades.
With signi cant Capital expenditure and financial investment levels of patent protection the Groups products compete largely on Cash payments for tangible and intangible xed assets amounted to product ef cacy rather than on price.
Selling margins are suf cient to 2,143 million 2006 1,590 million.
Disposals realised 44 million cover normal operating costs and the Groups operating subsidiaries 2006 218 million.
Cash payments to acquire equity investments are generally cash generative.
of 186 million 2006 57 million were made in the year and sales Operating cash ow is used to fund investment in research and of equity investments realised 45 million 2006 32 million.
development of new products as well as to make the routine Future cash ow out ows of capital expenditure, tax, dividends and repayment of The Group expects that future operating cash ow will be suf cient maturing debt.
In July 2007, GSK announced an increased share buyto fund its operating and debt service costs, to satisfy normal levels back programme of 12 billion over the period to July 2009 which of capital expenditure, to meet obligations under existing licensing will result in substantially increased borrowings.
agreements and to meet other routine out ows including tax and The Groups policy is to borrow centrally, using a variety of capital dividends, subject to the risk factors discussed on pages 50 to 53. market issues and borrowing facilities, to meet anticipated funding GSK may from time to time have additional demands for finance, requirements.
It has access to other sources of liquidity from short and long-term capital markets and banks and other financial These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, institutions, in addition to the cash ow from operations, for such are on-lent, contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries or used to needs.
fund the Groups 12 billion share buy-back programme, due to complete by July 2009.
Payment policies Liquidity Group companies are responsible for monitoring and managing their The Group manages its net borrowing requirements through a working capital.
The terms of sales collections and supplier payments portfolio of long-term borrowings, including bonds, together re ect local commercial practice.
with short-term finance under a US$10 billion commercial paper programme.
At 31st December 2007, the Group also had $5 billion In the UK, the company and each of its UK subsidiaries have committed undrawn bank facilities.
policies to ensure that suppliers are paid on time.
In particular, the UK companies seek: The Group has a European Medium Term Note programme of 10 billion, of which 7.2 billion was in issue as at 31st December 2007, to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms and a US Shelf Registration of $5 billion: at 31st December 2007, of the transaction $2 billion 1 billion was in issue.
The TMG monitors the cash ow to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the agreed terms forecast of GSK on a monthly basis.
of payment The Groups long-term borrowings mature at dates between 2008 to abide by the terms of payment.
On 18th February 2008 GSKs long-term Standard and The policy includes arrangements for accelerated payment of Poors debt rating was revised from AA with negative outlook to A small suppliers.
At this time, Standard and Poors also revised GSKs shortterm rating for paper issued under the Groups commercial paper Payment performance programme from A-1 to A-1.
Moodys Investors Services rate GSK At 31st December 2007, the average number of days purchases as A1 with negative outlook for long-term debt and P-1 for shortrepresented by trade and xed asset creditors of the parent company term debt.
There has been no change to GSKs rating from Moodys was nil 2006 nil and in respect of the company and its UK since 25th July 2007. subsidiaries in aggregate was 24 days 2006 24 days.
In the light of likely increased commercial paper issuance resulting Treasury policies from the increased share buy-back programme, GSK has increased its committed bank facilities from $900 million to $5 billion.
In addition, GlaxoSmithKline plc reports in Sterling and pays dividends out of the Group maintains substantial cash and liquid investments which Sterling pro ts.
The role of Corporate Treasury in GSK is to manage amounted to 4.5 billion at 31st December 2007. and monitor the Groups external and internal funding requirements and financial risks in support of Group corporate objectives.
Treasury activities are governed by policies and procedures approved by the Board of Directors, most recently on 5th October 2007.
48 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial position and resources Business review Financial position and resources continued Financial assets and liabilities Treasury operations An analysis of net debt is given in Note 32 to the financial statements, The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net cost Net debt.
An analysis of financial assets and liabilities at carrying income of financial operations to the bene t of Group earnings.
value and fair value is given in Note 41 to the financial statements, Corporate Treasury does not operate as a pro t centre.
GSK uses a Financial instruments and related disclosures.
variety of financial instruments, including derivatives, to finance its The Group continues to bene t from strong positive cash ow operations and to manage market risks from those operations.
Group net debt would have decreased Derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign currency contracts, signi cantly in the year to 31st December 2007, but for the Groups interest rate and currency swaps, are used to swap borrowings and purchase of its own shares in the market of 3.8 billion and liquid assets into currencies required for Group purposes and to acquisitions of approximately 1 billion.
manage exposure to funding risks from changes in foreign exchange The financial assets and liabilities at 31st December 2007 are rate and interest rates.
representative of the treasury policies and strategies of GSK applied GSK does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for since July 2007.
At that time, GSK announced a changed financial speculative purposes and the Groups treasury policies speci cally strategy, involving an increased share buy-back programme of 12 prohibit such activity.
All transactions in financial instruments are billion, which will result in substantially increased borrowings.
undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business From July 2007 onwards, GSK tightened its criteria for holding cash activities, not for speculation.
equivalents and liquid investments in response to the credit crisis.
Foreign exchange management GSK has suffered no loss of principal as a result of this crisis.
Foreign currency transaction exposure arising on normal trade ows, in respect of both external and intra-Group trade, is not hedged.
The exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries to transaction risk is minimised by matching local currency income with local currency costs.
For this purpose, intra-Group trading transactions are matched centrally and intra-Group payment terms are managed to reduce risk.
Exceptionally foreign currency cash ows are hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury.
The Group manages centrally the short-term cash surpluses or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies and uses forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating currency.
The Group seeks to denominate borrowings in the currencies of its principal assets and cash ows.
These are primarily denominated in US dollars, Euros and Sterling.
Certain borrowings are swapped into other currencies as required for Group purposes.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets are treated as a hedge against the relevant assets.
The ratio of borrowings to assets is reviewed by currency on a month-by-month basis by the TMG.
Interest rate risk management GSKs policy on interest rate risk management requires the minimum amount of net borrowings at xed rates to increase with the ratio of forecast interest payable to trading pro t. The xed to oating ratio is reviewed monthly by the TMG.
The Group uses a limited number of interest rate swaps to redenominate external borrowings into the interest rate coupon required for Group purposes.
The duration of these swaps matches the duration of the principal instruments.
Interest rate derivative instruments are accounted for as fair value or cash ow hedges of the relevant assets or liabilities.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 49 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial position and resources Business review Outlook and risk factors New product candidates may appear promising in development Outlook but, after signi cant investment, fail to reach the market or have Sales growth of existing products and launches of new products are only limited commercial success.
This, for example, could be as a key drivers of GSKs business.
The sales growth from key products result of ef cacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary such as Seretide Advair, vaccines, Valtrex and the high potential regulatory approvals, dif culty or excessive costs to manufacture, products, Avodart, Arixtra and Boniva is expected to continue in erosion of patent term as a result of a lengthy development period, 2008.
Sales growth is also expected from newer products Lovaza, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights of others Cervarix, Tykerb Tyverb, Rotarix, Veramyst Avamys and Altabax or inability to differentiate the product adequately from those with Altargo.
Sales growth of Avandia, GSKs product for diabetes, has which it competes.
been adversely impacted following publication in May 2007 of a Health authorities such as the US FDA, the European Medicines meta-analysis.
Agency and the Japan Pharmaceuticals and Medicines Device Agency Typically, sales of existing products decline dramatically when generic have increased their focus on safety when assessing the bene t risk competition is introduced either on patent expiry or earlier if there balance of drugs.
In light of this increased scrutiny, and other factors, is a successful challenge to the Groups patent.
In 2007, generic there has been a reduction in the number of new drugs gaining competitors to Coreg IR entered the US market.
Several other regulatory approvals in recent years.
For example, the FDA approved products will become exposed to generic competition in the USA only 19 new drugs in 2007, the lowest single-year total since 1983. during 2008, including Wellbutrin XL 150mg, Requip IR, Lamictal IR, Risk of unplanned loss of patents Paxil CR and Imitrex.
GSK is engaged in legal proceedings regarding Patent infringement litigation the validity and infringement of the Groups patents relating to many The Groups patents, in common with all patents, can be challenged of its products.
These are discussed in Risk factors below and in at any time.
Efforts by generic manufacturers may involve challenges Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
to the validity or enforceability of a patent or assertions that their GSK expects a sustained ow of new products in the next two generic product does not infringe the Groups patents.
Thirteen new product opportunities are currently led with Group is not successful in defending an attack on its patents and regulators: these include Promacta USA, Rotarix USA, Treximet maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of its major USA and Syn orix EU and International.
GSK currently has 34 key products, particularly in the USA where the Group has its highest assets in phase III development registration.
turnover and margins, the Groups turnover and margins would be adversely affected.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal In its published earnings guidance for 2008 GSK expects that the proceedings, for a discussion of patent-related proceedings in which impact of lower Avandia sales, together with increase generic the Group is involved and page 28 for a description of resolution of competition, will lead to a mid-single digit percentage decline in prior proceedings which affect the dates on which generic versions business performance EPS, at constant exchange rates.
of the Groups products may be introduced.
There are risks and uncertainties inherent in the business that may affect future performance including R&D projects, anticipated sales Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions growth and expected earnings growth.
These are discussed in Risk of many of the Groups most important products, prior to the factors below.
expiration of the Groups patents, and have exhibited a readiness to do so for other products in the future.
The US launch of generic products competing with Coreg IR, Zofran, Flonase and Wellbutrin Risk factors XL had a signi cant impact on the Groups overall turnover and There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business, earnings for 2007. financial conditions and results of operations.
The factors listed below Potential changes in intellectual property laws and are among those that the Group thinks could cause the Groups regulations actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results, Proposals to change existing patent and data exclusivity laws and as could other risks and uncertainties not currently known to the regulations in major markets in which the Group sells its products Group or which the Group currently deems immaterial.
are a continuing feature of the political process in those countries, Risk that R&D will not deliver commercially successful including proposals that could have the effect of making prosecution new products of patents for new products more dif cult and time-consuming or Continued development of commercially viable new products as well adversely affecting the exclusivity period for the Groups products, as the development of additional uses for existing products is critical including biological products.
Should such proposals be enacted they to the Groups ability to replace sales of older products that decline could have an adverse impact on the Groups future sales and results upon expiration of exclusive rights, and to increase overall sales.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A new product candidate can fail at any stage of the process, and one or more late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval.
50 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Outlook and risk factors Business review Outlook and risk factors continued Weakness of intellectual property protection in certain In other instances third parties may perform analyses of published countries clinical trial results which, although not necessarily accurate or In some of the countries in which the Group operates, patent meaningful, may raise questions regarding safety of pharmaceutical protection may be signi cantly weaker than in the USA or the products which may be publicised by the media and may result European Union.
In addition, in an effort to control public health in product liability claims.
The Group is currently a defendant in crises, some developing countries, such as South Africa and Brazil, a number of product liability lawsuits, including class actions, have considered plans for substantial reductions in the scope of that involve substantial claims for damages related to the Groups patent protection for pharmaceutical products.
In particular, these pharmaceutical products.
Litigation, particularly in the USA, is countries could facilitate competition within their markets from inherently unpredictable and excessive verdicts that are not justi ed generic manufacturers who would otherwise be unable to introduce by the evidence can occur.
Class actions that sweep together all competing products for a number of years.
persons who were prescribed the Groups products can in ate the potential liability by the force of numbers.
Claims for pain and Any loss of patent protection, including abrogation of patent rights suffering and punitive damages are frequently asserted in product or compulsory licensing, is likely to affect adversely the Groups liability actions and, if allowed, can represent potentially openoperating results in those national markets but is not expected ended exposure.
to be material to the Group overall.
Absence of adequate patent protection could limit the opportunity to look to such markets for Anti-trust litigation future sales growth.
In the USA it has become increasingly common that following publicity around government investigations or an adverse outcome Risk of substantial adverse outcome of litigation and in prosecution of patent infringement actions, the defendants and government investigations direct and indirect purchasers and other payers initiate anti-trust See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a actions as well.
Claims by direct and indirect purchasers and other discussion of proceedings and governmental investigations involving payers are typically led as class actions and the relief sought may matters which if proven could give rise to civil and or criminal liabilities include treble damages and restitution claims.
Damages in adverse in which the Group is currently involved.
Unfavourable resolution anti-trust verdicts are subject to automatic trebling in the USA.
of these and similar future proceedings or investigations may have Similarly, anti-trust claims may be brought following settlement of a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and patent litigation, alleging that such settlements are anti-competitive results of operations.
The Group has made material provisions in and in violation of anti-trust laws.
2005, 2006 and 2007 related to legal proceedings and investigations which reduced its earnings.
The Group may also make additional Sales, marketing and regulation signi cant provisions related to legal proceedings and investigations The Group operates globally in complex legal and regulatory in the future, which would reduce its earnings.
In many cases the environments that often vary among jurisdictions.
The failure practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim damages in amounts that bear to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations in these no relationship to the underlying harm.
Accordingly it is potentially jurisdictions may result in civil and criminal legal proceedings.
As misleading to quantify the potential exposure to claims, proceedings those rules and regulations change or as governmental interpretation and investigations of the type described in Note 44 to the financial of those rules and regulations evolve, prior conduct may be called statements, Legal proceedings.
In the USA, for example, the Group is responding to federal and state governmental investigations into pricing, Recent insurance loss experience, including pharmaceutical product marketing and reimbursement of its prescription drug products.
liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the These investigations could result in related restitution or civil false coverage afforded by, insurance for pharmaceutical companies claims act litigation on behalf of the federal or state governments, generally, including the Group.
as well as related proceedings initiated against the Group by or In order to contain insurance costs in recent years the Group has on behalf of consumers and private payers.
Such proceedings may continued to adjust its coverage pro le, accepting a greater degree result in trebling of damages awarded or fines in respect of each of un-insured exposure.
In addition, where claims are made under violation of law.
Criminal proceedings may also be initiated against insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage Group companies or individuals.
If denial of coverage is ultimately upheld on Risks of competition, price controls and limitations on sales these claims, this could result in material additional charges to the Third party competition Groups earnings.
The Group operates in highly competitive businesses.
In the Product liability litigation pharmaceuticals business, it faces competition both from proprietary Pre-clinical and clinical trials are conducted during the development products of large international manufacturers and producers of of potential products to determine the safety and ef cacy of generic pharmaceuticals.
Signi cant product innovations, technical products for use by humans following approval by regulatory advances or the intensi cation of price competition by competitors bodies.
Notwithstanding these efforts, when drugs and vaccines could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
The Group are introduced into the marketplace, unanticipated side effects may cannot predict the timing or impact of competitive products or become evident.
their potential impact on sales of the Groups products.
Continued consolidation in the pharmaceutical industry could adversely affect the Groups competitive position, while continued consolidation among the Groups customers may increase pricing pressures.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 51 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Outlook and risk factors Business review Outlook and risk factors continued The Group had eight products with over 500 million in annual global Regulatory controls sales in 2007.
Among these products are Augmentin IR, with respect The Group must comply with a broad range of regulatory controls to which the Group has generic competition, and Avandia, Imitrex, on the testing, approval, manufacturing and marketing of many of Lamictal and Valtrex, with respect to which the Groups intellectual its pharmaceutical and consumer healthcare products, particularly property rights in the USA are currently the subject of litigation or in the USA and countries of the European Union, that affect not settlement agreements related to such litigation.
Group has had only the cost of product development but also the time required to generic competition in the USA for Coreg IR, another signi cant reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
Health product, since September 2007. authorities have increased their focus on safety when assessing the bene t risk balance of drugs in the context of not only initial product If these or any of the Groups other major products were to become approval but also in the context of approval of additional indications subject to a problem such as unplanned loss of patent protection, and review of information regarding marketed products.
Stricter unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings, publicity affecting regulatory controls also heighten the risk of changes in product doctor or patient con dence or pressure from competitive products, pro le or withdrawal by regulators on the basis of post-approval or if a new, more effective treatment should be introduced, the concerns over product safety, which could reduce revenues and can adverse impact on the Groups revenues and operating results could result in product recalls and product liability lawsuits.
There is also be signi cant.
In particular, the Group faces intense competition from greater regulatory scrutiny, especially in the USA, on advertising and manufacturers of generic pharmaceutical products in all of its major promotion and in particular on direct-to-consumer advertising.
Generic products often enter the market upon expiration of patents or data exclusivity periods for the Groups products.
In addition, in some cases the Group may voluntarily cease marketing Introduction of generic products typically leads to a dramatic loss of a product or face declining sales based on concerns about ef cacy sales and reduces the Groups revenues and margins for its proprietary or safety for example, declines in sales of Avandia in 2007 following products.
The expiration dates for patents for the Groups major publicity around questions regarding risks associated with the products and a description of litigation settlements which may affect product, whether or not scienti cally justi ed, even in the absence the dates on which generic versions of the Groups products may of regulatory action.
The development of the post-approval adverse be introduced are set out on page 28.
Legal proceedings involving event pro le for a product or the product class may have a major patent challenges are set out in Note 44 to the financial statements, impact on the marketing and sale of the product.
Risk of interruption of product supply Governmental and payer controls The manufacture of pharmaceutical products and their constituent Pharmaceutical products are subject to price controls or pressures materials requires compliance with good manufacturing practice and other restrictions in many markets, including Japan, Germany, regulations.
The Groups manufacturing sites are subject to review Spain, France and Italy.
Some governments intervene directly in and approval by the FDA and other regulatory agencies.
In addition, in some markets major purchasers of failure by suppliers of key services and materials or the Groups own pharmaceutical products whether governmental agencies or private manufacturing facilities could lead to product recalls and seizures, health care providers have the economic power to exert substantial interruption of production and delays in the approvals of new products pressure on prices or the terms of access to formularies.
pending resolution of manufacturing issues.
Non-compliance can also result in fines and disgorgement of pro ts.
Any interruption of The Group cannot predict whether existing controls, pressures or supply or fines or disgorgement remedy could materially and adversely restrictions will increase or new controls, pressures or restrictions affect the Groups financial results.
For example, during resolution of will be introduced that will reduce the Groups margins or affect FDA observations of fide ciencies in manufacturing practices at the adversely its ability to introduce new products pro tably.
Groups Cidra, Puerto Rico facility, as referred to in Note 44 to the For example, in the USA, where the Group has its highest margins and financial statements, Legal proceedings, supplies of certain products the most sales for any country, pricing pressures could signi cantly manufactured at that site were curtailed or constricted which had an increase as experience develops under the outpatient pharmaceutical adverse impact on sales in 2005 and 2006. programme covering Medicare bene ciaries that began in 2006.
The Although the Group undertakes business continuity planning, single private insurers through which coverage is offered, through their sourcing for certain components, bulk active materials and nished enormous purchasing power under the programme, could demand products creates a risk of failure of supply in the event of regulatory discounts that may implicitly create price controls on prescription non-compliance or physical disruption at the manufacturing sites.
Changes to the enabling legislation could afford the US government a direct role in negotiating prices under the Medicare Risk from concentration of sales to wholesalers programme.
Additionally a number of states have proposed or In the USA, in line with other pharmaceutical companies, the Group implemented various schemes to control prices for their own senior sells its products through a small number of wholesalers in addition citizens programmes, including importation from other countries to hospitals, pharmacies, physicians and other groups.
Sales to the and bulk purchases of drugs.
The growth in the number of patients three largest wholesalers amounted to approximately 85% of the covered through large managed care institutions in the USA, which Groups US pharmaceutical sales.
At 31st December 2007 the Group has increased with implementation of the Medicare bene t, also had trade receivables due from these three wholesalers totalling 915 increases pricing pressures on the Groups products.
These trends million 31st December 2006 1,044 million.
The Group is exposed may adversely affect the Groups revenues and margins from sales in to a concentration of credit risk in respect of these wholesalers such the USA.
that, if one or more of them is affected by financial dif culty, it could materially and adversely affect the Groups financial results.
52 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Outlook and risk factors Business review Outlook and risk factors continued Reliance on information technology Accounting standards The Group is increasingly dependent on information technology New or revised accounting standards, rules and interpretations systems, including Internet-based systems, for internal communication promulgated from time to time by international standard setting as well as communication with customers and suppliers.
Any board could result in changes to the recognition of income and signi cant disruption of these systems, whether due to computer expense that may adversely impact the Groups reported financial viruses or other outside incursions, could materially and adversely results.
International standard changes in the market valuation of affect the Groups operations.
certain financial instruments such as the equity collar linked to the Groups investment in Quest Diagnostics and impairments of Taxation equity investments are re ected in the Groups reported results The effective tax rate on the Groups earnings bene ts from the fact before those gains or losses are actually realised and could have a that a portion of its earnings is taxed at more favourable rates in signi cant impact on the income statement in any given period.
Also some jurisdictions outside the UK.
Changes in tax laws or in their accounting for deferred taxation on inter-company inventory may application with respect to matters such as transfer pricing, foreign give rise to volatility depending upon the ownership of the inventory dividends, controlled companies or a restriction in tax relief allowed at the balance sheet date.
on the interest on intra-Group debt, could increase the Groups effective tax rate and adversely affect its financial results.
The Group Regulators regularly review the financial statements of listed has open issues with the revenue authorities in the UK, the USA, companies like GSK for compliance with accounting and regulatory Japan and Canada.
These matters are discussed in Note 14 to the requirements.
The Group believes that it complies with the appropriate regulatory Disruption from pandemic in uenza requirements concerning its financial statements and disclosures.
In the event of pandemic in uenza, the Group could be subject to However, other companies have experienced investigations disruption from a range of factors.
National governments may be into potential non-compliance with accounting and disclosure more willing to abrogate intellectual property rights for medicines requirements that have resulted in restatements of previously that might otherwise be in short supply.
In a country af icted by reported results and sometimes signi cant penalties.
pandemic u, there would be a risk that employees and their families Human resources will be affected with the consequence that sales and distribution and The Group has approximately 103,000 employees around the manufacturing activities could be shut down and supply continuity world and is subject to laws and regulations concerning its for active ingredients and nished goods affected.
employees ranging from discrimination and harassment to Environmental liabilities personal privacy to labour relations that vary signi cantly from The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
The Group faces intense competition for potential obligations on the Group to remediate contaminated sites.
quali ed individuals from other pharmaceutical and biotechnology The Group has also been identi ed as a potentially responsible party companies, universities, governmental entities and other under the US Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation research institutions.
Failure to continue to recruit and retain the and Liability Act at a number of sites for remediation costs relating to right people and maintain a culture of compliance could have the Groups use or ownership of such sites.
Failure to manage properly a signi cant adverse effect on the Group.
the environmental risks could result in additional remedial costs that could materially and adversely affect the Groups operations.
See Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings, for a discussion of  proceedings in which the Group is involved.
Global political and economic conditions The Group conducts a substantial portion of its operations outside the UK.
The Groups management of foreign exchange rates is discussed in Business Review, Foreign exchange management see page 49.
Fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and other currencies, especially the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen, could materially affect the Groups financial results.
The Group has no control over changes in in ation and interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic factors affecting its businesses or the possibility of political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
These factors could materially affect the Groups future results of operations.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 53 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Outlook and risk factors Business review Financial review 2006 In accordance with US SEC disclosure requirements, the Pharmaceutical turnover following discussion compares results for the year to 31st December All growth rates included in the review of turnover are at constant 2006 with the results for the year to 31st December 2005. exchange rates CER unless otherwise stated.
The sterling growth All growth rates are at constant exchange rates CER unless rates may be found in the tables of pharmaceutical turnover.
The sterling growth rates may be found in the pharmaceutical turnover in 2006 was 20,078 million compared tables of pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area on page 55. with 18,661 million in 2005, an increase of 9% CER.
In sterling terms total pharmaceutical turnover increased 8%, 1% less than CER Exchange due principally to the strength of Sterling against major International currencies.
The currencies that most in uence the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
Pharmaceutical turnover by therapeutic area In 2006, the US dollar fell by 14% against the pound, to $1.96 at GSKs ability in 2006 to deliver continued pharmaceutical turnover the year-end.
The year-end rates for the Euro weakened by 1% and growth was primarily due to an exceptionally broad product portfolio the Japanese Yen by 15% against Sterling.
of high-value growth products coupled with sales and marketing excellence.
These growth products include Seretide Advair, the World market pharmaceuticals Avandia product group, Vaccines, Lamictal, Valtrex, Coreg, Requip, Global pharmaceutical sales increased by 8% in 2006 to 328 Avodart and Boniva.
Respiratory GSK continued to be the global leader in respiratory pharmaceuticals World market by Value % of Growth bn total % with sales of its three key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent geographic region and Serevent amounting to 4.3 billion, up 9%.
Total sales of USA 145.0 44 9 Seretide Advair, for asthma and COPD, rose 11% to 3.3 billion.
In Europe 92.8 28 6 the USA, sales grew 13% to 1.9 billion.
In Europe, sales grew 10% France 17.6 5 4 to 1.1 billion and in International markets, sales grew 9% to over Germany 16.6 5 3 300 million.
Market share by value in the anti-asthma and COPD UK 10.8 3 3 therapy class was 29% in Europe and 33% in the USA, an increase of Italy 10.5 3 7 2 percentage points in Europe and a at market share growth in the Japan 31.3 10 3 USA re ecting lower prescription volumes due to a label change in Asia Paci c 23.3 7 14 early 2006 that restricted GSKs ability to promote the product, offset Latin America 15.9 5 21 by favourable pricing changes.
Middle East, Africa 11.3 3 13 CNS Canada 8.3 3 19 CNS sales increased 15% to 3.6 billion.
Sales increased in the USA Total 327.9 100 8 and International, but declined in Europe due to generic competition.
Total Seroxat Paxil sales grew 4% to 620 million, due to strong Growth in the US market increased to 9%, representing 44% of the growth of Paxil CR in the USA and Paxil IR in Japan partly offset by global prescription pharmaceutical market compared with 30% a generic competition to Paxil IR in Europe.
Total Wellbutrin sales grew 24% to 900 million.
Sales of At 30th September 2006, GSK held second position in the world Wellbutrin XL, a once-daily product, grew 25% to 798 million.
pharmaceutical market with a market share of 6.3%, behind P zer In December 2006, generic competition to the Wellbutrin XL with a market share of 8%.
GSK had six of the worlds top 60 300mg tablet approximately 60% of Wellbutrin sales entered pharmaceutical products.
These were Avandia, Lamictal, Seretide the US market.
Advair, Valtrex, Wellbutrin and Zofran.
Sales of Lamictal, for the treatment of epilepsy and bipolar disorder, Value % of Growth World market grew 19% to just under 1 billion, bene ting from its new indication CER% % top five therapeutic classes bn total to treat one of the most serious forms of epilepsy primary generalised tonic-clonic seizures.
Lamictal is also the only medicine with longCardiovascular 54.5 17 6 7 term clinical data that demonstrates that it can delay the onset of Central nervous system 54.0 16 7 8 depressive episodes of bipolar disorder.
Alimentary tract and metabolic 39.8 12 7 9 Anti-infectives bacterial, Sales of Requip, for Parkinsons disease and Restless Legs Syndrome viral and fungal excluding RLS, grew 74% to 268 million.
vaccines 33.2 10 1 3 Respiratory 21.7 7 5 6 Note: data based on 12 months to 30th September 2006.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 55 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2006 Business review Financial review 2006 continued Anti-virals Oncology and emesis Total sales of HIV products were 1.5 billion, down 1%.
Competition Sales of Zofran grew 3% to 847 million, driven by the US market, to older products, Combivir down 9% to 528 million and Epivir up 8% to 679 million.
Europe and International sales declined down 21% to 202 million, was mostly offset by strong sales 14% and 16% respectively due to generic competition.
A generic growth of new products Epzicom Kivexa which more than doubled competitor to Zofran entered the US market in November 2006. to 241 million and Lexiva Agenerase up 18% to 131 million.
Cardiovascular and urogenital Sales of Valtrex, rose 24% to 845 million, with US sales up 30% to Sales of Coreg, for heart disease, grew 38% to 779 million.
Avodart, 600 million driven by patients switching to suppression therapy.
for benign prostatic hyperplasia enlarged prostate, had a very strong year, with sales increasing 69% to 216 million.
Metabolic GSK launched Avandia for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in 1999 Anti-bacterials and a combination product, Avandamet, for blood sugar control in Anti-bacterial sales declined 9% re ecting generic competition and 2002.
The product group was expanded further in February 2006 a weaker u season.
with the launch in the USA of a xed-dose combination treatment, Other therapeutic areas Avandaryl, which combines Avandia with a sulfonylurea.
Sales of Zantac fell 2% to 232 million, with declines in Europe and In 2006, sales of the Avandia product group grew 24% to 1.2 International partially offset by a 28% growth in the USA.
In Europe, sales grew 39% to 217 million driven Consumer Healthcare sales by the increasing use of Avandamet.
Sales in International markets An analysis of Consumer Healthcare sales is set out in the rose 17% to 234 million.
The Avandia product group achieved in following table: 2006 a market share by value in oral anti-diabetics of 37% in the 2006 2005 Growth USA and 19% in Europe, up 2 and 5 percentage points, respectively.
m m CER% % In the USA, Avandamet prescription volume growth was adversely OTC medicines 1,496 1,437 5 4 impacted by product supply issues during the year which have now Analgesics 380 362 7 5 been resolved.
Dermatological 165 161 4 2 In December, GSK presented data from the landmark ADOPT study, Gastro-intestinal 252 249 2 1 which demonstrated that Avandia is more effective than metformin, Respiratory tract 172 154 12 12 or a sulphonylurea, in long-term blood sugar control in type 2 Smoking control 353 336 7 5 diabetes.
These data are in addition to those recently presented from Natural wellness support 132 133 1 the DREAM study, which showed that Avandia can reduce the risk Oral care 993 94365 of progression to type 2 diabetes.
Data from both these studies are Nutritional healthcare 658 61976 expected to be led with regulatory agencies during the first half of 2007.
3,147 2,999 6 5 GSK recorded in turnover a 95 million share of co-promotion income Consumer Healthcare sales grew 6% to 3.1 billion, with sales in for Boniva Bonviva, a new once-monthly oral bisphosphonate for the International up 10% and Europe up 7%, performing well.
Total treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis, which was developed sales in the USA were at, with an improved performance in the with Roche, and launched in 2005. fourth quarter, with sales up 7%.
Vaccines OTC medicines Overall vaccine sales increased 23% to 1.7 billion, with good Over-the-counter medicine sales grew 5% to 1.5 billion with performances from all regions: US sales rose 40% to 465 million: Panadol and smoking control performing well.
European sales grew 20% to 709 million and sales in International were up 13% to 518 million.
Key contributors were: Infanrix Oral care Pediarix, GSKs combination vaccines for children, with sales up 29% Oral care sales grew 6% to 993 million.
Sensodyne grew strongly, to 511 million: and sales of hepatitis vaccines, which grew 9% to up 19% for the year to 257 million.
Sales of Aquafresh were down 479 million, bene ting from a strong US performance of Havrix, 3% to 283 million.
following approval last year for broader paediatric use.
Nutritional healthcare Sales of new vaccines also helped drive overall sales growth.
Total Nutritional healthcare products sales grew 7% to 658 million.
sales of Rotarix, for rotavirus, Boostrix, for prevention of diphtheria, Lucozade, grew 14% to 301 million, and Horlicks, grew 6% to tetanus and whooping cough, and in uenza vaccines, Fluarix 156 million.
Ribena sales were down 1% to 169 million.
This was the first full year sales of FluLaval following the acquisition of ID Biomedical in late 2005.
56 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2006 Business review Financial review 2006 continued Operating pro t Operating pro t Overall, the operating pro t margin increased 1.9 percentage points The analysis below of operating pro t and subsequent discussion as operating pro t increased 14% in sterling terms to 7,808 million.
compares the 2006 results with 2005 results.
Operating pro t increased 17% at constant exchange rates and the margin increased 2.4 percentage points, re ecting SG&A growth 2006 2005 Growth m % m % CER% % below the rate of turnover growth, partially offset by higher costs related to programmes to deliver future cost savings and lower other Turnover 23,225 100.0 21,660 100.0 9 7 operating income.
Cost of sales 5,010 21.6 4,764 22.0 6 5 Selling, general Gains from asset disposals were 169 million 2005 290 million, and administration 7,257 31.2 7,250 33.5 costs for legal matters were 333 million 2005 430 million, the Research and fair value movements on the Quest collar and Theravance options development 3,457 14.9 3,136 14.5 11 10 resulted in an income of 29 million 2005 19 million and charges Other operating relating to cost-saving programmes were 205 million 2005 141 income 307 1.3 364 1.7 million.
The total operating pro t impact of these items was a 340 million charge in 2006, compared with a 262 million charge in Operating pro t 7,808 33.6 6,874 31.7 17 14 2005.
Cost of sales Pro t before taxation Cost of sales declined as a percentage of turnover by 0.4 percentage points.
At constant exchange rates the decline was 0.6 percentage The discussion below compares the 2006 results with the 2005 points re ecting favourable price and regional mix impact.
Selling, general and administration Net finance costs Selling, general and administration SG&A costs as a percentage of 2006 2005 m m turnover reduced 2.3 percentage points.
At constant exchange rates, Finance income the decrease was 2.5 percentage points, re ecting at expenditure Interest and other finance income 285 276 compared with prior year on a turnover growth of 9%.
SG&A Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 19 costs were at due to higher advertising, promotion and selling 287 257 expenditure offset by lower general and administration expenditure.
Advertising, promotion and selling increased 3% and accounted for Finance costs a 2% increase in total SG&A.
General and administration expenditure declined 5% and accounted for a 2% decline in total SG&A, of Interest costs 314 427 which one percentage point was due to lower charges related to Unwinding of discount on liabilities 36 25 legal matters and one percentage point was due to lower costs Fair value adjustments and hedges 2 1 related to programmes to deliver future cost savings.
352 451 Research and development R&D expenditure increased 11% partly as a result of higher charges Finance income increased compared with 2005 predominantly due related to restructuring programmes.
Excluding restructuring costs to increased income on extended credit on receivables and increased R&D grew 8%, broadly in-line with turnover.
Pharmaceuticals R&D interest income due to higher US dollar interest rates.
Finance costs expenditure, excluding restructuring costs, represented 16.2% 2005 reduced due to the re nancing of two expensive bonds in December 16.2% of pharmaceutical turnover.
2005 and January 2006 as well as lower swap costs resulting from reduced interest rate differentials.
Other operating income Other operating income includes royalty income, equity investment Share of after tax pro ts of associates and joint ventures disposals and impairments, product disposals and fair value The share of pro ts of associates arises principally from the Groups adjustments to the Quest collar and Theravance options.
Other holding in Quest Diagnostics Inc. operating income was 307 million in 2006 compared with 364 million in 2005.
The decrease is primarily due to lower product and asset disposal pro ts partially offset by the favourable fair value movement to the Quest collar and Theravance options.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 57 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2006 Business review Financial review 2006 continued Pro t for the year was 5,498 million, an increase of 17% 14% Taxation in sterling terms.
Pro t attributable to minority interests was 109 2006 2005 m m million and pro t attributable to shareholders was 5,389 million, an increase of 18% 15% in sterling terms.
The interest cost of the UK corporation tax 400 172 share buy-back adversely impacted the Groups earnings but bene ts Overseas taxation 2,310 1,847 Earnings per share EPS.
EPS increased 19%, re ecting higher Current taxation 2,710 2,019 pro ts and also the reduction in the weighted average number of Deferred taxation 409 103 shares resulting from the Groups share buy-back programme.
At actual rates of exchange, earnings per share increased 16%.
The Total 2,301 1,916 unfavourable currency impact on EPS of three percentage points The charge for taxation on pro t amounting to 2,301 million, re ected a strengthening of Sterling against other major currencies represented an effective tax rate of 29.5% 2005 28.5%.
The and compared with a two percentage point unfavourable currency Group balance sheet at 31st December 2006 included a tax payable impact on turnover.
liability of 621 million and a tax recoverable asset of 186 million.
The integrated nature of the Groups worldwide operations, involving signi cant investment in research and strategic manufacture at a limited number of locations, with consequential cross-border supply routes into numerous end-markets, gives rise to complexity and delay in negotiations with revenue authorities as to the pro ts on which individual Group companies are liable to tax.
Disagreements with, and between, revenue authorities as to intra-Group transactions, in particular the price at which goods should be transferred between Group companies in different tax jurisdictions, can produce con icting claims from revenue authorities as to the pro ts to be taxed in individual territories.
Resolution of such issues is a continuing fact of life for GSK.
The Group had signi cant open issues with the revenue authorities in the USA, UK, Japan and Canada.
On 11th September 2006 GSK and the US Internal Revenue Service agreed to a resolution of their dispute.
Pro t for the year 2006 2005 Growth m m CER% % Pro t after taxation for the year 5,498 4,816 17 14 Pro t attributable to shareholders 5,389 4,689 18 15 Earnings per share pence 95.5p 82.6p 19 16 Earnings per ADS US$ $3.53 $3.00 Weighted average number of shares millions 5,643 5,674 Diluted earnings per share pence 94.5p 82.0p Diluted earnings per ADS US$ $3.50 $2.98 Weighted average number of shares millions 5,700 5,720 58 I GSK Annual Report 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Financial review 2006
