20 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Group overview Business overview Halma protects lives and improves quality of Halma is made up of three sectors each comprising autonomous life for people worldwide through innovation operating companies which mainly manufacture innovative in market leading products which make our electronic and electrical products for niche markets with global dimensions.
We are an international group with businesses customers safer, more competitive and more in over 20 countries and major operations in Europe, the US, profitable.
You will find a description of our products, the industries in which we operate and trends in our markets in the sector reviews on pages 22 to 27.
These sectors are: Infrastructure Sensors detecting hazards, and protecting people and property in buildings Health and Analysis improving public and personal health: protecting the environment Industrial Safety protecting property and people at work Key performance indicators KPI Group target 2007 2006 Financial key performance indicators KPIs used by the Board 1 Organic revenue growth 5% 8% 11% to monitor progress are listed in the table on the left.
Similar 1 indicators are used to review performance in our three sectors.
Organic profit growth 5% 8% 15% KPIs are calculated on results from continuing operations.
2 Return on sales 18% 18.6% 18.7% We have delivered an impressive performance against our 3 ROCE Return on KPI targets.
The prior year comparatives for 2006 07 were capital employed 45% 60.1% 56.9% demanding as, unlike that year, there were no recovery 3 situations in the current year to benefit from.
Underlying ROTIC Return on total organic profit growth remained healthy and was again invested capital 12% 14.0% 12.8% driven by top line growth rather than cost reduction.
4 R&D as a % of revenue 4% 4.3% 4.3% Strong Return on sales, ROCE and ROTIC metrics confirm 5 Operating cash to operating profit 100% 106% 117% Halmas ability to deliver growth without diluting the quality of its returns.
Indeed, the increase in ROTIC indicates enhanced value 1.
Organic growth measures the change in the revenue and profits from continuing Group operations.
The effect of acquisitions made during the current or prior creation for shareholders.
financial period has been equalised by subtracting from the current year results a pro-rated contribution based on their revenue and profits at the date of acquisition.
R&D investment remained high relative to many of our peers 6 2.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted profit before taxation from continuing reflecting both increased innovation activity and an overall uplift operations expressed as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
in the technology level of Group companies due to M&A actions 3.
ROCE and ROTIC are non-GAAP measures used by management in measuring in the past two years.
Further discussion of the Groups financial the returns achieved from the Groups asset base.
See note 3 to the accounts for performance is given in the Financial review later in this details of the calculation basis.
Research and development expenditure as a percentage of revenue from continuing operations.
Cash generated from continuing operations expressed as a percentage 6 of adjusted operating profit from continuing operations.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
This Business and financial review is based on the guidelines for Operating and Financial Reviews published by the Accounting Standards Board.
To help shareholders get a clear insight into our business we look at issues affecting the Group as a whole on pages 20 and 21, followed by an analysis of our three principal operating sectors in more detail on pages 22 to 27, and then we summarise the Operating environment, risks and uncertainties, review corporate responsibility and conclude with a Financial review.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 21 Strategy and business objectives How we operate Our strategy for driving growth and creating shareholder value We cultivate a highly decentralised operating culture which centres on five key principles: encourages our businesses to focus on establishing market leadership in their selected niche within a global market.
Operate in specialised global markets offering long-term Each subsidiary is led by a management team who enjoy growth underpinned by robust growth drivers: genuine autonomy and the freedom to grow in an Build businesses which lead specialised global markets entrepreneurial environment.
through innovative products differentiated on performance These management teams are chaired by Halmas Divisional and quality rather than price alone: Chief Executives DCEs who understand the market needs Recruit and develop top quality boards to lead our businesses and can contribute broadly to the individual companys strategy and nurture an entrepreneurial culture within a framework of in technical, operational and commercial areas.
These DCEs rigorous financial discipline: meet with the Group Chief Executive regularly to review progress against their operating divisions strategic objectives.
Acquire companies and intellectual assets that extend our existing activities, enhance our entrepreneurial culture, Through the regular interaction between the Groups Executive fit into our decentralised operating structure and meet our Board members, common challenges and opportunities for demanding financial performance expectations: Group businesses are identified which sometimes leads to a central initiative.
Examples of initiatives underway are sales Achieve a high Return on capital employed to generate process improvement, innovation, people development and cash efficiently and to fund organic growth, closely targeted increasing activity in China via our Halma hubs in Shanghai acquisitions and sustained dividend growth.
Organic growth is the key to our value creation strategy.
DCEs are responsible for finding, negotiating, completing and The blended long-term growth rate of our markets is around managing acquisitions in their own business sectors.
Acquisition 5% per year and our aim is to grow faster than our markets.
costs, including goodwill, are incorporated in the incentive plans Following a strong year in 2005 06, achieving 8% organic growth of all Executive Board members.
in 2006 07 was an excellent result and represents a second year of good progress following low organic growth in the preceding When new acquisitions join Halma they invariably retain their years 2000 to 2005. name and identity, and vendors often continue to work with us.
Elsewhere entrepreneurs who typically find working in a large R&D and innovation play an important role.
Strategically, we aim international organisation too constraining welcome our to provide technical resources within each business as close autonomous culture and decentralised structure which allows as possible to the customer.
Whilst respecting the autonomy them to develop further.
of subsidiary companies, we encourage collaboration between Halma companies and see this as a potential competitive Outlook advantage that has been under-utilised in the past.
During 2006 07 marked another year of good progress for the Group 2006 07, the increased collaboration started to bear fruit with with record revenues and profits.
Significant investment continues new products launched incorporating technology and know-how in R&D, capital expenditure and strengthening channels to from two or more Halma companies.
This combination of delivering strong results whilst products, which combined visual and audible alarm modules increasing investment provides a solid platform from which together with our market leading smoke detectors.
it is possible for the Group to sustain organic growth above market rates.
Our businesses build competitive advantage and strengthen barriers to entry in many ways including patents, product Good quality prospects for further acquisitions in our target approvals, technical innovation, product quality, customer service markets exist and acquisitions will continue to play an important levels and branding.
We look for these qualities in the businesses role in the Groups long-term growth.
We like regulated markets which require We have clear growth strategies for our markets and we continue suppliers to achieve compliance with demanding product to work hard to improve the quality of our execution through standards but also look for other robust long-term growth active resource allocation and people development.
We are drivers such as demographic change.
well placed to deliver sustained growth and enter the new year in good shape.
Growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Risk and cost of accidents Commercial construction new build and refurbishment Population growth, ageing and urbanisation Rising expectations of health and safety Capital investment in industrial facilities Industrialisation of developing world Energy and water resources markets growth New technology
