Headlam Group plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review During 2007, the combined performance of our 50 UK businesses It is the groups intention resulted in an increase in revenue of 4.0% on a like for like basis and in total by 6.8%.
to continue investing in Another positive improvement in Continental Europe resulted in the revenue from our businesses located in France, Switzerland and the new distribution facilities Netherlands increasing on a like for like basis by 7.2%.
to increase capacity and Challenging market conditions, particularly in the UK, have required additional effort and creativity from our management teams, sales efficiency representatives and staff to ensure that by working closely with suppliers on product development and launches, our customers, principally independent flooring retailers and contractors, retain their market position and subsequent share.
This will allow Baileys to complement its residential business by increasing significantly its commercial product offering and service Investment - Facilities to flooring contractors in Devon and Cornwall.
In December 2007, we completed the 20,000 square feet extension to the distribution hub of Mercado in Leeds, increasing their total Following the ongoing improvement in our European businesses, capacity to 205,000 square feet.
We made a further investment in we have decided to relocate our Lethem-Vergeer business in the the infrastructure of Mercado with the purchase, in February 2007, Netherlands to a new purpose-built freehold 65,000 square feet of an existing 17,000 square feet building in Bristol to increase distribution facility, for which we are currently awaiting the trans-shipping capacity.
This building was subsequently refurbished appropriate planning licence.
We anticipate that this facility and became operational in September.
These two investments have will be operational in the spring of 2009. increased the capacity and efficiency of Mercados national operations.
It is the groups intention to continue the investment programme in new purpose-built freehold distribution facilities enabling us to The investment in the Bristol facility also created a service centre for relocate a number of our existing businesses and provide them Richards, the regional commercial business, to extend its commercial with increased capacity and more efficient handling techniques.
product offering and customer service in the southwest of England.
In December 2007, we purchased a 6,000 square feet building in Investment - Acquisitions Southampton, in order to establish a service centre to enlarge the The group has continued to acquire businesses where they can Richards commercial presence in the south of England.
enhance our market position and contribute to increased profitability, which has resulted in three acquisitions during 2007.
During 2007, we entered into leasehold agreements to provide two new service centres for Faithfulls to increase its presence At the end of March, we acquired 3D Flooring Supplies Limited, a with flooring contractors operating in London.
The Dartford 5,000 distributor of commercial flooring in South Wales and the southwest square feet service centre opened in November, followed by the of England.
3D will continue to operate from its locations in Cardiff, Walthamstow 9,000 square feet service centre opening in January Swansea and Taunton.
During April, we acquired Florprotec Limited, a leading supplier We currently have under construction, a new purpose-built freehold throughout the UK of floor protection products for the construction 42,000 square feet distribution facility for MCD Wales in Bridgend, industry and refurbishment projects.
Florprotec now operates which will be operational in the spring of 2008.
This will enable MCD autonomously from the Tamworth distribution centre.
Wales to develop further its residential and commercial business in South Wales and the southwest of England.
In July, we acquired the trade and assets of Plantation Rug Company, a supplier of rugs to independent retailers throughout the UK.
During July, we acquired the freehold interest in the property Plantation operates autonomously from our Stockport distribution occupied by Baileys, our regional multi-product business located centre and complements our existing activities in rugs, principally in Plymouth.
Planning permission has been granted to extend the through Crucial Trading and National Carpets.
distribution centre which will be completed by the end of 2008.
The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 ORDER PICK Customers in the UK, CUT who are principally DELIVER independent flooring retailers and contractors, placed 4,624,489 orders during 2007 Headlam Group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued infrastructure, we are confident of the continued development and The number of active growth of the Mercado businesses.
customer accounts Regional commercial: This sector continues to prosper and now encompasses 15 operations, which are increasing their market presence through organic growth, new service centres and increased from 36,225 in acquisitions, growing their revenues collectively by 31.4%.
With the recently acquired businesses and new service centres in Bristol, 2006 to 39,033 in 2007 Dartford, Walthamstow and Southampton, we would expect this sector to significantly enlarge its market presence.
illustrating that the Residential specialist: Through product development and continued independent sector investment in sales and marketing, our 13 businesses selling principally middle to premium end carpet products, were able to increase their revenues by 12.7%.
During 2007, we reintroduced the carpet brands continues to prosper Mr Tomkinson and BMK, which, historically, are well known with independent retailers.
The acquisition of Plantation Rug Company is UK operations an opportunity to expand our presence in the UK rug market.
Our 50 businesses in the UK operating from 22 distribution centres Throughout the activities of these 13 specialist businesses, we and 9 service centres are categorised into five separate sectors.
Each anticipate continued growth in medium to premium products.
sector reflects their relevant geographical or product focus in the UK floorcovering market.
Commercial specialist: The original three businesses all performed positively during 2007 and with the additional contribution from Regional multi-product: The 20 businesses create significant market Florprotec, this sector increased revenues by 17.2%.
presence and represent 59% of UK revenue.
They continue to offer a comprehensive product range of both residential and commercial Suppliers floorcovering and increased their revenue by 3.0% during the year.
The managers of our 50 businesses in the UK and three businesses in Continental Europe work closely with the leading worldwide National multi-product: Mercado, with its extensive product offering of manufacturers of floorcovering products, to ensure that our residential and commercial floorcovering, increased its revenue by businesses, and subsequently our customers, are at the forefront of 2.2%.
With the benefit of investment and enhancements to the product into their respective markets.
Business Sectors Proportion by Product Regional multi-product 59% Carpet 47% Vinyl 12% National multi-product 13% Regional commercial 11% Laminate & Wood 6% Underlay 4% Residential specialist 12% Commercial 29% Commercial specialist 5% Rugs 2% The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 ORDER PICK CUT Immediate order DELIVER processing, comprehensive product ranges and high stock levels allow us to respond quickly to customer demand Headlam Group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review continued Products The groups structure Each of our product categories showed growth during 2007.
Whilst commercial flooring grew at a faster rate than residential, market encourages individual information would suggest that we were able to increase our market share in both residential and commercial flooring.
businesses to take To assist this growth, the number of products launched and point of sale items placed with customers were consistent with previous advantage of market years.
opportunities Carpet revenues increased by 1.2%, through the launch of 2,654 new products, which were supported by 604,000 point of sales items.
Carpet, which continues to be dominated by plain products in the UK, represents 47% of revenue.
The volume of cut lengths was Europe consistent with previous years, with an increase in the number The three businesses in Continental Europe again showed a positive of rolls sold, reflecting the activity of our individual sales teams performance, culminating in return on sales increasing from 2.7% to 3.6%.
working to create additional demand in a challenging market.
LMS in France benefited from an improving market and through its Residential vinyl continues to be enhanced by improved infrastructure of two principal distribution centres and 21 service manufacturing techniques, enabling the realistic recreation of centres, increased revenue by 5.4%.
various types of natural flooring.
With the benefit of 727 new ranges marketed through 142,000 new display items, our revenues increased Belcolor in Switzerland invested in additional sales personnel, primarily by 3.3% with independent flooring retailers.
focused on commercial flooring and with an increased contribution from Parquet, were able to increase their total revenue by 8.8%.
Wood and laminate products enjoyed another positive year, increasing revenue by 26.2% and now represent 6% of UK revenue.
Lethem-Vergeer in the Netherlands delivered another positive This reflected an improving product offer in laminate flooring and an performance, principally in residential flooring and increased their increase in sales of premium products, engineered and solid wood.
Commercial Flooring grew by 17.2% due to positive market demand Outlook and investment in new infrastructure and acquisitions.
This has The groups structure encourages individual businesses to take continued the increase in our market share in commercial flooring, advantage of market opportunities through the ongoing business which now contributes 29% of our UK revenues.
development activities of our management teams and sales representatives.
Customers Our customers in the UK, who are principally independent flooring The first ten weeks of 2008 have shown a further positive trend in retailers and contractors, placed 4,624,489 orders during 2007 the UK and Continental Europe and with our strategy of autonomous compared with 4,422,454 in 2006. businesses, we are well placed to achieve our objectives for the year.
The number of active accounts increased from 36,225 in 2006 to 39,033 in 2007, which reflects that independent flooring retailers and contractors continue to prosper.
Average debtor days increased slightly from 41.0 days to 41.9 days, due to the increased contribution from the sales of commercial Tony Brewer, Group Chief Executive products to flooring contractors.
The total cost of doubtful debts as a percentage of revenue reduced from 0.21% to 0.18%.
The increase in active accounts, reduction in doubtful debts and underlying stability in debtor days, demonstrates the performance and strength of independent flooring retailers and contractors.
The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 ORDER PICK CUT DELIVER Investment in material processing and handling equipment enables us to increase efficiency and reduce waste
