Business and financial review The Directors are pleased to present their report and audited We estimate that the total size of the MENA pharmaceutical 1 financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. market was over $8.0 billion in 2007.
Key external drivers of For the purposes of this report, Company means Hikma future growth include growing per capita income and medical Pharmaceuticals PLC and Group means the Company and expenditure, the increasing affordability of generic products, its subsidiary and associated undertakings.
the regions expanding healthcare infrastructure and favourable market trends such as improving literacy, increasing life Our vision expectancy and higher birth rates.
A leader in speciality pharmaceuticals In 2007, we strengthened our capacity to take advantage of Our vision is to be a leading speciality pharmaceutical company these favourable market trends.
Through the acquisition of Alkan offering a diverse portfolio of high-quality, added-value products Pharma Alkan in September of 2007, we extended our reach across a wide range of therapeutic areas.
into the important Egyptian market, where we estimate the private sector was worth approximately $1.9 billion in 2007.
Our strategy Through the acquisition of Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Focus on growth Co. Ltd. APM in December 2007, we also strengthened our We are focusing on the key segments of our markets that offer position in our existing markets, particularly in Jordan and Saudi the best prospects for long-term growth, particularly the branded Arabia.
generic market in the MENA region and the speciality injectables business.
Growth will come both organically and through Speciality injectables market acquisitions, which will be used to develop our position in new Our Injectables business focuses on a specialised sub-segment of markets, strengthen our leading position in existing markets and the global generic market and has a growing presence in the provide access to new products and technologies.
MENA region, Europe and the US.
While in each of these areas we compete against local and multinational competitors, the Deliver high quality products to patients at a lower cost total number of competitors is more limited than in the oral Our goal of delivering high quality and cost-effective products to segment of the generic market, due to the complexity of the patients in the many and varied markets in which we operate injectable manufacturing process and more challenging requires developing our research and development capabilities, regulatory requirements.
leveraging our API sourcing skills and maintaining very high manufacturing standards.
We are developing strong market positions in each of our Injectable markets.
In the MENA region, we are the sole generic Operate responsibly supplier of six specic injectable products and our products often As we go about our day-to-day business, we will also strive to run have a market share of 25% or more.
In Europe and the US our operations responsibly, balancing our commercial objectives we have achieved similar market shares for a number of our with the expectations of a broad range of stakeholders.
Overall, products, especially the cephalosporins.
we recognise that our vision will only be achieved if we maintain our commitment to quality, especially when it comes to our In 2007 we made two important acquisitions that helped us people and our organisation.
to enter the injectable oncology market, which is forecast to become the second largest within the pharmaceutical industry 2 Our business and markets by 2010.
Our primary business is the development, manufacture and The first was the acquisition of Ribosepharm GmbH marketing of generic and in-licensed pharmaceutical products.
Ribosepharm, which specialises in the marketing and Our operations span almost 50 countries around the world, distribution of branded generic injectable oncology products both primarily in the MENA region, the United States and Europe.
to private practices and hospitals in Germany.
We will be able Fast growing MENA market to draw on Ribosepharms expertise in the field of oncology in We have significant operations in the MENA region, which is Germany to expand into other oncology markets in Europe, as primarily a branded pharmaceutical market, where patented, well as into the MENA region and eventually the United States.
generic and OTC pharmaceutical products are marketed under We further developed our oncology capability with the specic brand names.
In this region we market our own branded acquisition of Thymoorgan GmbH Pharmazie & Co. KG generic products and a number of patented brands that we inThymoorgan, a manufacturer of injectable oncology products.
We compete against both the multinational originators and local manufacturers, but are one of the few regional players, with operations in 17 MENA markets and over 1,000 sales and marketing employees across the region.
In our core markets Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Jordan and Sudan we are one of the top six players, and across all our markets many of our top products have a market share of 15% or more.
Source: IMS Health estimates for 2007 market size of Jordan, Egypt, Lebanon, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Kuwait: GRM and Hikma estimates.
Source: Datamonitor, 2006 Overview of Global Oncology Market.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 15 Business and financial review US generic market Group performance Our Generic business operates in the competitive US market, Revenue for the Group increased by 41.6% to $448.8 million, by far the largest single market in the world for generic compared to $317.0 million in 2006.
Excluding the acquisitions pharmaceutical products, with sales of approximately $29 billion of Ribosepharm, Thymoorgan and Alkan, revenues increased by 1 in 2007.
In this market, Hikma competes in the private and 28.0%.
The latter increase was primarily due to strong increases government market on the basis of price, quality, product range in revenue in both the Branded and Injectable businesses.
and customer service, and overall through its ability to provide In 2007, 44.3% of revenue was generated by our Branded certain niche products.
Downward pressure on prices, driven business, 27.7% of revenue was generated by our Generic primarily by an increase in the number of competitors operating business and 27.0% by our Injectables business.
Geographically, in the market, has affected the US generic market in recent years.
51.1% of revenue was generated in the MENA region, while In the future, we expect continued competition, particularly from 32.0% of revenue was generated in the United States and low cost generic pharmaceutical producers from India and China.
17.0% in Europe and the rest of the world.
Key performance indicators The Groups gross profit increased by 39.7% to $221.5 million, Progress on our strategic objectives is monitored by the Board compared to $158.5 million in 2006.
Group gross margins for by reference to five key financial performance indicators KPIs 2007 were 49.4% of revenue, compared to 50.0% in 2006. applied on a Group-wide and segmental basis.
These same On a segmental basis, gross margins improved in the Branded indicators are used by executive management to manage the and Injectables businesses, but declined in the Generic business, business.
Performance in 2007 against these indicators is set out due to continued price erosion.
in the table below, together with the prior year performance data.
We are no longer including R&D costs as a percentage of Group operating expenses increased in 2007 by 53.3% to revenue as a KPI as this is no longer the best way to measure our $129.1 million, compared to $84.2 million for 2006, mainly investment in our pipeline, given the increase in spending on due to an increase in sales and marketing and general and product acquisitions.
This year, however, we have added new administrative expenditures related to acquisitions and to an product launches as a non-financial KPI.
increase in corporate expenses required to support the enlarged Group.
These expenses include an amortisation charge of Hikmas key performance indicators $1.6 million relating to intangible assets arising on these and Year ended Year ended other acquisitions completed during the year.
Sales and 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Change marketing expenses represented 13.6% of Group revenue in 2007, compared to 11.0% in 2006.
Revenue growth 41.6% 20.9% 20.7 2 Sales and marketing expenses before acquisitions grew by Gross profit margin 49.4% 50.0% -0.6 26.7%, which reflects the strong growth in both the Branded Operating profit margin 20.6% 23.7% -3.1 and Injectables businesses.
Including acquisitions, sales and Growth in profit attributable marketing expenses increased by 74.3% to $61.0 million, due to shareholders 14.8% 24.3% -9.5 primarily to the acquisition of Ribosepharm, and to the full consolidation of Al-Jazeera Pharmaceutical Industries JPI.
New product launches in Jordan, Europe and the US 28 23 5 The Groups general and administrative expenses increased by 51.7% to $46.0 million, compared to $30.3 million in 2006.
As anticipated, the change arose mainly from the consolidation of JPI, Ribosepharm, Thymoorgan and Alkan.
The need to support the growth of the Group has also increased corporate general and administrative costs, which include costs associated with the companys new long-term incentive plan.
General and administrative expenses represented 10.3% of Group revenue in 2007, compared to 9.6% in 2006.
Source: IMS National Sales Perspective, Moving Annual Total, November 2007.
This excludes the acquisitions of Ribosepharm, Thymoorgan, Alkan Pharma and JPI.
16 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Business and financial review Pending Investment in R&D for the Group increased by 5.7% approvals to $19.3 million, compared to $18.3 million in 2006.
Pending of new New approvals products This increase, which can be attributed to ongoing investment product as of as of Filings filings 31 December 31 December in the development of our product portfolio, was lower than in 2007 in 2007 2007 2007 in 2006 reflecting a shift towards product and business Generic acquisitions.
Total investment in R&D represented 4.3% of Pharmaceuticals Group revenue in 2007, compared to 5.8% in 2006.
United States 8 6 32 25 Other net operating expenses, which consist mainly of provisions against slow moving items partially offset by foreign exchange Branded gains, were $2.8 million, compared to $0.6 million in 2006.
Pharmaceuticals MENA 23 9 45 27 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation increased by 30.1% to $115.8 million, compared to $89.0 million Europe and ROW 16 4 19 7 in 2006.
Operating profit for the Group increased by 22.8% to 39 13 64 34 $92.4 million, compared to $75.2 million in 2006.
Group operating margin declined by 3.1 percentage points to 20.6% in Injectable 2007, compared to 23.7% of revenue in 2006.
Pharmaceuticals United States 7 2 31 21 Research and development MENA 11 9 17 13 The Groups product portfolio continues to grow.
In the year to 31 December 2007, Hikma added 177 new products to the Europe 9 7 14 11 Group portfolio, which now covers 353 products in 728 dosage 27 18 62 45 1 strengths and forms.
We manufacture and or sell 40 of these 74 37 158 104 under licence from the originator.
Includes only the first filing of a product or line extension in the MENA region.
In the year to 31 December 2007, Hikma received 129 regulatory Includes only the first filing of a product or line extension in Europe or ROW.
approvals, including nine ANDA approvals for the Generics business and one ANDA approval for the Injectables business.
To ensure the continuous development of our product pipeline, Over the same period, 28 new products were launched.
we submitted a total of 74 regulatory filings for the first time in MENA, the US and Europe.
As of 31 December 2007, we had a total of 158 pending approvals in Jordan, the US and Europe and 543 pending approvals across all regions and markets.
We estimate the approximate addressable market for our portfolio of pending approvals to be approximately $19.8 billion, based on the 2007 full year sales of the currently marketed equivalent products in the markets covered by the pending approvals.
At 31 December 2007, we had a total of 133 new products under development, the majority of which should receive several marketing authorisations over the next few years, including separate marketing authorisations in differing strengths and or product forms over the next few years.
Products are defined as pharmaceutical compounds sold by the Group.
New products are defined as pharmaceutical compounds not yet launched by the Group and existing compounds being introduced into a new segment or a new region.
Line extensions are new forms or dosage strengths.
Filings include only filings for new products and the first filing of line extensions in a segment or region.
Approvals are comprehensive and include approvals for new products and line extensions and approvals in new countries.
Pending approvals include only applications that are pending for new products and the first filing of a line extension in a segment or region.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 17 build Business and financial review Branded Pharmaceuticals We also achieved strong performances in some of our newer and Revenue in the Branded business, our largest business smaller markets, including UAE, Lebanon and the Ukraine, driven segment, increased by 52.9% to $198.9 million, compared to mainly by better brand recognition and product launches.
Excluding the acquisitions of JPI and In 2007 we continued to work hard to strengthen our leading Alkan, underlying sales growth was 32.0%, primarily due to position in the MENA region.
Through the acquisition of Alkan strong growth across all our MENA markets.
New product in September 2007, we extended our reach into the important introductions and more focused sales and marketing efforts Egyptian market, which we estimate was worth approximately have helped to drive demand and increase sales.
We now have more than 250 sales and strong performance in the Gulf Cooperation Council GCC marketing staff in Egypt and market 84 products in 126 dosage countries was driven in part by the successful integration of JPI.
Five of these products are in-licensed and Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Sudan were the Branded a further 19 products are pending approval.
In addition, we businesss largest markets in 2007.
In Algeria, Hikma grew continue to sell Astellas life-saving immunosuppressant, Prograf, well above the average market growth rate.
This growth was in the Egyptian market and will soon launch Actos, Takedas driven by an increase in the number of marketed products, leading Type Two diabetes drug.
enhanced sales and marketing efforts, with more focus on Through the acquisition of APM at the end of December 2007, doctors, pharmacists and better geographical coverage, and by we strengthened our position in our existing markets, particularly strengthening our relationships with the leading distributors.
in Jordan and Saudi Arabia.
This acquisition brings together a Our market share in Algeria reached 6.0% in 2007, compared high quality and complementary portfolio.
APMs currently to 3.9% at the end of 2006, making us the fourth largest marketed portfolio of 105 products in 222 dosage strengths 1 pharmaceutical company in the Algerian market.
and forms will enhance the product offering available to Sales in Saudi Arabia grew by nearly 80%, as we worked hard Hikmas enlarged sales force by expanding existing product to complete the integration of JPI.
By year end the combined lines, strengthening existing therapeutic areas and adding sales teams were performing well and we had achieved strong new molecules.
APMs portfolio includes oral, injectable and margin improvement.
We also increased our share of the tender dermatological products and spans a number of therapeutic market, benefiting from our new status as a local manufacturer.
categories, including cardiovascular, diabetes and oncology.
Our share of the private market, however, decreased to 3.8% in Sales from in-licensed products grew by 44.6% to $64.2 million 2007, compared to 4.0% in 2006, making us the sixth largest in 2007, representing 32.3% of Branded sales, compared 1 player in the Saudi Arabian market.
We are confident of further to 34.1% in 2006.
During the year, three new licensing progress in 2008 through increased sales efforts, the benets of agreements were signed and five new licences were added new product launches including three new products launched with the acquisition of Alkan in Egypt, bringing the total number in 2007 and further benets of the JPI Hikma integration.
We 2 of in-licensed products marketed in the Branded business to 33. will benefit from APMs strong position in the Saudi market.
Gross profit in the Branded business increased by 55.5% to Our growth in the Jordanian market was also strong in 2007 $108.0 million, compared to $69.5 million in 2006.
Gross margin and well ahead of the underlying market, due to new product in the Branded business increased to 54.3%, compared to launches, more focused sales efforts especially for key products 53.4% in 2006.
This change in gross profit margin is attributed and better market coverage by our medical representatives.
primarily to an improvement in product mix.
We received 12 product approvals and launched nine new products in the Jordanian market during the year.
In 2007, we maintained our position as market leader in the Jordanian market and our market share increased to 7.7%, compared to 1 7.3% in 2006.
In Sudan we performed extremely well, largely due to a strong product focus, an increase in the number of medical representatives and better geographical coverage, combined with a more stable operating environment, growing pharmacy chains and an overall increase in pharmaceutical spend.
significant benets were also derived from the integration of JPIs Sudanese operations.
While market data is not readily available for the Sudanese market, we believe that we now have a leading position in this market.
Build: Left: Following the acquisition of Alkan Pharma in Egypt, Hikma now has local manufacturing capabilities in the large and growing Egyptian market.
Right: Our nearly 1,100 strong sales and marketing team is building lasting relationships with doctors across the MENA region.
At the end of 2007, a further five in-licenced products were pending launch.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 19 Business and financial review Operating profit in the Branded business increased by 56.7% In Europe, we saw strong growth in the Italian and Portuguese in 2007, to $61.7 million.
Through a strict focus on operating market as a direct result of increased customer focus, and we efficiencies, operating margins in the Branded business increased were able to maintain our position in the highly competitive to 31.0% in 2007, compared to 30.3% in 2006, which German market.
During the year we launched four new products demonstrates the successful integration of JPI.
In 2007, in the European market.
operating expenses included only a small amortisation charge In the US, we faced increased competition.
Nevertheless, we related to acquisitions.
Going forward, however, we expect continue to grow own product sales and are developing a strong the amortisation charge for intangible assets related to market position for our products, particularly the cephalosporins.
acquisitions to be close to $4.0 million.
In 2007 we began selling our products to the US government In 2007, the Branded business received 78 regulatory approvals, and won several new contracts with buying groups for 2008. including 12 in Jordan, 49 in other MENA markets and 17 in We launched two new products in the US market in 2007 and Europe and the rest of the world.
In line with our strategic expect to launch a further three products in multiple dosage objectives for the Branded business, we launched a total of 15 strengths and forms in the first half of 2008. new products in 2007, nine in Jordan, three in Saudi Arabia and In 2007 we took the important strategic step of entering the three in Egypt.
The total number of Branded sales and marketing injectable generic oncology market.
In January we acquired staff operating across our 17 MENA markets at year end was Ribosepharm, a German oncology company specialising in 1,010, which includes 256 in Egypt, 221 in Saudi Arabia, 191 in the marketing and distribution of branded generic injectable Jordan and 127 in Algeria.
In May, we acquired Thymoorgan, a German Injectable Pharmaceuticals contract manufacturer of lyophilised and liquid injectables for Our global Injectable business manufactures injectable both oncological and non-oncological uses.
pharmaceutical products in powder, liquid and lyophilised Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan, now our oncology business, forms for sale across the MENA region, Europe and the US.
performed well in 2007, contributing sales of $36.6 million, The Injectable business contributed 27.0% of total Group which includes approximately $11 million of sales from revenue in 2007, compared to 21.3% in 2006. in-licensed products that have been or will be discontinued, Revenue in our Injectable business increased by 79.3% to which is in line with expectations at the time of the $121.2 million, compared to $67.6 million in 2006.
1 reflects underlying organic growth of 25.2%, driven primarily The sales and marketing team at Ribosepharm is performing by a strong performance in the MENA region, as well as the well in the German injectable oncology market and we are consolidation of Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan, the injectable successfully expanding our oncology product portfolio, oncology businesses acquired in the first half of 2007. which now includes 12 marketed products and a pipeline During the year, the Injectables business received 42 regulatory of 13 additional products.
At Thymoorgan, we commenced approvals, including 11 in Europe, 30 in the MENA region and the manufacture of our first products for the European and one in the US.
25 of these approvals were for new products, the MENA markets.
rest were for new dosage strengths or forms.
Since the beginning of 2008, we have received a further four approvals in the US.
In the MENA region, the Injectables business delivered strong growth across most markets, with the largest contributions coming from Algeria, Saudi Arabia and Sudan.
This growth was driven by our strong product position, more focused sales and marketing efforts, additional medical representatives, an increased focus on institutional customers and an increasing ability to execute a bundled sales strategy.
Growth was reinforced by the 18 new products launched during the year.
Develop Far right: Through the acquisition of Thymoorgan in Germany, we acquired state-of-the-art oncology manufacturing facilities, enhancing our new oncology platform.
Right: Gregor Siebert, Sales and Marketing Director, Europe.
We continue to develop our injectable sales and marketing capabilities across all geographies.
Organic growth is calculated before the acquisitions of Ribosepharm and Thymoorgan.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 20 develop deliver Business and financial review Gross profit of the Injectables business increased by 91.1% to While price competition remained high in 2007, improved sales $54.2 million, compared to $28.3 million in 2006.
The Injectable efforts and increased demand for key products helped to drive businesss gross margin increased to 44.7%, compared to 41.9% volume growth.
Sales from recently launched products also drove in 2006.
The increase in gross margin reflects the contribution of Generic revenues, which grew by 9.3% in 2007 to Ribosepharm, which as a sales and marketing organisation has $124.2 million, compared to $113.7 million in 2006. higher gross margins than the underlying business.
The gross Our sales contract with the Department of Veterans Affairs margin contribution from Ribosepharm more than offset lower the VA, an agency of the government of the United States, gross margins before the impact of acquisitions resulting from for the supply of Lisinopril expired on 20 December 2007. increasing price competition in Germany, the increase in MENA As the VA has not submitted a new solicitation for this product, tender sales, which have lower margins, and an increase in we expect volumes to be considerably lower going forward.
overheads and depreciation expense related to our new plant in We expect to compensate with sales from products launched Portugal.
As we expand production at the new plant in Portugal, in 2007 and 2008, but these sales will have lower margins, we expect overhead and depreciation expenses to decrease as a and will result in lower margins going forward for the segment percentage of sales.
Injectable operating profit increased by 53.1% to $20.5 million, Recent additions to strengthen the Generics senior management compared to $13.4 million in 2006.
Injectable operating margins team will support the business going forward.
A new finance decreased to 16.9% in 2007, down from 19.8% in 2006. director was appointed in late 2007 and a new sales and The decrease was driven primarily by the lower underlying gross marketing director was appointed in early 2008.
Both have margins but also to an increase in operating expenses incurred to significant experience in the pharmaceutical industry.
support continued growth across all regions.
These operating expenses include an amortisation charge of $1.6 million related The Generic business received nine ANDA approvals in to the acquisition of intangible assets.
In 2008, we expect this 2007, including four for new products.
In addition, a total charge will be approximately $2.2 million.
of six products were launched during the year.
During the year, we focused on developing our Injectables sales Gross profit of the Generic business decreased by 2.0% to and marketing capabilities across all geographies and ended the $58.6 million, compared to $59.8 million in 2006.
Gross margin year with 77 sales and marketing representatives in the MENA in the Generic business was 47.2%, compared to 52.6% in Region, and 43 in Europe, including five in Portugal and 33 in 2006.
This reflects continued price erosion, as well as changes Germany, and 10 in the United States.
Generic Pharmaceuticals Generic operating profit decreased by 12.1% to $31.6 million.
The Generic business contributed 27.7% of total Group Operating profit margins in the Generic business decreased to revenue in 2007, compared to 35.9% in 2006 as the Branded 25.5% of revenue, compared to 31.7% in 2006.
The decrease in and Injectables businesses continue to grow both organically operating margin is attributed to price erosion and the product and through acquisitions.
Consistent with 2006, all Generic mix mentioned above, as the level of operating expenses revenues were generated in the United States.
Other businesses Other businesses, which include primarily Arab Medical Containers, a manufacturer of specialised plastic packaging, and International Pharmaceuticals Research Centre, which conducts bio-equivalency studies, had aggregate revenue in 2007 of $4.5 million, or 1.0% of total Group revenue.
Other businesses delivered an operating loss of $3.4 million in 2007, compared to a loss of $1.2 million in 2006, as a result of an increase in investment in research and development.
Deliver Far left: We are dedicating one of our FDA-approved facilities in the MENA region for the US market, to expand production capacity and lower our cost base.
Left: We began production at our new cephalosporin plant in Portugal for export to Europe, the MENA region and the US.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 23 Financial performance Finance income and costs Operating cash flow and investment The Groups financing income principally comprises interest Net cash inflow from operating activities was $45.1 million, income.
Financing income decreased by $3.2 million to compared to $35.3 million in 2006.
Working capital increased $2.0 million in 2007, compared to $5.3 million in 2006. by $46.9 million, compared to $35.1 million at the end of 2006, Financing costs increased by $5.9 million to $10.8 million, primarily due to an increase in receivables and inventory in line compared to $5.0 million in 2006.
The decrease in finance with historic sales and planned growth.
income and increase in finance costs was due to the decrease Trade receivables increased by 59.1% compared to 31 December in cash and cash equivalents and increase in debt primarily 2006 largely as a result of acquisitions in addition to organic sales as a result of the cash used to finance the acquisitions made 1 growth.
Excluding acquisitions, receivable days stood at 125 days during the year.
as at 31 December 2007, compared to 126 days at 31 December 2006, indicating steady receivable growth in line with sales.
Profit before tax Profit before taxes for the Group increased by $8.2 million, or Inventory increased by 76.4% compared to 31 December 2006, 10.8%, to $83.8 million, compared to $75.6 million in 2006. due to acquisitions and the necessity to support planned growth 1 in sales.
Excluding acquisitions, inventory days stood at Tax 207 days as at 31 December 2007, compared to 193 days The Group had a tax expense of $19.6 million in 2007. at 31 December 2006.
The effective tax rate was 23.4%, a year on year decrease Net cash used for investing activities was $350.9 million, of 2.6 percentage points.
This improvement reflects an increase compared to $72.7 million in 2006.
The most significant in sales generated in the MENA region.
component of investment activity during the year was acquisition related: $73.6 million paid for the acquisitions of Ribosepharm Minority interest and Thymoorgan, $61.1 million paid for Alkan Pharma in Hikmas minority interest increased to $1.6 million in 2007, Egypt and $167.4 million paid for Arab Pharmaceutical compared to $1.4 million in 2006.
In addition, capital expenditure amounted to $50.4 million, compared to $49.7 million in Profit for the year 2006.
This expenditure relates primarily to expansion projects The Groups profit for the year attributable to equity holders of in the Branded and Injectables businesses.
During the year the the parent grew by 14.8% to $62.6 million for the year ended Group also made regular investments to upgrade and maintain 31 December 2007, compared to $54.5 million in 2006. existing facilities.
Earnings per share On 17 January 2008 we successfully raised gross proceeds of Diluted earnings per share for the year to 31 December 2007 81.6 million approximately $160 million in an equity placing were 35.4 cents, up 14.2% from 31.0 cents in 2006. of shares, funding the acquisition of APM, strengthening our balance sheet and and enhancing our flexibility to finance Dividend future growth.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 4.0 cents per share approximately 2.0 pence per share, which will make the Outlook dividend for the full year of 7.5 cents per share, compared to In 2008, we are expecting revenue growth of between 35% 7.0 cents per share in 2006.
The proposed final dividend will be and 40%, supported by organic growth and by the acquisitions paid on 2 June 2008 to shareholders on the register on 2 May and investments we have made over the past two years.
2008, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting.
Gross margin is expected to be approximately 47%.
In our Branded business, we expect to continue to deliver strong organic growth.
We expect further growth to come from the acquisitions we have made in the MENA region, which are performing extremely well.
We now have over 1,000 Branded sales and marketing staff in place across the MENA region, an enhanced product portfolio and broad manufacturing capabilities to drive and support this growth.
In our US Generics business, we expect sales in 2008 to be broadly in line with that achieved in 2007, and expect continued pricing pressure and significant gross margin erosion.
Looking ahead, we will work to grow this business through the recent strengthening of the management team, increasing focus on higher margin, niche products, dedicating additional capacity in low cost countries and concentrating on acquiring lower cost API.
24 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Financial performance In our global Injectables business, we expect strong growth driven Risk management by new product launches, further penetration of our existing Operational risks product portfolio and from our new oncology business, as we There are a number of factors that have or could in the future build our product portfolio and launch these products into affect the Groups results of operations, including the following: new markets in Europe and MENA.
We also expect to deliver improving operating margins in this business, as we benefit Regulatory from increasing economies of scale.
In common with other companies operating in the pharmaceutical industry, Hikma is subject to extensive regulation We are confident of delivering another year of strong in all its markets.
There is no single worldwide harmonised set of performance in 2008 driven by our Branded and Injectable regulations relating to the development, manufacture and sale businesses as we continue to grow Hikma into a leading of pharmaceutical products and we are, therefore, subject to speciality pharmaceutical company.
different laws, regulations and codes depending on the regions or countries in which our businesses operate.
Basis of preparation and forward-looking statements This business and financial review has been prepared solely to Industry, economic and political dynamics.
provide additional information to shareholders as a body to assess The Group operates in diverse markets and geographic regions the Companys strategies and the potential for those strategies to and is therefore subject to diverse industry, economic and political succeed, and should not be relied on by any other party or for dynamics.
However, we believe the geographic spread of our any other purpose.
Certain statements in the above review are operations gives the Group unique strength and exibility, and forward-looking statements which have been made by the also lessens the impact on the Groups results and financial Directors in good faith based on the information available to condition of any disruption in, or any other extraordinary events them up to the time of their approval of this report.
By their at, any one of our three businesses or a change in the economic nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, conditions or political environment or sustained civil unrest in any uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or particular market or country.
events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the Pricing dynamics forward-looking statements, and should be treated with caution.
Pricing for the Groups products reects a variety of factors, These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect including changes in Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events and other raw material costs, intensity of competition, industry described in this review.
Forward-looking statements contained practice, governmental regulation and general market conditions.
in this review regarding past trends or activities should not be Generic pharmaceutical markets in the United States and Europe taken as a representation that such trends or activities will are extremely competitive and or regulated by governments, continue in the future.
You should not place undue reliance on both of which result in downward pressure on prices.
We aim forward-looking statements, which speak as only of the date to maximise the margins we achieve on our products through of the approval of this report.
competitive pricing strategies, together with initiatives to Except as required by law, the Company is under no obligation minimise raw material and other manufacturing and to update or keep current the forward-looking statements operating costs.
contained in this review or to correct any inaccuracies which Government tender bids may become apparent in such forward-looking statements.
Whilst the majority of Group sales have been to the private sector, each of our three businesses participates in government tenders.
The timing and outcome of these tenders are unpredictable, and the Groups results could be affected by the gain or loss of a significant government contract.
Research and development and commercialisation of new products The Groups results of operations may be impacted signicantly by the timeliness of its research and development and product commercialisation activities.
In order to bring a drug to market successfully, the Group must identify products for which it can generate attractive margins and growth, undertake the required research and development and obtain regulatory approvals.
Additional costs may be incurred, and sales opportunities lost, if there is any significant delay in any of these steps.
Given the importance of research and development, Hikma has expanded its investment in research and development, particularly in Jordan where it can benefit from lower labour and bio-equivalency costs.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 25 Financial performance API and other raw material costs Interest rate risk Raw material costs represented over 30% of the Groups net The Group manages its exposures to interest rate risks by sales in the year ended 31 December 2007, with the most changing the proportion of xed rate debt and variable rate debt significant portion of these costs relating to APIs.
Whilst the prices in its total debt portfolio.
To manage this mix the Group may of the APIs that the Group uses have in general fallen in recent enter into interest rate swap agreements, in which it exchanges years, these prices are volatile and can vary signicantly from the periodic payments based on notional amounts and agreed supplier to supplier.
In some cases, increase in API and other raw upon xed and variable interest rates.
Using these swap material costs may not be able to be passed on to customers and agreements has not had a material impact on the Groups can therefore have a significant impact on the Groups results of financial position at 31 December 2007.
See Note 28 to the operations.
Hikma has a dedicated API sourcing function that Groups consolidated financial statements for a description of has been successful in sourcing lower cost APIs through more the Groups interest rate risks.
Credit risk Seasonality In most cases, the Group grants its buyers credit terms for The Groups business, in particular the Branded Pharmaceuticals settlement of sales invoices.
Credit risk is managed through business, is seasonal, and it generally experiences higher net sales the Group Credit policy and the use of various financial and net profit in the first half of each financial year, as compared instruments such as letters of credit, factoring and credit to the second half of its financial year.
Accordingly, the Groups insurance arrangements.
Further details are set out in Note 28 outstanding borrowings historically have been higher during the of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
first half of the financial year in order to finance the working Liquidity risk capital requirements of the Group.
The Group has constant nancing requirements, both for Acquisitions short-term working capital needs and for long-term strategic Acquisitions remain a key part of the Groups strategy to develop plans.
Corporate Treasury ensures the Group debt capital and grow its business.
The risks associated with this include the structure and banking arrangements can accommodate these availability of suitable acquisition candidates and assimilating nancing needs.
Corporate Treasury also endeavours to efficiently and integrating acquired companies into the Group.
Other risks utilise excess liquidity from one subsidiary to another, while include delays in implementation or unexpected costs or liabilities, complying with any foreign currency, legal or tax restrictions.
as well as the risk of failing to realise operating benets or Inflation risk synergies from completed transactions.
The Group mitigates Hikma believes it is not subject to material risk due to inflation in these risks by implementing a structured integration process any of its core markets at present.
which can include placing experienced management into the acquired company to effect the swift installation of internal Critical accounting policies and estimates controls and by subjecting management processes to close The Groups accounting policies are more fully described in monitoring and review by internal audit and senior management.
Note 2 of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
However, certain of the Groups accounting policies are Financial risks particularly important to the presentation of the Groups The Group Treasurer is responsible for Financial Risk Management results and require the application of significant judgement and setting the appropriate controls and risk policies.
He is by the Groups management.
supported by treasury and budgeting managers at the operating company and segmental levels, and reports to the In applying these policies, the Groups management uses its Chief Financial Officer.
judgement to determine the appropriate assumption to be used in the determination of certain estimates used in the Foreign exchange risk preparation of the Groups results.
These estimates are based on The Group uses the USD as its reporting currency and is therefore the Groups previous experience, the terms of existing contracts, exposed to foreign exchange movements primarily in European, information available from other outside sources and other Algerian and Sudanese currencies.
Consequently, it enters into factors, as appropriate.
various contracts that change in value as foreign exchange rates change, to preserve the value of assets and profitability.
Using The Groups management believes that, among others, the these derivative financial instruments has not had a material following accounting policies that involve management impact on the Groups financial position at 31 December 2007. judgements and estimates are the most critical to understanding See Note 28 to the Groups consolidated financial statements for and evaluating the Groups financial results.
a description of the Groups Foreign Exchange risks.
Revenue recognition Revenue represents sales of products to external third parties and excludes inter-company income and value added taxes.
Sales of goods are recognised when the risk of loss and title are transferred to customers and reliable estimates can be made of relevant deductions.
The Groups revenue recognition policies require management to make a number of estimates, with the most significant relating to charge backs, product returns, rebates and price adjustments which vary by product arrangements and buying groups.
Excluding Ribosepharm, Thymoorgan, Alkan Pharma and Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing.
26 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 Financial performance Charge backs Contingent liabilities The provision for charge backs is the most significant and In the normal course of business, contingent liabilities may complex estimate used in the recognition of revenue.
In the US, arise from product-specic and general legal proceedings, from the Group sells its products directly to wholesalers, generic guarantees or from environmental liabilities connected with our distributors, retail pharmacy chains and mail-order pharmacies.
These potential liabilities are considered The Group also sells its products indirectly to independent to have a remote probability of crystallising and are therefore pharmacies, managed care organisations, hospitals, and group treated as contingent liabilities in the Group financial statements, purchasing organisations, collectively referred to as indirect and accordingly disclosed in Note 37.
Although there can be no customers.
The Group enters into agreements with its indirect assurance regarding the outcome of legal proceedings, we do customers to establish pricing for certain products.
The indirect not expect them to have a materially adverse effect on our customers then independently select a wholesaler from which financial position or profitability.
they purchase the products at agreed-upon prices.
The Group Tax will provide credit to the wholesaler for the difference between The Group provides for income tax according to the laws and the agreed-upon price with the indirect customer and the regulations prevailing in the countries where it operates and the wholesalers invoice price.
This credit is called a charge back.
The tax expense represents the sum of The provision for charge backs is based on historical sell-through the current and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based levels by the Groups wholesale customers to the indirect on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit customers, and estimated wholesaler inventory levels.
As sales as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of are made to the large wholesalers, the Group continually income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years monitors the reserve for charge backs and makes adjustments and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
when it believes that actual charge backs may differ from The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates estimated reserves.
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Accounts receivable and bad debts sheet date.
The Group estimates, based on its historical experience, the level of debts that it believes will not be collected.
Such estimates are made when collection of the full amount of the debt is no longer probable.
These estimates are based on a number of factors including specific customer issues and industry, economic and political conditions.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Goodwill and intangible assets The Group has significant investments in goodwill and intangible assets as a result of acquisitions of businesses and purchases of assets such as product development and marketing rights.
Under IFRS, goodwill and intangibles with indefinite useful economic lives are held at cost and tested annually for impairment, whilst the remaining intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Estimated useful lives are reviewed annually and impairment reviews are undertaken if events occur which indicate an impairment to the carrying values of the assets.
Purchases of intellectual property and product rights to supplement our R&D portfolio are capitalised as intangible assets.
Such intangible assets are amortised from the launch of the underlying products and are tested for impairment.
This policy is in line with practice adopted by other major pharmaceutical companies.
The critical area of judgement is in relation to the useful economic life of these product related intangibles and the impairment tests for that are performed at least annually.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 27
