Business and financial review Strategic review Our markets are changing profoundly.
As shopping patterns evolve, we clearly need Entertainment is being generated and consumed to improve our understanding of consumer in entirely different ways, putting pressure on behaviour.
We must do more to encourage the traditional retail space and trafc.
Similar trends continued patronage of our regular and highest are also evident in the books market.
To these ends, we are launching an innovative loyalty programme In HMV UK & Ireland, new pricing initiatives that will operate across both brands and all implemented during the year did help to reverse sales channels.
Rewards money cannot buy will the earlier loss of market share in our stores.
be tailored to the holders taste in entertainment And in both HMV and Waterstones we accelerated or books.
our online businesses to satisfy the increasing consumer preference for the Internet as a channel To further protect our core retail business, we are to shop.
However, the results were insufficient evolving the HMV store format to become a more to offset the pace and scale of underlying decline, inspiring place to shop, with hubs containing online which is reected in our disappointing financial access and the ability to browse our vast catalogue performance for the year.
of products and to even burn music onto CD or memory devices.
There will also be spaces The Group now has a strategy which reects to experience the latest games and consoles.
the changing market structure and exploits the strengths of the HMV and Waterstones brands.
Our three-year plan is to protect and revitalise Growing revenue from new channels our core business, grow revenue from new As we protect, we must grow.
And to grow, channels and drive cost efficiency.
we will adapt to the new multi-channel environment.
Here we are investing in our existing transactional sites, hmv.
com, by integrating Protecting and revitalising our core them into our stores and increasing the level retail business of marketing support they receive.
By 2010 we The revitalising of our core retail business is expect hmv.
co. uk to become 20% of HMV UK & underway.
In HMV UK & Ireland our mix of products Irelands sales and Waterstones.
com to represent is being broadened to include portable digital audio 9% of Waterstones sales.
HMVs digital offer will products, including MP3 4 players, DAB radio and be integrated within hmv.
co. uk to provide customers a range of associated accessories.
We expect such with a choice of physical or downloadable product products to become 13% of store sales by 2010. from a single site.
In recognition that todays In addition, 3 Network, the UKs leading retailer consumer is absorbing entertainment content of music-enabled mobile phone handsets, from non-traditional channels and sources, will open concessions in a number of HMV stores.
leveraging the strong relationships it has with These initiatives will further reduce our dependence suppliers, HMV UK will launch a new social on the declining physical music category.
Delivering lm and music At Waterstones, as market growth continues to content to its online community, our new site will come mainly from new channels, we are devoting allow users to create home pages, meet like-minded greater space to childrens books, which is a part people and access lm previews, behind-the-scenes of the market less prone to online purchasing, footage and music performances.
and we expect the childrens category to become 18% of the Waterstones mix by 2010.
We are also adding high quality gift stationery to the Waterstones store offer.
As shopping patterns evolve, we clearly need to improve our understanding of consumer behaviour.
12 12 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Driving cost efficiency Our three-year plan The third strand of our strategy is to save by fundamentally restructuring our cost base.
Protect We are streamlining the supply chains for HMV 1 As the physical music market declines, we plan UK and Waterstones by delivering products to to replace declining music sales in store with a single, cross-dock locations instead of to each range of portable digital products.
In Waterstones, and every store.
We are also exploiting Group were realigning space for an improved kids books synergies by centralising the procurement of proposition and high-quality stationery.
Spanning goods not for resale and consolidating certain both brands and all channels, our new loyalty card back ofce functions.
will improve consumer intelligence and provide rewards money cant buy.
And our new HMV store Market leadership formats will help to boost trafc and turnover.
Market leadership is vital in these product markets.
These requirements are met unquestionably by Grow 2 both brands in the UK and by our overseas HMV Well grow sales by putting ourselves at the businesses in Canada, Hong Kong and Singapore.
heart of how people consume entertainment and However, HMV Japan does not benefit from such books.
Our social networking site will reinvigorate market leadership and, consequently, we have the HMV brand and our continuing investment reviewed our strategic options for this business in transactional sites will boost online sales.
and have decided that the best way to maximise Digitally, well integrate music downloads with shareholder value from it is to effect a disposal.
our physical stores and via online channels.
Our recent performance belies the fact that Save this Group has two of the strongest and most 3 Well drive efficiency by reviewing our store portfolio identiable retail brands on the high street, and modernising our supply chain.
Well also cut knowledgeable staff who give high levels of costs by combining back ofce functions and setting service, and prime store locations that generate up a Group purchasing department to buy goods over 200 million visitors per year in the UK alone.
By combining these brand strengths with our comprehensive strategic plan we are confident that we have solid foundations on which to build the recovery of the Group.
Simon Fox Chief Executive officer 27 June 2007 13 13 7
