8 Strategy and Group overview STRATEGY AND GROUP OVERVIEW International Power plc is a leading OUR STRATEGY IS TO DELIVER GROWTH independent power generation company IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE THROUGH POWER with interests in 31,191 MW gross of power generating capacity, located in GENERATION, ENSURING A BALANCED 20 countries across five core regions INTERNATIONAL PORTFOLIO IN TERMS North America, Europe, Middle East, Australia and Asia.
OF MARKETS, FUEL, CONTRACT TYPE AND TECHNOLOGY.
WE CREATE VALUE BY THE EFFICIENT OPERATION, FINANCING, AND TRADING OF OUTPUT FROM OUR POWER GENERATION FLEET, WHILST MAINTAINING THE HIGHEST LEVELS OF SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE.
WE EXERCISE RIGOROUS FINANCIAL CONTROL IN ALL OUR INVESTMENT DECISIONS, AND INVEST IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR PEOPLE FOR THE LONG-TERM.
International Power Annual Report 2007 9 As electricity is a critical service for any economy, A portfolio approach governments carefully decide whether or not they We manage risk through a portfolio management wish to liberalise this key sector.
Several governments approach, which involves maintaining a balance in have retained full control of the sector while others the portfolio in terms of geographical spread, fuel have fully liberalised both the production and supply diversity, technology and contract type.
The skills required for operating in gives us access to multiple opportunities to create liberalised merchant or non-liberalised contracted value whilst mitigating the risks associated with over markets are very different and we have both.
exposure to any particular market, fuel, technology or contract type.
The  markets typically offer opportunities to sell power to government bodies via Our geographic spread gives us access to growth long-term contracts that offer stable returns.
Assets in opportunities whilst reducing the potential impact, the liberalised or merchant markets are subject to the on the overall business, of a downturn or adverse forces of supply and demand, and these markets are performance in any particular market.
For example, generally more volatile.
Both these markets offer in 2007 a strong performance in Europe more than attractive risk reward environments for investments.
offset the impact of challenging market conditions in Australia.
International Power maintains a balanced presence in both types of markets, providing the business The portfolio approach also extends through to our with a stable platform of contracted earnings operational capabilities.
We are able to operate a and cash flow, overlaid by merchant generation range of power plant technologies, including thermal, which offers greater potential when markets are hydro, pumped storage and wind.
We also ensure that lessons learnt produce electricity using different fuel types that in any particular market for example, experience include gas, oil, coal and renewable sources such of the environmental legislation in Europe relating as wind and water.
This multi-technology expertise to CO emissions trading are shared across 2 allows us to capture opportunities that are best the business.
suited to the market in question.
IPR PORTFOLIO BY FUEL TYPE IPR PORTFOLIO BY CONTRACT TYPE IPR PORTFOLIO BY GEOGRAPHY Gas 57% Short-term contracted 40% Europe 36% Long-term contracted 35.5% North America 25% Coal 25% Australia 17% Pumped storage 8% Uncontracted 10% Wind 6.5% Pumped storage 8% Middle East 13% Asia 9% Oil 3% Wind 6.5% One year forward hedge position Hydro 0.5% as at 5 March 2008 Note: All charts presented based on net MW excluding assets under construction, as at 5 March 2008.
10 Strategy and Group overview DELIVERING VALUE WITH A BALANCED INTERNATIONAL PORTFOLIO Maximising the value of our existing portfolio Our specific strategies for value enhancement in each country and for each individual plant are tailored to local requirements, but generally we seek to achieve the following: Optimise the operations of our power plants We optimise the operation of our power plants through several means, including managing all of our assets to high standards of safety and operating performance: managing our assets on a portfolio basis: closely co-ordinating plant operation with trading activity to maximise the value of our output: standardising management reporting for all investments: and investing in improved plant efficiency.
Maximise the return from our existing Rugeley, UK assets We optimise operations as described above and we leverage our investments, particularly by using non-recourse project finance at the asset level: we sell assets if that generates a higher rate of return.
International Power Annual Report 2007 11 Our growth PORTFOLIO GROWTH NET GW YEAR-ON-YEAR KEY ASSET ADDITIONS 2004 2005 2006 2007 2000 8.3 Tihama Uch Hidd Maestrale 2001 8.9 Canunda Ras Laffan B Coleto Creek Fujairah F2 Turbogs Saltend Levanto 2002 10.5 EME Portfolio Indian Queens 2003 10.6 2004 15.3 2005 15.9 2006 18.5 2007 18.8 0 5 10 15 20 International Powers net GW North America Europe Middle East Australia Asia In 2007, International Power sold its interest in Malakoff and signed an agreement with Mitsui to align its percentage holdings in its UK subsidiary power stations.
This resulted in the net sale of 935 MW net during the year.
The Group has grown significantly in the last five Our geographic footprint and in-depth market years, increasing its net operational capacity by knowledge present us with multiple growth 8,300 MW through both successful acquisitions opportunities, both new-build and acquisition.
International Power Wherever possible we seek to source opportunities now has an operational interest in 31,191 MW through our regional knowledge, our extensive of gross capacity and owns net operating capacity industry contacts and existing relationships.
Non-recourse project debt, as a fundamental building Growth is an important part of International Powers block, together with a well balanced capital structure strategic objectives, and we have clear investment provides us with the flexibility to carry out growth criteria to ensure that our acquisitions and greenfield initiatives without overstretching our financial projects deliver value for our shareholders.
We have access to multiple sources of EcoElctrica, finance including strong free cash flow generation Puerto Rico from our portfolio, our borrowing facilities and capacity, and through partnering to execute selected opportunities which meet our investment criteria.
Board review approval Completion integration Continuous performance appraisal post investment review 12 Strategy and Group overview Investment process Continuous knowledge sharing across portfolio OPPORTUNITY SOURCES Local knowledge relationships IPR Corporate M&A team Investment Investment Detailed due committee committee diligence initial review review approval Regional business development teams Cross-regional and cross-functional Government private representation invitations Other e. g. investment advisers banks Follow-on opportunities Of the numerous opportunities evaluated by regional The ICOM review process determines resource and corporate business development teams each year, allocation and evaluates the costs of due diligence at the best projects are submitted to the Investment an early stage so as to avoid potential expenditure on Committee ICOM for initial review and to ensure projects that are less likely to succeed.
In addition, the they are consistent with the Groups strategic plan.
process encourages healthy internal competition for The capital allocation process is centred on a detailed capital across regions and functions.
review by the ICOM which comprises the Chief The cross-regional and cross-functional membership Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, of the ICOM ensures that only the most attractive all regional directors and all corporate function heads.
investments are presented to the Board.
If projects pass this review they are allocated a budget The due diligence teams, which are made up of for detailed due diligence.
The project then undergoes employees from our functional and regional teams, further analysis during the due diligence process, at use their varied experiences and skill sets to assess the end of which a detailed review is carried out by thoroughly all potential projects before they are the ICOM.
Only then is the decision taken as to presented to the ICOM.
We ensure that the regional whether to proceed with the opportunity, subject to team s that will have responsibility for managing Board approval.
This process ensures that we fully the asset after acquisition are fully involved in the evaluate the risks and returns of a project prior to due diligence process.
We subject new investment making a commitment and that we proceed with opportunities to rigorous evaluation criteria, with only the most value-enhancing deals.
a focus on the elements shown opposite.
International Power Annual Report 2007 13 Investment evaluation criteria Area Considerations include Financial returns in excess of our investment thresholds financial key performance indicators KPIs profit from operations, EPS contribution, free cash flow generation quality and sustainability of earnings availability of project finance and an appropriate degree of leverage payback period Al Kamil, efficient financial structuring Oman Operational health and safety performance age, plant type and operational history of the plant environmental performance maintenance record and likely capital expenditure requirements ability to have a major controlling stake in Operations & Maintenance synergy potential Market market fundamentals demand supply balance forward market prices and history new entrant economics and impact on long-term forecast prices market track record of respecting foreign direct investment opportunity for future investment and growth analysis of incumbent players and market dynamics Commercial contractual position offtake arrangements security of offtake security of fuel supply correlation between power and fuel price portfolio benefits of merchant assets environmental obligations and pricing People historical staff management relationships staffing requirements for acquisition and integration Ownership degree of control focus on investments where we are able to contribute directly to the realisation of projected returns plant operations structure and management ability to have a major controlling stake in Operations & Maintenance Legal Regulatory market and environmental regulation potential regulatory changes any outstanding historical legal or contractual issues Property opportunities for future expansion or development We ensure that all acquisitions and greenfield projects The ICOM conducts post investment reviews, for both are quickly and efficiently integrated into our regional successful new projects and unsuccessful projects, to business structures.
The forecast returns from ensure we maximise our learning from all experiences.
investments are built into regional business Our overarching criterion, irrespective of the market performance targets and we measure delivery against structure in which we operate, is that our investments these targets at a regional and Group level through create value for our shareholders over the long-term our financial KPIs, profit from operations PFO, EPS within our strategic framework.
14 Strategy and Group overview Acquisitions We have demonstrated our ability Core capabilities to execute acquisitions at the right time and at the Our core capabilities for implementing our strategy can right value, together with the capability to integrate be categorised into the following seven areas: newly acquired assets quickly and seamlessly into the portfolio.
Historically, International Power has executed a number of successful acquisitions which have met or exceeded financial and operational Greenfield development Asset and construction Acquisitions performance targets.
In 2006 we acquired Coleto management management Creek and the Levanto wind portfolio, and in 2007 we significantly expanded our wind portfolio, with the acquisitions of Maestrale Italy and Germany and a number of other small wind projects.
Financing Asset management All our investments have to deliver specific performance targets.
Through regular and robust technical, commercial and financial reviews, the regional offices and corporate headquarters Plant operations together monitor the performance of each asset in the portfolio.
We work to ensure that we maximise fleet efficiencies where we operate plants with similar technologies, for example through global spare parts Long-term power Trading supply agreements or by bringing certain engineering contracts expertise services in-house.
In addition, we have a HS&E Committee which co-ordinates the Groups activities and enables best practices to be adopted at all plants.
International Powers high quality asset portfolio, This co-ordinated approach helps us manage together with the capabilities of our teams around the operational risk and extract the full portfolio benefits.
world, forms a strong combination for performance Our strategy to ensure we continue to attract, train optimisation, effective risk management and future and develop employees to manage our growing growth in earnings and cash flow.
portfolio is set out in detail in the Employees section on pages 80 to 82. International Power has in-depth experience in plant operations and engineering.
This not only helps to Financing Given the very capital intensive nature ensure smooth plant operations, but also that we of our business, the ability to fund projects is very understand all operational and technical issues relating important.
International Power has consistently to the potential acquisition and upgrade of existing proven its financing capabilities through the execution assets or development of new power plants.
The Group of numerous greenfield and acquisition financings, has skills to execute power projects from inception right together with refinancings of existing assets.
We through to the delivery of power in the most advanced remain well placed to implement our growth strategy and complex traded markets of the world.
through our ability to access financial markets and through our strong free cash flow generation.
Greenfield development and construction We have completed financings and refinancings management We have excellent experience of in different parts of the world, under different developing large capital intensive infrastructure circumstances and through the combined use of projects from selecting the appropriate site, securing local and international capital.
As examples, in multiple government stakeholder approvals, project December 2007 we successfully completed the managing the entire construction programme right financing of the Fujairah F2 project despite the through to successful commercial operation.
Our tightening of the global credit markets and in June significant growth in the Middle East is the most we also re-financed the debt facility at Tihama.
graphic example of our greenfield development expertise where we now have interests in six operational projects with 7,300 MW gross.
In 2007, 1,436 MW of additional capacity was brought online in the region, and International Power was successful in its bid for the 2,000 MW, 130 MIGD Fujairah F2 plant, in the UAE construction of which is now under way and it is expected to be operational by 2010. International Power Annual Report 2007 15 Trading We operate in a number of merchant markets.
We have the skills necessary to maximise our returns in these markets, with a practical focus on closely co-ordinating trading and plant operations to optimise value.
For us, trading predominately means selling the physical output generated by our plants, which we call asset-backed trading.
Our traders operate within strict guidelines and risk policies to ensure our traded position is carefully monitored and managed.
This includes matching fuel purchases with power sales and carrying out only a very limited amount of non-asset backed trading.
Where possible we will forward sell output if we consider the return is favourable, which secures earnings and cash flow.
For example, a large proportion of Rugeleys 2007 output was forward sold during the high prices of 2006, ensuring good financial returns during 2007, despite market dark spreads falling during the year.
Kwinana, Western Australia Long-term power contracts expertise We have strong commercial skills to structure and negotiate long-term power and water contracts in regulated Non-recourse project finance is at the core of markets such as Asia and the Middle East.
Under International Powers financing strategy and capital these contracts, key cost risks such as fuel and structure this provides the most appropriate level turbine maintenance are mitigated through longof debt for each asset and excellent risk mitigation term hedging and supply arrangements.
This source of finance remains bonuses incentivise us to keep the plant well available despite the tightening credit conditions.
maintained in order to minimise the risk of forced Plant operations We have comprehensive power outages.
Overall, the contracts provide visibility and station operational experience and skills.
Through-life stability of earnings and cash generation over the engineering and maintenance plans, meticulously long-term.
implemented, ensure maximum availability and efficiency in the operation of our plant and are key for delivering value in both our merchant and long-term contracted markets.
Effective plant operations are enhanced by ensuring information is shared across the portfolio and key operational staff are rotated to different assets on a regular basis.
Safe behaviour and environmental best practice are cornerstones of International Powers operations, and we share best practices across the portfolio to ensure all of our assets operate to the highest possible safety and environmental standards.
