Business and Financial Review Intertek Group 1 4 Intertek provides safety revenue 1 Oil, Chemical & Agri 47% and quality services to 2 Commercial & Electrical 23% 3 3 Consumer Goods 23% customers to add value 4 Government Services 7% 2 to their products and processes and support their success in the global marketplace.
Group overview Revenue This Business and Financial Review is provided to help shareholders gain an understanding of our business and the issues affecting the Group.
The Group overview sets out our performance for the year and highlights 16.7% any significant issues that affected the Group.
This is followed by a more detailed commentary on the performance of each division.
We continue with a Financial Review and conclude with a summary of the risks and uncertainties affecting our business.
1 Adjusted operating profit Results The Group had an excellent year and reported record revenue growth.
Revenue increased by 16.7% 22.5% 19.0% at constant rates.
The adjusted operating profit increased by 19.0% 27.2% at constant rates.
The adjusted operating margin was 15.7%, up 30 basis points from last year.
1 Adjusted operating margin The results for 2007 by division are summarised on the next page.
30bp For statutory reporting purposes, operating profit is stated after the deduction of the amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions and goodwill impairment.
For management purposes, we adjust operating profit to remove these charges as we consider that adjusted operating profit is a better figure on which to judge year-on-year growth.
Revenue m The percentage change at actual rates compares 2003 471.1 the results for 2007 and 2006 translated into sterling 2004 499.6 at the average exchange rates applicable in each 2005 580.1 of those years.
The percentage change at constant rates 2006 664.5 compares the results for 2007 and 2006 at 2007 775.4 the average exchange rates applicable in 2007.
For management purposes we measure growth in revenue and adjusted operating profit at constant rates, 1 Adjusted operating profit m as we consider that it provides a better like-for-like comparison of the underlying performance.
Before amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisitions and goodwill impairment.
We calculate organic growth by excluding by the increased demand for quality and Each of our divisions offers opportunities the results of acquisitions made in 2006 and safety services.
The Group has been established for organic growth through increasing 2007.
On an organic basis, revenue grew by in China for many years and continues to our service offering to customers, to add 7.6% 13.0% at constant rates and adjusted expand its facilities into new locations with value to their products and processes and operating profit grew by 7.8% 15.2% at three laboratories and seven offices opened help them compete in the global market.
The organic growth was in 2007 offering services to a wide range We have been very successful in finding generated primarily by growth in the market of industries.
There was substantial growth businesses to acquire which extend the for quality and safety services, an increase in revenue in Australia in 2007 which was range of services we are able to offer.
in environmental regulations, an increase in mainly in the minerals sector where we We have a pipeline of potential acquisitions outsourcing and increased global trade.
acquired two new companies in the year.
which we are pursuing and we will continue to seek other opportunities.
Part of the Groups growth strategy is to Outlook make bolt-on acquisitions which complement The market for our services continues to The outlook for our business is positive and and extend the Groups service offering into expand.
Consumers and regulatory bodies we look forward to continued growth and new areas of expertise and new geographies.
are increasingly concerned about the quality value creation for our shareholders.
We expect We made 16 such acquisitions in 2007 and safety of products and services and their 2008 to be another good year for Intertek.
and seven in 2006, which were located in impact on the environment.
The number of 12 different countries.
These businesses have global and domestic regulations concerning extended the range of analytical services issues such as the environment and the safety offered by the Group in a variety of sectors and quality of products has increased and including the minerals, plastics, food, this trend is set to continue.
Manufacturers pharmaceutical and chemical industries and and retailers need to meet the demands have increased the Groups footprint in of their customers and ensure that they strategically important countries such as the comply with the increasingly complex array United States US, the United Kingdom UK, of legislation.
We work in partnership with Australia, India, Japan and Spain.
The Group our customers to help them meet those is able to leverage the return from these demands and increase the value of their acquisitions by offering new services on a products and services.
global basis to existing customers.
Our business is based partly on global trade Details of the performance of each division, but also on product variety and increasing including more information about the consumer demand for variety, quality and acquisitions are given in the Business review safety.
Whilst a significant recession in key by division which starts on page 12. countries such as the US and China would probably slowdown our growth, we are very The Group operates in 110 countries and well diversified, both geographically and revenue is relatively evenly spread over the across industry sectors, which would help three key regions.
Our largest contributors mitigate any impact.
are the US and China including Hong Kong, which accounted for 28% and 20% respectively of the Groups revenue in 2007.
Growth in the US was driven partly by acquisitions but also by the strong petroleum market.
Growth in China was driven mainly Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 11 Business and Financial Review Continued Oil, Chemical & Agri 2007 Change at Change at m actual rates constant rates Revenue 364.0 29.3% 35.3% Adjusted operating profit 45.8 52.7% 61.8% Margin 12.6% 190bp 210bp Business review by division For management purposes the Group is Oil, Chemical & Agri had an excellent In April 2007, the Group acquired Genalysis organised into four operating divisions, performance with strong organic growth Laboratory Services Pty Ltd, which provides each covering certain industry sectors.
across all regions, enhanced by several testing and analytical services to the mining The contribution of each division to the acquisitions.
Total revenue increased by 35.3% industry in Western and Southern Australia revenue of the Group is shown in the pie to 364.0m and total adjusted operating and Africa.
In September 2007, we acquired chart on page 10. profit increased by 61.8% to 45.8m.
Northern Territories Environmental Adjusted operating profit is stated before Laboratories Pty Ltd, a company based in For management purposes and in the amortisation of intangible assets arising on Darwin, Australia, which provides discussion that follows, we calculate growth acquisitions of 2.9m 2006: 1.2m and environmental and geochemical analysis at constant rates because we consider it goodwill impairment of nil 2006: 0.3m.
These gives a better comparison of year-on-year The adjusted operating margin improved by acquisitions give us a strong presence in the growth.
We also use adjusted operating profit 210 basis points to 12.6%.
On an organic minerals sector in Australia and helped us which is a non-GAAP measure of operating basis, revenue growth was 15.6% and to win a significant seven-year contract to profit before deducting amortisation of adjusted operating profit growth was 27.5%.
provide analytical testing of mine samples to intangible assets arising on acquisitions and Organic growth was driven by favourable a major mining company.
These acquisitions impairment of goodwill.
Organic growth market conditions, including high demand complement our existing minerals operations is calculated by excluding the results of for alternative fuels and more stringent in Asia and the Americas and give us the acquisitions made in 2006 and 2007. regulations, resulting in increased testing market penetration to pursue other and inspection services.
In addition, optimising opportunities in the minerals testing market.
Oil, Chemical & Agri the utilisation of our laboratories and The Oil, Chemical & Agri division offers equipment has helped to drive growth in Our analytical services stream increased its independent cargo inspection, testing and operating profit.
Demand for outsourced range of offerings for the pharmaceutical analytical services to the oil and chemical, analytical services also continued to grow.
industry in June 2007, with the acquisition agricultural, mineral and pharmaceutical This sector accounted for half of the divisions of Quantitative Technologies Inc. QTI.
Global customers include the major revenue in 2007, up from 43% in 2006.
Located in New Jersey, US, QTI established oil companies and leading chemical companies an East Coast presence for pharmaceutical and the division also provides outsourcing We continue to extend the breadth and depth support services for Intertek, building upon services to many other major manufacturers.
of the services we can offer our customers our existing operations in California and by acquiring businesses which complement Europe.
QTI provides product quality testing Cargo inspection and testing is a well our existing services.
The division made 11 services to pharmaceutical, medical device established global market in which Intertek acquisitions in 2007 and a further four in and biotechnology companies.
This is one of the leading service providers.
In January 2007, acquisition further extends our growth in High barriers to entry are principally due upstream services were extended by the the provision of expert analytical support to to the fixed costs of establishing a global acquisition of UK based Umitek Ltd and its the global pharmaceutical, medical device network of operations and laboratories.
subsidiaries, CAPCIS and SREL, which provide and drug delivery industries.
Analytical services continue to expand specialist testing and consultancy services to as a variety of industries continue to the oil and gas industries in the North Sea and We also made two strategic acquisitions in outsource non-core services including globally.
These businesses allow our analytical the petroleum inspection and testing sector.
More stringent environmental services stream to extend the range of services In June 2007, we acquired Union Lab which and regulatory requirements for fossil fuels provided by its upstream operations globally is a key local petroleum testing and and the drive for alternative energy sources and especially in Europe, North and West inspection company in Singapore.
The are also expanding the market for testing Africa and the Middle East.
The acquisition of business was absorbed into our existing services.
Intertek developed laboratory Geotechnical Services Pty Ltd, located near operations in Singapore and further outsourcing initially in the oil sector, but has Perth, Australia, in July 2007, extended strengthens our market position in this now extended its reach to the chemical, Interteks global reach in upstream services strategically important country.
In July 2007, pharmaceutical, cosmetics personal care, and reinforced the national spread of we acquired VIP Cargo Surveys Inc. VIP, automotive aerospace and minerals industries.
petroleum testing services for the division a petroleum inspection and testing company Interteks outstanding track record is across Australia.
VIP will further attracting more opportunity and has strengthen our operations in Texas and established Intertek as the market leader in The global demand for minerals is accelerating provide us with a platform to develop our laboratory outsourcing in the oil and due to rapid industrialisation and growing offshore lightering business.
numbers of new consumers in emerging economies.
This growth leads to increased demand for testing and inspection services.
12 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 Global reach, local knowledge Expertise on Houston Hong Kong Beijing London Vancouver Rotterdam Jakarta Paris a global scale: Stockholm Singapore Taipei Tokyo Milan New Delhi Rio fide Janeiro Perth Business and Financial Review Continued Commercial & Electrical 2007 Change at Change at m actual rates constant rates Revenue 179.1 6.7% 12.9% Adjusted operating profit 27.2 10.6% 18.8% Margin 15.2% 50bp 80bp In August 2007, we announced two new Hazardous Substances RoHS, and Registration, In 2007, the Oil, Chemical & Agri division laboratory outsourcing contracts.
At Teesside Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals accounted for almost half of the revenue in in the UK, ICI has outsourced its Measurement REACH amongst others.
The environmental the Group and through the numerous Science Group MSG to Intertek under a fourcompliance market is fast growing, driven by acquisitions made in the past few years, its year contract for highly advanced analytical increased regulations and wider application, activities have diversified into three main services.
As part of this agreement, MSG sold and we expect this to lead to an increasing activities: Oil, Chemical & Agri, Analytical its business assets to Intertek and transferred demand for compliance advice.
In 2008, these all 42 of its employees.
At the same time, and activities will become separate operating building from the success of our outsourcing In November 2007, we acquired Plastics divisions which will enable the leaders of contracts with them in Harrow, UK and Technologies Laboratories Inc. PTLI, a each new divisional sector to pursue a Chalon sur Sane, France, Eastman Kodaks company based in Massachusetts, US, which growth strategy more directly focused on Gelatine Corporation outsourced its analytical provides plastics testing services.
This the industries that they serve, whilst laboratory services in Peabody, Massachusetts, business slots neatly into our emerging retaining the benefits of their historical US, to Intertek under a three-year contract.
network of polymer and plastics testing close co-operation.
Both laboratories provide significant new laboratories with strong technical materials expertise and measurement complementarity to the capabilities of Commercial & Electrical capability to Interteks existing network.
Polychemlab in the Netherlands and MSG The Commercial & Electrical division provides in the UK, for whom it also provides an services to a wide range of industries including In March 2008, the Limburg water authorities important portal to the marketplace in the US.
those in the home appliances, lighting, in Holland will transfer all their laboratory medical, building, industrial and HVAC R activities from Waterschapsbedrijf Limburg We have been very successful in making heating, ventilation, air conditioning and WBL to Intertek Polychemlab.
Intertek will acquisitions to extend the service offerings refrigeration, IT and telecom and automotive provide extended analytical and consultancy of the division and we continue to see more sectors.
On 1 January 2007, the Electrical services to the Limburg water authorities opportunities.
In January 2008, we acquired and Electronic retail inspection E&E business and other environmental branches of WBL.
Electrical Mechanical Instrument Services was transferred from Commercial & Electrical This contract serves as a model towards UK Ltd, a company which provides to Consumer Goods.
Revenue and operating establishing further public and private sector calibration services to the oil and gas profit for prior periods have been restated to partnerships in analysis and testing in Europe.
industries, and in February 2008, we show a like-for-like comparison.
acquired Bioclin Research Laboratories Ltd On 31 August 2007, we acquired Carnot Bioclin, a specialist pharmaceutical testing Customers are mostly manufacturers but Emission Services LLC Carnot, a company laboratory located in Athlone, Ireland.
also retailers, industry organisations and based in San Antonio, Texas, US, which Bioclin provides product quality testing and government departments.
Services include provides niche emissions testing services to bio-analytical services to pharmaceutical, testing and certification, electromagnetic small engine and industrial equipment medical device and biotechnology compatibility testing EMC, systems auditing, manufacturers, certifying engines to the latest companies locally and internationally.
outsourcing, benchmark and performance recently enacted Environmental Protection It holds Good Laboratory Practice GLP testing and environmental testing.
The Group Agency EPA off-road regulations.
Carnots and Good Manufacturing Practice cGMP has the widest range of owned marks and services are highly complementary to the heavy certifications and presents an excellent accreditations, including the ETL listed and diesel on-highway and off-road emission geographic site for further penetration Warnock Hersey mark for North America and services at our neighbouring Intertek of one of Europes key centres for the S mark, as well as being a leader Automotive Research facility and enable the pharmaceutical and medical device in providing CB certification and the CE Group to substantially grow the breadth of our manufacture.
In February we also acquired mark and GS mark for Europe.
emissions service offerings to the engine, CML Biotech Ltd CML, a company which lubricant and additive manufacturer and has expertise in the measurement and The market for the services of the automotive industries, both in the US and management of microbial bacteria in oil and Commercial & Electrical division is driven internationally.
The majority primarily by increasing regulations over the of CMLs operations are in the North Sea safety of products, increased product variety In October 2007, we acquired Ageus Solutions, and the Gulf of Mexico, but it also supports and growing environmental concerns.
a company based in Canada offering other main oil reserve regions including This includes current concerns over climate environmental and compliance consultancy North and West Coast Africa, the Caspian change and the impact on the environment services addressing global environmental Sea and the Middle East.
The division has a regulations such as Waste Electrical and global strategy for each of its key industry Electronic Equipment WEEE, Restriction of sectors, for example expertise in the United 14 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 Capability to enhance our customers performance Industry know-how: Agriculture Automotive Chemical Consumer Products Electrical & Electronic Energy & Fuels Food Government Industrial IT & Telecom Minerals Pharmaceutical Retailers Business and Financial Review Continued Consumer Goods 2007 Change at Change at m actual rates constant rates Revenue 181.2 12.1% 17.7% Adjusted operating profit 55.2 7.0% 12.9% Margin 30.5% 140 bp 130 bp States in automotive component testing and In August 2007, we acquired Product Quality The market for the services of the Consumer building products testing has been extended Partners Inc. which is a leader in North Goods division is diverse.
Demand is driven into China by the opening of an automotive America in wireless device and application by retailers who require the goods they sell facility in Shanghai and a building products testing and in September 2007, we acquired to be produced to a quality set by either facility in Guangzhou.
National Software Technology Laboratories their own internal standards or by legislation Inc. NSTL, which tests applications software, in a particular country.
Increasingly, materials The division performed well in 2007, with based primarily in North America.
Combining are sourced and goods are manufactured in revenue and adjusted operating profit these businesses with our existing EMC, locations that are remote from the eventual growth of 12.9% and 18.8% respectively.
safety certification and performance testing consumer, causing supply chains to be longer Adjusted operating profit is stated before services, gave us a strategic platform to and more complex.
The market is increasingly amortisation of intangible assets arising on launch a full suite of software testing services being driven by regulations issued to address acquisitions of 1.6m 2006: 2.0m and to existing and new customers.
Our strategy safety and environmental concerns over such goodwill impairment of 0.4m 2006: nil.
is to establish a leading position in the issues as carcinogenic dyes in textiles and On an organic basis, revenue increased by growing cellular mobile application software chemicals in toys and cosmetics.
8.6% and adjusted operating profit market in the United States and globally.
The Consumer Goods division reported In February 2008, we acquired Epsilon good results in 2007, with revenue growth The electrical, building products and HVAC R Technical Services Ltd, a company in the of 17.7% and adjusted operating profit businesses which accounted for 75% of UK which provides testing and certification growth of 12.9%.
Adjusted operating profit the divisions revenue grew strongly, with of equipment and systems in explosive is stated before amortisation of intangible double digit organic revenue growth.
This business will complement assets arising on acquisitions of 0.5m performance of the automotive sector was our existing explosive environment 2006: 0.5m.
The high adjusted operating mixed, with strong growth in China reduced certification services.
margin in Consumer Goods was maintained by weak results in the United States where at over 30% but decreased by 130 basis the domestic automotive market remained Customer demand for safe, reliable, energy points over last year.
This decline was due to depressed.
The systems certification sector efficient products continues to increase and a change in market conditions in Restriction also under performed in some regions, the market for Commercial & Electrical of Hazardous Substances RoHS testing and particularly the United States where automotive continues to evolve presenting opportunities the changing mix of services in the division.
Concerns over climate change On an organic basis, revenue growth was are driving new directives regarding the 17.4% and adjusted operating profit growth In March 2007, the Group acquired the energy usage of products.
Finnish company Natlabs Oy which provides evident in the HVAC R industry and is electro-magnetic compatibility testing.
This expected to extend over other industries.
Toy testing finished the year with a very gives us a significant presence in Finland and strong performance, driven by an increase in allows us to improve service to our customers There are many small niche players in the heavy metals testing.
Product recalls received in the Baltic region.
market and this provides opportunities for considerable publicity in the second half continued bolt-on acquisitions.
of 2007 and this prompted customers to In June 2007, we acquired UK based ASTA increase the volume of testing performed BEAB, which provides product and systems Consumer Goods by independent service providers such as certification services and is the owner of the The Consumer Goods division provides services ourselves.
We are uncertain whether this ASTA and BEAB certification marks.
These to the textiles, toys, footwear, hardlines, food increased volume will continue at the same marks are an important addition to our leading and retail industries.
Services include testing, level in 2008, but we expect to benefit from portfolio of marks, which are recognised inspection, auditing, advisory services, quality any increase in the market.
around the world, giving us a competitive assurance and hazardous substance testing.
advantage and providing manufacturers Customers are often retailers but can include The textile market was stable.
Good growth with seamless global market access.
We manufacturers and suppliers within a global was reported in many countries, including have made progress in gaining acceptance supply chain.
On 1 January 2007, the Electrical China, and we continue to invest in this of the ETL mark by retailers in the US and and Electronic retail inspection E&E business region.
New facilities in Vietnam, Pakistan, this has helped to drive revenue growth in was transferred from Commercial & Electrical Brazil, Colombia, Romania and Egypt, Asia and the rest of the world.
Revenue and operating contributed to revenue growth but are not profit for prior periods have been restated expected to cover their costs until 2008. to show a like-for-like comparison.
16 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 Quality to meet customer demand A comprehensive Testing Inspection Auditing Certification Quality assurance Advisory services range of services: Business and Financial Review Continued Government Services 2007 Change at Change at m actual rates constant rates Revenue 51.1 4.3 % 0.8 % Adjusted operating profit 7.6 15.2% 26.7% Margin 14.9% 250bp 320bp Revenue from RoHS testing declined in 2007 Government Services The divisions reliance on traditional PSI compared to 2006.
The RoHS directive The Government Services division offers contracts has reduced and two-thirds of became mandatory in the European Union a range of services to governments, national revenue is now generated by other services on 1 July 2006, prompting a peak in RoHS standards organisations, customs departments such as standards programmes, supply chain testing in 2006 as companies rushed to and industrial companies.
Services include security and industrial services.
The container meet the deadline.
However, subsequent cargo scanning, fiscal support services scanning contract in Guinea is now fully limited enforcement of the legislation has including pre-shipment inspection, standards operational and performing well.
The PSI reduced the demand for testing.
This programmes and industrial services.
Services contract in Mozambique was extended volatility is common with new legislation offered include ensuring imports comply with for a further two years.
The government and going forward we expect demand to relevant safety, quality and other standards.
of Ecuador announced the termination stabilise.
We anticipate that the acquisition Goods and commodities are tested and or of their PSI programme, two years earlier of Ageus Solutions in the Oil, Chemical & inspected prior to shipment which prevents than the official end date, but the contract Agri division will help to drive growth in the dumping of unsafe goods and improves the has continued to operate.
If the contract RoHS sector as it provides consultancy and quality of imported and sold goods.
Ministries does cease in March 2008 as expected, advisory services on environmental regulations.
of Finance retain services to increase import annual revenue will be reduced by about duty and help improve efficiency.
Closure costs are fully provided.
The market for corporate social responsibility inspected and valued before shipment to services is growing and our revenue in this enable import duties to be accurately assessed The Government Services division continues sector, which was 7% of the divisions total and certified.
Container scanning services to seek new opportunities with governments revenue, grew well.
We expect this sector are offered to help protect against security in the PSI market and is committed to to develop as the demand for sustainability risks associated with international trade.
developing innovative solutions to the reporting increases and environmental issues Interteks worldwide laboratory coverage cargo security issues facing international become more prominent.
We also expect allows for rapid inspection, certification and trade.
There are a number of potential regulation in this area to increase, which will valuation of shipments, anywhere in the world.
opportunities for new contracts, particularly lead to increased demand for our services.
in the areas of container scanning and Most of the customers of the Government standards programmes.
Revenue from inspection work declined slightly, Services division are governments or due to a reduction in the volume of E&E departments linked to governments in retail inspections.
countries which do not have the necessary infrastructure to enforce import controls In September 2007, we acquired Biodata effectively.
Analytik GmbH, a small food testing company based in Germany.
This provides us with a The division performed well in 2007, with centre of excellence in Europe from which a small decline in revenue of 0.8%, but an to develop our food testing business.
increase of 26.7% in adjusted operating profit.
Adjusted operating profit is stated The key growth drivers in Consumer Goods before amortisation of intangible assets remain strong, principally the sourcing arising on acquisitions of 0.1m 2006: of products from China, the increasingly 0.1m.
The adjusted operating margin wide range of products being sold by retailers increased by 320 basis points to 14.9%.
Also, the recent public concerns over the safety of consumer The slight decline in revenue in 2007 over products will increase demand from consumers 2006 was due to the inclusion in 2006 and regulatory bodies for independent of 3.8m for the final work performed assurance of quality and safety.
However, on the discontinued Nigerian pre-shipment the mix of businesses in this division is inspection PSI contract.
Revenue from changing, with developing services such continuing business increased by 7.2% as RoHS, consultancy, inspection, food and in 2007 compared to 2006. corporate social responsibility not always having the high margins earned by the established services.
18 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 Operating cash flow 19.7% Profit before income tax 15.8% Financial review Results for the year currencies that make up the Groups earnings The capitalised goodwill at 31 December Profit before income tax increased by 15.8% and the cumulative average exchange rates 2007 was 148.4m 2006: 71.1m which to 105.8m 2006: 91.4m and diluted that we have used when translating results relates to acquisitions made since 1998. adjusted earnings per share were 49.7p into sterling in 2007 and 2006.
Our review revealed that an acquisition 2006: 43.2p.
Basic earnings per share made by the Commercial & Electrical division Value of 1 2007 2006 were 46.7p 2006: 40.9p.
in 2005, had underperformed our US dollar 2.00 1.84 expectations, mainly due to the loss of key Key performance indicators employees.
We therefore considered that Euro 1.46 1.47 We use a variety of key performance the goodwill associated with this business Chinese renminbi 15.24 14.67 indicators KPIs to monitor the performance should be reduced by 0.4m to 0.8m.
Hong Kong dollar 15.62 14.30 of the Group.
Similar indicators are used This business is now under new management to review the performance of the operating and is expected to improve in the future.
These KPIs are reviewed by the Growth in adjusted operating profit Board and management on a monthly basis Net financing costs and margin and are used to assess past performance As set out in note 6 to the financial 2007 2006 and set targets for the future.
Most of the statements, the Group reported finance m m Change KPIs also form part of the management income in 2007 of 5.4m 2006: 6.3m.
Operating profit 116.1 98.1 18.3% incentive scheme whereby managers may This comprised the expected return on receive annual bonus payments on achieving Amortisation of pension assets, interest on bank balances, or exceeding a range of targets set for the the change in fair value of financial intangible assets year.
Further information on management instruments, foreign exchange differences arising on acquisitions 5.1 3.8 34.2% incentives is given in the Remuneration on interest accruals and the ineffective Impairment Report which starts on page 39. portion of hedge of net investment in of goodwill 0.4 0.3 33.3% foreign operations.
The decrease was mainly Adjusted Key performance indicators due to a reduction in the change in fair operating profit 121.6 102.2 19.0% Revenue 16.7% value of financial instruments.
Adjusted Operating profit 18.3% The Groups finance expense for 2007 was operating margin 15.7% 15.4% 30bp Adjusted operating profit 19.0% 15.6m compared to 13.3m in 2006.
Adjusted operating margin 30bp The charge comprised interest on For management purposes, the Group adjusts Operating cash flow 19.7% borrowings, pension interest cost, other operating profit and operating margin to Profit before income tax 15.8% foreign exchange differences and other exclude the amortisation of intangible assets Basic earnings per share 14.2% financing fees.
The increase was primarily arising on acquisitions and the impairment due to higher levels of debt.
Dividend per share 21.6% of goodwill.
In 2007, adjusted operating profit Return on business assets 10bp was 121.6m, up 19.0% over the previous Income tax expense year.
The adjusted operating margin was As set out in note 7 to the financial statements, Growth in revenue 15.7%, up 30 basis points from 15.4%.
income tax expense for 2007 was 27.0m Top line revenue growth is a key performance 2006: 22.5m, comprising a current tax measure.
Revenue increased by 110.9m Amortisation of intangible assets arising charge of 29.3m 2006: 22.0m less a to 775.4m in 2007, up 16.7% over the on acquisitions deferred tax credit of 2.3m 2006: charge prior year 22.5% at constant rates.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on 0.5m.
The tax rate was 25.5%, up from acquisitions is provided on a straight line 24.6% in 2006.
The main reason for the The Group operates in 67 different currencies, basis over the life of the assets, which is increase in the tax rate was increased earnings although the majority of the Groups earnings normally five years but can be up to ten in higher taxed jurisdictions.
are denominated in US dollars or currencies years.
The charge increased in 2007 due to linked to the US or which historically have the number of acquisitions made in 2006 moved in line with the dollar.
Other currencies and 2007. such as the Euro and the Chinese renminbi are also an important constituent of overseas Impairment of goodwill earnings.
Therefore the Groups results when As described in note 10 to the financial translated into sterling, are exposed to statements, we perform a detailed review of changes in the value of the US dollar and goodwill each year to consider whether other currencies.
We show below the main there is any impairment in its carrying value.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 19 Business and Financial Review Continued Sources of cash 1 2 3 74% 24% 2% 1 Operations 2 Drawdown of debt 3 Issue of share capital Cash outflow and increase in cash 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 40% 21% 14% 14% 5% 3%3% 1 Acquisitions 2 Capital expenditure 3 Dividends 4 Tax 5 Interest 6 Working capital 7 Increase in cash Profit for the year 2006: 10.2p which together with the interim In 2007, net cash flows used in investing Profit for the year after income tax was dividend will give a full year dividend of 18.0p activities were 128.2m 2006: 78.1m.
If approved, the final dividend 79.2m in acquisitions and property, plant, holders of the Company.
will be paid to shareholders on 19 June 2008. equipment and software.
We paid 85.8m The total cost of the final dividend is expected net of cash acquired, 2006: 36.9m for 16 Minority interests to be 19.2m, giving a total cost of 28.3m new businesses and 43.5m 2006: 42.3m As set out in note 20 to the financial for the dividends paid in respect of the year for the acquisition of property, plant and statements, profit attributable to minority ended 31 December 2007. Dividend cover is equipment and computer software.
Historically our level of capital expenditure 5.1m.
The increase was mainly due to the has been less than 7% of revenue.
In 2007, strong growth in the Groups non-wholly Cash and liquidity the ratio was 5.6% compared to 6.4% the 2007 2006 owned subsidiaries in Asia.
m m Increase Cash generated Earnings per share Cash flows from financing activities comprised from operations 149.1 124.6 19.7% Earnings per share are calculated by dividing cash inflows from the issue of share capital Less net acquisition the profit attributable to ordinary following the exercise of employee share of property, plant, shareholders of the Company by the options of 4.9m 2006: 4.2m and the net weighted average number of ordinary shares equipment drawdown of debt of 49.4m 2006: 8.2m, in issue during the year.
As set out in note 8 and software 43.5 42.3 2.8% and cash outflows of dividends paid to to the financial statements, basic earnings minorities of 3.6m 2006: 3.8m and Operating cash per share at the end of the year were dividends paid to Group shareholders of 25.2m flow after 46.7p 2006: 40.9p, an increase of 14.2%.
2006: 19.8m, which resulted in a net cash capital expenditure 105.6 82.3 28.3% A diluted adjusted earnings per share inflow of 25.5m 2006: outflow 11.2m.
Adjusted calculation is also shown which removes the operating profit 121.6 102.2 19.0% impact of amortisation of intangible assets As set out in note 15 to the financial Operating cash arising on acquisitions and impairment of statements, interest bearing loans and flow adjusted goodwill from earnings, and includes borrowings were 231.2m at 31 December operating profit 86.8% 80.5% 630bp potentially dilutive share options in the 2007, an increase of 29.6% over 2006. number of shares, to give diluted adjusted The Groups borrowings are in currencies The primary source of the Groups cash earnings per share of 49.7p 2006: 43.2p, which match its asset base.
The increase in liquidity over the last two financial years has an increase of 15.0%.
We consider that borrowings comprised exchange adjustments been cash generated from operations and growth in the diluted adjusted earnings per of 3.4m due to the translation into sterling the drawdown of debt.
A portion of these share figure gives a more representative of borrowings denominated in other currencies funds has been used to fund acquisitions measure of underlying performance and is and the net drawdown of debt of 49.4m.
and capital expenditure and to pay interest, one of the key performance targets that the The debt drawdown was mainly used to dividends and taxes.
Group uses to incentivise its managers.
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 2007, were 58.6m, an Cash flow for the year was excellent.
Cash Dividends increase of 18.4% over 2006.
As shown in generated from operations was 149.1m for During the year, the Group paid total dividends note 23 to the financial statements, net 2007, compared to 124.6m for 2006.
The of 25.2m 2006: 19.8m, which comprised debt at 31 December 2007 was 172.6m increase of 19.7% was due to improved 16.1m in respect of the final dividend for 2006: 128.9m.
profitability and effective working capital the year ended 31 December 2006, paid on management.
One of the key performance 15 June 2007 at the rate of 10.2p per share Borrowings indicators we use to measure the efficiency and 9.1m being the interim dividend in The Group has a multi-currency senior debt of our cash generation is the percentage of respect of the year ended 31 December 2007, facility that was placed in December 2004. adjusted operating profit that is converted paid on 13 November 2007 at a rate of 5.8p This facility was originally due to expire on into cash.
As shown in the table above, in per share.
These amounts were charged to 15 December 2009, however the Group 2007, 86.8% of adjusted operating profit retained earnings see note 19 to the financial exercised its option to extend the facility by was converted into cash compared to statements.
After the balance sheet date, a year in 2005 and by a further year in 80.5% in 2006. the Board recommended a 19.6% increase in 2006, so the facility is now due to expire in the final dividend in respect of the year ended December 2011.
The margins currently paid In order to support our growth strategy we 31 December 2007, to 12.2p per share on borrowings are in the range of 0.3% to need to invest continually in our operations.
20 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 1 Dividend per share pence 2003 8.8 2004 10.4 2005 12.0 2006 14.8 2007 18.0 1. Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend paid and the proposed final dividend in each financial year.
0.6% over LIBOR in the relevant currency.
Where appropriate, cash is managed in A discounted cash flow analysis is performed In August 2007, the Group extended the currency based cash pools and is put on annually to compare the discounted commitments of the senior debt facility by overnight deposit, bearing interest at rates estimated future operating cash flows of a further 100m.
This was achieved through fixed daily in advance.
At 31 December 2007, cash generating units of the Group, to the adding an additional Term D tranche of 75.1% of cash was on overnight deposit net assets attributable to the cash generating finance.
Term D margins are in the range of 2006: 80.6%.
The tests are 0.3% to 0.5% over LIBOR.
The maturity of dependent on managements estimates and the Groups borrowings is set out below: Acquisitions and disposals judgements, in particular in relation to the As described earlier, during 2007 the Group forecasting of future cash flows, long-term 2007 2006 made 16 acquisitions for a net cash outflow growth rates and the discount rate applied Borrowings m m of 85.8m 2006: 36.9m.
To date in 2008, to these cash flows.
Due within one year 13.7 13.6 five businesses have been acquired for a net Due between cash outflow of 17.5m.
Further information Taxation on acquisitions is given in the business The Group is required to estimate the income one and two years 82.7 87.5 review by division which starts on page 12 tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it Due between and in note 24 to the financial statements.
This requires an estimation of the two and five years 134.8 77.3 current tax liability together with an Total 231.2 178.4 Return on business assets assessment of the temporary differences For management purposes, the Group which arise as a consequence of different The Groups gross borrowings are calculates return on business assets as the accounting and tax treatments.
These denominated in the following currencies: adjusted operating profit for the year temporary differences result in deferred tax divided by the carrying value of business assets or liabilities which are included within 2007 2006 assets which comprise operating working the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets m m capital plus tangible fixed assets and and liabilities are measured using tax rates Hong Kong dollar 36% 31% software at the end of the year.
For 2007, expected to apply when the temporary US dollar 30% 43% the return on business assets was 57.1%, differences reverse.
The Group operates in Euro 13% 14% up 10 basis points from 57.0% in 2006. many countries in the world and is subject to Swedish kroner 10% 4% many tax jurisdictions and rules.
As a Critical accounting policies consequence the Group is subject to tax Japanese yen 5% 6% The consolidated financial statements are audits, which by their nature are often Other 6% 2% prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Interteks complex and can require several years to accounting policies are set out in the notes conclude.
Management judgement is The Groups policy is to ensure that a liquidity to the consolidated financial statements in required to determine the total provision for buffer is available, in the short term, to this Annual Report.
In applying these policies income tax.
Amounts accrued are based on absorb the net effects of transactions made we are required to make estimates and our interpretation of country specific tax law and expected changes in liquidity both under subjective judgements that may affect the and the likelihood of settlement.
However, normal and stressed conditions without reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the actual tax liabilities could differ from the incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage the balance sheet date and reported profit provision and in such an event, the Group to the Groups reputation.
These are based on a combination would be required to make an adjustment in the Group had the following liquid funds: of past experience and any other evidence a subsequent period which could have a that is relevant to the particular circumstance.
material impact on the Groups profit and loss 2007 2006 m m The actual outcome could differ from those and or cash position.
Tax benefits are not estimates.
Of Interteks accounting policies, recognised unless it is probable that the tax Senior debt facility 400.0 300.0 we consider that policies in relation to the positions are sustainable.
Once considered to Senior debt repayments following areas are of greater complexity be probable, we review each material tax to 31 December 50.0 28.0 and are particularly subject to the exercise benefit to assess whether a provision should Borrowings 230.7 178.4 of judgement.
be taken against full recognition of the Letters of credit benefit on the basis of potential settlement and guarantees 7.0 7.1 Goodwill through negotiation and or litigation.
Undrawn committed Acquired goodwill is held on the consolidated Deferred tax assets are not recognised where balance sheet at cost.
Impairment reviews it is more likely than not that the asset will borrowing facilities 112.3 86.5 are carried out to ensure that goodwill is not be realised in the future.
This evaluation Cash and cash equivalents 58.6 49.5 not carried at above its recoverable amount.
requires judgements to be made including Liquid funds 170.9 136.0 the forecast of future taxable income.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 21 Business and Financial Review Continued New accounting standards In common with all businesses, the Group is subsidiaries represent a significant portion The Group has adopted in the year a new affected by a number of risk factors, some of the Groups shareholders funds and a standard, International Financial Reporting of which are outside our control.
Although substantial percentage of the Groups revenue Standard 7 IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: many of the risk factors influencing the Groups and operating costs are incurred in currencies Disclosures.
This IFRS requires the Group performance are macroeconomic and likely other than sterling.
Because of the high to provide disclosures in the consolidated to affect the performance of business proportion of international activity, the Groups financial statements that enable users generally, others are particular to Interteks profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
to evaluate the significance of financial operations.
Specific risks which we are aware Two types of risk arise as a result: i translation instruments on the Groups financial position of are detailed below, however there may risk, that is, the risk of adverse currency and performance.
It also requires the be other risks that are currently unknown or fluctuations in the translation of foreign disclosure of the nature and extent of risks are currently regarded as immaterial which currency operations and foreign assets and arising from financial instruments to which could turn out to be material.
Any of these liabilities into sterling and ii transaction risk, the Group is exposed during the year and at risks could have the potential to impact that is, the risk that currency fluctuations the reporting date, and how those risks are the performance of the Group, its assets, will have a negative effect on the value of managed.
This information is set out in note liquidity and capital resources.
the Groups commercial cash flows in 26 to the consolidated financial statements various currencies.
and in the discussion below on risk and risk Market risk management which is an integral part of the Market risk is the risk that changes in market i Translation risk audited financial statements.
prices, such as foreign exchange rates and The results of the Groups overseas activities interest rates will affect the Groups income are translated into sterling using the Risk and risk management or the value of its assets and liabilities.
These cumulative average exchange rates for the The Board has overall responsibility for the risks are managed by the Groups treasury period concerned.
The balance sheets of establishment and oversight of the Groups function as described below.
overseas subsidiaries are translated at actual risk management framework.
The Board has exchange rates.
an established, structured approach to risk Treasury management management, which is described in the The Board is responsible for approving the Key rates used during the year were Corporate Governance Report which starts treasury policy for the Group.
The Groups as follows: Actual rates on page 32.
The Vice President of Risk treasury and funding activities are undertaken Balance sheet 31 Dec 31 Dec Management and Internal Audit, who by a centralised treasury function which reports Value of 1 2007 2006 reports to the Chief Financial Officer, has to the Chief Financial Officer.
Its primary US dollar 1.99 1.96 accountability for the system of risk activities are to manage the Groups liquidity, Euro 1.36 1.49 management and reporting the key risks funding requirements and financial risk, and mitigating actions.
Risks are formally principally arising from movements in interest Chinese renminbi 14.57 15.28 identified and recorded in a risk matrix for and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Hong Kong dollar 15.51 15.20 each operating division, which calculates Groups policy is to ensure that adequate gross risk and net risk after mitigating liquidity and financial resource is available Actual rates Income statement 31 Dec 31 Dec controls are applied.
The risk matrix is to support the Groups continuing activities Value of 1 2007 2006 updated annually and is used to plan the and growth whilst managing these risks.
The US dollar 2.00 1.84 Groups internal audit strategy.
In addition Groups policy is not to engage in speculative to the risk matrix, all senior executives and financial transactions.
Generally, the Group Euro 1.46 1.47 their direct reports are required to complete seeks to apply hedge accounting in order to Chinese renminbi 15.24 14.67 an annual return to confirm that manage volatility in profit or loss.
There have Hong Kong dollar 15.62 14.30 management controls have been effectively been no significant changes in the Groups applied during the year.
The return covers policies in the last year.
Group Treasury Material changes in the exchange rates can operations, compliance, risk management operates as a service centre within clearly create volatility in the results when they are and finance.
The Vice President of Risk defined objectives and controls and is subject translated into sterling.
In order to mitigate Management and Internal Audit attends the to periodic review by internal audit.
this translation exposure, the Groups policy meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee is to match the currency of external which is a sub-group of the Board and Foreign currency risk borrowings to the currency of expected cash meets with the members of that committee The Group operates in 110 2006: 109 flows and the currency of net investments.
alone, at least once a year.
countries and has 180 2006: 166 subsidiaries, At 31 December 2007, two-thirds of the of which 161 2006: 143 report in currencies Groups borrowings were denominated in other than sterling.
The net assets of foreign US dollars and Hong Kong dollars.
22 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 ii Transaction risk in December 2011.
The margins currently ii Counterparty The Groups policy requires overseas paid on borrowings are in the range of The Group monitors the distribution of cash subsidiaries to hedge all significant transaction 0.3% to 0.6% over LIBOR.
In August 2007, deposits, borrowings and hedging instruments exposures with Group Treasury where the Group extended the commitments of which are assigned to each of the Groups they are managed centrally.
Subsidiaries the senior debt facility by a further 100m.
counterparties and which are subject to transaction exposures include committed This was achieved through adding an periodic review.
foreign currency sales and purchases together additional Term D tranche of finance.
with the anticipated transactions reasonably Term D margins are in the range of 0.3% Tax risk expected to occur during future periods.
Tax risk is the risk that the value of tax assets Groups policy is also to hedge transaction and liabilities in the Groups balance sheet exposures arising from the remittance of At 31 December 2007, there was 231.2m is misstated resulting in financial loss to overseas dividends and interest as soon as of debt outstanding 2006: 178.4m and the Group.
Transaction exposures the undrawn committed borrowing facilities are hedged forward using forward currency were 112.3m 2006: 86.5m having taken The Group operates in 110 countries and is contracts which mature in less than 12 months.
into account 7.0m 2006: 7.1m utilised subject to wide range of complex tax laws for letters of credit and guarantees.
At any point in time it is Interest rate risk and exposure facilities are expected to be adequate to normal for there to be a number of open The Groups policy is to ensure that between support the Groups medium-term funding years in any particular territory which may 33% and 67% of its exposure to changes in requirements.
Surplus cash is placed on be subject to enquiry by local authorities.
interest rates on borrowings is on a fixed deposit with short-term maturities providing Where the effect of the laws and regulations rate basis.
This is achieved by entering into liquidity when required.
is unclear, estimates are used in determining interest rate swaps.
The balance between the liability for the tax to be paid on past fixed and variable rate debt is periodically Credit risk profits which are recognised in the financial adjusted on the basis of prevailing and Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to statements.
The Group considers the estimates, anticipated market conditions and the Groups the Group if a customer or counterparty assumptions and judgements to be reasonable gearing and interest cover, which are to a financial instrument fails to meet its but this can involve complex issues which monitored by Group Treasury.
Details of the contractual obligations, and arises principally may take a number of years to resolve.
interest rate hedges in place at 31 December from the Groups receivables from customers.
The final determination of prior year tax 2007 are given in note 26 to the financial liabilities could be different from the estimates statements.
i Trade receivables reflected in the financial statements.
There is no concentration of credit risk with Liquidity risk respect to trade receivables as the Group Risk of financial irregularities Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group fails has a large number of customers who are Risk of financial irregularities is the risk that to meet its financial obligations as and when internationally dispersed.
All companies in assets of the Group could be misappropriated they fall due.
the Group are required to operate a credit resulting in financial loss to the Group, policy under which each new customer is as well as the risk of management The management of operational liquidity risk analysed individually for creditworthiness misrepresenting results.
aims primarily at ensuring that the Group before the company transacts any business always has a liquidity buffer that is able, in with the customer.
The Group establishes an The Group comprises 180 subsidiaries, the short term, to absorb the net effects allowance for impairment that represents operating in 110 countries.
Despite a of transactions made and expected changes our estimate of likely losses in respect of rigorous programme of internal audits and in liquidity both under normal and stressed trade and other receivables.
The main management reviews, we cannot be certain conditions without incurring unacceptable components of this allowance are a specific that internal and external audit procedures losses or risking damage to the Groups loss component that relates to individually will always identify any financial irregularity.
significant exposures and a collective loss The Group regularly reminds the operating component established for groups of similar company officers of their fiduciary The Group has a multi-currency senior debt assets in respect of losses that have been responsibilities and maintains a culture facility that was placed in December 2004. incurred but not yet identified.
The collective of openness to promote disclosure.
This facility was originally due to expire loss allowance is determined based on As described above, each of the senior on 15 December 2009, however the Group historical data of payment statistics for executives and their direct reports are exercised its option to extend the facility similar financial assets.
required to complete an annual return to by a year in 2005 and by a further year confirm that management controls have in 2006, so the facility is now due to expire been effectively applied during the year.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 23 Business and Financial Review Continued Risk of litigation Environmental risk Return on 2007 2006 invested capital m m Risk of litigation is the risk that the Group Environmental risk is the risk that assets of could suffer a material financial loss resulting the Group could be damaged or destroyed Operating profit 116.1 98.1 from a legal judgement against the Group by an environmental incident and that the Amortisation of intangible or one of its subsidiaries.
Such a judgement Group could incur loss of revenue as a result assets arising on acquisitions 5.1 3.8 could also result in adverse publicity which of the ensuing disruption to operations.
Impairment of goodwill 0.4 0.3 could damage the reputation of the Group.
Adjusted operating profit 121.6 102.2 Intertek operates facilities in 110 countries Tax rate 25.5% 24.6% The Group is regularly notified of, or involved which are subject to local environmental in, a number of claims and proceedings which and political factors.
Disasters such as fire, Adjusted operating profit are incidental to its ordinary course of business.
hurricanes, floods and earthquakes can after tax 90.6 77.1 Claims can arise in the context of a dispute cause damage to property and personnel between the parties to a commercial and can disrupt operations, causing loss Property, plant and transaction in which the Group has provided of revenue.
The Group maintains disaster equipment 149.2 123.7 testing, inspection or certification services.
recovery plans for such events and endeavours Goodwill 148.4 71.1 Often the Groups role in the transaction will to ensure that adequate insurance is in place.
Other intangible assets 35.0 19.6 be incidental to the underlying dispute, but the claim will be notified to the Group in Political risk Inventories 4.0 3.2 order to toll the relevant statute of limitations Political risk is the risk that the Group could Trade and other receivables 191.0 151.9 in respect of such a claim.
In certain situations, suffer financial losses due to the action of a Trade and other payables 129.5 101.4 a claim may only be notified to the Group government.
The Group operates in some Provisions 23.6 5.3 after resolution of the underlying commercial countries where there is potential risk of Invested capital 374.5 262.8 dispute and, in such cases, a considerable political instability which can make it difficult period of time may elapse between the to operate.
In particular, government contracts performance of services by the Group and in the Government Services division can Return on invested capital 24.2% 29.3% the assertion of a claim in respect of such be subject to change or termination at services.
In either case, because the underlying short notice.
The Group manages this risk There were no changes to the Groups commercial transaction can be of significant by maintaining close relationships with approach to capital management during value, the claims notified to the Group can government representatives, however the the year and neither the Company nor any allege substantial damages.
risk cannot be entirely mitigated.
of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, Capital structure and management the Group has extensive quality assurance The Group is committed to enhancing and control procedures to ensure that work shareholder value, both by investing in the is performed in accordance with proper business so as to improve the return on protocols.
All incidents that could potentially investment in the longer term and by result in a claim against the Group are managing our capital structure.
The Groups reported to compliance officers and the Vice policy is to maintain a strong capital base so President of Risk Management and Internal as to maintain investor, creditor and market Audit and are logged in a data base of confidence and to sustain future incidents.
Legal counsel is appointed if development of the business.
The Group mitigates the risk of monitors both the demographic spread of financial loss arising from litigation by shareholders, as well as the return on maintaining insurance against potential capital.
The Group seeks to maintain a claims, however there can be no assurance balance between the higher returns that that claims brought against the Group will might be possible with higher levels of always be covered by insurance, or that such borrowings and the advantages and security insurance, if available, will be sufficient to afforded by a sound capital position.
Return cover fully the damages or other expenses on invested capital in 2007 as calculated in which the Group may be required to pay.
the following table was 24.2% compared to 29.3% in 2006.
The decrease was primarily due to the capital invested in acquisitions during the year, which did not contribute a full years profits in 2007.
24 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
