Business review Risks & uncertainties The Group identifies and monitors the key risks and Financial risk uncertainties affecting the Group and runs the business in The Group also faces financial risks: the key risk being foreign a way that minimises the impact of such risks where possible.
The Board has reviewed and agreed policies to manage financial risk as follows: Political uncertainty and regulatory risk The Groups business is principally carried out in Russia and Foreign currency risk the CIS.
Changes in law or the regulatory environment could The Group is exposed to movements in foreign exchange have an effect on some or all of the exhibitions of the Group.
rates against Sterling for both trading transactions and for the ITE has reduced the risk by establishing its business as translation of net assets and the profits and loss accounts of independent Russian and CIS companies fully contributing overseas operations.
The principal exposure is to the Euro and to the local economy.
A regulatory change affecting the Dollar exchange rates, which form the basis of invoicing for our trading prospects of a particular sector could affect short-term international customers.
During the year, the Group experienced prospects, but ITEs diversity of businesses across sectors and net foreign exchange losses of 12,000 2006: 0.2 million.
geography provides protection for the longer-term prospects The exchange rate for the Euro at 30 September 2007 was of the Group.
u1.43: 1 30 September 2006: u1.48: 1 : the exchange rate for the US Dollar at the year end was $2.02: 1 30 September Commercial relationships 2006: $1.88: 1.
The Group has key commercial relationships with venues which secure the Groups rights to run its exhibitions in the future.
The bulk of the Groups business is in emerging and developing These key relationships are regularly reviewed and the Group markets and to minimise the currency risk, the Group prices seeks to maintain its exhibition rights for at least three years predominantly in Euros and US Dollars.
A proportion of total forward for significant exhibitions.
invoicing amount is settled in local currency equivalent, translated at prevailing rates at the date of settling invoices.
Venue availability In 2007, 70% of the Groups sales were priced in Euros and 17% Damage or unavailability of a particular venue could impact in US Dollars.
Overall 56% of the Groups cash receipts in the the Groups short-term trading position.
Accordingly, the Group financial year ending 30 September 2007 were in hard currency carries business interruption insurance policies which protect and 44% was in various local currencies.
The Group has a large profits against such an event in the short term.
proportion of its revenues and costs denominated in nonSterling currencies.
Sterling costs exceed Sterling revenues Competitor risk due to the level of UK based costs in particular London sales Competition has existed in ITEs markets for some years.
ITE faces competitive pressures on a market-by-market basis.
Recent increases in venue space available in Moscow have The Group uses derivative instruments and currency increased the potential for new market entrants in the Moscow borrowings to protect itself against the effect of currency exhibition business.
In Central Asia, ITE has a strong position fluctuations on forward sales and its balance sheet.
The Groups in all its markets as the largest international organiser.
In Kyiv, policy on derivative instruments is that: Ukraine, there are a number of exhibition venues and directly competitive events exist in most of ITEs favoured sectors.
it will only hedge up to 80% of the value of anticipated cash flows: and In all of its overseas markets, ITE has a strong position as an international organiser, achieved through effective use of its it will not enter into derivative transactions more than international sales network and its established brands for major 18 months ahead.
A single exhibition or sector in a market could have its prospects curtailed by a strong competitor launch: however, At 30 September 2007, the Group had options to sell u41 the breadth of ITEs portfolio of events, with its geographic and million spread over the 18 months to 31 March 2009, split into sector diversity, reduce the risk of a competitive threat to the three instruments.
The first is to sell u12 million at a rate of u1.485: 1 the Option People Rate between October 2007 and September 2008.
Were the ITEs employees have long-standing relationships with exchange rate for the Euro to fall below u1.408: 1 then the customers and a unique knowledge of the exhibitions business.
Group would be obliged to sell Euros at the Option Rate at a Loss of key staff to a competitive event could impact the shortmultiple of 1.5 times the value ie up to u18 million.
term prospects of a specific event or sector.
ITE has sought to build loyalty in its staff by ensuring remuneration is competitive The second to sell u21 million at u1.45: 1 between October and through a wide distribution of the Groups long-term 2007 and November 2008.
Were the exchange rate for the Euro incentive plans.
ITE has a good record to date of retaining to fall below u1.4095: 1 then the Group would be obliged to its key staff.
sell Euros at the Option Rate.
ITE Group plc 23 Annual Report 2007
