Continuing operations 2007 2006 Sales inc VAT 18,518m 17,317m Sales ex VAT 17,151m 16,061m Underlying operating profit 431m 342m Underlying profit before tax 380m 267m Profit before tax 477m 104m Profit after tax 324m 58m Underlying basic earnings per share 14.7p 10.5p Basic earnings per share 19.2p 3.8p Proposed dividend per share 9.75p 8.00p The Business review The purpose of this Business review is to provide information on Sainsburys strategy and corporate objectives, the market in which it operates together with a review of progress during the year ended 24 March 2007.
It includes an analysis of key performance indicators and an assessement of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Our business and its markets J Sainsbury plc consists of Sainsburys, a chain of 490 supermarkets and 298 convenience stores, and Sainsburys Bank.
Sainsburys Supermarkets is the UKs longest standing major food retailing chain and the Sainsburys brand is built upon a heritage of providing customers with healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food.
Today the company differentiates itself Sainsburys growth will be affected by by offering a broad range of great general market issues such as the impact products at fair prices with particular of regulatory and planning regimes on emphasis on fresh food.
Products are store development and economic factors improved and developed continually to such as the level of household disposable ensure the company leads in terms of income.
However, Sainsburys strategy is the ingredients used and the integrity of aligned with factors such as customers sourcing.
A large Sainsburys store offers preferences for the products they buy.
around 30,000 products and many stores Sainsburys is well positioned to also offer complementary non-food anticipate and meet the increasing products and services.
114 stores provide 14.9% consumer focus on fresh, healthy, Total market share an internet-based home delivery shopping quality foods.
The development of our Source: TNS service.
Sainsburys Bank is jointly owned complementary non-food offer addresses by J Sainsbury plc and HBOS plc.
With our customers desire to buy a greater access to over 16 million Sainsburys range of non-food products along with customers each week, operating costs their weekly grocery shop and the are low, enabling Sainsburys Bank to continued growth of our convenience offer excellent value products with stores also takes account of the faster extra benefits, all delivered in a simple, pace of peoples lifestyles and the trend accessible way.
towards more frequent top-up shopping trips.
The Competition Commission CC The UK grocery retail market is also undertaking an investigation into The UK grocery retailing market was 1 the supply of groceries by retailers in valued at 123.5 billion in 2005 06 and the UK.
The CC has stated its intention is forecast to grow at an average annual to report its findings in the early part increase of 2.8 per cent to 141.5 billion 2 of 2008. by 2011.
Over the past year, Sainsburys strengthened its overall market share 3 position to over 14.9 per cent although the market can also be defined and market share divided in a number of different ways.
Excluding non-food items, Sainsburys has the number 30,000 16 million two position in the market.
products in a large each week Sainsburys store 1 The Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD 2 The IGDs mid-case scenario forecast 3 Measured by TNS: total market share Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 3 Business review continued Corporate objectives These were demanding targets and year overlapping with the third and final the business has had to challenge year of our MSGA recovery plan and run itself in every area in response.
Progress in 2006 07 What have we Whatever we do, we must keep building achieved so far?
on and stretching our lead in food.
It will Against these clearly defined key always be the number one reason why performance indicators we made customers visit our stores.
We share our good progress this year.
customers passion for healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food and will continue We grew sales inc VAT ex fuel by Justin King to innovate and provide leadership in over 1 billion, taking our total sales Chief Executive delivering quality products, sourced growth over the past two years of the with integrity.
Two and a half years ago we outlined recovery plan to 1.8 billion and ahead our plan to Make Sainsburys Great At the same time, we want to speed up of plan Again MSGA.
the development of our complementary The 400 million of investment in non-food offer to give customers a Our vision is simple: we are here to the customer offer was completed by broader shopping experience in our serve customers well with a choice December 2006 and additional stores.
We will follow the same principles of great food at fair prices and, by so funds were invested in early 2007, of quality, value and innovation as we doing, to provide shareholders with improving product quality and giving continue to build our capability and strong, sustainable financial returns.
us our most competitive price position refine our customer offer.
This has driven everything we have for many years done since we outlined our recovery Our focus on driving sales continues plan in October 2004.
We increased our cost savings target with a target to deliver 3.5 billion of to 440 million following our inThe plan spans three years to March additional sales, split two thirds from sourcing of IT in April 2006 and we 2008 and as well as fixing a range of grocery and one third from non-food are on track to deliver this basics such as product availability, ranges, from March 2007 to March 2010. supply chain, IT, and price we Added to the 1.8 billion of sales growth We achieved an underlying cash flow committed to make hundreds of already delivered, this new target, if positive position earlier than expected small changes every day to improve achieved, would give a total sales growth in 2005 06 so we targeted a cash our customers shopping experience.
of 5.3 billion over the five-year period neutral position in 2006 07 and have To enable us to measure our progress March 2005 to March 2010. again exceeded that target despite we set some key three-year targets: increased capital expenditure.
Delivering great product at fair prices The targets we set These achievements give us a strong will stay at the heart of our business To grow sales inc VAT ex fuel by foundation on which to build.
and we will continue to reinvest buying 1 2.5 billion, with grocery contributing efficiencies 100-150 bps per annum We believe now is the right time to look sales of 1.4 billion, non-food products in price and quality.
We will also keep to the next stage of our recovery and to sales of 700 million and convenience improving our operational efficiency expand the business to drive growth for stores sales of 400 million so we can deliver an ever-improving the longer term.
So we have set ourselves shopping experience for customers.
We To invest at least 400 million in new three-year targets that build on the are on track to achieve our cost saving improving product quality and our strong progress weve made so far and target of 155 million in the next financial price position relative to competitors move us from recovery to growth.
As we year and have targeted savings thereafter and to find annual buying synergies of are tracking ahead of our original MSGA to offset half our operating cost inflation.
1 100-150 basis points to be reinvested goals, the new three-year targets start in in the customer offer the current financial year, with the first 1 One basis point is equal to 1 100th of one per cent To deliver operating cost efficiencies of at least 400 million To generate neutral underlying cash flow in 2005 06 and positive cash flow thereafter.
4 4 4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Business review continued Sales growth - total additional sales of 3.5 billion by March 2010 Space growth - ten per cent Cash flow neutral new space by March 2010 over three years Capital expenditure of Development of grocery 2.5 billion by March 2010 and non-food ranges From recovery to growth 2007 to 2010 plan Channel growth Profit - profit growth through online and flowing through at a convenience expansion percentage rate in high single digits Annual investment Costs - 2007 08 cost savings in price and quality of 155 million on track, of 100 - 150 bps thereafter ongoing annual productivity to create cost savings to offset half our operating cost inflation Our current store estate provides stores operating the service from just over Sales momentum will build through our substantial development opportunities 100 at the current time to 200. expansion and flow through to profit at and we plan to extend a further 75 stores a percentage rate in the high single digits.
The performance of Sainsburys Bank by March 2010.
Were also actively As new space matures and our other has been stabilised and, working with our seeking and developing a pipeline of new investments mature there will be a step partner HBOS plc, it now has promising stores.
Our target for growing sales space up in profit conversion in future years.
We are would take our total sales area to over targeting profits of 40 million in the year The company is significantly stronger 19 million square feet.
That means we ending March 2010.
Under our new joint than it was when we launched our MSGA must increase our space by ten per cent venture arrangements we would share plan in 2004 and this has provided a firm over the next three years.
The new space half of this after tax.
Customers have will be split equally across grocery and become increasingly concerned with non-food ranges.
This goal enables To support these ambitious expansion eating more healthily as well as the us to continue to develop a great food plans we expect our total capital social and ethical consequences of their offer while also growing space for expenditure over the next three years weekly shop.
The Sainsburys brand is non-food ranges.
to be 2.5 billion, funded by operational well positioned and at the forefront of cash flows as we invest now for longWere also extending the reach of the addressing these concerns.
We have laid term growth and the creation of Sainsburys brand.
We plan to open 30 out plans for the next three years and ongoing value.
We expect to be broadly new supermarkets and 100 convenience we are confident that these provide cash flow neutral over the three years.
stores over the next three years, and to Sainsburys with substantial opportunity extend our online home delivery service.
These are ambitious plans that bring for further development of our business We have significantly improved this together the improvements we are and value creation for our shareholders.
service over the past two years and we making in operational efficiency and will be increasing capacity in areas of high our customer offer, together with sales demand, almost doubling the number of growth and the addition of new space.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 5 5 5 Business review continued Operating review Strong progress Our emphasis on fresh and healthy food We had a strong and sustained continues to set Sainsburys apart and improvement in performance this year contributed to this years strong sales and this has added significant momentum performance.
Our heritage provides an to our recovery.
Sales remain the purest ideal market position for our brand, as 1st measure of customer satisfaction in our customers increasingly want healthy, business, so this years 7.3 per cent total safe, fresh and tasty food.
Supporting sales growth excluding Sainsburys Bank our recovery is our goal see below, and including VAT is a particularly which demonstrates that our values and important sign of progress.
beliefs have never fluctuated despite an ever changing and challenging market.
Over the year we grew like-for-like sales, We have focused single-mindedly on what excluding fuel, by 5.9 per cent, despite our customers want: this has driven our limited maturing new space and recovery and will continue to do so.
extensions and the tougher comparatives of the previous year.
We delivered our The strong progress achieved over ninth consecutive quarter of increased the year is built on lots of individual sales in the last quarter of the 2006 07 improvements, initiatives and actions financial year.
This result represented within the business.
The following pages growth on growth on growth and provide a flavour of the many things demonstrated continued improvement we have done this year towards Making and momentum.
Sainsburys Great Again and you can find more at www.
co. uk This strong sales performance is ahead of our own expectations.
Its also our best The strength of our offer for many years.
It shows that our recovery The values at the heart of the Sainsburys is ahead of plan and that weve made brand match the concerns and substantial progress in addressing many preferences of more and more people, of the challenges outlined in our and that has helped to drive our sales recovery plan.
Five principles underpin our activities and these are detailed on page Throughout the year we have focused 21.
The values that made Sainsburys on maintaining our lead in product quality stand out in the past, such as buying and remaining very competitive on price.
healthy and wholesome food and Weve stepped up the development of our respecting the environment, which complementary non-food offer with the have been a key focus of the MSGA introduction of more ranges in more recovery plan, have become increasingly stores and we are growing our presence important to customers.
This has inspired in the convenience sector.
us as we addressed our problems and With 788 stores across the UK, worked to fix the basics of our operation.
Sainsburys is a mainstream retailer and weve worked hard to restore universal appeal our ability to appeal to all shoppers.
We serve more than 16 million customers each week, on average, and believe we can continue to grow.
13 out of 25 Quality Food At Sainsburys we will deliver an ever improving Awards quality shopping experience for our customers with great products at fair prices.
We will exceed customer expectations for healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food making their lives easier every day.
6 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Business review continued Best for food and health In October 2006 we were voted Eating a variety of foods is one of the Supermarket of the Year at the Retail most effective ways to achieve a healthy Industry Awards and in November we 16 m diet.
Supermarkets can play an important again achieved outstanding success at role in helping people to balance their diet the industrys annual quality awards, by providing a wide range of different customers winning more than half of the 25 products.
Customers make up their own categories.
We have made further minds about what they eat: what they each week investments in raising the quality of our want is information to help them choose food and, while we are always pleased to the right food for them.
We believe our be given awards, the best recognition is job is to provide clear and honest labelling In January 2007 we made a number of that of customers buying more through about ingredients, cooking and nutrition.
changes to our basics range to enable their weekly shop.
As more retailers and manufacturers start customers to make healthier choices.
During the past year more than 5,000 labelling products, multiple traffic lights This included adding our Wheel of Health own brand products were new or have MTLs the system approved by the multiple traffic light label to around 200 been improved.
This included the work Governments Food Standards Agency food and drink products, lowering of salt, we did providing customers with clear are emerging as the most effective and sugar and fat levels where possible, and and honest labelling, leading the way popular way to provide the at-a-glance removing unhealthy vegetable oils from on ingredient standards and the way information customers need to make the entire range of products over time.
in which products are sourced.
In April 2007 we became the first UK Sainsburys was the first supermarket retailer to announce the intention to In September 2006 we relaunched our to put nutritional labels on the front of remove all artificial colours and Taste the difference premium range, products when we introduced our Wheel flavourings from own-brand soft drinks which comprises nearly 1,400 products of Health MTL label in January 2005 and and we will complete this work by June and is a 1 billion brand.
These products 4,500 of our products now carry these 2007.
These are just a few of the many meet strict quality standards and now labels.
The body of consumer research improvements we have made.
contain no artificial colours, flavours into nutritional labels is building over time.
or hydrogenated fats, a move we are Customers value quality, fresh and completing on all own label products.
Research carried out among 17,000 seasonal food and we work with suppliers This is a huge task given the sheer people on behalf of Netmums in February to source as many products as possible volume of products we sell.
2007 showed that nearly 80 per cent of from the UK, celebrating the freshness people preferred the MTL system to and seasonality of British produce.
We the alternative scheme, which details have continued to increase sales of guideline daily allowances GDAs on organic food and we source all organic primary chicken, beef, pork, milk, eggs, the front of packs.
GDAs are useful and and in-season lamb from the UK.
We sell we have put them on the back of our around 1,000 different organic products packaging for many years.
We were also and there are now more than 400 the first retailer to provide specific GDAs products in the Sainsburys SO organic for children, but MTL labels are even more range, our second largest sub brand.
effective because they give customers the simple at-a-glance information they want as they shop in store.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 7 Sainsburys was the first major UK supermarket to set a date for the removal of Hydrogenated Vegetable Oils HVOs from its entire range of own brand food and drink.
The company has been working on the removal of HVOs for over a year and to date has removed a minimum of 383 tonnes of HVOs from its cakes alone.
We were the first retailer to announce we will follow the Department of Healths proposed voluntary new guidelines on the labelling of alcohol on all own brand beers, wines and spirits.
Our Try something new today tip cards aim to inspire customers to think beyond their normal range of products.
The campaign provides simple ways to make small but significant changes to the food we buy and eat.
Sainsburys launched the first ever 100% UK organic supermarket box scheme.
These products meet strict quality standards and now contain no artificial colours, flavours or hydrogenated fats.
A gathering of over 100 health experts and parents to discuss the barriers and issues to healthy eating overwhelmingly concluded that parents play the single most important role in helping their children lead a healthy lifestyle but they desperately need help and advice.
8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 We were the first retailer to provide specific GDAs for children.
Sainsburys began a partnership with MEND, In early 2007 customers who spent 10 the UKs largest prevention and treatment or more in a single visit to Sainsburys programme for overweight and obese children received a Big 5 Drive peel and reveal and their families.
gamecard with a one in three chance to win products containing at least one portion of fruit or veg as an incentive to eat healthily.
healthy Sainsburys was rated top for health in a report published by the National Consumer Council.
shopping Around 200 products in the basics range now have no 80 per cent of people questioned artificial flavourings or additives.
by Netmums preferred the multiple traffic light system over the alternative scheme which details guideline daily allowances.
Sainsburys is cleaning up its soft drinks by removing all artificial colours and flavourings from its own-brand soft drinks.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 9 Business review continued 20 new suppliers Research from the Department of Health The trial delivered significant DoH showed that, while people are improvements to the health, wellbeing aware of the concept of alcoholic units, and self-confidence of participants.
they find it difficult to judge how many This is the first programme of this scale they are drinking.
In February we became sponsored by a private company.
It is the first retailer to adopt the DoHs being run by fully trained Sainsburys proposed voluntary guidelines on the Food Advisors with the assistance of labelling of alcohol.
We have applied a local Youth Sport Trust colleague.
labelling on all our own brand beers, Competitive pricing wines and spirits, encouraging sensible The 400 million investment in our drinking by helping people better customer offer outlined in our MSGA plan understand the effects of alcohol.
was completed by December 2006 and In December 2006 we announced the Our work on labelling was just one of the we have now invested additional funds in decision to convert our entire banana initiatives singled out last November by early 2007.
In total we have now invested range to 100 per cent Fairtrade by the National Consumer Council when over 450 million in quality and price.
July 2007. it named Sainsburys the healthiest We now guard our price position jealously supermarket.
We also organised and and since January 2007 we have cut Our Fairtrade bananas cost the same hosted an event called New Ideas for a further 5,000 prices, bringing the as the conventional bananas available Health in September 2006 to move total since announcing our commitment in other mass-market supermarkets and forward the debate about food and to 20,000. are around 25 pence a kilo cheaper than health.
Around 100 parents and Fairtrade bananas generally available in Ensuring we remain competitive on price professionals, including Caroline Flint, some of our competitors stores.
We was a key strand of our recovery plan and Minister for Public Health, joined us in this invested approximately 4 million in the fundamental to making sure our brand discussion.
We are all increasingly aware supply chain in the social premium that appeals to the widest range of people.
But of health issues but this event went is paid to farmers to achieve this value what makes Sainsburys different for our further by trying to identify the barriers for money for our customers.
to addressing problems, looking at who Every minute 1,000 bananas are sold in should take responsibility for doing this Bananas offer a good illustration of how our stores and our customers are helping and coming up with some solutions.
we turn commitments into actions and to make an enormous difference to provide customers with quality they Following the event we pledged to keep Fairtrade farmers and their communities.
They are the discussion going and began a threeThis is the biggest conversion of its kind also a great example of how our heritage year partnership with MEND, the UKs worldwide and we now sell more Fairtrade and our customers wishes have become largest prevention and treatment bananas than all of the other major increasingly aligned over the year.
programme for overweight and obese supermarkets in the UK combined.
Weve worked with banana growers in children and their families.
The national the Windward Isles for the last 50 years Strong supplier relationships partnership will see 450 MEND and our customers were already buying sourcing with integrity programmes rolled out over the next a large number of Fairtrade bananas.
We enjoy strong and balanced three years following a trial in eight areas.
relationships with suppliers and share the same aim to deliver innovative, highquality products at fair prices for our customers.
In November 2006 we announced an industry first with the launch of a new payment management system that makes it easier and quicker for suppliers to access account information and gain early payments.
The system is in the early stages of a trial and will be rolled out during the current financial year.
Suppliers can view their trading account online, including invoices, bananas are sold every minute in our stores 10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Business review continued debit notes, remittance advices and in the process of developing a similar payment dates.
This gives them much approach with pork suppliers.
In January better visibility of their expected cash 2007 we launched Farm Connections, flow.
Early cash settlements can also be a scheme that provides 700 Taste the made if suppliers opt to sell their invoices, difference beef farmers with computers, via the new system, to a third party software and training.
This means they financial institution.
can compete in the market and be better informed of industry matters and In May 2006 we launched our Supply production costs.
So far over 500 farmers something new programme where have signed up.
managers meet new suppliers in the search for high quality and innovative, We have built up innovative sustainability locally produced food for customers plans supported by the Marine to enjoy.
Eight events have been held Conservation Society, and we were the to date resulting in the appointment of first retailer to sell Marine Stewardship appeal to our customers.
The successful over 20 new suppliers.
This year we also Council MSC cod from a sustainable elements have been introduced into 48 appointed 12 regional managers who are source.
This was just one of many stores and in those being refurbished responsible for developing our regional industry firsts we have achieved in fish.
We will keep making sourcing programme and supporting and We sell the largest range of MSC products improvements and applying new ideas expanding the 3,000 regional products and none of the fish we sell is red-rated in this area.
The addition of sales space we already sell.
based on a colour rating system.
We are through both new store development and also working to achieve a green rating for extensions is playing an important role as In October 2006 we introduced the all the fish sold in our stores.
We started we accelerate the growth of these ranges.
Sainsburys Dairy Development Group, selling 100 per cent line caught cod and working with around 400 dairy farmers As we continue to build our infrastructure haddock this year and we are the largest to supply all 420 million litres of and capability in non-food we opened retailer to do this.
As one of the UKs conventional milk bought by our offices in Hong Kong and Poland in leading fishmongers, taking the lead on customers each year.
We believe the 2005 to help us work directly with such important issues has an enormous market is best served by initiatives that manufacturers in the development of effect on the fish being eaten in the UK.
connect farmers directly to consumers.
higher quality better value products.
For example, our Farm promise milk, Complementary non-food Our reputation for quality, value and launched in April 2006, gives farmers Food remains at the heart of our offer, but innovation is just as relevant to our nona fair premium and makes a contractual we also set a target for complementary food ranges as it is to food.
In branded commitment to support farmers non-food to deliver 700 million of our areas such as music and entertainment converting to organic milk production.
Over the we focus on offering products at Through this and other initiatives we last 18 months new layouts, fixtures, competitive prices and we have gained will pay a 10 million premium directly fittings and ranges have been trialled in 15 significant market shares of recent DVD to farmers each year.
stores to assess which non-food products and CD releases.
In clothing and home and which types of presentation most ranges, innovation, design and value are We are extending this approach into other all important to customers.
In March 2007 areas of agriculture.
We set up a Lamb we introduced a new premium homeware Partnership in Livestock scheme in range under the Different by design September 2006, for example, and are brand, which mirrors our premium Taste the difference food offer.
TU, our own label clothing range, continues to be a star performer and underpins our non-food offer.
In March 2006 we launched a range of clothing made from Fairtrade certified cotton.
The range consists of 22 different styles across mens, womens and childrens clothing and is designed by our own design team as part of our TU clothing collection.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 11 In an industry-leading initiative welcomed by the National Farmers Union NFU, Sainsburys will 10m work directly with dairy farmers in a newly formed development group to strengthen links and improve transparency in the supply chain.
Sainsburys is the first of the big four supermarkets to sell only cage-free eggs ahead of 2012.
This received a Good Egg award from Compassion in World Farming for its commitment to the health and welfare of animals.
Justin King, along with Harriet Lamb, Director of the Fairtrade Foundation, visited the Windward Isles to meet Fairtrade banana farmers, and to see first hand how developing countries can benefit from the social premium selling Fairtrade food can create.
Sainsbury's is the leading Fairtrade retailer, accounting for 40% of Fairtrade bananas in the UK ' Sainsburys switched the 22 million hot beverages it sells in its 230 in-store restaurants every year entirely to Fairtrade.
This makes it the only supermarket serving Fairtrade tea, coffee and hot chocolate to customers.
Bumblebees are in serious decline in the UK according to research.
To help reverse this problem, Sainsburys is funding an exclusive project aimed at boosting bumblebee numbers by as much as 600 per cent.
12 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Sainsburys now offers a range of clothing made from Fairtrade certified cotton.
The launch of Sainsburys clothing range carrying the FAIRTRADE mark, confirms the supermarkets commitment to the use of Fairtrade certified cotton.
The scheme known as Farm Connections will mean that key beef producers will be given computers, software and training so they can better operate and compete in the market, and be informed of industry matters and production costs.
Sainburys has launched a new farming scheme, which could pioneer the way British apples are grown, and thus help secure the 100% future of the British apple industry.
Fairtrade Just four weeks before small supplier Levi Roots met with Sainsburys, he was cooking up batches of his Reggae Reggae sauce a spicy bananas jerk BBQ sauce based on Levis secret family recipe in the kitchen of his Brixton home.
Following his appearance on TVs Dragons Den, the sauce is now available at 607 Sainsburys stores and is a hot seller.
Customers continue to enjoy the Jamie Oliver Customers value quality, fresh and seasonal Taste the difference range of 21 days extra mature food and Sainsburys worked with suppliers beef which is hung for three weeks before being to source as many products as possible packed.
Its good old fashioned, well looked after from the UK, celebrating the freshness and beef which provides extremely high quality and seasonality of British produce.
In partnership with Food from Britain, Sainsburys is launching an innovative new scheme to make it easier for small and medium sized suppliers to gain business access to the retailer.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 13 Business review continued Availability Our product availability is now the best it has been for many years.
We have reorganised our depot network so that we can continue to improve the service to our stores.
In line with our increase in sales, our depots now handle over a million more cases each week than in the previous year.
Improved efficiencies have also reduced the cost per case and we now deliver an additional 50 million We now deliver 50 million cases for the same costs achieved in more cases of products the previous year.
for the same cost as We are opening a new distribution centre in the previous year in Northampton later this year.
This is an important step in ensuring we have enough capacity to match our growth expectations.
This will create 750 new do as well.
This follows an association jobs.
The depot will initially provide with the We Are What We Do WAWWD additional capacity this Christmas and will global social change movement over be fully operational by the middle of next recent years.
Another sign of our increased sales performance is the extension of our The plan takes policy out of the Langlands depot in East Kilbride and a boardroom and puts us in partnership reconfiguration of our depot at Waltham with our customers.
Each month we are Point in Hertfordshire will improve the holding a Make the difference day where capacity and reliability of the depot.
we raise a specific issue and take action.
And we show customers how they can Corporate responsibility take action too.
With over 16 million Corporate responsibility principles are customers each week, working together at the core of our business and our brand means we can really make the difference.
and have been since we opened our first store in 1869.
Over the past year there Our first Make the difference day was on has been a huge increase in the interest in 27 April 2007.
During that day we stopped social and ethical issues and Sainsburys issuing disposable plastic carrier bags and heritage has meant we have been well instead gave customers our Bag for Life.
placed to address customer concerns.
This is made from 100 per cent recycled During the year most other retailers material and is typically used around 20 announced plans to address concerns times.
When it is worn out customers can over issues such as health and return it to us for a new bag and we will environmental impacts, so our challenge recycle their old one.
These bags normally is to keep leading, innovating and cost ten pence each but on this day we achieving great results.
issued more than six million for free.
It was a great example of working together we Five principles underpin our activities as can give customers the bags but they detailed on page 21 and we already have must re-use them to help us reduce the stretching targets in place.
In April 2007 amount of disposable bags in circulation.
we announced our Make the difference plan.
This reflects the fact that customers are increasingly concerned about social and ethical issues: they now expect companies to meet their responsibilities, but they also want to know what they can 14 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Business review continued Respect for our environment packaging for the environment according As a leading UK retailer we have a to the Womens Institute.
Instead of responsibility to minimise any potential plastic, the packaging uses maize, sugaradverse impacts of our operations.
cane or starch so that it can break down Weve invested more than 15 million naturally in a garden compost heap.
15 m in energy efficiency projects since We share our customers belief that 2002 and Sainsburys won the Carbon plastic bags contribute to long-term invested Management City of London Liveable damage to the environment so in City Award 2006 through our innovative September we launched a new carrier projects to reduce emissions.
in energy bag to replace our previous free carrier.
Much of our work is about good A third of the new orange bag is made housekeeping and almost all our large from recycled material and it can, in turn, efficency supermarkets now have intranet linked, be recycled and made into a new bag.
This automated building controls to allow us has saved 1.7 billion old style carrier bags projects to improve efficiency and manage power and 6,500 tonnes of plastic every year.
loads so we can further reduce our Were still the only UK supermarket to since 2002 energy costs.
offer customers a free carrier bag with a high proportion of recycled material, but A big issue for customers is the amount we urge others to follow this lead and cut of food packaging in use and its down on the use of plastic and materials environmental impact.
Weve already sent to landfill.
reduced excessive packaging on many products.
Take Easter eggs: since 2004 We have promoted re-usable shopping we have reduced the weight of packaging bags since the mid 1990s and in by up to 87 per cent with the vast November 2006 we teamed up with majority of the remaining packaging now Arts Council England to produce limited recyclable, re-usable or compostable.
edition re-usable bags designed by wellknown artists.
The bags were incredibly In September 2006 we announced the popular and sold out in 12 weeks.
We were removal of 3,550 tonnes of plastic from also the obvious outlet for a similar our output every year.
We achieved this environment-friendly bag designed by by replacing 150 million plastic trays and leading accessories designer Anya bags on 500 of our ready meal and Hindmarch, in collaboration with WAWWD.
organic food products with compostable The bags went on sale at the beginning of packaging, the friendliest form of April and sold out within an hour.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 15 By September 2008, 20 per cent of the supermarkets online deliveries will be made using electric vans, saving 45 tonnes of CO 2 emissions in the first year.
As well as selling 100 per cent recycled refuse sacks, Sainsburys now sells compostable garden refuse sacks, as well as caddy bin liners for the one in three people that now home-compost in the UK.
Both bags are made of starch fibre instead of plastic, which means they can naturally break down in a garden compost heap.
I used to be Making a plastic bag the In April 2007 Sainsburys teamed up with designer Anya Hindmarch and global social change movement, We difference Are What We Do to launch a re-usable shopping bag in all stores.
20,000 bags sold out across the UK in under an hour.
A third of the new carrier bag will be made from recycled material, and whats more customers can Sainsburys gave a major recycle their bag and Sainsburys will make it into boost to the worlds forests a new one.
by announcing that it will be the first to source all of its own brand tissue from sustainable sources.
All of its tissue will either be FSC approved or recycled.
Sainsburys first Make the difference day saw Sainsburys become the first major UK supermarket to stop giving out free disposable carrier bags in its stores and instead gave over six Research has shown that carbon million free re-usable Bags for Sainsburys SO organic jute shopping bag emissions from Kenyan roses, Life usually 10p to customers has proved popular with customers, and as including air freight, were 5.8 times for their shopping.
well as being carbon-neutral, it follows organiclower than for Dutch roses.
Results growing ideals, including using low input, nonhave provided a fresh challenge to GM material, rotation crops, organic manures current thinking on sourcing and and avoidance of pesticides.
the impact of air freight versus artificial heating and lighting for growing cut flowers.
16 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 During the Second World War we reduced the paper used for our labels.
Its in our DNA Sainsburys will be the first retailer in the UK to offer to find ways to minimise our customers a Freepost battery and cell phone recycling impact on the environment service.
This is going to be the only scheme of its kind and make our labelling as and is expected to save 2,500 tonnes of batteries going clear as it can be.
Last year our customers recycled 100 million plastic bags at our recycling points at our stores.
We have offered this service since July 2004.
We have been developing an industry leading assessment system that will ensure that the fish we sell are sourced from sustainable sources.
Sainsburys and Arts Council England teamed up to produce Packaging now gives clearer instructions limited edition re-usable shopping for recycling, composting etc.
such as bags designed by well-known Sorry, not recyclable or Please recycle artists.
The bags meant anyone The amount of material our so that customers know what they can do could get a work of art for only 50p.
colleagues recycled in 2006 was when theyve finished with the wrapping.
equivalent to over 14,000 double decker buses.
Sainsburys is half-way through its plans to replace 150 million plastic trays and bags with compostable packaging.
By the end of the year, all ready meals and the majority of organic produce will be in compostable material, which can disappear on a garden compost heap or in a bin.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 17 Business review continued Making a positive difference to our We also work with the Youth Sports Trust Colleagues: a great place to work community and English Schools Athletics Association The majority of our store colleagues live Our stores are at the heart of the as part of our commitment to support within the communities served by their communities they serve and last year grass roots activities rather than national store and many donate time and effort we invested 18 million in community sporting teams or events.
All the profit to a broad range of good causes outside initiatives, and a further 12 million from from our bags for life, 159,000 in work.
Our Local Heroes programme is our charity fundraising and donations in our 2006 07, goes directly into local own awards scheme, which recognises stores.
Our activities focus on areas that community projects recommended by and encourages colleagues in stores, matter most to our colleagues and our store colleagues as part of our depots and offices who do this and we customers such as food, family, health community grants programme.
match all funds raised with awards of and children.
The scheme is Another great example of a scheme that now in its sixth year during which time we Our Active Kids programme is a great supports our business, the community have donated around 750,000 to good example of this and 38,000 registrations and the environment is our food donation causes.
This year we donated around have been received for the 2007 scheme.
This reduces the amount of 250,000, an increase of 48 per cent For the first time this year the nations surplus food past its sell-by date but not over the previous year.
one million Scouts and Girl Guides are its use-by date we have to send to landfill.
Customers earn Active Instead we distribute this to charities Kids vouchers against spend in-store across the country such as the Salvation and online which can then be redeemed Army and FareShare.
In the year ending by schools against activity and cookery March 2007 we donated 3.4 million of equipment.
Since the launch of Active food to homeless charities and 60 per Kids in 2005 we have donated cent of our stores are linked to local 34 million of sports equipment, kit charities through the scheme.
Our aim is and coaching to over 26,000 UK schools to increase this to 100 per cent and we and nurseries.
Active Kids also aims to remain the only UK supermarket to encourage healthy eating as customers donate food in this way all year round earn a bonus voucher for buying fresh rather than just at peak trading periods.
fruit, vegetables and salad, plus any of Community involvement also goes the 2,350 foods marked with the healthy beyond our stores such as our apple stamp, such as milk, pasta, rice and sponsorship of Comic Relief and Sport fresh fish.
This year we raised over 7 million for Comic Relief through sales of Comic Relief merchandise and colleague activity.
This represented 22 per cent of the total 32 million raised on the night.
38,000 organisations have joined our Active Kids programme 18 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Can we have a bleep to remind customers to remove their chip and PIN card?
Business review continued Our colleagues are vital to our success During the year we opened 20 and over the past year we completed the supermarkets and extended 18.
A further delivery of leadership training to 9,000 50 were refurbished, one was downsized managers throughout our business.
We and 48 benefited from investment in their track how engaged colleagues are with non-food offer.
In our convenience our goals and values through our operation, 20 stores opened, 22 were talkback survey and last year saw refurbished and 30 converted to our marked improvements in both colleague Sainsburys @ format.
Two convenience engagement and our leadership skills.
stores closed and two supermarkets were closed due to relocation to improved sites.
The Tell Justin suggestion scheme was launched in September 2004.
Nearly New space growth opportunities are now 17,000 ideas have been received since being developed as we plan a ten per cent that time and ten per cent of suggestions growth in space over the next three years.
We plan to open 30 new supermarkets and 100 new convenience stores and This year we will pay our highest ever online drivers will continue to collect we are targeting the completion of 75 bonus to colleagues with 118,000 sharing customers unwanted Sainsburys plastic extensions and 190 refurbishments, 56 million in bonus payments in June carrier bags for recycling.
with the large majority undertaken on 2007.
Including this bonus, we will have our freehold and long leasehold estate.
We believe there is significant growth paid 145 million in bonus scheme potential in the online operation and we payments over the last three years.
We are actively managing our property plan to increase capacity in areas of high A just reward for the huge efforts of portfolio.
A specialist property team is demand.
As a result the number of stores our colleagues.
building a pipeline of new stores and more operating this service will reach 200 by than 50 per cent of our current estate will Developing our stores March 2010 and we expect sales to more be developed by March 2010 and at least Having made such good progress in than double over the next three years.
60 stores will be over 55,000 square feet improving our performance we renewed with over 15,000 square feet of non-food Sainsburys Bank our search last year for locations where ranges by March 2010.
The pipeline will be Sainsburys Bank became a 50:50 joint we could introduce Sainsburys to new developed to deliver space growth at venture operation in February 2007 when communities.
During the 2006 07 five per cent each year from 2009 10. we announced the sale of five per cent of financial year we increased our space by the business to our partner HBOS plc for 3.8 per cent, driven mainly by our ability The ownership of property is aligned to 21 million.
The Bank remains an to acquire more new space than planned.
these operational plans and provides important part of our Group and the This was ahead of target primarily due to significant opportunity to maximise both new ownership structure reflects the increased activity in the second half of operational and freehold property value shared commitment Sainsburys and the year.
HBOS plc has to growing the business.
Sainsburys online The Bank has made good progress in Our online operation has had an stabilising its operations over the year outstanding year.
Sales grew by 49 and a tight focus on cost control and per cent, with a record Christmas tighter risk management actions performance.
We now cover 83 per implemented over the past two years cent of UK postcodes and have 64,000 has more than offset what has been a customers each week.
New customers worsening environment for consumer continue to be attracted to the service via credit.
In 2006 07 Sainsburys Bank recommendations from family and friends made an underlying operating profit of the most powerful advocates we could 2 million.
It continues to offer growth have.
We are the first grocery retailer to opportunities and we are targeting profits operate an Electric Zero Emission vehicle.
of 40 million in the year ending March By Autumn 2008, the 3.5 tonne van, 2010, half of which will be reported which is suitable for urban areas, will be after tax.
responsible for the transport of 20 per cent of all our online orders and our Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 19 The number of graduates becoming food science experts has hit dangerously low levels in recent years, and to reverse the sharp decline, Sainsburys has launched a Gap Year scheme called Taste the World to entice the best graduates to the food science industry.
Being the best for food and health is a key priority for Sainsburys, as it has been since 1869.
In 1922, tiles were used to ensure shop hygiene was kept to the highest standards.
Leading the way We launched a ground-breaking green store in 1999 at Greenwich.
The 35,000 sq ft store reduces energy consumption by up to 50% compared to a standard store of a similar size and operation.
Shining Stars is a recognition programme Other designed to reward our colleagues by giving them points for doing a fantastic job.
FareShare works to relieve food poverty by providing quality food and other support to organisations working with homeless and disadvantaged people.
Last year alone, FareShare Weve raised 31.5 million across all projects since we became redistributed around 2,000 tonnes of fit for supporters of Comic Relief in 1999.
In 2007 we have raised over purpose surplus food, which contributed to 7 million for Red Nose Day and we are still counting.
20 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Business review continued Our commitment to the communities in which we operate Corporate responsibility isnt new for us.
When we opened our first store in 1869 the guiding principle was to offer good quality products to everyone, including those who had never had access to healthy and safe food before.
Today, our commitment to the communities in which we operate is still every bit as important and the five principles below underpin our activities.
Customers trust us to take care of their concerns, and that sets us apart from competitors as you will have seen in this review.
In many areas we already lead our industry, but were committed to innovating and setting even higher standards.
Weve provided some examples of our activities but our full corporate responsibility report can be found at www.
co. uk cr Making a positive The best for difference to your food and health community A great place to work Sourcing with integrity www.
co. uk cr Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 21 Respect for our environment
