Business Review Our mission statement Serving communities first for news, information and advertising provides a succinct summary of our purpose as a business.
But, behind this simple statement lie a number of important initiatives and changes which together will shape Johnston Press in the years ahead.
Whilst we envisage local and regional newspapers remaining In every one of our local markets, digital channels are an at the heart of our activities for an indefinite period, our embedded component of our media mix with our local mission statement is quite deliberate in making no mention websites being regarded with equal importance by our of specific media channels.
However, as now, we do editorial and advertising staff alike.
anticipate that our newspapers will be read by millions of people for many years to come and, in turn, that they will We continue to place considerable emphasis on the continue to provide advertisers with a robust and effective fundamental importance of being focussed on local markets means of promoting their goods and services in the and their respective communities.
Life is Local still evokes numerous local markets which our publications serve.
a powerful sense of direction and purpose throughout the organisation.
However, our mission statement does not This fundamental belief in the importance and resilience confine the description of community to being local.
of print is, of course, only part of the story.
Already today, Although our efforts to create wider communities of the means by which we meet the news, information and interest remain at an embryonic stage, the growth of our advertising needs of our local marketplaces extend well digital channels has opened up the potential to develop new beyond our considerable portfolio of newspapers and revenue streams based on the creation of new communities related print publications.
Great progress has been made bound by a common interest but dispersed across an throughout the organisation during the last year in fully extended geographic footprint.
embracing and developing the use of digital channels, both fixed and mobile, to complement the already high levels of The bedrock of our publishing business continues to be in audience reach which we have achieved in print for many our long established and highly respected print publications.
Danny Cammiade 12 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The shape of our local publishing operations is, however, in rolling out common IT platforms and working practices the process of a fundamental transformation, changing from across the Group to facilitate maximum operational being newspaper publishers to becoming community media efficiency in newspaper production, whilst also optimising companies.
This change does not mean a reduction in the revenue generating opportunities and customer service: importance we place on our print publications, rather it extends our horizons by embracing and placing equal maintaining a strong local journalistic and advertising emphasis on a range of digital channels.
presence in all of our markets, whilst continuing to streamline the backroom functions of the business to Coupled with this transformation is an equally far reaching maximise operational efficiencies: change in the focus of our publishing operations, from one which has placed primary emphasis on product and process, fostering the highest editorial standards with to one which is customer facing as its priority.
This change commensurately strong newspaper content which is will in no way diminish the efforts we put into the continual presented, marketed and distributed in a manner which improvement of business efficiency but, through a better optimises the market reach of all of our titles.
knowledge of our local markets, including the creation of customer and reader databases, we aim to improve and 2.
Developing a fully integrated multi-media publishing extend the service we provide to readers, online users and capability by advertisers alike and also to create new revenue generating opportunities by capitalising on the extensive information we increasing investment in digital resources at a pace which have within our organisation.
reflects the Groups aspirations to maintain a high rate of growth in digital revenues, the digital audience and online Underlying Strategy usage: The aim of our strategic plans is the successful delivery of the business vision which is described in the foregoing embedding digital channels in every one of our local section of this report.
These plans have six component publishing centres as an integral part of their media mix parts.
and ensuring that they are accorded an emphasis equal to our core print publications: 1.
Maintaining the core strength of our newspaper publishing activities by restructuring our organisation to ensure that it is equipped to deliver on our digital aspirations.
The newsroom of the placing a clear organisational focus on what remains the future project, which was initiated in Preston in 2006, and principal revenue and profit generator for the business: its subsequent roll-out across the Group demonstrates our commitment to such changes: investing in modern full colour printing capacity to produce high quality publications in the most cost introducing new digital channels such as the recent efficient and environmentally friendly manner possible.
extension of our mobile phone services offering and The completion of the 110 million investment in the exploring ways in which our digital platforms could be press projects at Dinnington and Portsmouth provides strengthened through initiatives such as partnering or clear evidence of this commitment and has enabled us to acquisition.
drive a significant increase in contract printing revenues, in addition to securing further printing efficiencies: 4.
Access via PDA Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 323 localwebsites Extending our audience reach and advertiser response through a process of market layering and a combination of print and digital channels Business Review continued... 3.
Extending our audience reach and advertiser response 5.
Continuing to review the potential for acquisitive growth through a process of market layering and a combination thereby extending our publishing footprint within the UK of print and digital channels by and Ireland in a manner which creates increased shareholder value by launching new print publications to supplement the market reach of our main newspaper titles and to maintaining contact with key industry players to ensure penetrate demographic and geographic market niches that we remain aware of possible ownership changes: where current newspaper readership is weaker than the norm.
Over the past two years, we have launched over reviewing all potential acquisition opportunities within the 200 new print publications in pursuit of this strategy: local and regional newspaper publishing sector in the UK and Ireland.
extending marketing initiatives throughout the Group based on the development of successful models at the 6.
Ensuring that we have the organisational capability and local level which build on the strong brands and competence to deliver our strategy and vision by community links of our newspaper titles.
Examples include such activities as local exhibitions and reader keeping the organisation under continuous review to holidays: ensure that it is structured in a manner which is best placed to deliver our strategic objectives: proposing attractive advertising packages that combine print and digital platforms in a manner which maximises ensuring that our succession planning processes local market reach and provides additional online recognise and respond to the evolving needs of the services to extend the overall effectiveness of our business: offering.
A typical example is online CV matching which provides recruiters with access to a pool of job seekers providing progressive training and development to supplement those who respond to an advertisement programmes to equip our staff in all areas of the placed in paper and on our Jobs Today website.
business such that they are well equipped to meet the changing needs of our markets and to operate effectively 4.
Investing in the creation of marketing databases across across the full range of publishing channels including the the organisation to improve the delivery of our services new digital platforms.
to advertisers, readers and online users, thereby establishing opportunities for new revenue streams by Market Position Our publishing operations are spread across large parts requiring all companies to collect, register and maintain of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland as customer and reader data in a prescribed format: illustrated on the map shown on page 11.
The geographic focus of our numerous publishing centres is local or creating a data warehouse to store such data in a form regional, with each aiming to meet a wide range of news, that is readily searchable and usable for both internal information and advertising needs for the communities and external purposes: they serve.
establishing external marketing initiatives which can be In each of our markets, we are generally the leading adopted around the Group to capitalise on the revenue provider of such information, attracting a large audience opportunities which such data provides: as a consequence.
In the vast majority of our markets, we achieve high levels of audience reach and, in so doing, we ensuring that we build a more complete understanding of provide advertisers with an extremely effective means of our markets including the needs and interests of our promoting their goods and services to those communities.
14 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1.
Via mobile technologies Multi-platform delivery Through our portfolios of related print and digital publications, we achieve high levels of household penetration, thereby providing advertisers with market leading levels of audience reach.
The aim of the community Through the digital activities by 5 million.
media company should be to newsroom project our news Rapidly growing online usage provide its audience with its content is gathered in a demonstrates our success in desired content through the media neutral form and then reaching a new audience.
edited in a manner With the deepening appropriate to its channel of penetration of broadband With our range of print and delivery, whether that is in technology into our digital channels our print, online or via mobile communities the audiences can now access a platforms.
In 2007 we have attractiveness of audio and continuous news service 24 increased our annual visual content on our hours a day.
expenditure on digital websites is ever increasing.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Business Review continued...
The marketplaces in which we publish vary considerably in In total, we publish 318 newspaper titles of which 18 are their size, structure and nature but, with very few paid-for dailies.
Amongst those, 3 are morning papers with exceptions, they have a well-defined local geographic focus.
a regional footprint including The Scotsman, The Yorkshire Our publishing operations span widely varied communities Post and the Newsletter in Northern Ireland.
We publish 2 ranging from rural areas, villages and small towns to larger Sunday newspapers with Scotland on Sunday being the most urban and metropolitan centres.
With our portfolio of print important.
Of the remainder, 164 are paid-for weeklies and and digital channels, we have the ability to reach extensively 134 free weeklies.
throughout the communities we serve, across the range of ages and demographics.
Supplementing our mainstream newspaper titles is a growing range of targeted publications which address Publishing Channels specific market niches, both geographic and demographic.
In the vast majority of our markets, we publish the leading local or regional newspaper.
These are generally paid-for Virtually all of these have been developed and launched by daily or weekly titles with the dailies typically being located our various publishing centres.
Over the past two years, we in the larger metropolitan areas and the weeklies in the have launched over 200 such publications with 126 of these smaller urban and rural markets.
The leading title, which being Community Newsletters which are typically free almost invariably carries the principal newspaper brand monthly pick-up titles addressing communities of around in the area, is supplemented by a range of publications 3,000-5,000 homes.
They carry very local news and with the foremost secondary title most often being a free advertising content and have been launched in both rural distribution newspaper.
Depending on the size of the local and metropolitan areas.
market, there may be other supporting paid-for and free newspapers.
Together these provide a comprehensive Other such publications include a growing portfolio of high coverage of the local area with resulting high levels of quality lifestyle magazines which carry aspirational content household penetration.
and advertising to reflect that.
This enables us to attract 16 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1.
Development and investment Only through continually investing in new technologies and systems can we maintain our position of delivering industry leading margins.
Computerised control of Our investment of 60m in the new press facilities press running and settings at Dinnington clearly demonstrates that commitment.
Titles received from This first triple-width press in the UK facilitated the publishers electronically closure of 5 old, inefficient and colour limited presses.
Our investment in new systems has allowed the consolidation of pre-press and credit control into regional centres of excellence Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Business Review continued... advertisers who are less likely to appear in our mainstream employers at both national and local levels.
Most of our markets now include a lifestyle years, recruitment in the public sector has been weak, magazine in their publishing portfolio.
Over the past two reflecting Government spending constraints.
This has been years, we have also launched a number of free newspapers an important factor behind the recent lacklustre which target specific demographics such as young performance of this category although as the year professionals in city centres or rail commuters travelling progressed, relative performance improved against weaker from outlying towns around London and Birmingham.
comparatives with growth in the South of England resuming in the second half.
Apart from public sector spending plans, Again as a result of a programme of launches, we now have the key driver of employment advertising is the overall level 323 websites which supplement our print publications in of unemployment.
each of our local markets.
These carry news, information and advertising relevant to each local market, including an 20% of total advertising revenues comes from property increasing amount of user-generated content and contributed advertising which has been our most successful category for audio visual material.
Embedded within each of our local several years.
Growth continued during 2007 though at a websites, which are typically branded to reflect the leading slowing rate as the year progressed partly due to the yearlocal newspaper title in the area, is a range of classified on-year comparatives becoming increasingly challenging.
advertising websites commonly branded across the entire Despite the increasing availability of online alternatives, Group.
It is a key objective of the Group for each of our local property print advertising has remained robust from both websites to be the leading local online portal in their area estate agents and house builders.
For estate agents, this and for the classified sites to provide the richest content reflects the value of brand advertising in print which acts as available for that community with functionality and brand a powerful means of attracting new instructions.
It also awareness to match that.
confirms our own market research which indicates the high value that vendors place on having their properties Building on the strength of our local publishing operations advertised in their local newspaper.
and utilising the market leading brands of our newspaper titles, we have also developed a range of complementary Motors advertising, which accounts for 10% of our promotional platforms which in themselves provide further advertising mix, has been our most difficult category for opportunities to generate additional revenue streams.
These several years with the main cause being continued industry activities include a range of local exhibitions such as consolidation.
This has created larger players who command wedding fairs, motor shows, jobs fairs and fashion shows.
a greater advertising spend which, in part, has been We also utilise our newspaper distribution organisation to diverted to other media.
The use of websites, both generic deliver advertising leaflets door-to-door.
and those operated by the industry itself, has also been a factor behind declining print revenues but not to the same Advertising Base extent as the process of industry consolidation.
Motor 73% of our total revenues is derived from advertising.
Of dealers themselves have also experienced difficult market this, the vast majority still comes from our print publications conditions and, though new car sales have recently though our digital revenues are growing strongly, up 34% in improved after several years of decline, their profit margins 2007, albeit from a low base.
Revenues from the new continue to be under pressure.
advertising platforms launched in 2007 described above exceeded 1 million.
The other classifieds category represented 18% of total advertising in 2007 and in performance was close to the Accounting for 29% of total advertising revenues, our most previous year.
This category is made up of a number of important advertising category is display advertising which different elements including entertainments, births encompasses both local and national customers, with marriages and deaths, public notices and trade services around three quarters being derived from local clients.
The disparate nature of this category tends to category is influenced by High Street activity and, in turn, mean that it is less volatile on a year-to-year basis.
The difficulties experienced in this Group has initiatives in place to grow various parts of this category over the past 12 months are a broad reflection of category and the iAnnounce website launched in late 2007 the challenges being faced by the retail sector.
We are should drive a significant increase in the births, marriages making considerable efforts to create new display and deaths section.
Challenges are being experienced in advertising platforms to attract revenues from outside our cinema advertising which has moved online to a significant traditional areas of business including enterprises engaged extent and there could potentially be downward pressure on in activities such as travel, leisure, health and education.
public notices as the Government seeks to trim its spending.
The industry is lobbying Government regarding its Employment advertising, which represented 23% of our obligation to adequately publicise such things as planning advertising revenues in 2007, is the second most important notices and to ensure that it does not rely on websites category.
Around 15% of this is received from public sector alone which would reduce public access to such vital information.
18 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Audience Reach We are also making increased use of the cross-promotional Our newspapers continue to achieve high levels of opportunities which are available from the range of our print household penetration in the numerous areas of the UK and and digital platforms.
Indeed, during the year, there have Ireland in which they circulate.
Whilst penetration levels are been a number of instances when a strong story broken enhanced by the fact that we publish a range of paid-for and online has translated into an increased sale in the free newspapers in almost all of our circulation areas, paidsubsequently published newspaper.
In addition, and of for newspapers alone still achieve significant reach in their particular relevance to advertisers, the combined reach of markets.
our print and digital channels has resulted in a considerable increase in our local market penetration and, given the Taking our paid-for daily newspapers, excluding our 3 ongoing growth of our digital activities, this should continue morning titles which circulate across wide regions and to expand.
therefore achieve lower penetration, typically we achieve household penetrations of around 25% with the best figures Business Risks generally coming from those which circulate in smaller urban As do all businesses, Johnston Press faces a number of communities.
Whilst, in general, daily circulations have risks.
However, these need to be set in the context of a declined for some years, they continue to generate good mature but profitable and cash generative newspaper advertiser response and in many cases we package publishing business coupled with an exciting digital growth advertising across a range of platforms, including print and opportunity.
In overall terms, the print publishing model digital, in which the paid-for daily is just one element.
It is continues to demonstrate considerable resilience despite also worth noting that the principal reasons for circulation the gloomy views of some commentators, due in no small declines are to be found in lifestyle changes.
People have part to the established market positions and well recognised more choice for their leisure time pursuits and media and trusted brands of our newspapers.
Against this sources as well as being increasingly time poor.
Changing background, the principal risks facing the business are distribution patterns with fewer newsagents being willing to summarised below.
home deliver is another challenge which we are addressing by establishing our own direct delivery arrangements.
These Macro-economic forecasts for 2008 suggest a weakening changes have resulted in a tendency to move away from a outlook with a number of key indicators expected to worsen.
6-day home delivered habit to casual purchase.
Although Of particular relevance to local publishing businesses are this has impacted adversely on circulations, it has had a the performance of GDP, the volume of property lesser effect on readership and indeed industry research transactions, consumer confidence and unemployment indicates an increasing trend in readers per copy.
Certainly, in the case of the first three, expectations are for a deterioration in these indicators and, should this Over the past ten years, our weekly paid-for newspapers be the case, it will undoubtedly have an adverse effect on have increased sale in seven and only in the past couple of advertising markets.
Newspaper advertising in general is a years have we experienced modest declines.
In general, our good barometer of economic activity and has historically weekly paid-for titles are achieving household penetration tracked such movements closely.
Our expectation, subject to rates in excess of 50%, sometimes much higher.
In turn, the comments below on other risk factors, is that this will these titles also continue to provide advertisers with an continue to be the case with the principal short term remedy excellent response, enhanced further when other print and being actions to keep costs under close control.
digital channels are also utilised in the overall package.
A key consideration for industry analysts in assessing Our websites in contrast are continuing to produce rapid prospects for the regional press has been the extent to growth in the number of visitors they attract, in 2007 which recent advertising revenue downturns have been due increasing by 24% over the previous year.
This is a to cyclical or structural effects.
We have no doubt reflection of the considerable investment we have made whatsoever that the primary influence has been cyclical and, in our websites over the past 12 months, coupled with to bring greater rigour to that analysis, we worked with the the restructuring of our newsrooms to operate on a London Business School to build an econometric model of multi-media basis.
This has resulted in regular updating, our business.
This demonstrated a close correlation several times a day even for our weekly newsrooms, more between our advertising performance and that of the key breaking news and the inclusion of audio visual content.
It would, however, Our sites have also been upgraded during the year to be wrong to deny that there are structural changes taking improve design, navigability and functionality.
These place which are having an impact on our business.
improvements have also brought about a dramatic increase in audience engagement with high response Whilst many observers might assume that the impact of rates to stories appearing online and, in many instances, competing websites would be the principal such threat, this members of our communities actively contributing news should not be overstated.
There is evidence of the migration items and pictures including video images.
of some advertising revenues to the web but not at a Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19
