Corporate Governance 64 Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Kazakhmys PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report and statements the financial statements of Kazakhmys PLC for the consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated statements.
The other information comprises only the Business Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity We consider the implications for our Report if we become aware and the related notes 1 to 49.
These financial statements have of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration other information.
Report that is described as having been audited.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with International in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Companys members those matters we are required to state to of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the signi cant estimates and judgements made by the Directors Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND adequately disclosed.
AUDITORS The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS assurance that the financial statements and the part of the as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from of Directors Responsibilities.
material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Report to be audited.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
OPINION We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial pro t for the year then ended: information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you the Companys financial statements give a true and fair view, whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union Report is consistent with the financial statements.
as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has as at 31 December 2007: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the financial statements and the part of the Directors the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as and other transactions are not disclosed.
regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 the financial statements.
Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We ERNST & YOUNG LLP are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on REGISTERED AUDITOR internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion London, United Kingdom on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance 5 March 2008 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
