Business Review OUR BUSINESS Yorkshire Water is the principal UK subsidiary of Kelda Group plc, providing water and waste water services to more than 4.7m people and 140,000 businesses.
Every day the company supplies more than 1.3bn litres of water to homes and businesses in Yorkshire.
Through the efficient operation of its extensive waste water network and treatment facilities, it also ensures that the regions domestic and industrial waste is returned safely to the environment.
BUSINESS STRATEGY Our strategy is to be clearly the best water company in the UK and to focus on striking the right balance between service, compliance, value, people, partners and society.
Value We are committed to creating enduring shareholder value for the group by a focus on efficiency in everything we do.
Our goal is to deliver consistently good financial results by outperforming regulatory and other financial targets and delivering efficiencies across the company.
We will achieve this by sharing best practice across the Kelda group and employing world-class technology.
Our customers Our aim is to provide a quality of service which is significantly better than any other utility and at a price which represents good value for money.
To achieve this we will design our service from the outside-in, considering the customers point of view and eliminating service failures.
This will lead to improved financial and operational performance and an enjoyable customer experience.
Our people Yorkshire Water employs nearly 2,200 people.
Our aim is to create a great place to work, with zero accidents, a good work-life balance and the opportunity to make a real difference.
We want to attract and retain the best people, with performance and contribution recognised and rewarded and success celebrated as part of our culture.
Environmental leadership Yorkshire Water deals with environmental issues as diverse as catchment management, sustainable water management and river water and bathing standards.
Our performance affects all customers and everyone who lives in the regions we serve.
Our aim is to achieve 100% compliance with legal and regulatory obligations and to go beyond compliance where the benefits exceed the cost.
Society Our aim is to make a difference to society, opening up land for public enjoyment and promoting the value of water and health in schools.
Around 38% of colleagues are involved in community volunteering and external leadership roles and in influencing matters relating to water.
Service partners Yorkshire Water has created a new level of partnership, understanding and transparency with its key service providers.
Our aim is to achieve a win-win, which means better customer service, lower 1 Business Review costs and healthy profits for all.
To make this happen, we are looking to set clear expectations and encourage new ideas and innovation.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Key financial performance indicators 2007 2006 Interest cover 2.8x 3.7x Gearing 71.7% 48.8% Net debt to Regulatory Capital Value RCV 60.1% 42.5% Explanation of measures provided in Appendix to Business Review on page 8 Turnover increased by 6.5% to 750.2m 2006: 704.7m and operating profit before exceptionals increased by 7.7% to 323.0m 2006: 299.8m.
This year on year improved performance reflects tariff increases and the delivery of further efficiencies.
Yorkshire Water will still outperform Ofwats operating cost targets by 2m, even after absorbing considerable increases in energy prices.
2007 08 electricity has now been purchased at a cost significantly higher than that allowed in the determination, but at a lower level than seen in 2006 07.
The company is implementing initiatives to reduce the impact of the continuing high energy costs.
A lump sum contribution of 50m was made by the group to reduce its pension scheme deficit, of which 47.0m was paid by Yorkshire Water.
As the company continues to account for pensions on a cash contributions basis, adopting the multi-employer exemption under FRS17, the item is chargeable against profits but has been separately identified as an exceptional cost.
Regulated capital investment for the year was 362.7m 2006: 330.6m.
The investment continues to be directed at the upgrading of the regions clean and waste water infrastructure.
The capital programme continues to go well with all regulatory outputs delivered on or ahead of schedule and we are on track to achieve our planned 7.5% outperformance of Ofwats expenditure targets.
Net debt of 2,412.0m at year end 2006: 1,553.8m increased by 858.2m in the year, following payment of additional special dividends to Kelda of 717.0m, in relation to their proposed return of capital to shareholders, the 47m lump sump payment towards the group pension deficit and the funding of the ongoing capital programme.
As a result, gearing has increased to 71.7% 2006: 48.8% and net debt to RCV to 60.1% 2006: 42.5%, which is in line with the 55-65% range assumed by Ofwat in the 2004 Final Determination.
Interest cover also reduced from 3.7x to 2.8x.
Other dividend payments in the year of 109.9m 2006: 268.3m were made.
Accounting policies The company accounts have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies described in note 1.
Treasury policy The companys treasury operations are controlled centrally for the group in accordance with approved board policies, guidelines and procedures.
Treasury strategy is designed to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, preclude speculation and to source and structure the groups borrowing requirements.
2 Business Review The group uses a combination of fixed capital, retained profits, long term loans, finance leases and bank facilities to finance its operations.
Any funding required is raised by the group treasury department in the name of the appropriate company and supported by guarantees as necessary.
Funds raised by the holding company may be lent to the company at commercial rates of interest.
Cash surplus to operating requirements is onlent to the holding company at commercial rates of interest and then invested in short term instruments with institutions having a long term rating of at least Aor A3 and a short term rating of at least A1 or P1 issued by Standard and Poors and Moodys respectively.
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE Key performance indicators Target Current Previous year year Overall customer satisfaction 100% 85% 85% Overall drinking water quality 100% 99.94% 99.94% Waste water treatment works compliance 100% 99.99% 98.97% Accidents - major and over 3 day accidents 17 35 31 - all accidents 85 180 179 Explanation of measures provided in Appendix to Business Review on page 8 Ofwat again confirmed Yorkshire Water as the most efficient water and sewerage company in the UK.
The company was awarded four A ratings for the efficient way it runs its water and waste water operations.
Customer service Yorkshire Water continued to improve levels of operational and customer service in Ofwats th Overall Performance Assessment OPA, with an increase in score for the 9 consecutive year.
The report confirmed that the company achieved the highest grades available in all categories of service indicators.
This has been an excellent year for delivering water supply security and further improving our customers confidence in the companys management of water resources.
The company continued to achieve leakage reduction targets.
A number of significant initiatives in both clean and waste water businesses are already delivering improvements in service and in efficiencies.
The biggest technology project within the company in the last 5 years was successfully delivered in November 2006.
A new more customer focused billing system replaced a 25 year old system and has run well since.
This area of technology change has been notoriously difficult for other water utility companies and we are pleased to report that our project was delivered on time, on budget and with no customer impact.
Environmental performance All suppliers working with Yorkshire Water are now assessed using the companys own Environmental Vendor Evaluation System, which contributed towards the company achieving ISO14001 accreditation for every aspect of its operations.
3 Business Review Good progress was also made towards improving the condition of Sites of Special Scientific Interest SSSIs on Yorkshire Water land.
In addition, 7 Blue Flags were awarded to the regions beaches, a best ever performance.
We also achieved 100% waste water treatment works compliance.
The total number of pollution incidents reduced year on year.
We will be investing further capital and resource in 2007 to reduce the stubborn but small number of more serious pollution incidents.
Social impact We achieved platinum status in the Sunday Times Top 100 Companies that Count 2007 report, based on Business in the Communitys corporate responsibility index.
The report benchmarks companies performance against a range of social, ethical and environmental issues.
The company, which achieved its highest ever score of 97%, achieved outstanding performance in the areas of community, environmental, workplace and customer management.
During the year Yorkshire Water increased the percentage of its people involved in community volunteering to 38%.
Our volunteers were involved in a range of activities including Cares initiatives, Right to Read and Numbers Partners, often supported by colleagues from our service partners.
The Cool Schools campaign has concluded successfully.
At the end of the initiative, more than 1,400 coolers have now been installed in 750 schools.
New projects to work with schools are being planned for the near future.
Yorkshire Water continued to be recognised for its environmental efforts, collecting 2 Green Apple environment awards, a Big Tick re-accreditation for its Environmental Management System and a sustainability award for its sludge treatment.
Employees The progress and momentum generated over recent years is directly attributable to the talent, commitment and enthusiasm of Yorkshire Waters people and particularly their response to change.
New technology and ways of working have been carefully introduced and adopted over recent years and today innovation is seen at work throughout the business, improving customer service and job satisfaction.
Yorkshire Waters commitment to creating a skilled and motivated workforce is seen in its investment in training, with over 250 managers and service partner representatives taking part in extensive leadership development programmes during the year.
LOOKING FORWARD Keeping the right balance for all of Yorkshire Waters stakeholders is fundamental to achieving the companys vision of being clearly the best water company in the UK.
The companys plans are therefore aligned with making progress in 6 key areas service, compliance, value, people, partners and society.
A great customer service A key aspiration is to develop innovative thinking and employ new technologies to deliver an improved level of operational and customer service.
By reducing the number of customer interruptions and the invasive nature of repair and maintenance work, the company will deliver better service for lower cost.
4 Business Review Environmental leadership During 2007 08, Yorkshire Water will continue to invest in improving waste water treatment works compliance, with particular focus on sewage pumping stations.
The companys aim is to achieve zero serious pollution incidents.
The company is also investing over 20m in renewable energy and has set ambitious targets to achieve zero serious pollution incidents.
Setting the pace for value In 2007 08 the aim remains to outperform key financial targets and to be Ofwats frontier company for efficiency.
By being operationally and financially efficient, shareholders and customers will benefit.
In this, the third year of the investment period 2005-2010, Yorkshire Water will be driving its largest capital programme.
A great place to work Yorkshire Water plans further significant investment in leadership and people development over the next year with over 250 managers, including service partners, joining its Leading People programme.
The bigger team Successful service partners share Yorkshire Waters philosophy of improved service and lower costs.
Next year, some service partners will be integrated on to the companys IT systems to deliver much closer partnership.
Making a difference in Yorkshire 2007 08 will be a key year for the next price review and the company will be setting out its position on a number of key issues for stakeholder consultation as part of a Strategic Direction Statement to be published in late 2007.
The company will also be making further investment in improving customer enjoyment of its landholdings and launching a major new schools programme around the issues of health and conservation.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The companys risk management process aims to be comprehensive, systematic and continuous and based on constant monitoring of business risk.
The board is also responsible for the companys internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Changes to the regulatory environment Yorkshire Waters price limits are set every 5 years by Ofwat.
In setting price limits Ofwat make assumptions about, for example, required investment levels, appropriate cost of capital and Yorkshire Waters costs.
There are some mechanisms for addressing changes to these assumptions between price reviews but, to a significant extent, the risk of such variations is carried by Yorkshire Water until the next price review.
PR09 price review On 30 March 2007 Ofwat published its forward programme to 2010 setting out the timetable for the next price review which is due to be concluded in 2009, and prices effective from April 2010.
5 Business Review For the first time, as well as producing a 5 year business plan, water companies will also be required to produce a 25 year strategic direction statement as a basis for consultation with customers and stakeholders, due to be submitted in December 2007.
Water industry competition A legislative regime for market competition in water was established by the Water Act 2003 but as yet has not resulted in any significant competitive activity.
Ofwat has instigated consultations and intend to carry out further consultations later this year as to how to increase the level of competition in the industry.
Competitive activity carries risk for Yorkshire Water of losing customers.
Changes in legislation Water strategy In the summer of 2007, the Government is due to announce a new water strategy.
The overarching aim of the new strategy is to improve standards of service and quality, through sustainable water management, whilst achieving a balance between environmental impacts, water quality of surface and ground waters, supply and demand, and social and economic effects.
DEFRA states that the strategy will provide a timely, high level steer on the Governments water priorities in a way that will be helpful to the water industry and Ofwat during the forthcoming price review.
The strategy will set out priorities, as opposed to details of specific policies.
Any resulting policy initiatives will be developed with full public consultation and will be subject to regulatory impact assessments where appropriate.
Water Framework Directive The Water Framework Directive WFD is the most substantial piece of European water legislation to date.
It requires all inland and coastal waters to reach good status by 2015.
It will do this by establishing a river basin district structure within which demanding environmental objectives will be set, including ecological targets for surface waters.
The WFD therefore sets a framework which aims to provide substantial benefits for the long term sustainable management of water.
This new Directive has the potential to drive major additional capital investment and increases in customers charges.
Climate Change Bill In March 2007 the Government published a draft Climate Change Bill which sets out a framework for moving the UK to a low carbon economy.
For the first time, the Government is proposing to set clear and legally binding targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
In doing so, the Government is encouraging businesses to make significantly more efficient use of energy and invest more in low carbon fuels and technologies, such as carbon capture and storage, wind, wave and solar power.
As some aspects of the water and sewage treatment process can be relatively energy intensive, this legislation has the potential to impact on companies energy strategies.
A joint Committee of Lords and Commons has been appointed to consider and report on the draft bill by 13 July 2007.
Climatic changes The companys core activities, the provision of high quality water and sewerage services, are inextricably linked with the weather and therefore any climate changes have the potential to impact on business.
6 Business Review As the companys resources are a mixture of water captured in reservoirs or abstracted from rivers or underground aquifers, climate change could alter many of the variables in this complex equation.
Social influences The company is subject to social influences and may be required to change its business practices in light of regulatory changes brought about by stakeholder and consumer pressure.
Public and private sewers In February 2007, DEFRA announced that private sewers, which are currently the responsibility of the owners of the properties they serve, are to be transferred into the ownership of the 9 statutory water and sewerage companies in England.
This decision follows an extensive review of private sewers which was launched in 2001 in response to concerns raised by householders.
A consultation in 2003 revealed a high level of support for the transfer and the Government concluded there was a clear case for action.
The decision will add more than 50% to the length of sewers Yorkshire Water is responsible for maintaining in the future.
The costs of transfer and maintaining these sewers is expected to be taken into account by Ofwat when it sets Yorkshire Waters price limits in 2009.
The Government has launched a public consultation to seek views on how the transfer should be implemented.
Supplier markets The company is also subject to external market forces, where input prices can sometimes rise beyond the regulatory allowance.
A good example of this was the fluctuation of energy prices in 2006.
7 Business Review - Appendix KPI Glossary of Terms FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Interest cover This measure provides an indication of whether the companys profit is sufficient to cover its interest obligations and is calculated as operating profit divided by net interest payable.
These figures are disclosed in the audited accounts in the profit and loss account.
Gearing This ratio measures the proportion of assets invested in the business that are financed by borrowing and is calculated as net debt as a proportion of net debt plus net assets.
These figures are disclosed in the audited accounts in the balance sheet and note 16 on aggregate borrowings and cash.
Net debt to Regulatory Capital Value RCV The RCV is determined by Ofwat and is the value of the capital base on which a return is allowed for price setting purposes.
The values are calculated and published annually by Ofwat.
This ratio expresses YWs regulated net debt as a proportion of the RCV, both of which are published in YWs audited regulatory accounts.
NON FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Overall customer satisfaction The company recognises the value of listening to customers in order to deliver improvements that not only meet but surpass expectations.
Customer satisfaction is monitored on a regular basis using a combination of random telephone surveys and event-based questionnaires.
Tracker research is an ongoing telephone survey involving 220 customers chosen at random each month.
This monitors customers general perceptions and the experience that customers receive when they come into contact with the company.
Ongoing event-based surveys cover 12 specific areas of customer contacts, namely clean water and waste water repair and maintenance work, customer visits by water and waste water field technicians, meter installations, supply pipe repairs, new supply applications, mains rehabilitation works, waste water capital works and calls to our contact centre about billing and operational matters.
In addition to its continuous customer research programme for domestic customers, Yorkshire Water also tracks customer satisfaction with its business users.
An online survey is conducted with its largest business users throughout the year and a telephone survey is carried out with other smaller business users on an annual basis.
Water quality The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI regulates public water supplies in England and Wales.
It is responsible for assessing the quality of drinking water, taking enforcement action if standards are not being met and appropriate action when water is unfit for human consumption.
The Government has set legal standards for drinking water in the Water Quality Regulations.
Most of these standards come directly from European law and are based on World Health Organisation guidelines.
The UK has additional standards to safeguard the already high quality of water in England and Wales.
The standards are strict and generally include wide safety margins.
They cover: Bacteria Chemicals such as nitrate and pesticides Metals such as lead The way the water looks and how it tastes 8 Business Review - Appendix KPI Glossary of Terms Although overall compliance with standards is no longer published by the DWI, this continues to be monitored internally for calendar years and the figures quoted relate to December 2006 and December 2005.
Waste Water Treatment Works compliance The Environment Agency issues consents to allow the discharge of treated water from waste water treatment works.
The 3 principal consented limits are for suspended solids, biochemical oxygen demand and ammonia.
A range of other substances may be limited depending on the type of discharge.
This indicator shows loads for the following determinands: suspended solids, which can blanket the river bed, thereby destroying fish habitat: biochemical oxygen demand BOD, which is a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed in water - usually by organic pollution - and therefore reflects the quality of the water : ammonia, which is toxic to fish: phosphate, which can lead to eutrophication in fresh waters.
All waste water treatment works are monitored for compliance with their discharge consents and the receiving waters are monitored to assess their compliance with water quality targets.
The frequency of monitoring depends on the size of the treatment works: small works are monitored on a quarterly basis and large works are monitored every week.
Reportable and notifiable accidents The Health and Safety Commission is responsible for health and safety regulation in Great Britain.
The Health and Safety Executive and local government are the enforcing authorities who work in support of the Commission.
RIDDOR - or the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR - place a legal duty on employers to notify and report some work-related accidents, diseases and dangerous occurrences.
These include, for example: deaths: major injuries: over-3-day injuries where an employee or self-employed person is away from work or unable to work normally for more than 3 consecutive days: injuries to members of the public or people not at work where they are taken from the scene of an accident to hospital: some work-related diseases: dangerous occurrences where something happens that does not result in an injury, but could have done.
