Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front 19 3 08 11:52 Page 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Valuing fairness and integrity The remuneration committee also High ethical and socially clear marketing standards Since its formation in the late takes account of CR issues when responsible standards we recently helped to develop 1800s, Ladbrokes has played determining executive remuneration Our aim is that the Ladbrokes an industry-led voluntary code a significant part in establishing and benefits.
CR governance and brand is recognised and trusted on responsible advertising, a legitimate and well organised management processes are subject wherever we do business and strict age limits, on-line age betting and gaming industry in to internal audit and the reporting becomes synonymous with verification checks, self exclusion the UK.
More recently we have process is externally verified by fairness and integrity.
For most people, expanded internationally via a retail our CR Advisors, Acona Ltd. years we have supported the gambling is an enjoyable and presence and through the Internet.
As a business, we aim to be: Association of British Bookmakers harmless leisure pursuit.
Wherever we operate, Ladbrokes 1st choice for customers ABB and the Remote Gambling However, for a very few others upholds best practice industry and a provider of 1st class Association RGA in establishing gambling can become a standards, which provide added customer service: industry-wide social responsibility behavioural problem.
Ladbrokes assurance for our customers, and A quality employer: standards and promoting has a responsibility to help tackle benefits the local economy through Innovative and cutting edge: self-regulation.
We welcome problem gambling, understand its employment and the payment of Trusted and a sector leader the new legislative regime in causes and promote its treatment.
We also make substantial in responsible business practice: the UK and we are meeting We make our employees aware contributions to support the UK Internationally recognised.
the demands of the Gambling of the symptoms of problem racing industry through the levy Commission and fully support gambling and train them in and our contributions to The British the Commissions three key UNDERSTANDING OUR how to respond.
The latter licensing objectives: Ladbrokes was a founding KEY CR ISSUES AND two fund improvements in horse To keep crime out of gambling: member of the Responsibility MINIMISING RISKS and greyhound racing, support To ensure gambling is conducted in Gambling Trust RIGT, the TO THE BUSINESS for retired animals, assistance fairly and openly: Independent Betting Adjudication The following CR issues to jockeys and advancements To protect children and Service IBAS and, through RIGT, have been identified as key in veterinary science and vulnerable people from being supports GamCare and the Gordon to supporting our business veterinary education.
harmed or exploited by gambling.
Moody Association formerly growth and form the pillars Ladbrokes is committed to All relevant personnel have Gordon House.
We developed of our CR strategy: being among the leaders of our been trained to meet the required our front-line training programmes Maintaining high ethical and sector in responsible business standards.
To monitor compliance socially responsible standards with the help of GamCare and practice.
During 2007 our high we have a comprehensive throughout our operations: over the past three years we standards of Corporate programme in place, headed Promoting responsible have trained 100 per cent of Responsibility CR were again by our Compliance Director and gambling behaviours across our employees in responsible recognised by the Dow Jones overseen by our compliance our business and the industry gambling practice.
Sustainability Indexes DJSI and committee.
This programme as a whole: FTSE4Good Indices.
The DJSI is subject to internal audit.
Keeping our customers Growing and keeping use a best in class approach satisfied with, well informed our customers to identify best practice across a Promoting responsible about and interested in, the We provide our customers with range of CR areas and Ladbrokes gambling behaviours products and services we offer: an enjoyable, efficient, secure, was the only UK-based betting Ladbrokes continues to work with Attracting a diverse workforce fair and socially responsible service and gaming company to be its peers and national governments and sustaining high levels of and all our employees are trained included in their index series for to improve responsible gambling competence, motivation and to support this commitment.
2007 8 and one of only three behaviour across the industry.
loyalty to the business: We are keen to drive brand loyalty companies globally.
We have our own systems in Minimising the risks from and all that the brand stands for, place to ensure that: our third-party relationships including trust and integrity.
CR strategy and governance Our customers are well informed, business partnerships, joint We seek customer views and CR and governance issues are e. g. about our products: about ventures or within our encourage feedback on our given full consideration by the problem gambling issues: and for supply chain: employees and our services.
executive committee and the our on-line customers about their Minimising the financial and We continually assess our Group Board when defining the own gambling history.
In support reputational impact of nonperformance through third party Ladbrokes business strategy.
of this, we dont use teasers to compliance with CR legislation: audits e. g. mystery shopper CR risks are regularly reviewed entice customers onto our sites Minimising health, safety and surveys and monitoring by the business and are considered or misrepresent the risks to our security risks to our business, customer complaints.
by the Board, as appropriate, as customers by the use of free our employees and the general During 2007 we achieved an a part of the corporate risk review demo games with more favourable public from our operations: average 85 per cent customer process.
CR matters are reported odds to the main play: Understanding global satisfaction record, following over to the Group Board on a regular We provide inherent protection environmental agendas and 3,600 mystery shopper visits.
basis as a minimum quarterly to try to limit the possible financial minimising the impact of thus forming part of the Board impacts on our customers from All of our retail managers in the increasing environmental costs calendar, along with tailored excessive gambling, e. g. daily and UK have achieved the Institute on our operations: director briefings.
The Board weekly limits on spend, and of Customer Service award and Being a good corporate reviews the key CR issues and appropriate customer due diligence: through this are focussing on citizen and a respected agrees the annual corporate We protect the young and the tangible improvements to the neighbour in our communities.
vulnerable through, for example, way we treat our customers.
24 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front 19 3 08 11:52 Page 25 Diverse and motivated impact from the rising costs of workforce utilities.
We have ongoing As our business becomes more programmes in place to address sophisticated and technology these issues, including minimising driven, we need to ensure that we our consumption of energy and use sustain a high level of competence of resources.
across the business and increase our capacity to respond to Supporting our communities changing market needs.
We are We strive to be a good corporate an Investor in People and as citizen and a valued member of such Ladbrokes provides clear the communities in which we opportunities for development operate.
We recognise the links and progression.
We recognise our employees have to their own that our employees represent a communities and through Ladbrokes centre of excellence for the industry in the Community Charitable Trust one which we wish to maintain.
LICCT we support their activities A key part of our human resources by giving something back.
strategy is to be a modern, LICCT has raised over attractive and fair employer and 3.5 million for good causes to value and recognise employee since it was established in 2003. loyalty.
We work hard to The funds have been raised by understand the needs and employees all around the country.
expectations of our employees, During 2007 LICCT donated over most specifically through our UK 938,000 to charitable and comStaff Council.
All of which helps to munity causes across the UK.
maintain high levels of employee To mark the start of the year, satisfaction and minimise turnover.
25,000 was given to each of four major charities: Guide Dogs Suppliers and for the Blind, Dreams Come True, business partners The Samaritans and the Army We have a responsibility to assess Benevolent Fund.
the social, ethical and environmental risks associated with our business Engaging with investors partnerships, joint ventures and Our ongoing programme of investor product sourcing.
This year we have engagement helps us understand developed a new framework for financial sector expectations.
responsible procurement and Some our major shareholders have updated our responsible sourcing stated policies on CR and Socially policy.
Over the coming year we Responsible Investment SRI will review our due diligence criteria e. g. Morley, Jupiter Asset for investment decisions regarding Management, Barclays Global the locations and parties that we Investors and Fidelity, and we take do business with.
account of these when developing our CR strategy.
We take particular Health, safety and security care to remain in FTSE4Good We aim for best practice health and the Dow Jones Sustainability and safety standards throughout World and STOXX indices, which all our operations and we support enhances both the diversity a proactive culture of risk of our shareholding and our management.
Our health and corporate reputation.
safety record in 2007 was good.
We had no fatalities or major Full CR report injuries across our business and For further details of our CR policies following 163 Health and Safety and performance, please refer inspector visits in the UK alone, to our 2007 CR Report which there were no enforcement notices breaches of security on our and seek to minimise the financial is available on the Companys or notified non-compliances.
premises, such as robbery and impacts of health and safety related website, www.
Furthermore we had no Further information on our theft.
We have invested heavily in claims from across our business.
prosecutions or convictions CCTV across all of our retail estate, approach to responsible business for health and safety offences.
both to help reduce the number Environmental issues i. e. risk management and corporate One of the important risks to of incidents and to help protect We have reviewed the issues governance is also included in the health of our employees and employees and customers.
associated with climate change and the Directors Report on page 36 our customers comes from of this Annual Report.
In addition, we carefully monitor have been assessing the potential Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front 19 3 08 11:52 Page 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS SNAPSHOT: LADBROKES TV ADVERTISING CAMPAIGN, OCTOBER 2007 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Front 19 3 08 11:52 Page 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27
