MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 MARSTONS BUSINESS REVIEW The Business Review incorporates those sections of the Annual Report which, in previous years, were included in the Chief Executives Review and the Financial Review.
OVERVIEW OF RESULTS and leased pubs forming Marstons Pub Company and the We have achieved these good results in a challenging brewing, marketing and distribution of our beers undertaken environment, which included the introduction of a smoking by Marstons Beer Company.
Central services are provided ban in Wales on 2 April 2007 and in England on 1 July 2007. by Marstons Group Services.
Each division is independently We completed, in advance of the ban, a well planned 20 managed and has its own board of divisional directors.
million investment programme in over 90% of our pubs Marstons Inns and Taverns manage 550 pubs spread which have outside trading areas, contributing to the throughout England and Wales.
409 pubs are community or robust performance of our managed and tenanted pubs.
neighbourhood pubs with a strong local customer base and Additionally, around 150 pubs were signi cantly affected 141 pubs are high street outlets.
Our principal retail formats by ooding in June and July which either resulted in pub in our community estate are Marstons Tavern Table 31 closure or prevented customers from visiting.
The weather pubs and Marstons Two For One 61 pubs.
On the high in May, June and July was unseasonably wet, particularly street, our brands are Pitcher & Piano 26 bars and Que so in comparison to the previous year which bene ted from Pasa 20 bars.
good summer weather and the 2006 football World Cup.
Marstons Pub Company operates 1,722 pubs across Turnover increased by 9.6% to 652.8 million 2006: England and Wales, but with a concentration in the midlands 595.5 million including the acquisitions of Sovereign Inns, and the north of England as a consequence of historical Eldridge Pope and Ringwood Brewery.
Over half of the estate is leased on longer Underlying operating margin was 25.0% 2006: 25.6%.
term agreements, with the remainder let on agreements with This good performance was achieved, despite signi cant terms of up to 5 years.
Tenants and lessees pay a rent which cost and legislative pressures, by maximising synergies from is based upon the trading potential of the pub and which acquisitions, transferring smaller managed pubs to tenancy re ects the fact that they are usually required to buy at least and maintaining good cost control.
draught and bottled beers from Marstons.
Pro t before tax and exceptional items was 98.0 million Marstons Beer Company operates breweries in 2006: 101.5 million re ecting increased interest costs Wolverhampton, Burton upon Trent, Cockermouth and associated with the share buy-back programme described in Ringwood producing a range of traditional ales including the Chairmans Statement.
This was slightly below our original Marstons Pedigree, Bankss and Mans eld beers, expectations due to the impact of higher interest rates, ood Jennings Cumberland Ale and Ringwood Best Bitter.
related repair costs and the poor summer weather.
Underlying basic earnings per share before exceptional STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES items increased by 10.1% to 26.2 pence per share re ecting Marstons strategy is to exploit the existing skills we have the bene t of a lower underlying tax charge of 21.0% 2006: in each area of our business and the vertically integrated 27.8% as described in the Financial Review.
business model to achieve superior return on capital.
Our key objective is to create shareholder value but we also BUSINESS DESCRIPTION recognise that we have responsibilities to a range of Marstons is a divisionalised business, with our managed stakeholders including local communities, suppliers, pubs forming Marstons Inns and Taverns, our tenanted customers and employees.
06 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-16 6 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-16 6 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 10 12 07 16:30:26 10 12 07 16:30:26 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The key operational and financial elements of our strategy Transferring managed pubs to tenancy or lease are as follows: As costs have risen and legislation has become more complex the turnover threshold for pubs to be economically 1.
Target growth through the development of a viable as managed outlets has steadily increased.
By national, high quality pub estate transferring pubs to tenancy or lease it is possible to reduce In recent years the pub sector has seen considerable costs and bene t from the operational exibility of operating consolidation driven by a number of factors: rising costs, both managed and tenanted pubs.
Since 1999, we have more burdensome legislation, low interest rates and a transferred around 600 smaller managed pubs to tenancy, mature industry pro le.
Marstons is an active participant in this consolidation process.
Acquisitions have enabled us to increase the quality Disposals of our pub estate, reduce costs and extend our trading The disposal of pubs which no longer meet our criteria has geography.
Recent acquisitions have included: also contributed to an improvement in the quality of our Year Company Consideration Pubs Geography Business 2004 Wizard Inns 91m 63 south-east managed 2005 Burtonwood 168m 460 north-west tenanted 2005 Jennings 73m 128 north-west tenanted and brewing 2005 English Country Inns 13m 14 midlands managed 2006 Celtic Inns 43m 63 Wales tenanted 2006 Bluu 6m 4 national managed 2007 Sovereign Inns 20m 33 midlands tenanted 2007 Eldridge Pope 156m 153 south-west managed and tenanted 2007 Ringwood Brewery 18m 7 south-west tenanted and brewing Growth in managed pubs estate.
The 13% increase in average EBITDA per pub in Marstons Inns & Taverns is a leading developer of new build our tenanted estate re ects in part the impact of the pubs.
These are mainly disposal of 279 pubs to aAim Group in May 2007. freehold community pubs on new housing developments and have a strong emphasis on food through operating 2.
Develop greater food skills and extend our appeal formats such as Marstons Tavern Table, Marstons Two to families, females and more mature customers For One and Marstons Taverners Carvery.
In recent years we have been successful in gaining market We also buy sites for the development of Pitcher & share in casual dining, demonstrated by strong like-for-like Piano bars or Bluu, a high street bar-restaurant format sales growth.
The proportion of retail sales in Marstons Inns acquired in 2006.
Openings in 2007 included Pitcher & & Taverns represented by food sales is now 34%, compared Piano bars in Brighton, Worcester and Derby.
We anticipate to 27% in 2003. opening 20 new managed pubs in the financial period to The trends in this market are attractive, with growth September 2008. in expenditure on eating outside the home.
Our market share gains are the result of consistent investment in pubs, Growth in tenanted pubs creation of better and more interesting menus, and the offer Marstons Pub Company has grown signi cantly in recent of outstanding value for money to customers in a traditional years, both through acquisition and the transfer of smaller pub environment.
During 2007, in addition to Pub usage is also increasing amongst families, females acquiring Sovereign Inns and the Eldridge Pope tenanted and more mature customers.
We have bene ted from this estate, we acquired 20 individual trading pubs at a cost trend by upgrading our pubs, consistently improving our of 17 million.
wines and spirits offers, targeting promotions and marketing and developing our menus.
Recruit skilled tenants and lessees better able and we have our own internal modular development course, to compete in a developing market the Pedigree People Programme, designed to develop Recruiting good quality licensees is vital to the success all-round business skills.
In order to ensure that we are able to continue to do so, our approach is one of 4.
Increase distribution of our ale brands Sustainable Growth and Uncompromising Standards.
The beer market in the UK is mature and in recent years In practice this means providing more support for tenants, has declined in volume by around 2-3% each year.
The placing more emphasis on training and investing more in lager market has consistently outperformed the ale market pub standards.
which has declined in volume by around 4-5% each year.
The introduction of longer term lease agreements in The increasing focus by some of our competitors on lager 2003 has increased our ability to attract better licensees.
brands has exacerbated this trend.
These agreements are typically for 21 years and are Brewing margins have also declined over time as a assignable, enabling licensees to realise value for consequence of the growing importance of large pub goodwill they have generated.
companies and take-home retailers who bene t from We are committed to ensuring that licensees are properly purchasing economies of scale.
informed before they join Marstons Pub Company.
This year we achieved accreditation from the British Institute Recognising these trends, our strategy is: of Innkeeping BII for the standard of our disclosure of information to prospective licensees.
To focus on premium cask ale brands with We insist on the use of plain English in our agreements.
Last year, Marstons We commit not to use upward-only rent clauses and have Pedigree increased volume by 6% and Jennings introduced a wide range of initiatives: a three month cooling Cumberland Ale by 30%.
The acquisition of Ringwood off period for tenants, open-book accounting, a requirement Brewery in Hampshire in July 2007 was consistent for tenants to set aside repair funds, online ordering through with this strategy.
My Marstons Online and a mandatory training programme for tenants.
To focus on extending our trading geography Tenant and lessee seminars are held across the country through free trade distribution.
The acquisitions of and are designed to provide development advice to tenants Eldridge Pope and Ringwood Brewery included free trade on a wide range of subjects from food development to sales teams and distribution in the south of England.
compliance, together with the interpretation of legislation.
These seminars complement other resources available To capitalise on our strong emphasis on beer quality.
including web-based information, DVD based business Marstons Beer Company invests in Beer Quality tools and an in-house magazine Bar Runner.
Technicians whose role is to advise on beer keeping and beer quality.
In 2005 we introduced Cask Force an The role of Business Development Managers annual competition for tenants, free trade customers and The relationship between Business Development Managers tenants of other pub companies who stock our cask beers.
and licensees is also important.
We limit carefully the number Now in its third year, the competition attracted approximately of pubs for which each manager has responsibility to around 2,500 customers in 2007.
Winners are rewarded with free 50 pubs in order to improve communication with licensees.
cellar training and the potential to win the value of their Each of our Business Development Managers has been annual rent.
trained using the BII course Pro table Business Portfolio THE PROPORTION OF RETAIL SALES IN MARSTONS INNS & TAVERNS REPRESENTED BY FOOD SALES IS NOW 34%, COMPARED TO 27% IN 2003.
Marstons Beer Company invests In addition, we believe that vertical integration confers clear around 5 million per year: bene ts to Marstons: a.
Advertising campaigns for Marstons Pedigree a.
Economies of scale: we distribute a range of drinks brands emphasise our Uncompromising approach to quality.
to over 4,000 pubs and clubs, including our own pubs and around 2,000 free trade customers.
b. Marstons Pedigree is The Of cial Beer of England Cricket.
Marstons sponsored Skys coverage of b.
Lower costs: we brew our own ales and control our own the Cricket World Cup in the West Indies and the supply chain providing greater control of costs and a more World Twenty20 tournament in South Africa.
We have exible service to our customers.
commercial arrangements with county cricket teams including Surrey The Of cial Beer of The Oval, Middlesex c. Greater potential for creating value: when considering The Of cial Beer of Lords, Derbyshire, Durham, acquisitions we take into account the bene t of increased Gloucestershire, Warwickshire, Worcestershire distribution of our own beer brands.
c. Bankss sponsors Walsall FC The Bankss Stadium, 6.
Match freehold assets with long term xed and focuses other sponsorship activity on local radio and rate nancing local music.
An important feature of our pub estate is that 98% by value of our pubs are owned on a freehold or long leasehold basis, d. Jennings - The Genuine Taste of the Lake District as we believe that this is the most effective way of ensuring - sponsors the Keswick Jazz Festival, The Lowther Show and that we have suf cient operational exibility to maximise supports The Outdoor Show at the National Exhibition Centre the trading potential of each outlet.
This exibility includes in Birmingham.
being able to invest appropriately in response to changes in customer preferences or to better utilise land and buildings to maximise trading potential.
Create greater value for shareholders through term, shareholders have also bene ted from signi cant vertical integration capital appreciation.
Marstons Beer Company generated approximately Our accounting policy is to revalue our properties on a 25.3 million of EBITDA in 2007 from approximately regular basis so that the carrying value does not differ 120 million of capital employed representing a signi cantly from fair values at each balance sheet date.
cash return on capital of 21%.
Historically, the cash ow from well-invested community or neighbourhood pubs such as ours has been relatively stable.
The combination of predictable cash ow and the 09 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-19 9 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-19 9 10 12 07 16:30:43 10 12 07 16:30:43 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 substantially freehold nature of our estate can be used pub each week.
Historically, pub visits were predominantly effectively to support long term secured debt at relatively by men and pub offers were signi cantly drinks-led.
Following the re nancing we announced on However this is changing, with pubs now appealing to a 19 November 2007, approximately 85% of our pubs are broader cross-section of people.
Our greater focus on part of a securitisation structure.
making pubs more attractive to a wider consumer audience, In addition to this securitised debt we have interest rate and speci cally to families, females and more mature swaps in place such that all of our debt is at effectively xed customers, re ects these changes.
Around 29% of women rates of interest with a blended rate of approximately 6.1% now visit the pub at least once a month and around 13% post the recent re nancing.
of pub visits now include families, with visits by both of In matching freehold assets with long term nancing, we these customer groups increasing.
have set a target range for interest cover of between 2.25 to 2.75 times.
Interest cover for the year just ended was 2.5 2.
Eating out is becoming the reason for more times, re ecting the return of 120 million to shareholders people visiting pubs and acquisitions made during the year.
We will continue to The eating out market is estimated to be in real growth with ensure that the balance sheet is ef ciently nanced having expenditure on food and drink products now greater outside regard to the strong underlying cash ow of the business.
the home than at home Source: National Statistics Of ce.
Recent developments in property nancing such as Real 26% of pub visits now include the consumption of a meal.
Estate Investment Trusts REITs and structures which involve The pub sector has increased its share of this market in the disposal of property assets have focused attention on recent years through investment in pubs, development of the underlying attractions of freehold pub estates.
We do more interesting menus, higher service standards and not currently believe that the potential bene ts of these offers that are good value for money.
structures outweigh the implementation costs or their Food sales now represent 34% of sales in Marstons Inns increased risk, but will nevertheless continue to review and Taverns, with strong like-for-like sales growth in recent the situation as the market develops.
Our investment plans re ect the growing importance of food and we anticipate that food sales will be 40% of total THE MARKET sales in the next 3-5 years.
In developing our strategy we have recognised a number of important long-term trends which will continue to in uence 3.
Wines and spirit sales are showing strong growth the pub market for the foreseeable future.
These trends are, Over the last 5 years Marstons sales of wines and spirits in our view, likely to be accelerated by the introduction of the have increased by over 70%, and in the UK pub sector as smoking ban and by wider social and demographic changes a whole they increased by 20%.
This increase re ects the in the population as a whole.
growth of eating out in pubs and the steps taken to improve the range and choice of wines and spirits offered to pub 1.
More people are visiting pubs but usage is visitors.
More people are consuming wine as an alternative becoming less regular to other alcoholic drinks, with around 66% of ale drinkers Visiting the pub is an important element of socialising for also drinking wine.
many people, with around 40% of adults estimated to visit a Source: TNS AlcoVision 10 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-110 10 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-110 10 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 10 12 07 16:30:50 10 12 07 16:30:50 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 THE ACQUISITIONS OF ELDRIDGE POPE AND RINGWOOD BREWERY EXTEND OUR TRADING GEOGRAPHY IN THE SOUTH OF ENGLAND 4.
There is an increasing price disparity between whom dining is the primary reason for visiting the pub.
supermarkets and pubs This growth in food sales has been achieved through The importance of offering a broader experience for pub consistent investment in upgrading pubs, menu development visitors is highlighted by the increasing price differential with a greater emphasis on local sourcing, healthy eating between beer sold in pubs and beer sold in the off trade, and focused promotional activity targeted on families and estimated to be a difference of around 1.50 per pint for a more mature customer base.
premium lager Source: A C Nielsen July August 2007.
The development of a number of operating formats which Marstons Inns and Taverns has long recognised this are appropriate for different markets has also contributed to trend and has sought to make pubs more attractive through this strong performance.
Our community food-led formats investment and reduce its reliance on draught beer products.
include Marstons Tavern Table and Marstons Two for One.
Marstons Pub Company has similarly reduced its reliance These formats offer excellent value for money in modern, well on drinks through a regular programme of estate churn which invested pubs and in each case food sales are over 50% of has resulted in the disposal of over 1,000 pubs since 2000. total retail sales.
Food sales are also important for our high Marstons Beer Company has focused increasingly street brands, Pitcher & Piano, Que Pasa and Bluu, with on premium cask ale, a product category which is unique food sales representing between 15% and 30% of total to pubs and clubs and which offers greater scope for sales in those outlets.
In 2007, the volume of premium ale sold Like-for-like wet sales increased by 0.6% against strong by Marstons Beer Company increased by 9%.
comparatives which included the bene ts of a good summer and the 2006 football World Cup.
This growth DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL is a consequence of the introduction of a range of initiatives YEAR ENDED 29 SEPTEMBER 2007 including investment in glycol cooling within our managed pubs, enabling draught beers to be served consistently 1.
Marstons Inns & Taverns at a lower temperature, thus meeting increased consumer Total turnover increased by 11.2% to 367.8 million 2006: demand for colder beers.
We also introduced a formal guest 330.7 million.
Underlying operating pro t increased by ale policy, helping to increase premium ale volumes by 9% 5.0% to 66.7 million 2006: 63.5 million.
and we regularly update and improve our wines and spirits Like-for-like sales growth of 4.6% was achieved against offers, achieving volume growth of 9% in this category a challenging background including the introduction of during the year.
the smoking ban and poor summer weather which caused Underlying operating margin was 18.1% 2006: 19.2% serious ooding in June and July 2007, materially affecting re ecting the acquisition of Eldridge Pope and the timing of around 50 managed pubs.
Price increases during the This was nevertheless a good performance, helped year were broadly in ationary, with cost increases from the signi cantly by like-for-like food sales growth of 13.3%.
6% rise in the minimum wage in October 2006 and higher Marstons Inns & Taverns has captured market share of the energy prices.
These cost increases were offset by retail casual dining market over a 5 year period and has increased price increases and the removal of SkyTV from nearly food sales from 27% of retail turnover in 2003 to 34% 100 pubs.
Including associated drinks sales, we estimate The Eldridge Pope pub estate of 153 pubs, including 40 that 65% of total sales are now made to customers for tenancies, has performed in line with expectations and the 11 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-111 11 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-111 11 10 12 07 16:30:56 10 12 07 16:30:56 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 integration process is complete.
Of 18 pubs earmarked for share of gaming machine income.
disposal at the date of acquisition, 12 have been or are in Of our 1,722 tenanted or leased pubs, over 50% are the process of being sold.
Opportunities for the extension of leased on long term agreements with five year rent review branded high street bars were also identi ed.
The remainder are let on shorter term agreements Marstons unbranded pubs have been converted to Que with typically three year rent review periods.
The underlying Pasa, with further conversions planned in 2008. rate of rental increases, including the effect of rent reviews Marstons Inns & Taverns strategy of investment in new was approximately 3%.
build pubs is the principal driver of organic growth in the During the year income from gaming machines fell by 2.4%, division.
We aim to open 20 new pubs per year, having in uenced in the second half-year by the introduction of the achieved 19 openings in 2007.
All new community pubs smoking ban.
The experience of pub operators in Scotland have Marstons branding and are located in areas of was that the smoking ban had a disproportionate effect signi cant residential development.
The majority have a on gaming machine income and this decline was therefore food sales mix of 50-60%, and so we anticipate that the expected.
The majority of our agreements are on the basis current food sales mix of 34% will rise to around 40% by of a 50% share of machine income after rent payable on 2010 provided the current rate of development is maintained.
An important element of our emphasis on high levels of Other than the disposal of 279 pubs in May 2007 changes customer service in our pubs is training.
Marstons Inns to the estate included the acquisition of 33 freehold pubs & Taverns runs a full range of structured induction and trading as Sovereign Inns in January 2007 and 40 tenanted development programmes for staff and licensees and pubs within the Eldridge Pope estate.
Additionally, 27 bene ts from a dedicated in-house training centre.
pubs were acquired during the remainder of the year including seven acquired with Ringwood Brewery and 2.
Marstons Pub Company four from The Rutland Pub Company.
The Hourglass in Total turnover increased by 12.4% to 200.9 million 2006: Devizes was opened in August 2007 and is Marstons 178.8 million.
Underlying operating pro t increased by Pub Companys first new build tenanted pub.
In addition to the recruitment of good tenants and lessees These results were achieved against a challenging the quality of pubs in the estate is a key factor behind our background including the introduction of the smoking strong performance.
We invested 48.5 million, including ban and poor summer weather, with around 100 tenanted 118 major refurbishment schemes, much of that investment pubs seriously affected by ooding.
being targeted at providing tenants with more opportunities Operating margin increased by 0.3% to 45.2% 2006: to develop or extend their food offers.
Average EBITDA per pub increased by around Pub Company around 80% of our pubs have a meaningful 13% to approximately 65,000 per pub demonstrating food offer.
the improving quality of the estate.
This increase re ects Marstons Pub Company has supported tenants in a underlying growth of around 3% and the effect of the number of ways during this challenging year.
Tenants and disposal of 279 pubs to aAim Group in May 2007. lessees of the 100 pubs severely affected by ooding Income is made up of rent charged to tenants or lessees, experienced signi cant disruption, although insurance the margin made on supplying a range of drinks products cover for ood damage and loss of business has offset - principally beer, stouts, cider, wines and spirits - and our these losses substantially.
The recent acquisition of Ringwood We also supported tenants by investing in pub gardens, Brewery and the completion of new three year supply patios and shelters ahead of the introduction of the agreements for Fosters, Carling and Carlsberg, offers smoking ban, with around 10 million invested in customers more choice than ever before.
Operating margin decreased by 0.2% to 20.7% re ecting increased investment in marketing, particularly in Marstons 3.
Marstons Beer Company Pedigree, and higher energy costs.
Total turnover was 84.1 million 2006: 86.0 million.
Cost increases expected during 2008 include a signi cant Underlying operating pro t was 17.4 million 2006: increase in the price of malted barley, which will result in a 18.0 million.
cost increase of approximately 1 million per annum.
This There are two speci c areas where we have lost increase will be partly offset by the bene cial terms of the business.
Firstly, as a consequence of the acquisition of new lager contracts which have been renegotiated recently.
Pyramid Inns by Admiral Taverns in 2006, Marstons Beer Company is no longer the principal supplier to the former CURRENT TRADING Pyramid pubs.
Secondly, we have reduced the level of trade Trading overall in the 8 weeks to 24 November 2007 has we have with third party wholesalers to protect margins and been in line with expectations.
Like-for-like sales in Marstons improve control over assets, principally containers.
These Inns and Taverns were 2.1% ahead of last year, including events will continue to impact upon turnover until March like-for-like growth in food sales of 9.1%.
This growth was 2008, although the pro t impact is minimal.
achieved against strong comparatives last year with reported Our own core brands performed strongly and ahead of like-for-like sales growth of 9.1% for the same period last the market, with volumes up by over 6% overall.
Trading in Marstons Pub Company and Marstons market declined by around 5% last year, consistent with long Beer Company has been satisfactory.
established trends which we expect to continue.
Against this Since the introduction of the smoking ban, trends which trend, our premium ale brands have continued to show strong were previously in evidence before the ban have continued.
growth, with Marstons Pedigree up by 6% and Jennings Investments made in external trading areas, ahead of the Cumberland Ale up by 30%.
Ringwood Brewery, acquired introduction of the smoking ban and the continuing in July 2007, also performed well.
Our own brands market development of our food offers have contributed to our share of the premium cask ale market is now over 20%.
performance in the new financial year.
This strong volume performance is linked not only to We remain cautious about consumer con dence, regulatory acquisitions made during the year, in particular Eldridge cost pressures and the short term impact of the smoking Pope, but also to our association with cricket.
We are, however, well positioned to continue to exploit Of cial Beer of England, and the subsequent sponsorship current trends, including the continuing growth in casual of Skys coverage of international cricket events, has dining.
We regard our value for money offers and mid-market signi cantly raised the pro le of Marstons beer brands.
position as appropriate for the current economic climate.
We have also bene ted from our continued focus on good In summary, each trading division has made good progress quality regional cask ales with positive imagery, particularly and is adapting well to the changing market.
13 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-113 13 14474 Martsons Front Section 1-113 13 10 12 07 16:31:05 10 12 07 16:31:05 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 GROUP TURNOVER INCREASED BY 9.6% TO 652.8 MILLION, AS A RESULT OF STRONG LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES AND THE BENEFIT OF ACQUISITIONS.
Underlying earnings per share is basic earnings per acquisitions.
Underlying operating profit increased by 7.2% share before exceptional items.
to 163.2 million and underlying earnings per share 2.
Like-for-like sales growth is the percentage change in increased by 10.1% to 26.2 pence per share.
turnover from all managed pubs owned by Marstons for Operating profit after exceptional items was 160.7 million, the whole of the current period under review and the up 5.5% on the prior year, and underlying basic earnings per prior comparative period.
share after exceptional items was 27.9 pence per share, 3.
New site openings are the number of managed pubs up 17.2% on the prior year.
opened either as new build pubs, or acquired and refurbished managed pubs in the period under review.
Average profit per pub is average earnings per pub The Board of Marstons PLC and the divisional management before interest and depreciation EBITDA for those boards monitor a range of financial and non-financial pubs which have traded for 12 months in the period performance indicators, reported on a periodic basis, to under review.
measure performance against expected targets.
Of these, the key performance indicators monitored by the Board are: Dividend The proposed final dividend of 8.47 pence per share gives a total dividend for the year of 12.83 pence per share, an increase of 20% on the prior year.
Dividend cover at the 2007 2006 year end is 2.0 times 2006: 2.2 times.
Underlying earnings per share 26.2p 23.8p Acquisitions Marstons Inns & Taverns Eldridge Pope was acquired on 25 January 2007 for 156.5 2.
Like-for-like sales growth 4.6% 2.4% million, comprising consideration of 84.5 million for the 3.
New site openings 19 12 equity and net debt acquired of 72.0 million.
The Eldridge Pope properties were valued independently at 129.6 million.
Average profit per pub Goodwill arising on the acquisition was 58.3 million note 32.
In the current financial year the Eldridge Pope acquisition 4.
Marstons Inns & Taverns 206k 202k has been broadly profit neutral and we forecast that it will 5.
Marstons Pub Company 65k 57k be earnings enhancing thereafter.
The integration has been completed successfully and the Group is currently realising synergies of 4.6 million per annum, as anticipated.
14 14474Martsons Front Section AW 12 2 14474Martsons Front Section AW 12 2 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 10 12 07 16:33:13 10 12 07 16:33:13 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Sovereign Inns was acquired on 16 January 2007 for announced commitment to 150 million of share buy-backs 19.6 million, comprising consideration of 14.3 million in this calendar year.
for the equity and net debt acquired of 5.3 million.
The Sovereign Inns properties were independently valued at Financing 19.1 million.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition was Net debt increased to 1,189.1 million at 29 September 4.8 million note 33.
2007, compared to 893.7 million at 30 September The Ringwood Brewery, including seven freehold pubs, 2006.
This increase is principally as a result of the three was acquired on 12 July 2007 for 17.8 million, comprising acquisitions and the ongoing share buy-backs referred consideration of 19.9 million for the equity and net cash to above.
The acquired properties were For the year ended 29 September 2007 the ratio of net independently valued at 9.9 million.
Goodwill arising debt to EBITDA was 5.8 times and interest cover 2.5 times.
on the acquisition was 6.3 million note 34.
Net finance costs before exceptional items have increased by 14.4 million compared to the prior year, primarily as a result Disposals of the increased net debt but also as a consequence As part of our overall strategy to continually improve the of higher short term interest rates during the year.
quality of our estate, on 10 May 2007 we sold 279 tenanted Since the year end we have taken advantage of more pubs to Piccadilly Licensed Properties Limited, a company attractive long term interest rates to x the cost of all of owned and controlled by aAim Group, for a cash consideration our bank debt using interest rate swaps.
The pubs had an asset value of 81.1 million and generated annual EBITDA of 7.5 million.
Post balance sheet event debt renancing We announced on 19 November 2007 the terms of a 330 Capital expenditure million tap of our securitisation backed by the transfer of As well as improving the overall quality of our estate through 437 freehold and long leasehold tenanted pubs from the the aggressive churning of our portfolio, we continue to non-securitised estate to the securitised estate.
The invest significant amounts of capital expenditure to ensure transaction completed on 22 November 2007.
The net we maintain a pub estate of the highest quality.
Total capital funds raised were used to repay existing bank facilities.
Our expenditure for the Group was 146.3 million and included strong credit prole and the high quality of our pub estate 48.5 million spent in Marstons Pub Company and 37.4 ensured we achieved a very competitive cost of nancing million spent in Marstons Inns and Taverns, in addition to and also increased the financial and operational exibility of 46.0 million spent on purchasing new pubs and new the Group.
At the same time, we maintained 400 million of site developments.
the existing bank facilities, resulting in available bank facility headroom of 250 million at 22 November 2007.
Share buy-backs Following this renancing, all of our borrowings are at During the year the Group purchased 28.1 million Marstons effectively xed rates of interest with a blended cost of debt shares at a total cost of around 120 million.
we expect to complete the remainder of the previously 15 14474Martsons Front Section AW 13 3 14474Martsons Front Section AW 13 3 10 12 07 16:33:19 10 12 07 16:33:19 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Treasury, risk and internal controls intended to eliminate the Marstons PLC Scheme funding The Group regularly reviews its forecast short term and deficit by 2014, will increase to 10 million per annum as a medium term cash ows, and excess cash is either placed result of an agreement with the pension trustees in relation on short term deposit or invested in deposits which are to the renancing announced on 19 November 2007 and the refundable on demand.
merger of The Eldridge Pope Pension Scheme.
All of the Groups borrowings are now xed through a The deficit on our final salary pension scheme reduced to combination of xed rate securitised debt and interest rate 38.6 million before tax 2006: 53.1 million, and 27.8 swaps.
The financial risks faced by the Group are managed million after tax 2006: 37.2 million.
in accordance with Board approved policies and are subject to regular internal review.
Estate revaluation The banking and securitisation covenants are reviewed During this financial year around 2,000 pubs have been throughout the year as part of the internal reporting process revalued principally as a consequence of the renancing with a focus on ensuring appropriate headroom is available.
This has resulted in a net gain of 162 Every six months the financial position of the Group in million an after tax gain of 117 million after accounting for respect of the securitisation covenants is reported externally the associated deferred tax which is equivalent to an to financial institutions and made available on the Groups average increase of approximately 12% compared to book website www.
The majority of these pubs were last revalued in all securitised covenants is managed and regularly reviewed 2005.
This uplift in valuations demonstrates the continued by the treasury, risk and internal audit function.
benefit we accrue from the ownership of a predominantly We have an ongoing programme to identify key operational freehold estate.
and financial risks across the Group and, where possible, to mitigate the potential impact of those risks.
This programme Share split is managed by the treasury, risk and internal audit function.
The Group completed a 4-for-1 share split on 9 January 2007.
Historic earnings per share have been restated to Pensions reect the split note 9.
The Eldridge Pope Pension Scheme was merged with the Marstons PLC Pension and Life Assurance Scheme on 7 Taxation September 2007.
An additional contribution of 11.3 million The underlying rate of taxation before exceptional items has been made to the Marstons PLC Scheme since the has reduced to 21.0% from 27.8% in 2006.
This is due year end as a consequence of the different funding levels of principally to a deferred tax credit in respect of properties, the schemes at the time of merger.
The previously disclosed mainly due to indexation allowances, and the favourable schedule of top-up contributions of 7.2 million per annum, agreement of certain prior year tax issues.
16 14474Martsons Front Section AW 14 4 14474Martsons Front Section AW 14 4 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 10 12 07 16:33:21 10 12 07 16:33:21 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 The benefit of the basic rate of corporation tax falling from proportion of families, females and more mature customers.
30% to 28% and changes to the capital allowances regime Marstons follows a thorough information gathering process have resulted in a reduction in the deferred tax provision of to gain a good understanding of sales trends both at a 7.2 million.
This has been accounted for as a one-off macro level and in individual outlets, comprising managed exceptional item which, together with 1.0 million of tax or tenanted pubs and free trade accounts.
This information relief on exceptional costs, has resulted in an exceptional is regularly monitored to support the development of our tax credit of 8.2 million.
In particular, Marstons Inns and Taverns uses electronic Exceptional items point of sale EPOS systems to provide detailed information There is a net exceptional credit of 4.9 million after tax, which is used to understand trading patterns and comprising the 8.2 million tax credit referred to above, manage margins.
offset by 3.3 million of costs in relation to the acquisition We also review trade market research and work with of Eldridge Pope.
suppliers to identify new opportunities.
The quality, organisation and training of our staff are PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES critical in understanding and responding to market changes.
Marstons employs a range of controls to manage risks to By engaging with our customers, a ground level awareness of within an acceptable level of tolerance.
It is recognised that consumer preference is communicated throughout the Group a detailed understanding of the principal risks faced at a from pub staff and managers, through the network of area strategic business unit level is essential for the Groups managers, to divisional management.
The thorough approach to risk management is valued by Marstons as an additional means 2.
Economic risk of developing competitive advantage.
The Board and the The leisure sector in which Marstons operates is sensitive Audit Committee have a shared understanding of the principal to economic conditions within the UK.
The health of the risks while our risk management programme, described in the economy is important to the Groups success.
A significant Corporate Governance Report, ensures that the awareness downturn in consumer spending would present a risk to the of risk is constantly promoted within the Group.
The following is a list of the principal risks and uncertainties Marstons has focused upon providing value for money faced by Marstons.
This is not a comprehensive list of all for the consumer, which in turn provides a level of defence significant risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
against a downturn in consumer confidence or expenditure.
Furthermore, by their very nature, the key risks associated In addition, as previously explained, Marstons has a robust with our strategic objectives can change over time.
information gathering process aimed at detecting changes in The potential threats posed by risks are mitigated where consumer behaviour, including those inuenced by economic possible to reduce the likelihood and impact of occurrence.
This allows Marstons to react quickly to changing The effectiveness of the internal control environment in circumstances in order to provide the most appropriate and mitigating these risks is regularly reviewed by management competitive consumer offers.
Additionally, the wide geowith the assistance of Internal Audit and reported to the graphical spread of Marstons business reduces the effect of Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the risks local economic conditions on trade.
to gain assurance that the Group has adopted the most appropriate response and that the assessment of the risk 3.
Risks due to seasonal factors and adverse weather is within a range that the Board deems acceptable.
Trade in pubs is sensitive to seasonal factors and the weather.
Trade is generally higher during traditional holiday periods 1.
Risk of misunderstanding consumer behaviour and in particular during Christmas, New Year, Easter and in a highly competitive market Bank Holidays.
Trade is also higher over the summer months Marstons operates in a very competitive environment that than at other times of the year.
evolves as a result of social and demographic changes and In summer, prolonged periods of good weather generally changes in consumer tastes.
have a positive impact on trade and in particular the use of The risk is that Marstons does not detect or react quickly pub gardens, whereas unseasonably wet or cold weather will to these changes or misinterprets them, thus losing have a negative impact.
In winter, prolonged periods of snow competitive advantage.
Marstons seeks to manage this risk or ice have a similar negative effect.
by understanding current trends in consumer behaviour Weather conditions can also in uence the demand for and by anticipating future trends, thus ensuring that our certain drinks categories, for example, demand for cold brands and offers meet consumer expectations.
An example draught products increases in hot weather.
of this is the scale and style of investment in pubs to Certain sporting events, particularly those relating to meet increasing demand for food and to attract a greater football such as the World Cup or European Championships, 17 14474Martsons Front Section AW 15 5 14474Martsons Front Section AW 15 5 10 12 07 16:33:25 10 12 07 16:33:25 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 MARSTONS HAS FOCUSED UPON PROVIDING VALUE FOR MONEY FOR THE CONSUMER.
are generally good for those pubs offering televised coverage.
Marstons Pedigree, Bankss and Jennings Cumberland Ale.
The success or otherwise of national teams can also have Branding is also important to Marstons Inns and Taverns, an impact.
particularly for Pitcher and Piano and the more recently Marstons investment in pubs is designed to reduce the acquired development brands such as Bluu and Que Pasa.
worst effects of the weather and achieve maximum benefit The Group therefore has many interfaces with the public from good weather, for example, by developing attractive where its reputation is potentially at risk.
The increasing outside drinking areas and gardens.
importance of food within our pubs also increases risk and requires a greater focus on health awareness and 4.
Acquisition risks compliance with food related legislation.
As explained on page 7 Marstons has an objective to develop Reputation is central to our business and essential to long the business both organically and by acquisition.
Growth by term success and Marstons strives constantly to strengthen acquisition presents a number of risks, including the risk that controls to reduce the impact of potential threats.
expected returns are overestimated, together with the risks A strong control environment designed to protect and associated with integration.
Integration risks include the enhance reputation and build on brand values requires a following: expected cost savings are not achieved, key consistent focus on maintaining the high quality of our employees are lost to the business, systems integrations products and services.
Quality within our breweries is are not effectively managed and focus on the acquired carefully monitored and audited by specially trained staff.
business is not maintained during the integration period.
Our major retail customers also carry out quality tests at There is a careful balance to be struck between taking our brewing sites to provide additional assurance on advantage of opportunities in the market as they appear, product standards.
Our pub managers, tenants and and ensuring that such acquisitions are an appropriate t free trade accounts are all supported by a team of Beer within the existing business, acquired at the right price Quality Technicians, who provide them with on-site beer and effectively integrated.
To mitigate these risks all signi cant purchases of property In all areas of our business the training of our staff is require Board approval.
The Board considers acquisitions in essential in protecting reputation.
In our managed pubs terms of their contribution to strategic objectives and against the training of staff is of the highest priority and Marstons agreed financial criteria.
Marstons has a rigorous due Inns and Taverns constantly seeks to increase the depth diligence process to gather information on potential of experience and responsibility of its staff.
An example purchases and identify any incompatibility.
Marstons of this is our Keyholder Programme which has been also has an experienced management team with a proven introduced in many of our managed pubs in order to record in integrating acquisitions of breweries, managed and safeguard the work life balance of our managers and tenanted pubs.
These factors signicantly improve the ability increase the level of responsibility amongst the other to achieve the targeted rates of return from acquisitions.
members of staff within their pubs.
Risk from the ban on smoking in public places In addition to the Marstons brand name the beer brands The ban on smoking in enclosed and substantially enclosed owned by the Group include some of the countrys best public places and working environments became law in known names in premium and standard ales, such as Wales on 2 April 2007 and in England on 1 July 2007.
18 14474Martsons Front Section AW 16 6 14474Martsons Front Section AW 16 6 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 10 12 07 16:33:30 10 12 07 16:33:30 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Following the ban there is a risk to turnover if smokers are not and purchasing.
For our commercial activities any protracted sufciently accommodated at our pubs.
This risk is believed periods of downtime could signicantly affect performance.
to be greatest in the first 12 months of the ban as Marstons The advanced nature of our IT systems means Marstons and our customers adapt.
At the same time the ban also benets from rapid communications, high processing speeds, represents an opportunity to attract new customers to the clear accountability, authorisation and data security.
The pub, to improve sales of food and coffee and to capitalise integrity and smooth operation of Marstons communication on improved outside areas.
systems is critical to the overall efficient management of our To mitigate the risk of the smoking ban Marstons has business.
There is a risk that serious disruption could result if been making preparations since 2005.
Experience in other the system failed for an extended period of time, backed up countries where the ban has been brought in earlier was information was lost or could not be recovered swiftly.
researched and a cross-divisional management group was In order to protect against these risks comprehensive set up in order to co-ordinate a Group-wide response.
As controls are in place to ensure that information is routinely a consequence, substantial investment in our managed backed up.
The arrangements for data recovery and the and tenanted pubs was achieved in advance of the ban.
physical protection of our data servers are regularly reviewed Marstons Inns and Taverns has invested signi cantly in and adapted to take advantage of new advances in technology.
outside trading areas mainly patios, all weather shelters, Marstons has internal targets for recovery times and invests awnings and gardens.
Marstons Pub Company has assisted in new server hardware to ensure that these targets remain tenants and lessees with investments in similar improvements.
The risk of disruption is reduced by investing in Support, guidance and financial assistance are also further data capacity as demand dictates and by developing provided to our free trade customers.
This area of our a technologically high level of protection.
To guard against trade is more exposed as Marstons has no direct control outside interference, penetration testing is regularly over these businesses.
performed to monitor the strength of protection provided The increasing importance of food in recent years, particularly by the Groups rewall and anti-virus systems.
in Marstons Inns and Taverns, also helps to mitigate this risk.
Marstons strategy in respect of food development is ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND USE OF described on page 7.
NATURAL RESOURCES Marstons produces an annual Environmental Report 7.
Risk from increased regulation which explains the Groups impact in terms of energy and Marstons operates within a framework of licensing legislation resource consumption, emissions and waste.
The 2007 which in the main is conducive to business.
The risk is that Environmental Report is available on the corporate the Government, local authorities or other government website www.
co. uk together with the Groups agencies could introduce measures which may adversely Environmental Policy Statement.
affect trade in response to political pressures, social or Our business, both pubs and breweries, impacts on the health concerns.
environment and local communities in a number of ways by: Marstons seeks to demonstrate a highly responsible approach to the consumption of alcohol to all its stakeholders Using raw materials and agricultural products including licensing authorities.
This approach is set out in the Using energy gas and electricity and water Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 22 of Emitting greenhouse gases, odours and noise this Annual Report.
Transportation, delivery and distribution of our products Marstons is a signatory to The Portman Groups Code and employees of Practice www.
The Code seeks Generating packaging which requires disposal to ensure that drinks are marketed in a socially responsible Production, disposal, collection and processing of our manner.
Our beers are produced in accordance with the waste solids and efuents Code which covers the naming of drinks, packaging, point of sale advertising, brand websites, sponsorship, branded Of these six areas we have identied that our largest merchandise, advertisements and sampling.
The Group also environmental impacts are in the areas of energy consumption, helps to fund The Drinkaware Trust, an independent UK-wide, water use and waste production and we have prioritised the public-facing body with the objective of changing public management of these accordingly.
behaviour to help reduce alcohol misuse and minimise alcohol-related harm.
Environmental data Similarly all of our managed pubs seek to comply with 3 Unit 2007 industry initiatives such as Challenge 21 which extend the Consumption usage Groups responsible approach beyond its strict legal obligations.
We also encourage licensees in our tenanted and Gas GWH 214.8 leased estate to support this initiative and have a network of Business Development Managers assisting them on a range Electricity GWH 96.3 of compliance matters.
We recently introduced a free 24 hour 1 3 Water breweries 000 M 672.4 legal helpline for licensees to call for expert advice.
2 Fossil fuel diesel 000 gallons 511.3 We have a dedicated compliance team that checks regularly for licensing issues with local authorities and other Emissions interested parties to help maintain good working relationships within the community.
Information technology IT risks The quantity of information and the high number of Notes transactions carried out by Marstons means that the efficiency 1.
Excluding Ringwood Brewery acquired in July 2007. of operations has become increasingly reliant on IT.
Company car fuel usage is not currently measured and is is particularly true for our managed pubs where our EPOS excluded from the calculation of carbon dioxide emissions and online ordering systems play a central role with regard and fuel usage.
The fuel gures shown are for the to price control, transaction recording, stock management distribution eet.
The environmental data shown above for 2007 is not future performance.
available in a comparable form for 2006.
The levels of waste produced by Marstons are described in the 2007 Environmental Report.
The majority of waste In the 2007 Environmental Report, Marstons explains its produced by the brewing process is recycled.
Some of the environmental impact in depth and publishes gures for waste from brewing such as malt and hops is recycled as energy consumption for the Group as well as emission animal feed whilst other waste such as glass, metal, volumes of carbon dioxide from fossil fuel consumption cardboard, paper and polythene is recycled through contractors.
electricity, gas and transport fuel distribution eet.
The only At present we recycle only a small proportion of the waste greenhouse gas directly produced by the brewing process produced in our pubs because of the practical difficulties in significant volume is carbon dioxide.
The report also sets involved in co-ordinating the collection of relatively small out the efficiency ratios achieved by our operations at each amounts of waste for recycling from a large number of brewing site in terms of carbon dioxide emitted per tonne sites.
However, we aim to decrease the amount of waste of product and water consumption per barrel of product.
going to landll over time and in 2008 we intend to review Our largest production sites at Wolverhampton and Burton our contractual arrangements, allowing us to identify upon Trent comply with the Integrated Pollution Prevention options to increase recycling from pubs and to develop and Control IPPC standards as regulated by the Environment quantitative targets.
The IPPC permit is issued by the Environment Agency once a year and allows the site to process, ferment and package beer and associated products.
The permit sets out the authorised emissions to the air and sewers and the controls expected to reduce any environmental impact.
The permit species the standards of management expected for: training maintenance of plant and equipment incidents and complaints efficient use of raw materials waste storage, handling, recovery and disposal energy efficiency noise and vibration levels monitoring, recording and reporting closure and decommissioning of plant and equipment The Environment Agency conducts an annual audit of the Marstons has appointed a dedicated Energy Manager in Wolverhampton and Burton breweries and will, if necessary, order to roll out EMS across our managed estate, to increase raise points of improvement which must be confirmed as the level of energy monitoring in the pubs, and set reduction completed by agreed dates.
targets and promote initiatives for energy reduction and As part of the brewing industrys climate change agreement efficiency in the head ofce.
Marstons is committed to reducing our emissions by increasing Marstons has an Environmental and Social Responsibility the efficiency of operations.
Our 2010 efficiency targets Committee chaired by the Managing Director of Marstons compared to 1999 levels are split between the breweries Pub Company which reviews Marstons approach to a range as follows: Wolverhampton brewery aims to increase its of corporate responsibility issues including the environment.
efficiency by 32%, Burton upon Trent by 51% and Cockermouth The implementation of the Groups Environmental Policy by 2%.
We have negotiated these targets with various Statement is reviewed by the Committee regularly during stakeholders including the British Beer and Pub Association the year.
The targets should produce an overall saving of Marstons was admitted into the FTSE4Good Index in around 12,000 tonnes of CO2 based on 1999 production September 2007.
Inclusion within the Index is dependent volumes.
We are determined to meet these targets and, as upon achieving an expected standard in corporate a result, we expect to benefit from an 80% reduction in responsibility including our policy towards monitoring and our obligation under the Climate Change Levy.
Currently targeting reductions in our environmental impact.
This is Wolverhampton is on target to meet the required efficiency, challenging, not least because the criteria continues to with our breweries at Burton upon Trent and Cockermouth evolve to take into account responsible business practices making progress towards the targets and they have plans in from around the world.
Marstons admission this year reects place to ensure they are met.
In addition to energy efficiency the contribution of the Environmental and Corporate Social targets within Marstons brewing operations the Group has Responsibility Committee, the new initiatives in active energy a range of other targets in order to reduce environmental management systems operated in our breweries and the impacts.
These targets relate to water efficiency within the EMS coverage over the managed pub estate.
brewing process and energy consumption within our pubs.
The operation of Marstons breweries has been covered by KEY RELATIONSHIPS an Energy Management System EMS for several years.
In 2007 an EMS was introduced which will eventually cover the Customers whole of the managed pub estate.
More detail is given in the As described earlier in this report and particularly in the 2007 Environmental Report however, in summary, the aim is section on the market on page 10, it is essential that customers for Environmental Champions to be appointed and trained changing demands are understood and accommodated.
for all our managed pubs to promote energy monitoring, In all the Groups commercial activities the importance of conservation of resources and waste recycling.
In over a excellent customer service is recognised as being of the third of our managed pubs the EMS is backed up by individual highest priority.
Smart Metering on site 188 installations as at September 2007.
Smart Metering of energy consumption at a pub level provides quantitative data for management to track and target 20 14474Martsons Front Section AW 18 8 14474Martsons Front Section AW 18 8 14474 Proof 3 10.12.07 10 12 07 16:33:36 10 12 07 16:33:36 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Employees and employee development support to tenants through the experience and training of our The Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 22 Business Development Managers and by providing expert legal to 25 includes a detailed explanation of Marstons approach advice on technical and everyday issues.
to employees and employee development.
Investment in the training and development of our employees Our suppliers underpins the successful implementation of our strategy.
The Group is able to achieve its current level of efficiency Working closely with a central development team, each and profitability through the successful relationship it has trading division has developed training and development with its suppliers.
Marstons closely engages with its programmes relevant to their own employees using a suppliers in order to gain a mutual understanding of each combination of internal and external resources.
While Marstons is In Marstons Inns and Taverns there are a series of training not dependent upon any one supplier, the relationship it has modules designed to offer development opportunities for bar with its principal suppliers is important in order to maximise staff through to pub management, with specic programmes the benets from operating on a large scale.
In particular the for chefs and trainee chefs.
Development at Pitcher & Piano concentration of large volumes of food and drink supplied is specic to the needs of a prominent branded high street by a relatively small number of companies brings significant business and includes personal development coaching at the cost advantages.
The Group operates an ethical purchasing Pitcher & Piano Academy.
policy to ensure that purchasing is conducted in a transparent, In Marstons Pub Company and Marstons Beer Company, condential and fair manner and that Marstons commitment we have developed our own Pedigree People Programme to environmental and social responsibility is shared by its incorporating structured coaching for topics such as supply chain.
commercial awareness, organisation, negotiation skills and financial and legal matters.
Going concern Management development is monitored in-house but with The Directors are confident, having reviewed the Groups the use of external organisations such as The Leadership budget for the 52 weeks to 27 September 2008 and Trust and London Business School where appropriate.
relevant plans beyond that date, that the Group and the In addition to these structured initiatives, we offer regular Company have adequate resources to continue in operation Life-Long Learning seminars on a wide range of work related for the foreseeable future.
This review included an analysis and recreational subjects which are open to all employees.
of business operating plans, proposed capital expenditure Last year, 50 seminars were attended by 551 employees.
and associated cash ow projections.
It also included a comparison of results and ratios within the Groups committed Society and the local community borrowing facilities.
It is therefore considered appropriate Marstons is aware of the importance of adopting a to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial responsible attitude to the production and sale of alcohol.
statements of the Company and the Group.
As previously explained in this report, threats to reputation are viewed as key risks for the business.
As an operator The Business Review was approved on 30 November 2007 of pubs the Group has an additional responsibility to the on behalf of the Board by: local communities in which its pubs operate.
The Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 22 to 25 explains Marstons approach to these issues.
Regulatory bodies Ralph Findlay Paul Inglett Marstons has important relationships with regulatory bodies, Chief Executive Finance Director particularly the Licensing Authorities for the operation of our pubs, and the Environment Agency with regard to the IPPC permit.
With effect from 24 November 2005, the Licensing Act 2003 replaced the previous licensing system 1964 Licensing Act, thus abolishing magistrates liquor licences, public entertainment licences and special hours certicates.
The present licensing system is controlled by Local Authorities and is governed by strict guidelines laid down by the Government to ensure consistency.
Anyone who authorises the sale of alcohol must have a personal licence and any premises used for the sale of alcohol must have a premises licence.
Licensing objectives include prevention of crime and disorder, protection of public safety, prevention of public nuisance and protection of children from harm.
For our managed houses the achievement of the licensing objectives is of key importance for the management of the pubs and for the staff working in our premises.
This is done by monitoring the operation of our pubs, internally testing compliance with the law, insisting upon a high level of training and conduct amongst our staff, and being attentive to concerns from local residents and the police.
The responsibility for licensing in our tenanted and leased properties is divided between the premises licence holder and the personal licence holder which is the licensee.
Marstons has an interest in supporting its tenants and lessees in operating their pubs in accordance with the objectives of their licences.
