40 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration eligibility for a grant of options under the Companys Executive Share Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
It also meets the relevant Option Scheme: requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and benefits which include membership of the Executive Pension Plan and, describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance up until April 2006, the funded unapproved retirement and death benefits relating to directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a scheme Furbs, fully expensed car and free medical insurance for the resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General individual and their immediate family.
From April 2006 contributions from Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be considered.
the Company to the Furbs have been replaced by a pensions allowance which is paid directly to the executive directors on an ongoing basis.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the Audited Information of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state Following the introduction of the new Equity Participation Plan and the whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared new Executive Share Option Scheme during 2005, the mix between fixed in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
and variable pay is broadly 50 50 for the executive directors.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for Unaudited The intention is to target median levels of fixed pay, whilst operating and Audited Information.
incentive schemes that provide management with the ability to earn more for true out-performance, partly through the active encouragement of management co-investment.
The key principles on which the share Unaudited information schemes are founded are: to reward and incentivise growth: Remuneration Committee to provide a strong link to performance: and to take account of and, as far as possible, to follow corporate Until 13 December 2006, the Remuneration Committee Committee governance best practice.
consisted of three non executive directors: Mr D A Robins Committee Chairman and Mr P J Hill, both of whom are considered to be independent, Basic salary and Sir Alan Cox.
Following the appointment of Mr D M Williams to the Committee on 13 December 2006 there are now four members, An individuals basic salary is reviewed by the Committee to take effect three of whom are considered by the Combined Code to be independent.
from 1 January of each year and on any significant change of responsibility.
None of the Committee has or has had any personal financial interests, In deciding levels of salary the Committee takes into account advice from conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day Towers Perrin, data from appropriate third party surveys covering companies involvement in running the business.
of a similar size and operating in a similar sector to the Company, together with salary increases received elsewhere in the Group.
Generally, salaries The Committee consults with the Chief Executive and has access to external should be at the median level for companies of a similar size and type given professional advice.
In 2004 Towers Perrin were appointed as advisors to the the continuing very good financial performance of the Group.
As far as the Committee is aware Towers Perrin have no other relationship with the Company.
In late 2004 Towers Perrin conducted a As a result of the most recent salary review, the basic salaries for executive benchmark review of the executive directors salaries and total remuneration directors have been increased, in line with the above policy, with effect from packages and in December 2006 updated this advice.
This was taken into 1 January 2007 as follows: account for the salary review which took effect from 1 January 2007.
T Twigger 500,000 The Board has approved written terms of reference for the Committee which P E Green 221,500 are available on the Companys website.
S G Young 288,000 Remuneration policy for executive directors Annual bonus payments The Committee ensures that executive remuneration packages are designed The annual bonus payments for Mr T Twigger, Mr P E Green and Mr S G to attract, motivate and retain directors of a high calibre, to recognise the Young are awarded following consideration of both the performance of the international and decentralised nature of the Groups business and to reward Group and the individuals contribution to that performance.
The maximum them for enhancing value to shareholders.
The performance measurement bonus which can be earned by any executive director is 150% of basic salary, of the executive directors and the determination of their annual remuneration other than in truly exceptional circumstances.
However this level has not package is undertaken by the Committee.
Advice has been received from been reached in the past and is expected to be very rarely reached by Towers Perrin on executive directors remuneration.
Achievement of Group profit and cash targets with reference to the Group budget, together with the individuals personal The remuneration package for executive directors and senior management performance and contribution, are the criteria for awards.
The level of bonus is designed to include a significant performance related element.
payments awarded to the executive directors for 2006 was 110% of basic In 2007 the main features are: salary at 31 December 2006 and reflects the continuing outstanding financial basic annual salary: performance, growth and development of the Group, as shown by the bonus payments in respect of performance of both the individual improvement in profit, the increase in earnings per share, the increase and the Group calculated as a percentage of basic salary: in final dividend, the continuing strong cash flow from operating activities eligibility for an award of shares under the Companys Equity and the successful integration of acquisitions.
Participation Plan: 41 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Remuneration report continued Policy on share schemes No shares will vest if the Groups TSR performance is below the 50th percentile.
At the 50th percentile, 30% of the shares that are subject of the The Companys Equity Participation Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting at the 75th are an important part of the performance related remuneration of executive percentile and above.
Notwithstanding the Groups relative TSR performance, directors encouraging them to contribute towards the continuing growth in, shares will only become eligible for release to the extent that the and performance of, the Company by participating in the Companys success Remuneration Committee is satisfied that it is justified by the underlying along with other shareholders.
An award is made under the Equity financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
Participation Plan on an annual basis and grants are considered under the Executive Share Option Schemes subject to regulatory and scheme limits.
Vesting of the matching award will depend on the Groups TSR performance The Equity Participation Plan 2005 and Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 as outlined above and on the executive retaining his investment in ordinary were introduced during 2005 following shareholder approval.
No new awards shares during the measurement period.
No matching shares will vest if the will be made under the 1996 Equity Participation Scheme or 1996 Executive Groups TSR performance is below the 50th percentile.
At the 50th percentile, Share Option Schemes but existing awards will vest in accordance with the 60% of the shares subject to the matching award will vest, rising on a rules of those schemes.
straight-line basis to 200% vesting at the 75th percentile and above.
It is the Companys policy that directors and senior executives who have Shares subject to awards will not normally be released until the third received an allocation of shares under the Equity Participation Plan or a anniversary of the award date.
grant of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme, should retain an investment in the Companys shares once the options have been exercised or TSR five-year performance shares transferred to the individual amounting to at least one years salary.
Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding from 1 January to 31 December in each of the five years: Meggitt Equity Participation Plan 2005 An annual award of shares will be made under the Meggitt Equity 300 Meggitt Participation Plan the Plan to executive directors of 75% of basic salary FTSE Aerospace & Defence Index basic award.
The number of shares which are the subject of the award is 250 Comparator Group 20 Companies calculated by dividing the value of the award by the average middle market 200 quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange over the 30 dealing days prior to the date of the award.
150 The individual limit will increase if an executive director invests an amount, 100 not to exceed 25% of net basic salary, in ordinary shares.
In that event, an executive director can receive a further award of up to 50% of basic salary 50 matching award.
Therefore, executive directors can receive a total amount of 125% of basic salary i. e. the 75% for a basic award with a maximum of a Year 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 further 50% of basic salary if the director makes the maximum investment permitted under the Plan.
These comparator indices have been chosen as being the most relevant to the industry in which The proportion of the basic award, if any, that an executive director will the Company operates.
ultimately receive, will depend on Group performance during a three year period commencing at the beginning of the financial year in which the award Meggitt Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 is made the measurement period.
Performance will be measured by An annual grant of options will be made to executive directors.
The aggregate comparing the Total Shareholder Return TSR achieved by the Group with market value of shares put under option each year will be two times basic that of other companies in a comparator group chosen by the Remuneration salary.
The price payable for each share under option will be the mid-market Committee.
The comparator group comprises the following companies which value of the share on the first dealing day prior to the grant date.
are in similar sectors and are of a relevant size and international spread to the Group: The performance condition for the grant of options to executive directors is linked to the aggregate increase in earnings per share EPS over the three BAE Systems Rotork year period following the financial year ending immediately before the date Bodycote International Senior PLC of grant.
An option can be exercised in respect of 30% of the shares subject Cobham Smiths Group to the option if the aggregate growth in EPS is at least equal to the increase FKI Spectris in the Retail Prices Index RPI plus 5% per annum.
The option can be Halma Spirox-Sarco Engineering exercised in respect of all the shares subject to the option if the aggregate IMI Spirent growth in EPS is at least equal to the increase in RPI plus 8% per annum.
Invensys Tomkins For growth in EPS between RPI plus 5% per annum and RPI plus 8% per Morgan Crucible Company The Ultra Electronics Holdings annum, the option can be exercised in respect of between 30% and 100% of Renishaw VT Group the shares under option determined on a straight-line basis between these Rolls-Royce Group Weir Group points.
There is no retesting of the performance condition.
The Remuneration Following its fide-listing the Marconi Corporation was replaced in the comparator group by Committee has considered the impact of changes to accounting standards Senior PLC with effect from 1 January 2006. and will endeavour to compare EPS on a consistent basis.
The Companys EPS performance during the last five years is shown on page 93.
42 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2006 Remuneration report continued Meggitt PLC Share Incentive Plan The pension contribution for the executive directors and all UK employees after taking into account the employee contribution is set following the The directors agree an amount of money annually to be set aside from Group receipt of actuarial advice from Mercer Human Resource Consulting.
Details profits for the purchase of shares by the Trustee of the Share Incentive Plan of any changes in pension entitlements arising in 2006 are shown on page 43. under the provisions of the Finance Act 2000.
These shares are allocated to Bonus payments to executive directors are not pensionable.
There are no eligible UK employees, including UK directors, on the basis of total earnings unfunded pension promises or similar arrangements for directors.
in the year, and are transferred for no consideration.
Directors contracts Directors share interests Mr T Twigger and Mr P E Green have rolling service contracts dated The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the 26 February 2001 and Mr S G Young has a rolling service contract dated Company at 31 December were as follows: 27 February 2004.
The notice period required from the Company is twelve Shareholding months and they are required to give the Company notice of six months.
Ordinary shares of 5p each 2006 2005 Under the contracts for Mr T Twigger, Mr P E Green and Mr S G Young Sir Colin Terry 4,284 2,284 the Company would pay compensation if it were to terminate the contract T Twigger 451,587 374,462 in breach of the terms of the contract.
The compensation would be the Sir Alan Cox 20,000 20,000 annual remuneration plus the value of benefits for the unexpired notice P E Green 224,644 185,174 period less 5%.
P J Hill 6,000 6,000 D A Robins 39,506 38,600 Remuneration policy for non executive directors D M Williams The remuneration of the non executive directors is determined by the S G Young 51,804 31,825 Finance Committee of the Board and the remuneration of the Chairman is Or date of appointment, if later.
determined by the Remuneration Committee of the Board within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
The Finance and Remuneration The executive directors were allocated shares at an initial market value of Committees use information from external surveys, in order to set the level of 328.42p under the Share Incentive Plan during 2006 as follows: fees.
Fees paid to non executive directors during 2006 are shown on page 43.
Ordinary shares of 5p each Non executive directors are appointed for a term of no longer than T Twigger 910 three years, do not have a contract of service, are not eligible to join the P E Green 910 Companys pension scheme and cannot participate in any of the Companys S G Young 910 share schemes.
These shares have been included in the share interests shown in the table Directors proposed for re-election and election above.
Details of directors share options are shown on pages 44 and 45.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Mr P E Green, Mr P J Hill and Mr S G Young will retire by rotation and are being proposed for re-election.
Directors pension arrangements Sir Alan Cox will also retire by reason of having reached the age of 70 and The executive directors are members of the Meggitt Executive Pension is being proposed for re-election.
In addition, Mr D M Williams will retire Plan the MEPP which is separate to the Companys main pension scheme.
following his initial appointment by the Board and is being proposed Their dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and the payment for election.
of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The pension arrangements provide for a pension on retirement of up to 2 3 final pensionable salary.
Policy on external appointments The executive directors pensions are restricted by a Scheme Cap which It is the Companys policy to allow the executive directors to hold external replaced the HM Revenue and Customs pensions cap from 6 April 2006. appointments and to receive payment provided such appointments are agreed As the executive directors benefits from, and contributions to, the MEPP by the Board or Committee in advance, that there is no conflict of interests are restricted, additional contributions are made.
Until April 2006, these and the appointment does not lead to a deterioration in the individuals contributions were made based on the excess of basic salary over the performance.
During 2006 no executive director was a director of a pensions cap, to a funded unapproved retirement and death benefits public company.
With effect from 6 April 2006 no further contributions were made to the Furbs and a pensions allowance is paid instead to the executive directors in order that they might make their own arrangements for retirement savings.
The pensions allowance is calculated as 50% of the amount by which the executive directors basic salary exceeds the MEPP Scheme Cap of 112,500.
The cap will increase annually in line with the Lifetime Allowance.
