Capital expenditure Return on capital employed Financial Capital expenditure on property, plant and The groups ROCE for 2006 was 47.5% 2005: review equipment during 2006 was US$59.4 million 32.5%.
The increase reects the increased continued 2005: US$17.6 million.
The main elements profitability of the group, albeit on an expanding were the purchase of freehold land and other capital base as the group continues to grow.
capital expenditure in relation to the construction of the groups new ofce building in Sharjah, Dividends UAE, amounting to US$15.0 million and The Company proposes a final dividend US$17.6 million of development expenditure of 6.43 cents per share for the year ended on Resources oil & gas assets.
The expenditure included the cost of plant, level of the final dividend in 2005 reected equipment and ofce furniture to support the the fact that the Company was listed for growth in the Engineering & Construction and approximately three months of the 2005 Operations Services divisions.
financial year and the final dividend was therefore approximately half the level that Capital expenditure on intangible oil & gas would have been declared as a final dividend assets totalled US$12.9 million 2005: US$4.8 had Petrofac been listed for the whole of the million principally in relation to the Crawford 2005 financial year, having taken account of and Don Southwest acquisitions.
the intention to pay two-thirds of the full year dividend as a final dividend.
Shareholders funds Total equity increased from US$195.1 million at 31 December 2005 to US$324.9 million at 31 December 2006.
The primary elements of the increase were the retained profits for the year of US$105.7 million, the favourable movement in the groups unrealised position Return on capital employed on derivative instruments and foreign currency % translation of US$30.4 million, partially offset 2006 47.5 by the cost of additional treasury shares 2005 32.5 purchased by the Company in relation to 2004 31.4 employee share schemes of US$8.1 million.
Basis of preparation The operating and financial review OFR contains forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results, and operations of the group.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward looking statements.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein.
Forward looking statements contained in the OFR regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Petrofac Limited undertakes no obligation to update the forward looking statements contained in this review or any other forward looking statements made.
30 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate social The Board recognises that it must win and monitoring of Key Performance Indicators.
retain the support of a variety of stakeholders in In 2006, the KPIs were extended to include responsibility order to safeguard the Companys reputation measures which aim to increase managements and maximise long-term shareholder value.
proactivity in relation to the management of Such stakeholders include shareholders, the Companys health and safety systems.
customers, suppliers, employees and The Board continued to review health and communities where Petrofac works.
The safety performance regularly at board Board therefore believes that the Companys meetings, receiving progress reports in relation Corporate Social Responsibility CSR to a programme of work previously agreed by activities are essential in order to strengthen the Board.
The Company has made good progress during the year in During 2006, approximately 38 million building on its earlier CSR work, particularly man-hours were worked across the groups with the establishment of a CSR working operations 2005: 38 million.
During the year, group, an Environmental Committee and the group experienced 78 Recordable Injuries the adoption of a revised Code of Business RIs 2005: 107, a RI frequency rate RIFR Conduct.
This report outlines the groups of 0.41 per 200,000 man-hours 2005: 0.55 progress in 2006. and 10 Lost Time Injuries LTIs 2005: 13, a LTI frequency rate LTIFR of 0.06 per 200,000 Petrofac the business man hours 2005: 0.07.
This performance Petrofacs employees are guided by is comparable with the best in the oil & gas the Companys vision to be the global industry.
Despite meeting these important oil & gas industrys premier facilities and targets, the Board deeply regrets that one infrastructure provider, admired by customers of our employees suffered a fatal helicopter and employees for consistently delivering and accident in the UK in December 2006.
Essential to achieving investigations into the incident suggest that this is that the group works to world-class the helicopter, which had been chartered by standards, always focuses on customer a customer and was independently operated, satisfaction, respects the environment, suffered a catastrophic failure.
is sensitive to the communities in which it works and promotes and rewards on merit.
Although the Company can demonstrate The Companys values of being safe, ethical, through injury frequency rates a good health cost-conscious, innovative, responsive to and safety performance, it recognises that customers and results-driven are embodied this is only one element of safety management.
within the Companys approach to CSR in The integrity of Petrofacs assets and facilities health, safety and security, people, is fundamental to business efficiency and environment and society.
reects the overall safety of its operations.
In 2007, a programme of asset integrity Health, safety and security management currently operated by Petrofacs The group has a well established safety Operations Services division will be developed management strategy, which is part of an further and adopted across the whole group.
The objective is to ensure that the likelihood of Managers are accountable for ensuring that a major hazard arising as a result of Petrofacs health, safety, security and environmental risks design, construction or operation is minimised are properly assessed and as far as possible as far as is reasonably practicable.
Petrofac places great emphasis on the integrity of its facilities and the competence In 2006, the Board approved increased of its personnel.
During the year, the Company measures in relation to the Companys Health Health and safety performance organised a number of small safety work Management Programme.
The monitoring Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates and Recordable Injury Frequency Rates are per 200,000 man hours shops at divisional level in addition to a safety of the health of selected employees will be 2006 0.06 work shop for senior client and subcontractors extended to encompass a wider range of 2006 0.41 at group level.
The Company intends to run employees and the standard of Company 2005 0.07 further safety work shops in 2007, including approved medical practitioners will be reviewed.
2005 0.55 a further work shop organised at group level, It is considered this service will be beneficial 2004 0.07 the main focus of which will be asset integrity to both the Company and employees, who 2004 0.55 management.
Management closely monitors will be able to make better informed choices Lost Time Injury Frequency Rates safety performance through the setting and regarding lifestyle and general well-being.
Recordable Injury Frequency Rates 31 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Corporate social In 2006, the Board recognised the The Company continues to emphasise increased risk in security as the Companys the importance of doing business ethically responsibility operations expanded into new and challenging and in 2006 a major review of the Code continued environments and approved a new policy of Business Conduct was carried out.
The for security as part of the groups Code updated policies are designed to ensure of Business Conduct.
A Group Security that all employees understand and comply function is now operational supporting the with both legal requirements and our own groups activities.
The Code was launched through a major group-wide communication initiative Petrofac people and circulated to all employees.
The Code The Companys employees are our most defines what Petrofac expects of its employees, important asset and the Company believes encapsulating in a single document the that our employees should reect the diverse Companys standard for employee conduct.
communities in which the group operates.
As part of the Code, the Company has a As such, the Company is committed to clear anti-corruption policy.
If an employee is employing, training and developing local found to have acted in breach of this policy, staff and leaders for its operations in more the individual will be subject to disciplinary than 15 countries.
The Companys continuing action which may result in dismissal.
expansion throughout 2006 has seen an increase in employees to approaching 8,000, The Company has decided to begin a regular from approximately 7,200 at 31 December survey of staff satisfaction and attitudes, the 2005.
The ability to recruit and develop staff purpose of which will be to gather feedback is the basis for the Companys long-term on staff perceptions on a range of issues in success and in 2006 we recruited over 100 order to help the Company develop effective graduates from the Middle East, Europe and communication programmes for employees.
The Company offers development and learning opportunities to its employees through The environment a combination of on and off-the-job training.
The Company promotes a culture in which all employees share a commitment to minimise To enhance the potential leadership capability, the Companys adverse environmental impact.
2006 saw the launch of the Petrofac Academy, The Board approved an environmental policy an in-house training programme designed to during the year and furthermore, formed an develop Petrofac managers and leaders of Environmental Committee chaired by the the future.
The programme was launched in Chairman of the Board, Rodney Chase.
Other Aberdeen and Sharjah and will be rened and members of the committee are drawn from validated, before being made available to the the Companys executive management team.
The Company has The policy provides the framework for the a policy of equal opportunity where decisions development of environmental programmes for on recruitment, career development, promotion, all activities.
The committees remit is to review training and reward are based solely on an the Companys environmental policy and individuals merit.
effectiveness of the Companys environmental management systems, environmental targets The Company continues to promote share and KPIs.
The committee agreed that during ownership amongst employees through its 2007 each division should seek to establish four share incentive schemes.
In particular, baselines in respect of waste, power there has been a good response to the UK generation and carbon emissions and employee Share Incentive Plan with 24% of other environmental impacts as a precursor eligible employees choosing to participate.
to establishing specic environmental programmes after 2007, which will identify Communication and involvement with staff opportunities for reduction and where future is essential, especially as they work in many targets and KPIs can be set.
During 2007 locations around the world.
The Company the Company will continue the process with publishes a quarterly in-house magazine independent certifying authorities to work called Petrofacts, maintains several towards certication to ISO 14001:1996 for local intranet sites for employees and all its business operations.
uses Company announcements, targeted e-mails, management presentations and During the year, the Group Chief Executive, team briengs to facilitate the involvement Ayman Asfari, attended the Clinton Global and awareness of employees.
He gave an undertaking that the 32 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Company would seek to make a meaningful a variety of fundraising events.
CIG continues reduction in its use of power and carbon to support wheelchair athlete Kenny Herriot, emissions once it had established its current a relationship that started in 2001, following baselines and evaluated its available options.
an accident in 2000 which left him paralysed.
CIG also sponsors the Streetfootball initiative, In the meantime, the Company has already run in conjunction with Grampian Police and adopted a number of simple but nevertheless Robert Gordon University.
Streetfootball aims effective measures, often at the instigation to engage young people and encourage of our employees: recycling materials, using positive behaviour through sport.
Petrofac has alternative materials: photocopying double provided financial contributions and a number sided rather than single sided: switching off of employees have volunteered to assist in PCs at night: and using crockery rather than running Streetfootball.
Petrofac continues to be a principal sponsor Society of the Aberdeen International Youth Festival, Petrofac is mindful of its responsibilities to which showcases the musical, dancing and the communities in which it operates and acting talents of young people from around endeavours to ensure that relationships with the world: and TechFest, a festival of science, non-governmental organisations, customers, technology and engineering in Aberdeen suppliers, communities and governments visited by over 10,000 school pupils each year.
are founded on the basis of mutual respect.
The Company has undertaken that it will The Company has also maintained its formulate a specic community relations long-standing education-industry partnership strategy for each major project, taking into with the Kincorth Academy in Aberdeen.
account particular long-term local needs.
To The partnership encourages pupils greater assist and improve group-wide co-ordination knowledge of life at work, in addition to the of activities, a working group has been practical application of skills and knowledge established to review current activities and gained through education in a work environment.
future initiatives, particularly focusing on ways Petrofac employees also benefit through the of developing the Companys longstanding new perspectives and challenges gained.
interest in education, learning and training.
In accordance with the focus on education The Company strongly supports the and interest in contributing to the areas in involvement of Petrofac staff in initiatives which the Company operates, a US$2 million and is launching a Give As You Earn scheme donation was made during the year to the in the United Kingdom.
All employees who are American University in Sharjah of which paid through the UKs Pay As You Earn PAYE Maroun Semaan is a trustee.
The proceeds taxation system can give on a regular basis from the endowment will be distributed as to charity in a tax-efficient and easily managed Petrofac scholarships to students in the way.
To encourage participation, the Company School of Engineering many of whom are will be matching 50% of the total of these from countries in which the group currently donations, capped at US$100,000 per year operates.
The Company has also established with the matching Petrofac donation going scholarships in India, through the Mumbai to a Petrofac Charity Fund.
The contents ofce, for ten engineering students for the of the fund will be distributed to a number duration of their four year university course.
of charitable organisations which have yet In addition, the Mumbai ofce has initiated to be determined.
relationships with a local secondary school and two higher education institutes and is In the UK, Petrofacs Community Involvement developing programmes, which will include Group CIG continues to provide targeted providing financial support: sponsoring science support to a number of local charities, groups fairs: annual prizes and work experience.
and individuals, whilst emphasising the engagement of Petrofac staff in their support.
The Company has a policy of not making For the past four years CIG has named political donations.
Cornerstone Community Care as its charity of the year.
Cornerstone aims to offer services and support to people with learning disabilities and to their families.
Petrofac supports the charity both through direct financial giving and 12 1 American University, Sharjah 2 Kincorth Academy, Aberdeen 33 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 34 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006 3 4 1 2 3 The Board recommends that the 1 Rodney Chase 5 Kjell Almskog following two individuals be appointed Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director at the annual general meeting subject Rodney Chase was appointed non-executive Kjell Almskog was appointed to the Petrofac to shareholder approval: Chairman of Petrofac in June 2005.
After starting his spent 38 years at BP plc, of which 11 were professional career in brand management, Amjad Bseisu served on its board.
He was deputy group with Proctor & Gamble, Kjell subsequently Chief Executive, Resources CEO on his retirement from the BP group in spent some 25 years in various senior Amjad Bseisu joined Petrofac in 1998 and May 2003.
He also spent time as CEO of the executive positions.
During 13 years in founded the Resources business.
Amjad exploration and production, and marketing the ABB group, Kjell was country manager previously served on the Petrofac Board for and rening divisions.
He continues to serve as in Norway while in parallel, developing a several years before stepping down prior to non-executive deputy chairman of Tesco plc: substantial and highly successful international the Companys admission to listing on the non-executive director of Computer Sciences oil and gas activity, ultimately becoming London Stock Exchange.
From 1984 to Corporation: non-executive director of Nalco group executive vice-president and head of 1998, Amjad worked for the Atlantic Richeld Company: and senior adviser to Lehman ABB Oil, Gas and Petrochemicals.
In 1998, Company ARCO starting his career as senior Brothers.
In May 2006, Rodney joined the he moved to Kvaerner as chief executive with engineer in the drilling and production division board of Tesoro Corporation, a US company responsibility for executing a major turnaround and moving to the position of vice-president, which specialises in the rening and marketing of that business until its acquisition by Aker Arco Petroleum Ventures, with responsibility of petroleum products.
He has previously held in 2001.
Presently, Kjell is senior adviser and for operations and commercial activities in the positions as a board member of BOC plc and non-executive director of several international Middle East and North Africa and ultimately, Diageo plc.
Age 63. companies, including Orkla, a large listed in 1996, as head of International Marketing, Norwegian group involved in branded 3 Negotiations and Business Development and 2 Ayman Asfari consumer goods, chemicals and financial president of ARCO Petroleum Ventures and Group Chief Executive investments and KITRON ASA, a listed ARCO Crude Trading, Inc. Age 43.
Ayman Asfari joined Petrofac in 1991 to Norwegian group specialising in electronics establish Petrofac International.
He is also deputy chairman Rijnhard van Tets more than 25 years experience in the oil & gas of the Kverneland Group, a Norwegian listed Proposed to be appointed as a industry and served as Chief Executive officer international supplier of agricultural machinery non-executive director of Petrofac International until his appointment and senior advisor of the Taylor Group, a US Rijnhard van Tets is an adviser to the as Group Chief Executive of Petrofac Limited management consulting group.
Age 66. managing board of ABN AMRO, having in January 2002.
Ayman previously worked 1 2 3 previously served as a member of the as the managing director of a major civil and 6 Bernard fide Combret managing board from 1990 to 2002.
Rijnhard mechanical construction business based in Non-executive Director occupied a number of very senior executive Oman.
Bernard fide Combret was appointed to the positions at ABN AMRO, most latterly as Petrofac Board in November 2003.
Bernard chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale Clients 3 Keith Roberts is an international consultant and was deputy and Investment Banking Group between 1996 Chief Financial officer chairman of Totals executive committee and 2002.
Under Rijnhards leadership, ABN Keith Roberts joined Petrofac in March 2002 until his retirement in 2002.
Following senior AMRO grew its investment banking division as Chief Financial officer having spent most positions in both the French Ministry of Foreign into one of the worlds leading providers of of his working life as an investment banker Affairs and Ministry of Finance, he spent 24 debt and equity capital markets: structured based in the city of London.
After positions in years with Elf and subsequently Total and held finance and M&A advisory services.
Prior to commercial banking with Standard Chartered various senior executive positions, including joining ABN AMRO in 1983, Rijnhard worked Bank and then with County Bank, the CEO of rening marketing: CEO for gas, power for a number of other investment banks.
He merchant banking subsidiary of National and new energies: and CEO for trading and is currently also non-executive chairman of Westminster Bank, Keith moved into corporate shipping.
He is currently a director of AXA-RE: the boards of Wegener N. V. : Arcadis N. V. : finance with Hawkpoint Partners where he Madagascar Oil: Winstar Resources Ltd: and Euronext Amsterdam N. V. and Equity Trust was a managing director and a member of a member of the international advisory board Holdings SARL.
In addition, he is a nonthe operating committee.
Keith served as a of Banco Santander.
He has previously held executive director of Euronext N. V. : IFF non-executive director of The Peacock Group positions as a board member of Renault VI, Europe: Stichting Administratiekantoor plc until the company was taken private in CEPSA and Banco Central Hispano.
Bhrmann N. V. : and a number of charitable early 2006.
7 Michael Press 4 4 Maroun Semaan Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive, Engineering & Construction Non-executive Director Maroun Semaan joined Petrofac in 1991 to Michael Press was appointed to the Petrofac establish Petrofac International.
From 1977 to Board in April 2002, having previously held 1991, Maroun held various project positions senior executive positions for the Standard with Consolidated Contractors International Oil Company Inc and BP and as a main board Co. based in the Middle East, where he was director of Amerada Hess.
Between 1997 involved in the management of oil and gas and 2001, Michael held various posts at pipeline, process facilities and civil works KBC Advanced Technologies including construction contracts in Oman and Bahrain.
non-executive director, executive chairman, He was appointed Chief Executive of Petrofac and chief executive.
He is currently also a non- 1 Member of the Audit Committee Engineering & Construction in April 2004. executive of ABARTA Inc: T3EnergyServices: 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee Age 51.
Chart Industries and a member of the advisory 3 Member of the Nominations Committee 4 Member of the Environmental Committee board of Pharmadule Emtunga.
35 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2006
