24 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report The current remuneration package This report provides information on Directors remuneration.
A resolution The current elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting executives for the year under review were and continue to be as follows.
inviting them to approve this Report.
The specic arrangements put in place in respect of Harriet Green, who has been appointed Chief Executive with effect from 3rd April 2006, are also set out on pages 25 and 26.
Remuneration policy Salary and benets The Companys overall policy aims are to: The Committee reviews salaries each year, taking account of Group and attract, develop, motivate and keep talented people at all levels personal performance and the salaries paid by companies of similar size and complexity.
The Committee also takes account of the levels of pay throughout the Group awarded elsewhere in the Group.
pay competitive salaries and benets to all of its people The value of benets for Executive Directors is included in the table of encourage the holding of shares in the Company as an effective way of remuneration on page 27 and, for Mr Hirst and Mr Fisher, consisted of a aligning the interests of employees with those of shareholders fully expensed car and life and health insurance.
Mr Bain does not have a focus remuneration arrangements to help each business in the Group company car, but instead receives a cash allowance.
Mr Bain does receive meet its specic targets.
life and health insurance and an expense allowance, the values of which are included in benets in kind.
The value of these benets is not pensionable The Boards policy for executive remuneration is to: for any Executive Director, but is assessable to income tax.
pay a basic salary which is competitive with other companies of similar Short-term incentives size and complexity The Company operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme for Executive Directors and senior executives.
The maximum bonus payment give executives the opportunity to increase their basic earnings by under the scheme was 100 per cent of base salary for Mr Hirst and is meeting and outperforming key short-term and long-term measures, thereby linking executive rewards to the Groups performance and 70 per cent of base salary for Mr Fisher and Mr Bain.
To reach this maximum requires that the Company exceeds its budgeted pre-tax profit shareholder interests as well as the achievement of clearly dened individual objectives, which encourage executives to hold shares in the Company reect the Groups key business initiatives for the financial year.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the performance conditions for reward executives fairly and responsibly for their contribution to the the annual bonus are relevant, stretching and designed to enhance Groups performance, without paying more than is necessary to achieve shareholder value.
The amounts stated in the table below on Directors this objective.
Remuneration as paid to Mr Fisher and Mr Bain in respect of their annual In framing this policy, the Board has given full consideration to the bonus reect the extent to which the relevant targets were met.
provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Payments made under the bonus scheme are not pensionable.
It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors be permitted to hold Long-term incentives one non-executive directorship with another company.
The fees payable in The Company operates a long-term incentive plan and the share option respect of this directorship are retained by the Executive Director.
Awards under the plan and the schemes are This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration for made at the discretion of the Committee and are usually made on an 2006 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
No awards were made under the long-term incentive plan considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufciently during the year under review.
exible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and remuneration practice.
Any change in policy for years Long-term incentive plan after 2006 will be described in future Remuneration Reports.
All statements in this Report in relation to remuneration policy for years after 2006 should Under the long-term incentive plan, Executive Directors and senior be read in the light of this paragraph.
executives are awarded rights to acquire ordinary shares.
Each award made under the plan is subject to performance conditions which will determine how many if any of the shares under the award the The Remuneration Committee and its role participant is entitled to acquire after the three-year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee consists of Mr Michael Lester Chairman, The maximum award which can be made to a participant in any year is Mr William Korb, Mr Cary Nolan and Mr John Roques.
All members of the equal to 100 per cent of base salary.
Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met The main performance condition compares the growth of the Companys five times during the year covered by this report.
The Chairman will continue total shareholder return or TSR share price growth and reinvested dividends to ensure the Company maintains contact, as necessary, with its principal over a three-year period to that of the companies in the FTSE mid-250 Index shareholders about remuneration.
The Companys ranking among the comparator It is the Companys practice for the Chief Executive to attend meetings of companies determines the percentage of shares which a participant can the Committee to discuss the performance of other executives and make acquire.
No shares may be acquired where the Companys ranking is below proposals where necessary, but not to be present when his or her own median and, to acquire the full number of shares awarded, the Company position is discussed.
must rank in the top quartile of the comparator group.
Between these two points, vesting is on a straight-line basis, with 20 per cent of any award The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups vesting where the Companys performance is at the median.
Where framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee performance over the three-year period does not reach the median ranking, determines the specic remuneration packages for Executive Directors the relevant award lapses and there is no retesting of performance.
and the other senior executives who form the Group Leadership Team.
In addition, shares can only be acquired under any award if the Committee During the year the Committee received advice from the Chief Executive is satisfied that the underlying performance of the Company during the and the Executive Chairman in respect of the remuneration arrangements performance period justifies the exercise of an award.
for other senior executives and from the Group HR Director in respect of remuneration arrangements generally.
The Committee has also appointed The TSR performance condition was chosen as the Committee believes KPMG People Services, a division of KPMG LLP, to provide independent that TSR is an appropriate method of comparing the performance of the advice to the Committee.
KPMG LLP provide other services to the Company to that of its peers.
The FTSE mid-250 Index excluding Company, principally in relation to tax matters.
investment trusts was chosen as the comparator group as there are a limited number of companies which are directly comparable to the Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 25 Company and the index was therefore felt to be a suitable yardstick of for all periods after January 2004 will now be determined on this basis.
Where a performance period includes financial years for which EPS was formerly calculated under UK GAAP, EPS for those years will be In assessing whether such performance condition has been met, the recalculated on a basis consistent with IFRS to ensure a single approach to Committee will rely on calculations of the Companys TSR and that of the measurement of performance.
The financial years in question are those the FTSE mid-250 Index carried out on its behalf by New Bridge Street to January 2003 and 2004.
The rules of the executive share option scheme Consultants.
The requirement that the Committee must be satisfied that the have been amended to reect the implementation of IFRS.
underlying performance of the Company during the performance period justifies the exercise of an award is intended to give the Committee a In common with all eligible employees of the Group, Executive Directors are discretion as to whether or not to allow a particular exercise, notwithstanding entitled to participate in the Companys SAYE option scheme.
These the achievement of at least a median TSR ranking.
The Committees view is options are not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as that such circumstances are likely to be exceptional and therefore they are this scheme is not restricted to Executive Directors and senior executives.
difficult to determine before they have arisen.
In addition, the Committee The Companys executive shareholding policy requires Executive Directors does not wish to limit its discretion in any way by attempting to predetermine and other senior executives to retain a number of the shares acquired the circumstances in which it might be exercised.
If the Committee as a result of the exercise of executive share options or awards under exercised this discretion it would be in respect of all awards made on a the long-term incentive plan until a shareholding with a value equal to the particular date and not in respect of a particular individual or individuals.
executives annual base salary is reached.
This level of shareholding is then Benets under the long-term incentive plan are not pensionable.
A review of the Companys long-term incentive schemes was undertaken Option schemes by KPMG during the financial year to January 2005 as part of their overall review of remuneration.
Having considered the advice of KPMG resulting The Company currently operates an executive share option scheme, under from that review, the Remuneration Committee concluded, and continues which both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved options may be to be of the view, that the schemes and their operation are appropriate to granted, and an SAYE option scheme.
Benets under these plans are not the Companys current circumstances and objectives.
Annual grants are made under the executive share option scheme with a The restricted share plan maximum grant equal to 100 per cent of the individuals annual salary.
Exercise of options granted under the scheme is subject to a performance As part of the remuneration package offered by the Company to secure condition.
This condition is that the growth in the Companys adjusted Harriet Greens services, the Company has established a restricted share earnings per share EPS over the three consecutive financial years starting plan, of which Harriet is the sole participant.
Two conditional awards of with the year of grant exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI shares have been made under the plan.
The awards are intended as over the same period by at least 9 per cent.
At this level of performance compensation for the loss of gifted shares granted by Harriets former half of the options granted are exercisable.
Exercise of all options granted employer, to which no performance measure or condition had historically requires that the Companys EPS growth exceeds RPI over the period by been applied and, accordingly, there are no performance conditions at least 15 per cent, with a sliding scale for performance between 9 per attached to the vesting of either award.
The first of these awards, in respect cent and 15 per cent.
The rules of the scheme approved by shareholders of 53,034 shares, vests in March 2007 and the second award, in respect of in 2003 provided that, if the performance condition was not met over this 51,461 shares, vests in March 2008, but each will lapse if, among other three-year period, options could also be exercised if the Companys EPS things, Harriet has resigned other than as a result of the Companys growth exceeded RPI by a minimum of 12 per cent over the four financial breach of contract or has been summarily dismissed at the time of vesting.
years starting with the year of grant.
The Committee decided to remove this The awards may vest early if an offer is made for the whole of the issued re-testing provision with effect from 13th March 2006 and it will not apply to share capital of the Company or on the sanctioning by the courts of a any options granted after that date.
scheme of arrangement in relation to the Company.
The number of shares comprised in each award was determined by reference to a formula which EPS was chosen as the appropriate measure of performance as it provides takes into account the number of shares granted by Harriets previous an absolute benchmark of the Companys performance and is therefore a employer and no longer exercisable by her, the value of those shares and, suitable balance with the relative performance measurement used in the given that the market price of those shares is quoted on the New York Companys long-term incentive plan.
Stock Exchange in US dollars, the US dollar to sterling exchange rate, as well as the market value of the Companys shares, all as at the date of the Options granted under earlier schemes operated by the Company remain outstanding.
Executive options granted under such schemes after award.
13th March 2001 may not be exercised unless the growth in the Benets under the restricted share plan are not pensionable.
Companys EPS over a period of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI over the same period by at least 9 per cent.
For options granted after 20th June 1996, but before Pension arrangements 14th March 2001, exercise is subject to the growth in EPS over three The final salary section of the Premier Farnell UK Pension Scheme the consecutive years exceeding the growth in RPI over the same period by at UK Scheme was closed to new entrants during 1998.
Employees who least 6 per cent.
For options granted before 20th June 1996 EPS growth were entitled to final salary benets as members of the UK Scheme at over three consecutive years must match the growth in RPI over the 31st December 1998 now receive benets through a combination of final same period before options can be exercised.
EPS was chosen as the salary benets funded by the UK Scheme and the Premier Farnell Corp. appropriate measure of performance at the time the executive share option Master Pension Plan the US Plan.
In addition, contributions are made to schemes were first introduced and is the most common measure used in the money purchase section within the UK Scheme.
Employees joining the traditional option schemes.
The Companys EPS performance is reported UK Scheme since 1st January 1999 are entitled to money purchase quarterly in the Companys results announcements.
benets only and the UK Scheme is no longer contracted out.
The Company has met the performance condition for options awarded Mr Andrew Fisher is and, during his appointment, Mr John Hirst was entitled up to and during January 2003 and these options are now exercisable.
to a combination of final salary and money purchase benets under the Conrmation that the performance condition had been met was provided arrangements set out above up to the limit of the Inland Revenue earnings by  LLP to the Committee in March 2005.
Company contributions payable into the money the performance condition compares EPS for the financial year ending purchase arrangement on their behalf amounted to 16.6 per cent of the immediately before the grant of an option with EPS three years later, this earnings cap for Mr Fisher and 21.3 per cent of the earnings cap attributable conrmation extended to options granted before the end of January 2003. to Mr Hirsts period of service with the Company for Mr Hirst, with each The implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS making an employee contribution equal to 3 per cent of the earnings cap.
requires EPS to be calculated under IFRS and the performance measures 26 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Remuneration Report continued The Company makes further contributions on behalf of Mr Fisher and payments are made monthly, Harriet is under an obligation to mitigate made such contributions on behalf of Mr Hirst to other retirement benefit her loss and, in so far as monthly payments relate to salary, they will schemes, determined by reference to the excess of their salaries over the reduce or cease altogether on her accepting alternative employment.
The cost to the Company of these further contributions was discretion to pay monthly and the obligation to mitigate do not arise 63,093 2005: 194,292 for Mr Hirst being the contribution referable to where termination results from a change of control the period prior to termination of his employment on 4th July 2005 and the maximum bonus payment under the performance-related bonus 112,278 2005: 87,523 for Mr Fisher.
scheme which Harriet may receive in any year is 120% of her base salary.
Mr Bain is entitled to money purchase benets from a combination of the Harriets base salary is 400,000 UK Scheme and a funded unapproved scheme.
Total contributions are as compensation for the loss of a number of gifted shares and share 5 per cent of basic salary from Mr Bain all paid to the UK Scheme and options granted by her former employer, Harriet has been awarded rights 27 per cent of basic salary from the Company, of which 4 per cent of basic under a restricted share plan, details of which are set out above: and salary is paid into the UK Scheme and 23 per cent of basic salary into the funded unapproved arrangement.
The total cost to the Company of these in addition to the normal annual grants under the long-term incentive plan contributions was 72,740 2005: 68,378. and the executive share option scheme referred to above, Harriet has been granted options under the executive share option scheme equal to As a result of changes to pensions legislation coming into effect in April 100% of her annual salary.
2006, the Company proposes to offer to employees who are over or close to reaching the lifetime allowance beyond which pension savings do not receive favourable tax treatment a cash supplement as an alternative to Non-Executive Directors pension accrual beyond the lifetime allowance.
Any such cash supplement The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board would be paid net of income tax and National Insurance Contributions and as a whole.
Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration would be in amounts no greater than the Companys current pension Committee.
Business expenses are also reimbursed.
In addition to the contributions for that individual.
base fee of 28,000, 5,000 per annum was paid to the Chairmen of the Harriet Green will receive money purchase benets from the UK Scheme.
In Audit and Remuneration Committees and 2,500 to the Senior line with current policy, the cost to the Company of these contributions will Independent Director during the year under review.
The base fee was be equal to 25 per cent of her basic salary during the financial year to increased to 31,000 and the amounts payable to the Chairmen of the January 2007.
Audit and Remuneration Committees and the Senior Independent Director to 5,500 and 2,750 respectively with effect from February 2006.
Relative importance of remuneration elements The Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service, but are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment.
Such appointments are The Committees view is that the performance related elements of the initially for a three-year term.
It is normal that the appointment is renewed remuneration package for Executive Directors should be a significant for a second three-year period.
Thereafter, the Companys policy is for element of the total.
This serves to align the interests of such Directors re-appointments to be on an annual basis.
The expiry dates of all with shareholders.
Assuming full payment of all elements and annual re-appointments coincide with the Companys Annual General Meeting grants of options and awards under the long-term incentive plan, more in the relevant year.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate than two-thirds of the total remuneration of Executive Directors ignoring in any incentive plans, share options schemes or Company pension pension contributions would be performance related.
arrangements and are not entitled to any payment in compensation for any early termination of their appointment.
Service contracts The commencement dates for the current appointments of Non-Executive In accordance with the Companys policy, Mr Fisher and Mr Bain have, and Directors are: Mr Hirst had, service agreements terminable by the Company on twelve Sir Peter Gershon 21st June 2004 three-year months notice.
Mr Bains service agreement dated 23rd April 2004 allows W Korb 13th June 2006 three-year the Company to make a payment in lieu of the whole or part of his notice M Lester 14th June 2005 annual period and Mr Hirsts service agreement, dated 13th November 1998, C Nolan 13th June 2006 annual contained similar provisions.
Mr Fishers agreement, dated 24th November D J S Roques 13th June 2006 annual 1994, contains provisions entitling him to a payment equal to 12 months salary and benets in the event of early termination.
The Companys Any Director appointed by the Board during the year holds ofce only until policy is generally not to include a provision providing for payment of a the next Annual General Meeting and must then stand for election to xed sum on termination and to endeavour to minimise any payment on continue in ofce.
Thereafter, each Director must retire from ofce at every early termination by insisting on mitigation of any loss.
The provisions in third Annual General Meeting since he or she last retired, at which meeting Mr Fishers agreement were included as part of the reduction in his notice he or she will be eligible for re-election.
Sir Peter Gershon was appointed Non Executive Chairman of the Company on 1st March 2005 and Executive Chairman of the Company with effect from Appointment of Harriet Green 4th July 2005.
As Executive Chairman, Sir Peter received an annual salary of 300,000, which included all fees payable to Sir Peter in connection with On 25th January 2006, the Company announced the appointment of his chairmanship of the Board.
On the appointment of Harriet Green in Harriet Green as Chief Executive officer and Harriet joined the Company on April 2006, Sir Peter stepped down as Executive Chairman but continues 3rd April 2006.
Her previous employment was with a US-based company in his role as Chairman of the Company and his remuneration reverted to which has a different approach to the remuneration of its executives and, its previous level of 125,000 per annum.
In the light of the successful in order to facilitate the appointment, the Company departed from its completion of all of the key objectives set for Sir Peter when he took over previous policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors in the executive responsibility, the Committee determined that he should receive following respects: a bonus of 100,000 for the period of his Executive Chairmanship part of which fell within the year covered by this Report.
The relevant objectives initially Harriet Greens service contract, dated 7th February 2006, is terminable on 24 months notice.
That notice period reduces by one were set out in the Companys interim results announcement and included month for each month of her employment until it reaches 12 months, maximising the Groups financial performance in the year covered by this Report, putting in place a robust budget for the following year and which period is in line with the Companys policy.
On termination of her employment, the contract entitles the Company to pay Harriet in lieu of appointing a new Chief Executive.
notice in a single payment or by way of monthly instalments.
Where Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 27 Directors remuneration audited Salary Annual Benets Termination Total emoluments Pension contributions or fees bonus in kind payments 2005 2004 2005 2004 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive J R Hirst 184 15 410 609 471 72 215 A C Fisher 278 95 21 394 346 130 104 L Bain 269 84 35 388 313 73 68 Non-Executive Sir Malcolm Bates 9 9 110 Sir Peter Gershon Chairman 221 78 299 33 Sir Robert Horton 15 W Korb 28 28 28 M Lester 33 33 33 C J Nolan 28 28 28 D J S Roques 35 35 35 1,085 257 71 410 1,823 1,412 275 387 Mr Hirsts employment with the Company ended on 4th July 2005 and Mr Hirst resigned from the Board on the same date.
The termination payment in respect of Mr Hirst is the amount paid to him in lieu of his entitlement to notice under his service contract.
There were no other amounts paid or receivable in respect of compensation for loss of ofce or in connection with the termination of any Director.
There is ongoing discussion with Mr Hirst concerning the calculation of the contributions that were payable by the Company, during his employment, into the FURBS established for his benefit.
Sir Robert Horton and Sir Malcolm Bates retired from the Board on 15th June 2004 and 28th February 2005 respectively.
The amount stated in respect of Sir Peter Gershons salary is made up as follows: 50,000 pa for the period 31st January to 1st March 2005 Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman : 125,000 pa for the period 1st March to 4th July 2005 Non-Executive Chairman and 300,000 pa for the period 4th July 2005 to 29th January 2006 Executive Chairman.
The gure for benets in kind paid to Mr Bain includes a cash allowance in place of a Company car and an expense allowance chargeable to UK income tax.
No other expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax were paid.
The following table sets out the final salary pension benets accruing to relevant Executive Directors.
Mr Bain does not receive any final salary benets and therefore does not appear in this table.
Final salary Additional final salary Transfer value of final Transfer value of final B-A pension accrued as at pension earned during the salary benets as at salary benets as at 29th January 2006 year including ination 30th January 2005 29th January 2006 excluding ination A B p. a. p. a. J R Hirst 9,387 793 697 97,097 122,604 25,507 A C Fisher 23,491 1,934 1,352 178,087 215,248 37,161 Mr Hirsts employment with the Company ended on 4th July 2005.
His accrued pension disclosures are based on service until 4th July 2005.
In the case of Mr Hirst, the allowance for ination is up to 4th July 2005.
The increase in pension over the year reects 5 months accrual of benets for Mr Hirst.
No contribution is made by Directors to the final salary pension arrangements.
For each of the Directors the main terms applying to their final salary pensions are: payable from normal retirement age of 60 the Directors do not make any contribution to the final salary pension arrangements spouses pension of 50 per cent of the Directors pension payable on death pensions in payment increase in line with ination, to a maximum of 5 per cent each year.
Mr Hirst is aged 53 and Mr Fisher is aged 48.
The accrued final salary pension shown at 29th January 2006 is the combined gure for the UK Scheme and US Plan dened benefit accruals and is the amount that the Director would be entitled to from normal retirement age if he left service at the end of the year.
The increase in final salary pension during the year is the increase over the gure disclosed in last years accounts both including and excluding an allowance for ination during the year.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors final salary pension benets.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and therefore they cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The table above shows transfer values at the beginning and the end of the year.
As the transfer values are linked to investment market conditions, a slight fall in investment yields over the year has been a factor in the increase in transfer values which is shown.
Members contributions paid during the year were paid into the money purchase arrangement within the UK Scheme and as such are not included in the transfer value.
28 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 28 Remuneration Report continued Directors interests audited The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are set out below.
29th January 30th January 2006 2005 Sir Peter Gershon beneficial 72,000 25,000 Sir Malcolm Bates beneficial 35,000 35,000 A C Fisher beneficial 80,000 80,000 J R Hirst beneficial 66,050 66,050 L Bain beneficial 5,000 5,000 W Korb beneficial 15,000 10,000 M Lester beneficial 30,000 30,000 C J Nolan beneficial 7,000 7,000 D J S Roques beneficial 10,000 10,000 As at date of retirement for Sir Malcolm Bates and the date of resignation for John Hirst.
In addition to the above beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares, the Executive Directors are regarded for Companies Act purposes as being interested in 304,000 ordinary shares held by the Premier Farnell Executive Trust.
All employees including Executive Directors are potential beneciaries of the trust.
It is not anticipated that any employee or Executive Director will be entitled to receive from the trust a greater number of shares than that to which they are entitled on exercise of awards made to them under the long-term incentive plan.
SAYE share options which are not subject to any performance conditions.
The other options listed above are executive options which are subject to the performance conditions described under the heading Option schemes on page 25.
No price was paid for any option.
There were no variations to the terms and conditions of any Directors options during the year.
The market price of the Companys shares at 29th January 2006 was 208.5p 30th January 2005: 174.8p and the range during the year was 134.5p 208.5p.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29 29 Long-term incentive plan audited Interests of Directors in the plan are: At Awarded Market price Vested Lapsed At End of 30th January at date of 29th January performance 2005 award pence 2006 period J R Hirst 203,804 217.5 67,935 135,869 June 2006 153,241 254.5 93,648 59,593 April 2007 A C Fisher 135,870 217.5 135,870 June 2006 101,178 254.5 101,178 April 2007 L Bain 125,000 217.5 125,000 June 2006 95,795 254.5 95,795 April 2007 As at the date of resignation for John Hirst.
The conditions for the vesting of an award made under the plan are described under the heading Long-term incentive plan on page 24.
There were no variations made to the terms and conditions of any award during the year.
Performance graph The graph below shows the total shareholder return for a holding of the Companys ordinary shares for the five financial years of the Company of which the year to 29th January 2006 is the last.
This is compared to the total shareholder return for a hypothetical holding in the FTSE mid-250 Index excluding investment trusts.
This was chosen as it is the index of which the Company is a constituent and the index used for the purposes of the long-term incentive plan.
Total shareholder return is the growth in value of a share plus the value of dividends paid, assuming that the dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares on the day on which they are paid.
investment trusts Elements of report subject to audit The information above under the headings Directors remuneration, Directors interests, Share options and Long-term incentive plan is auditable.
All other information provided in the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Approved by the Board on 16th March 2006 Signed on behalf of the Board by Michael Lester Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Value
