| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 31 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
The table on directors emoluments and information on the deferred annual share bonus scheme, the executive share option scheme and directors pensions constitute audited information.
Remuneration committee The members of the committee during the year were Messrs D C Godwin retired 30th September 2005, D W Lewis, R H Sellers, J D M Smith Chairman and J T J Steel joined 1st October 2005.
The members are all non-executive directors of the company.
They are independent, have no conicts of interest and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors.
The committee was advised during the year by New Bridge Street Consultants, London, in relation to salary levels, the deferred annual share bonus scheme and the executive share option scheme.
Policy on executive directors remuneration The employment conditions, pay and benets are intended to reward and motivate directors in a manner which reects the global and competitive nature of the Groups business and to be sufficient to attract and retain persons of high calibre.
Elements of the remuneration package are as follows: Basic salary and benets Participation in the deferred annual share bonus scheme Participation in the executive share option scheme Pension benets from the executive directors scheme Basic salary and benets Salaries are reviewed annually by the remuneration committee.
The review takes account of individual performance, company performance, external surveys and remuneration levels in a range of companies of comparable size, geographical spread and market sector.
Taxable benets, which are subject to periodic review, include health insurance and car benets.
Deferred annual share bonus scheme As part of the Groups focus on improved operating performance, a deferred annual share bonus scheme was introduced with effect from 1st June 2000 for main board executive directors excluding the Chairman and certain key subsidiary directors.
The award of a bonus to a maximum of 50% of salary is dependent upon the achievement of operating profit targets and will normally be received by the directors following three years of continuing employment from the date of the award.
The award will be made in a combination of cash and shares which are purchased in the market and retained in an employee trust until they are issued to the directors.
Bonuses to be awarded for acheivement of targets for the current financial year are included in the directors remuneration table on page 33 and are calculated using the market value at 31st May 2006 of 14.50 per share.
Further details of the employee trust are given in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements.
Executive share option scheme An executive share option scheme was introduced with effect from 1st June 2003.
This emphasises the boards commitment to ensuring the interests of senior executives are clearly aligned with shareholders interests.
Key points of the scheme are as follows: Senior executives excluding the Chairman will be granted options to buy shares at the market value of the shares when the options are granted.
This means that executives will only benefit under the scheme to the extent that shareholders benefit through increases in the share price.
The value of shares under options granted to an executive in any financial year will be limited to a maximum of 1.5 times basic salary.
Options granted to executives have not exceeded one times basic salary.
The exercise of options granted will be subject to performance conditions based on the companys normalised earnings per share growth relative to ination over three or four financial years.
The following targets will apply: Proportion of option grant exercisable Performance conditions average annual growth in excess of ination in earnings per share 33% RPI 3% pa 33% 66% pro rata RPI 3% to 5% pa 66% 100% pro rata RPI 5% to 7% pa | | 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2006 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED The remuneration committee will review the performance conditions each time options are granted, in order to ensure that they remain challenging in the context of the companys long-term budgets, and may impose different conditions provided they are suitably challenging.
With effect from 1st June 2006 options granted will no longer be subject to retesting in the fourth year following grant.
Details of options granted to directors are as follows: The third grant of options took place on 8th September 2005.
The exercise price for these options, equal to the market value at the date of the grant, is 12.98, and is applicable to all directors.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
There have been no other grants of options during the year and no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria during the year.
Following the enfranchisement of the A ordinary shares and the compensatory bonus issue of ordinary shares, the number of shares subject to share options has been adjusted accordingly.
| | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2006 33 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Performance graph The graph illustrates the performance of PZ Cussons Plc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the five year period to 31st May 2006 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
The FTSE 250 index was chosen as PZ Cussons Plc is a constituent of that index.
PZ Cussons Plc TSR vs the FTSE 250 Index TSR Source: Thomson Datastream The following table shows remuneration of individual directors for the year ended 31st May 2006.
Benets in kind are not pensionable.
All the executive directors at 31st May 2006 are members of the scheme.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year and salary at 31st May 2006.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.2 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The value of net increase b represents the incremental value to the director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase a after deducting the directors contribution.
The change in the transfer value c includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the company and directors, such as gilt yield movements.
It is calculated after deducting the directors contribution.
Voluntary contributions paid by directors and resulting benets are not shown.
The total accrued pension as at 31st May 2006 and the value of accrued pension at 31st May 2005 and 31st May 2006 shown for Messrs Calder and Smyth include benets resulting from transfers into the plan.
Mr J Spyridoulias retired on 28th February 2006.
The above gures are based on the change to Mr Spyridouliass accrued benets between 31st May 2005 and 28th February 2006.
On retirement, Mr Spyridoulias received an annual pension of 110,859 and a cash lump sum of 315,951.
Mr C N Green retired on 31st May 2006.
The above gures are based on the change to Mr Greens accrued benets between 31st May 2005 and 31st May 2006.
On retirement, Mr Green received an annual pension of 178,378 and a cash lump sum of 114,879.
In addition, he received benets from his voluntary contributions and a cash lump sum of 475,082 net of the recovery charge in respect of benets earned in excess of the Lifetime Allowance.
The company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benets for Messrs Calder and Smyth as their benets would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The funded benets payable to these directors remain subject to a scheme specic earnings cap calculated in a similar manner to the abolished statutory earnings cap.
Service contracts Executive directors have one year rolling service contracts.
No executive director, including those proposed for re-election, has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benets in kind.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis.
By order of the board of directors J D M Smith 1st August 2006
