In addition to the appointment of directors, the appointment end of the October meeting.
The committee was and removal of the company secretary remains a matter for requested to seek a candidate who could match Mr Cramers pan European business experience.
consideration by the board as a whole.
A formal session of the non-executive directors assessed the The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information chairmans performance and based on his high level of in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge performance the members unanimously recommended his its duties.
All directors should receive induction on joining the re-election to the board.
board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The The board operates in a field which is technically complex and board should ensure planned and progressive refreshing of directors are provided with information which enables them to the board.
Visits to the mines, branch offices and technical presentations provided by management are In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Jersey used to further their knowledge in various areas of specialisation.
Law 1991 and the Articles of Association, directors are required It is the duty of the company secretary to ensure an effective to submit themselves to re-election.
Any newly appointed flow of information between the board, its committees and the director is subject to election by shareholders after his her management of the company.
The new directors were provided appointment.
Thereafter, by rotation, the entire board is subject with a detailed induction into the groups activities, with specific to re-election every three years.
site visits to assist in the process.
The Articles of Association specify neither an age limit for The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual directors nor any restriction about the period of service.
As evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees previously noted, a board succession plan will be formulated and individual directors.
In a departure from previous practice, the board decided in Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain May 2006 to adopt a formal evaluation procedure, which was and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company formulated taking cognisance of other board systems and in successfully, but a company should avoid paying more than consultation with the group human resources executive.
The is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of new procedure through a structured self assessment system executive directors remuneration should be structured so as allows each director to rate the performance of the board and to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
its committees and focuses on a number of key areas.
The individual assessments are then scored and the results tabled This is dealt with in the report of the remuneration committee.
at a board meeting for discussion.
At the October 2006 meeting, the board undertook its first evaluation.
The board There should be a formal and transparent procedure concluded that the exercise was beneficial and agreed to for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing address two of the issues which arose: the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director A board succession plan needed to be adopted.
The should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
board acknowledged that it should consider introducing a limit on the length of service of non-executive This is dealt with in the report of the remuneration committee.
However, given that a majority of the nonexecutive directors were appointed at the time of the The board should present a balanced and understandable initial IPO, in 1997, it was acknowledged that if all assessment of the companys position and prospects.
such directors were to resign simultaneously this could be detrimental to the companys strategic direction.
The Companies Jersey Law, 1991 and the Code require, and the board acknowledges, that it is responsible for presenting The chairman and the CEO were requested to prepare a succession plan for consideration.
a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys and the groups position and prospects.
This extends to the The board agreed that the governance and nomination preparation and publication of the annual report and any other committee be requested to consider and identify a release of information, price sensitive or otherwise.
replacement for Mr J-A Cramer, who retired at the Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The financial statements set out in this report have been third parties or enter into joint development prepared by management under the direction of the board in arrangements to finance the development of its accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards properties and the timely exploration of its mineral and are based on accounting policies that the board considers rights, which funding or development arrangements appropriate, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all.
The company conducts mining, development and exploration activities in countries with developing The directors are of the opinion that the financial statements economies and are subject to the risks of political and fairly present the financial position of the company and group economic instability associated with these countries.
as at 31 December 2006, and the consolidated results of If the company is unable to attract and retain key operations and cash flows of the group for the year then ended.
personnel its business may be harmed.
The directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis The companys insurance coverage may prove in preparing the financial statements because the directors are inadequate to satisfy future claims against it.
satisfied that the group and company have adequate financial It may be difficult to affect service of process resources available to ensure their continued operational and enforce legal judgments against the company or existence for the foreseeable future.
The group has operated in accordance with a code of ethics Full details relating to these risk factors as well as those since its United Kingdom listing in July 1997.
The code relating to the industry can be found in the annual report includes specific reference to the companys financial managers on form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2005, a and the chief executive officer.
A copy of the code is available copy of which is contained on the companys website at on the companys website at www.
The company also believes that the following risk factors should The board should maintain a sound system of internal control be carefully considered as they could, either individually or in to safeguard shareholders investment and the companys a combination, have a material adverse effect on its business: assets.
The profitability of its operations, and the cash flows generated by its operations, are affected by changes The group maintains a business control framework that in the market price for gold which in the past has documents the key business risks, together with the related fluctuated widely.
operational, financial and compliance controls.
The business The company may incur losses or loose opportunities control framework is regularly reviewed and updated by for gains as a result of its use of derivative instruments management, who report quarterly to the board on any issues to protect it against low gold prices.
which might affect the risks and controls.
The board Because it depends on Morila, and its interest in Morila acknowledges that it has responsibility for the ongoing review Limited, for a substantial portion of its revenues and and update of the business control framework and believes cash flow, its business may be harmed if the that, through the procedures noted above and below, it has Government of Mali fails to repay fuel duties and TVA complied with the requirements of the Code to review the owing to Morila.
effectiveness of the groups internal controls at least annually.
Under its joint venture agreement with AngloGold Further, the board confirms that this process accords with the Ashanti Limited, the company jointly manages Morila 2005 Turnbull Guidance and that no significant failings or Limited, and any disputes with AngloGold Ashanti weaknesses have been identified from the review.
Significant over the management of Morila Limited could adversely focus has been given to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley affect its business.
Act which came into effect at the end of the year ended The companys mining operations may yield less gold 31 December 2006 and in this regard the services of KPMG under actual production conditions than indicated by were employed to assist management in ensuring that the its gold reserve figures, which are estimates based appropriate systems and procedures are in place.
on a number of assumptions, including mining and recovery factors, production costs and the price of The companys auditors also act as auditors for Loulo and gold.
Morila and the findings from the audits are communicated to The company may be required to seek funding from the audit committee.
AngloGold Ashantis internal audit 50 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 department conducts regular audits of the Morila mine and issues arose which were deemed outside the areas of expertise copies of these reports are submitted to the companys audit of the members, independent professional advice would be sought.
Management of the company has since the start up of the Loulo mine undertaken regular During the year the committee met six times and attendance assessments to ensure that the appropriate procedures are in place from the outset.
Given its size, the group does not was as follows: have a separate internal audit department.
However, executive management undertake regular audits of various parts of the Members Number of meetings attended Morila and the Loulo mines and details of their reports are submitted to the audit committee and board for comment.
Financial and technical audits of the companys branch offices and major assets are regularly conducted by group BH Asher Chairman 6 6 management.
The board notes that no cost effective system J-A Cramer 5 6 will preclude all errors and irregularities and so the groups AL Paverd 4 6 system of internal controls provides reasonable, but not absolute K Voltaire 1 1 assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
Mr Cramer retired on 27 October 2006.
The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements Dr Voltaire joined the committee on 1 August 2006. for considering how they should apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate In terms of the directors remuneration policy, Mr Asher receives relationship with the companys auditors.
a fee as the senior independent director and no additional payment for services to the audit committee.
Fees paid to The companys audit committee has been set up to review Dr Paverd and Mr Cramer for service to the audit committee the companys financial reports, internal control principles and for the year were US$35 000 and to Dr Voltaire US$17 500. risk management systems, review significant financial reporting The committee makes recommendations to the board in relation judgements and for dealing with the appointment of the auditors to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external and monitoring their relationship with the company and its auditors as well as the remuneration and terms of engagement management.
The actual appointment of the external auditors is subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual For part of the year, the audit committee comprised four general meeting.
members until the retirement of Mr Cramer in October, all of whom were non-executive directors.
For reasons described During the year, the external auditors were paid US$0.4 million earlier, the board considers that the members of the audit for their services including Sarbanes Oxley Audit work.
committee are all independent:  provided the following non-audit services in the year within the audit committees pre-approved guidelines: Members Appointed Resigned Company secretarial services in Tanzania for Randgold Resources Tanzania T Ltd. Tax advice for Seven Bridges Trading 14 Pty Ltd.
In both cases, the amounts were less than US$6 000.
BH Asher Chairman 15 Jul 97 J-A Cramer 15 Jul 97 27 Oct 06 AL Paverd 1 May 00 The committee reviews and monitors the external auditors independence and the objectivity and effectiveness of the K Voltaire 1 Aug 06 audit process.
This is undertaken within the framework of a detailed audit charter.
A copy of the audit charter is available Two of the members including Mr Cramer, who retired during on the companys website at www.
the year have considerable years of experience in the financial services sector, one has extensive experience in the mining industry and the other has a PhD in finance.
The board The committee reviews the companys published results, the effectiveness of its system of internal control, legal and regulatory believes that this level of experience is sufficient to meet the compliance including the Sarbanes Oxley Act, and the cost standards prescribed by the Code, even though none of the members has recent and relevant financial experience.
If effectiveness of the services provided by the external auditors.
Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The audit committee has implemented a policy regarding the February 2007 Dr Paverd and Dr Voltaire were also in provision, and pre-approval thereof, of non-audit services by attendance.
the external auditors and this mandate is reviewed annually.
Besides attendance at various industry conferences, a minimum The committee meets regularly and this includes quarterly of two road shows during the year are undertaken to enable meetings which are used to consider and approve the company representatives to interact directly with shareholders companys quarterly results.
The external auditors are regularly and interested parties.
The board continues to use the internet invited to attend meetings to report on their activities.
The for publication of announcements and to file these on its committee also meets with the external auditors, independent website to assist with communication with shareholders.
In of the executive directors or management, where this is deemed addition, the board encourages shareholders to access the necessary.
annual report from the website rather than having it sent by post in printed form.
The Sarbanes Oxley Act requires companies to establish whistle-blower systems.
The geographical spread of the The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors groups activities, particularly in remote West African locations, and to encourage their participation.
The first point of contact is the companys legal counsel who, upon receipt of such an issue The board believes that the annual general meeting is an being raised, would employ independent consultants and then appropriate forum for contact with shareholders and encourages pass the findings onto the senior independent director to their attendance and participation.
In order to reflect the pursue any alleged irregularity.
Quarterly reports are submitted sentiment of shareholders at the annual general meeting, it is to the audit committee concerning any instances where an unwritten policy that all resolutions should be considered complaints are submitted.
by way of a ballot poll and the number of proxies received disclosed to members in attendance.
At each annual general The audit committee has continued to oversee the groups meeting all committee chairmen as well as other non-executive preparation for compliance with the requirements of Section directors are present to address any queries raised by 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, which applies to the shareholders.
Institutional shareholders should enter into dialogue with There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the companies based upon the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with It has been the policy of the company that, twice a year, lengthy shareholders takes place.
roadshows are conducted by the CEO and group finance director where meetings are held with most of the companys The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining effective major institutional shareholders to brief them on the activities communication with all shareholders.
The CEO, corporate of the company.
In addition, after the publication of each set communications manager and the companys investor relations of quarterly results, the CEO follows up with meetings with consultants prepare a quarterly report for the board detailing many of the institutional shareholders.
These roadshows are the activities and presentations given to shareholders.
In over and above the companys attendance at several key addition, since September 2004 the company has employed international gold mining conferences around the world.
In the international market intelligence experts to provide a global last year conferences attended included those held in New shareholder identification service which has greatly enhanced York, San Francisco, New Orleans, Denver, London, Zurich, the focus of the companys communication message.
Whilst in general corporate communication with shareholders Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make is conducted by the CEO, Mr Litard, at least quarterly, considered use of their votes.
participates in an open forum with shareholders and stakeholders.
In addition, Mr Litard leads a group of senior The company is pleased to see the increasing trend of executives to the African Mining Indaba, one of the premier institutional shareholders now exercising their rights to vote at global mining conferences attended by a substantial number general meetings.
In the past two years the percentage of of global players in the mining and related industries, and in shareholders present and voting has increased dramatically.
52 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2006 Remuneration committee report The remuneration committee was Members Appointed increased during the year with the appointment of a new independent non-executive director.
RI Israel Chairman 15 Jul 97 BH Asher 15 Jul 97 NP Cole 1 Aug 06 During the year, the committee met three times with all members in attendance and discussed all aspects of the remuneration of the group.
For the year under review, and purely as payment for his services as chairman of the remuneration committee, Mr Israel was paid US$40 000.
Mr Asher was paid a fee for his role as senior independent non-executive director and was not paid any additional fees for services to any board committee.
Mr Cole was paid US$12 500 for his service to the committee.
Details of all directors fees are contained on page 54.
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS The principal function of the remuneration committee is to determine, on behalf of the board, the remuneration of the chairman and non-executive directors, the senior executive remuneration policy and the remuneration and terms and conditions of employment of the companys executive directors.
Comparative industry surveys are provided to the committee by the companys human resources executive to assist in formulating remuneration.
The committee believes that it should be able to meet informally without management being in attendance and this has occurred on several occasions during 2006 in addition to the formal meetings.
Furthermore, the committee is entitled to call for independent consultants advice on pertinent issues.
The committee continued to employ the services of Bachelder & Dowling to review executive remuneration, which was done in conjunction with reviews of various mining related industry surveys.
Bachelder & Dowling were paid US$6 000 during the year.
The consultant provided no other services to the company.
At certain meetings, the members invited the chairman and chief executive officer to attend.
The award in 2006 of US$30 000 to each non-executive director translated into share grants which vest over a three year period from the date of the award.
In addition to the total amounts reflected in these columns, the company paid Mr RAR Kebble, who resigned from the board with effect from 3 November 2004, an amount of US$1 212 584 2005: US$975 136.
This amount reflected the final payment in settlement of Mr RAR Kebbles termination agreement.
The bonus is calculated on the movement in the companys share price based on a calendar year to 31 March.
The 2006 bonuses, as shown above, reflect the amounts paid in April 2006 in respect of the movement in the share price from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006, being US$12.36 to US$18.17.
At 31 December 2006, the company accrued US$1.8 million for bonus payments in respect of 2006, based on a share price of US$23.46.
Based on a share price of US$22.42 on 13 March 2007, the date of signing off the accounts, the aggregate amount of the bonuses payable for the period up to that date would be the higher amount of US$2.3 million.
Bonuses in respect of the 2006 year are expected to be paid in April 2007 in terms of the provisions of the service contracts.
During the year, the new remuneration charter was approved by the board and this has been placed on the website.
