Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 21 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 21 Remuneration policy Service contracts and compensation The Remuneration and nomination committee is responsible The executive directors each entered into a service contract for deciding the Companys framework of executive with the Company in June 2006.
The contracts do not remuneration and setting remuneration packages for each contain any specific provisions governing the payment of of the executive directors.
compensation upon termination of the contract by the Company.
The notice period for termination of the contract is The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive 12 months to be given by either the Company or the director.
directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit packages and incentives.
These are linked to The three non-executive directors have been appointed personal performance and the overall performance of the under contracts for services which are intended to continue Group and, in turn, to the interests of the shareholders.
for an initial period of three years.
However, these contracts The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive may be terminated by either the Company or the director directors remuneration, performance and employment.
Remuneration and nomination committee Performance graph All the members of this committee are non-executive The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder directors and a list of membership and the chair of the return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid committee is set out on page 7.
The terms of reference of 250 index, which the directors believe is the most this committee are published on the Companys website.
appropriate broad index for comparison.
KPMG, who were appointed by the Company, provides 200 advice in relation to certain benefits for the directors and on the Companys pension scheme.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is 150 determined by the executive directors.
Remuneration packages The committee reviews basic salaries to take effect 100 from 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee takes account of financial data taken from a cross-section of UK companies within the electronic and 50 engineering sectors.
The Company operates an annual appreciation award scheme for all group employees and Rebased to 100 at 30th June 2001 directors, on which no pension contributions are made.
Renishaw FTSE mid 250 The award is based upon group profit performance and the achievement of a number of strategic objectives to The report was approved by the Board of directors on maintain the long-term development of the Group.
The 26th July 2006 and has been signed on its behalf by:- non-executive directors do not participate in the appreciation award scheme.
T D Snowden FCA The Company makes annual contributions of 15% of Chairman, Remuneration and nomination committee current basic salary to individual pension policies for Ben Taylor and Allen Roberts.
Geoff McFarland participates in the Companys defined benefit scheme and more details are given in note 7 on page 34.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension scheme.
Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are subject to income tax and no benefits are pensionable.
The benefits are included in the directors remuneration table on page 34.
There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in operation for the directors.
Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form the audited section of this report are shown in note 7 on page 34.
Return Annual Report 4 8 06 08:50 Page 22 22 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report for the parent company financial statements, state and the group and parent company financial statements, in whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been accordance with applicable law and regulations.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial Company law requires the directors to prepare group and statements: and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the prepare the financial statements on the going concern group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent and the parent company will continue in business.
company financial statements in accordance with UK The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Accounting Standards.
records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The group financial statements are required by law and the financial position of the parent company and enable IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the position and the performance of the group: the Companies Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and statements giving a true and fair view are references to their detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also The parent company financial statements are required by responsible for preparing a directors report, directors law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the remuneration report and corporate governance statement parent company.
that comply with that law and those regulations.
In preparing each of the group and parent company The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and financial statements, the directors are required to: integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing select suitable accounting policies and then apply the preparation and dissemination of financial statements them consistently: may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU:
