Remuneration Report of the Directors 1 Consideration of Remuneration Matters by the Directors 2 Statement of Remuneration Policy 3 Elements of the Remuneration Package 2005 06 The Committee is able to draw on advice from Consideration of independent remuneration consultants and internal expertise.
Remuneration Matters Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc.
Towers Perrin act 1 by the Directors as remuneration consultant and independent advisor to the The ScottishPower Board is responsible for determining Committee.
Towers Perrins appointment by the Committee the remuneration policy for the ScottishPower group.
The followed a competitive tendering exercise.
Towers Perrin also Remuneration Committee, with delegated authority from the provides remuneration and other human resources consultancy Board, determines the detail of remuneration arrangements services directly to some ScottishPower companies within for the Executive Team, including the executive directors, and parameters established by the Committee.
The terms of reviews proposals in respect of other senior executives.
The reference of the independent remuneration advisors are relationship between the Board and the Committee is based available on the companys website.
Company executives whom on formal terms of reference, which are available on the the Committee may consult include the Company Secretary, companys website, and are regularly reviewed to ensure that who acts as Secretary to the Committee and the Director, they reect best practice.
The terms of reference The Remuneration Committee consists solely of of the Remuneration Committee empower it to avail itself of independent non-executive directors.
Its members are Nolan external legal and professional advice at the expense of the Karras Chairman, Euan Baird, Donald Brydon, Nick Rose company.
In accordance with the terms of reference, the and Nancy Wilgenbusch.
Philip Carroll was a member, until Committee received advice from Freshelds Bruckhaus his retirement from the Board at the AGM on 22 July 2005.
Deringer the companys legal advisers on a number of Nolan Karras will retire from the board at the AGM on 26 July matters in the year to 31 March 2006.
2006, at which time he will be replaced as Chairman of the The Committee met on ten occasions during the year Committee by another independent non-executive director.
These members have no personal financial interest, other than During the year, the Board accepted all of the as shareholders, in the matters considered by the Committee.
recommendations from the Committee without significant Details of the payments made to all non-executive directors are amendment.
The Chairman of the company, Charles Miller Smith, and the Chief Executive, Philip Bowman, are invited to attend Statement of meetings and may provide guidance on the impact of 2 Remuneration Policy remuneration policy and advise, as appropriate, on the performance of senior executives.
They are not present during PHILOSOPHY AND POLICY any discussion of their own remuneration.
The terms of ScottishPower seeks to ensure that remuneration and incentive reference contain conict of interest provisions to ensure schemes are in line with best practice, provide a strong link that no directors are involved in any decision relating to to individual and company performance and promote a their own remuneration.
community of interest between employees and shareholders.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 57 Remuneration Report of the Directors Rewards for executives and directors are designed to attract of AGM.
At this time, no other substantial changes to the and retain individuals of high quality, who have the requisite companys policies with regard to directors remuneration are skills and are incentivised to achieve levels of performance envisaged over the next year.
However, the Committee may which exceed that of competitor companies.
As such, develop policy and, should it determine any changes to be remuneration packages must be market-competitive and capable appropriate, will report such changes to shareholders through of rewarding exceptional performance.
All senior management established channels of consultation and reporting.
remuneration packages are set according to a mid-market position, with packages above the mid-market level provided only where supported by demonstrably superior personal Elements of the Remuneration performance.
Remuneration packages are developed to reect 3 Package 2005 06 the prevailing market practice in each business environment.
Annual bonus arrangements have been structured so that BASE SALARIES stretching targets are based on corporate, business unit and The Committee sets base salaries for the Executive Team by individual performance.
reference to individual performance through a formal appraisal The company operates a Personal Shareholding Policy system applied to all management employees, and to external PSP, requiring executives and key senior managers to buildmarket data, reecting similar roles in comparable companies.
up and retain a shareholding in the company in proportion to Account is also taken of salary increases and employment their annual salaries.
The proportion is two times base salary for conditions across the company.
Philip Bowman and Simon Lowth.
The Committee expects PSP participants to have accumulated their respective shareholding ANNUAL PERFORMANCE-RELATED BONUS targets within eight years of the introduction of the policy, that The Executive Directors are entitled to participate in an annual is by the end of May 2008, or eight years after their first award bonus scheme.
The maximum annual bonus under this scheme under any discretionary share plan for external appointees to for Philip Bowman was 37.5% of his basic annual salary for the the Board.
period from his appointment up to 31 March 2006 and In setting remuneration levels, the Committee commissions thereafter, 150% of his basic annual salary.
The maximum bonus an independent evaluation of the roles of the Executive Team.
for Simon Lowth is 100% of his basic annual salary of which The Committee takes independent advice from Towers Perrin 75% is to be paid immediately in cash and 25% deferred and on market-level remuneration, based on comparisons with other payable in shares which are released after three years.
companies of similar size and complexity, including the major For the 2005 06 annual incentive plan, Philip Bowmans utility companies, with which the company competes for bonus was based on an assessment of his contribution and executive talent.
For Simon Lowth, bonus was based on The Committee recognises the importance of linking the achievement of key financial targets, strategic objectives, rewards to business and personal performance and believes that the relevant business scorecard and leadership behaviours.
the arrangements detailed below provide an appropriate focus For the 2006 07 annual incentive plan, both executive on performance and balance between shortand long-term directors bonus will be based at least 65% on key company incentives.
The annual bonus plan and long-term incentive financial metrics including EBIT, net debt and working capital, arrangements are expected to provide 51% 59% of total with the remainder on key personal objectives and leadership remuneration for the achievement of stretching target objectives.
Higher proportions of performance-based reward are available for the delivery of exceptional personal and business EXECUTIVE SHARE PLANS performance resulting in enhanced shareholder value.
During 2005 06 the company operated one long-term incentive, The Committee constantly monitors market practice in a performance share plan, known as the LTIP for executive order to remain competitive, to ensure that reward policy directors and other senior managers.
The final awards under the supports company strategy and to reect good corporate LTIP were made in May 2005 with a special award granted to governance practice.
The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Philip Bowman on terms equivalent to the LTIP in March 2006 expires at the 2006 AGM having reached the end of its ten-year following his appointment.
In May 2004, the company made lifespan.
The Committee has therefore undertaken a thorough the final award under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 review of total remuneration and, after consultation with major ExSOP.
shareholders, has developed a new long-term incentive plan Under the LTIP, awards to acquire shares in ScottishPower which will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2006 AGM.
at nil or nominal cost were made to the participants up to a The proposals will subject to shareholder approval strengthen maximum value, at the time of grant, equal to 75% of base salary the link between remuneration and performance, and put more 100% for Philip Bowman.
The award will vest only if the weight on long-term performance.
Details of the proposed new Committee is satisfied that there has been sustained underlying long-term incentive arrangements can be found in the Notice performance of the company and, to this end, certain gateway 58 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 performance targets are measured and the Committee reviews annual grants of performance-vesting shares: performance against these measures when determining if awards vesting based on three-year TSR against a group of 12 UK vest.
The measures relate to the key financial performance utilities weighted by market capitalisation: indicators of the company and customer service standards.
30% vesting at median performance and 100% vesting These measures provide a mechanism to safeguard stakeholder at 70th percentile performance: and interests and provide an overview of the financial and maximum grant sizes of 100% of salary in 2006, 125% operational success of the business.
The number of shares which actually vest is dependent Full details of the proposed new long-term incentive plan upon the companys comparative Total Shareholder Return can be found in the Notice of AGM.
TSR performance, over a three-year performance period.
TSR measures ScottishPowers comparative performance against PERFORMANCE GRAPH key competitors and provides rewards only if ScottishPower is The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations require that a at least equal to the median performance of appropriate graph be presented showing the companys TSR performance comparators.
The Committee chose TSR as the performance against the TSR performance of a broad equity market index measure for the LTIP as it believes that it provides a clear link over a five-year period.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen because to the creation of shareholder value.
it is the principal index in which the companys shares are LTIP awards were granted to 60 directors and senior quoted.
The graph below presents the comparative TSR executives during the year Award 10.
TSR performance is performance of the company during the period 1 April 2001 31 measured against an international comparator group of 37 March 2006.
The graph shows that ScottishPower has major energy companies, as identied below.
outperformed the index over this period.
AES Corp: American Electric Power Inc: Calpine Corp: Centrepoint Energy Inc: Centrica: Chubu Electric Power Co TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Inc: CLP Holdings Limited: Constellation Energy Group Inc: Scottish Power plc FTSE 100 Index Dominion Resources Inc: Duke Energy Corp: Dynegy Inc: Edison International: El Paso Corp: Electrabel SA: Electricidade 175 fide Portugal SA: Endesa SA: Ente Nazionale per lEnergia 150 Elettrica SpA Enel : Entergy Corp: Exelon: FirstEnergy Corp: 125 FPL Group Inc: Gas Natural SDG SA: Iberdrola SA: Kansai Electric Power Co Inc: National Grid Transco plc: PPL Corp: 75 Progress Energy Inc: Public Service Enterprise Group Inc: RWE 50 AG: Scottish and Southern Energy plc: Southern Company Inc: Tenaga Nasional Bhd: Tokyo Electric Power Co Inc: TXU Corp: 25 Union Fenosa: Williams Companies Inc: and Xcel Energy Inc. 31March 31March 31March 31March 31March 31March No shares vest unless the companys TSR performance is at 01 02 03 04 05 06 least equal to the median performance of the comparator group, at which point 40% of the initial award vests.
100% of the shares This graph looks at the value net of witholding tax, at 31 vest if the companys performance is equal to or exceeds the top March 2006, of 100 invested in ScottishPower on 31 March quartile.
The number of shares that vest for performance 2001 compared with that of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 between these two points is determined on a straight-line basis.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening For LTIP Award 7, which had the potential to vest during financial year ends.
the year, TSR performance was measured against a similar composition of international energy companies over the threeALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS year period to 31 March 2005.
After careful consideration, the To facilitate high levels of share ownership by employees, the Committee determined that the gateway measures relating to company operates two savings-related share ownership plans the financial and customer service performance of the company to which executive directors may contribute.
These are allhad been achieved.
As the company was ranked 18th against the employee Inland Revenue approved plans and are not subject comparator group, 50% of the initial award vested.
This meant to performance conditions.
Participation is available to executive that at the maximum level of participation whereby awards were directors on the same basis as to all other eligible employees.
made over shares with an initial value of 75% of base salary at May 2002, an award equal to 37.5% of base salary at May 2002, SHARESAVE became available for exercise by participants in May 2005.
Employees domiciled in the UK are eligible to participate in the The Committee is recommending a new long-term ScottishPower all-employee Sharesave plan.
Under this plan, incentive plan for approval at the 2006 AGM.
The key features options are granted over ScottishPower shares at a discount of of the proposed plan are as follows: 20% from the prevailing market price at the time of grant to ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 59 Remuneration Report of the Directors eligible employees who commit to save up to 250 per month The Committee has considered, at length, the companys over a period of three or five years.
response to the governments simplication of the pensions taxation regime that took effect on 6 April 2006 A-day.
EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN ESOP In determining future executive pensions policy, the Committee The company operates an ESOP also known as a Share ensured that no additional benefit would accrue to executive Incentive Plan for all UK domiciled employees.
The ESOP directors as a result of the taxation reform.
The Committee enables employees to purchase shares in the company from has decided that the unapproved promise will remain the sole pre-tax income up to the limits specified in the legislation.
vehicle for providing executive pensions above the new Life The value of these shares is at risk as they are not normally Time Allowance.
released until the legislation allows.
The company matched The Committee has reported the pension expense in these shares at no cost to the employee on a one-for-one ratio.
accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority With effect from 1 April 2006 the company match is reduced and Directors Remuneration Report Regulations.
Pension costs to a maximum value of 50. detailed in the Accounts are calculated as the cost of providing benets accrued in the 2005 06 year, in accordance with RETURN OF CASH appropriate accounting standards.
The companys recent Return of Cash process had no impact on shares held within ExSOP, LTIP and Sharesave.
Shares BENEFITS already purchased within the ESOP were subject to the same Executive directors are eligible for a range of benets on treatment as ordinary shareholders and will thus be divided which they are assessed for tax.
These include the provision into ordinary shares and B shares.
of a company car or a cash allowance in lieu of a car, fuel and private medical provision.
The provision and level of benets PENSION is reviewed regularly to ensure that practice is in line with Simon Lowth and other senior managers of the company, are the market.
provided with pension benets through the companys main pension scheme, and through an executive top-up pension plan EXTERNAL NON-EXECUTIVE APPOINTMENTS which provides a maximum pension of two-thirds of final salary The company encourages its Executive Directors to become at retirement age, less retained benets, reduced where service non-executive directors of other companies, provided that these to normal retirement age is less than 20 years.
Pensionable appointments are not with competing companies, are not likely salary is normally base salary in the 12 months prior to leaving to lead to any conicts of interest, and do not require extensive the company although there are prescribed mechanisms for commitments of time which would prejudice their roles within calculating pensionable salary by averaging base salary over the company.
This serves to add to their personal and a period of up to three out of the last 10 years service.
The professional experience and knowledge, to the benefit of the employee contributes 5% of salary to the scheme.
Any fees derived from such appointments may be provision of four times pensionable salary and a widows retained by the executives.
pension of half the executives pension on death are provided.
Individuals who joined the company on or after 1 June 1989 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS are subject to an earnings cap, equivalent to the HM Revenue and The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by Customs earnings cap that was introduced by the Finance Act the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board and 1989.
Entitlement to pension benets above the cap are not consists of a base fee of 31,000 p. a. a committee membership provided through the companys approved pension scheme, and fee of 5,000 p. a. not paid to a committee chairman, a fee of therefore arrangements on an unapproved basis have been made to 15,000 p. a. for chairing the Audit Committee and the provide total benets for executives as though there was no cap.
Remuneration Committee, and an international travel fee of The total liability calculated on an IAS 19 basis in respect of 1,000 for attending a tranche of meetings that involve a executives and senior employees arising in relation to unapproved transatlantic journey.
benets accrued for service for the year to 31 March 2006 was A fee of 10,000 p. a. is paid for chairing the Group Finance 1,238,000.
As part of the continuing drive to improve the cost Committee of the Board and 3,000 p. a. to be a member.
Such effective delivery of pensions, the company and the trustees agreed fees are only paid to the independent non-executive directors to the merger of the approved Executive Top-Up Plan into the who serve on the Group Finance Committee.
A fee of 10,000 p. a. is also payable for the role of senior Philip Bowman receives a cash allowance in lieu of independent director.
pension, equal to 50% of basic annual salary and payable In line with best practice, the independent non-executive monthly.
He has no right to participate in any pension schemes.
directors do not have service contracts, but are appointed under He also receives life assurance provision of four times basic standard letters of appointment.
They are not members of the annual salary.
companys pension schemes and do not participate in any bonus, 60 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 TABLE 32 Service contracts Contract element Philip Bowman Simon Lowth Ian Russell Charles Berry David Nish Date 31 March 2006 1 August 2003 3 June 2003 Notice period Terminable by giving ScottishPower SP 12 Terminable by either party giving the other 12 Terminable by either party giving the other months notice, and initially by SP giving 24 months notice.
months notice, which will reduce by one month in each of the 12 months following his appointment so that the period of notice at any time on or after 16 January 2007 is 12 months Basic annual salary Reviewable annually from April 2007 Reviewable annually Reviewable annually Termination SP has a discretion to terminate the service agreement immediately by making a payment in lieu of notice of a prescribed amount.
If SP terminates the service agreement unlawfully, SP is obliged to pay liquidated damages to the director of the same prescribed amount.
Payment in lieu of notice Calculated by reference to basic salary, any allowance in lieu of pension provision, pension benets and all other contractual benets liquidated damages excluding pension provision, bonus and share related incentives which the Executive Director would have been entitled to receive or accrue during a period equivalent to notice period.
Mitigation SP has a discretion to pay any amount in SP has a discretion to pay any amount in SP has a discretion to pay any amount in respect of liquidated damages in full on respect of liquidated damages in full on respect of liquidated damages in full on termination of employment or in instalments.
termination of employment or in instalments.
75% will be paid on termination of the 50% will be paid on termination of the 50% will be paid on termination of the employment and 25% will be paid nine months employment, 25% will be paid six months employment, 25% will be paid six months following termination of the employment.
after termination of the employment and the after termination of the employment and the balance will be paid nine months following balance will be paid nine months following If Philip Bowman takes up alternative termination of the employment.
employment prior to nine and twelve months following termination, any further instalment If Simon Lowth takes up alternative payment due will be reduced by the salary he employment between six and nine months receives from that other employment for the following termination, any further instalment period nine and twelve months following payments due will be reduced by the salary he termination.
receives from that other employment.
Future bonus Where a payment in lieu of notice or a liquidated damages payment is made, SP will pay an amount to the director representing a percentage of his maximum annual bonus for the relevant bonus year or years that the notice period may span.
The percentage of bonus will be determined by the Remuneration Committee having regard to the performance of SP against its predetermined financial objectives for the relevant bonus year s and must be consistent with any determination made in respect of other employees of similar status and seniority.
The bonus amount will be paid at the same time as annual bonuses are paid to other employees.
The amount may be reduced if the director obtains alternative employment during the notice period to take account of any bonus payable to the director for that period from the alternative employment.
Other If a change of control of SP occurs other than by way of an internal reorganisation prior to 16 January 2009, Philip Bowman may, within three months of that change of control, terminate his employment by giving SP 28 days notice.
If either Philip Bowman or SP terminates the employment within such three month period, Philip Bowman will be entitled to immediate payment of a lump sum liquidated damages payment calculated on the basis described above.
In addition, any bonus payable to Philip Bowman after such termination will not be reduced by any bonus obtained from any alternative employment that he may obtain.
Cessation If not otherwise terminated, the service contracts terminate automatically at Normal Retirement Age.
Former US Director Judi Johansen had a service contract dated 1 October 2003 on similar terms to those above for Simon Lowth.
In addition, on completion of the PaciCorp sale, she becomes entitled to a cash retention award conditional upon there being no breach of warranty under the Stock Purchase Agreement with MidAmerican.
The companys policy is that all new directors will be offered service contracts on the terms outlined above as they apply to Simon Lowth.
The Committees policy on early termination is to emphasise the duty to mitigate to the fullest extent practicable.
Senior managers within the company have notice periods ranging from six months to one year.
The Chairman, Charles Miller Smith, does not have a service contract with the company.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 61 Remuneration Report of the Directors share option or other profit or long-term incentive plan.
Full details of the remuneration of the non-executive directors are contained in Table 33.
COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide information on compensation and interests for directors and ofcers.
The aggregate amount of compensation paid by the company to all directors and ofcers, as a group, was 22,389,800.
This includes termination payments to directors and ofcers made in 2005 06.
During 2005 06 the cost to the group to provide pension, retirement or similar benets for directors and ofcers of the company pursuant to any existing plan provided or contributed to by the group was 4,055,000 calculated in accordance with IAS 19.
INTEREST OF MANAGEMENT IN CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS There have been no material transactions during the groups three most recent financial years, nor are there presently proposed to be any material transactions to which the company or any of its subsidiaries was or is a party and in which any director or officer, or 10% shareholder, or any relative or spouse thereof or any relative of such a spouse, who had the same home as such person or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of the company has or is to have a direct or indirect material interest.
During the groups three most recent financial years there has been no, and at present there is no, outstanding indebtedness to the company or any of its subsidiaries owed or owing by any director or officer of the group or any associate thereof.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Other than as disclosed, none of the directors had a material interest in any contract of signicance with the company and its subsidiaries during or at the end of the financial year.
The directors interests, all beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the company, including interests in options under the companys ExSOP and Sharesave Scheme and awards under the LTIP, are shown on pages 65 to 68.
DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS Table 33 provides a breakdown of the total emoluments of the Chairman and all the directors in ofce during the year ended 31 March 2006.
DIRECTORS PENSION BENEFITS Details of pension benets earned by the executive directors during the year are shown in Table 34.
The following tables provide details of the remuneration, pensions and share interests of the directors and the information is audited.
These amounts relate to services to the PaciCorp Utah and Pacic regional advisory boards and were paid in the form of cash and shares prior to the sale of PaciCorp.
The amounts are included within Fees in the above table.
Directors are eligible for a range of benets on which they are assessed for tax.
These include the provision of a company car or a cash allowance in lieu of a car, fuel and private medical provision.
Compensation Payment in lieu of notice: Charles Berry, David Nish and Ian Russell Charles Berry and David Nish ceased to be employed by the company on 16 September 2005.
Ian Russell ceased to be employed on 16 February 2006.
Following the termination of their employments with the company, each of Charles Berry, David Nish and Ian Russell became entitled to a payment in lieu of notice in accordance with the terms of their service contracts.
The total initial amount payable includes compensation for loss of basic salary, pension and other benets.
The company exercised its discretion to pay these amounts in instalments and so Charles Berry, David Nish and Ian Russell have each received a payment in respect of 50% of the initial compensation amount.
Further payments of 25% of the initial compensation amount may be made six months and nine months after the relevant termination date but these payments will be reduced by any salary which the former director receives from any employment he enters into in the meantime.
Charles Berry and David Nish have been paid the second 25% instalment without a reduction.
In addition and in line with the Companys financial performance, each former director received a payment in respect of his bonus entitlement for the 2005 06 financial year equal to 90% of their maximum opportunity and a pro-rated payment in respect of his bonus entitlement for the 2006 07 financial year.
The maximum bonus payable is 100% of basic salary.
The payment in respect of bonus for the 2006 07 financial year will be reduced by any bonus receivable by the former director from any employment which he enters into before payment.
The payment of any such sum shall be made on the date annual bonus payments are made to other employees for that bonus year.
The company has also made, or has agreed to make, payments relating to legal fees and outplacement counselling fees.
The gures shown above under Compensation Payment in lieu of notice represent compensation for loss of basic salary, pension, benets, legal outplacement fees, bonus for 2005 06 and an estimated bonus for 2006 07.
Judi Johansen Judi Johansens employment with PaciCorp terminated immediately following the completion of the sale of PaciCorp on 21 March 2006 and she became entitled to a compensation payment in accordance with her service contract as amended.
Judi Johansen received 50% of this payment within 30 days of completion of the sale of PaciCorp.
The remaining 50% may be paid 6 months after the termination date but if Judi Johansen takes up alternative employment in the meantime the second payment will be reduced by the salary and bonus receivable from that alternative employment.
These payments will be paid by PaciCorp.
Judi Johansen has agreed that following her termination, and if required, she will provide ad hoc support to ScottishPower.
The company has agreed that the second instalment of her compensation payment will not be reduced by any fee payable for this work.
On completion of the sale of PaciCorp, Judi Johansen became entitled to a payment from the company of 354,062, being 80% of the cash retention award due for successful completion of the sale of PaciCorp.
Judi Johansen remains entitled to payment from the company of 88,515, being 20% of the cash retention award, 12 months after her termination date, provided there have been no breach of warranty under the Stock Purchase Agreement with MidAmerican during that time.
These payments will be made by ScottishPower.
Charles Berry, David Nish, Ian Russell and Judi Johansen also received good leaver status under the ExSOP and LTIP.
Under ExSOP, all outstanding options become immediately exercisable without the need to fulfil pre-determined performance conditions.
Under LTIP, directors may receive shares at the end of the performance period should the performance conditions be satisfied.
Any award made will be reduced to reect the amount of time they were in post during the performance period.
i The emoluments of the highest paid director Ian Russell excluding pension contributions were 2,987,823 2005: 1,380,079.
Details of share related incentives are contained in Tables 35 and 36. ii Ian Russell has an entitlement under the unapproved pension benets described further in Table 34.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 63 Remuneration Report of the Directors TABLE 34 Dened benets pension plans 2005 06 Benets A B recognised Transfer value Total change in respect Additional of increases in value during of previous pension Accrued after ination Value of accrued Value of accrued the year employments earned in year pension at net of directors pension at pension at net of directors see note viii net of ination end of year contribution start of year end of year contributions Year p. a. p. a. p. a. Simon Lowth 36,185 13,862 68,568 170,322 530,246 833,963 298,438 1 Ian Russell 31,294 18,722 270,498 476,816 3,385,630 6,821,422 3,430,952 2 Charles Berry 11,887 12,124 166,077 300,292 2,125,091 4,155,803 2,028,072 3 David Nish 12,720 6,101 100,189 138,369 1,033,723 2,297,930 1,262,006 4 Judi Johansen 83,901 145,482 715,871 261,243 1,328,962 1,067,719 1 Ian Russell retired on 16 February 2006.
The gures shown above relate to the period between 1 April 2005 and the date of leaving.
Under the rules of the Pension Scheme, he is entitled to unreduced benets.
The value of retiring early on an unreduced pension amounts to 2,664,727 which is included in the gure shown in the final column.
2 Charles Berry retired on 6 September 2005.
The value of retiring early on an unreduced pension amounts to 1,399,862 which is included in the gure shown in the final column.
3 David Nish retired on 6 September 2005.
Under the terms of his contract, he is entitled to unreduced benets from age 50.
The value of retiring early on an unreduced pension when he reaches age 50 amounts to 847,510 which is included in the gure shown in the final column.
Pension rights accrued in respect of previous employments affect the level of benets available under the ScottishPower pension arrangements.
The value of these rights, as a proportion of the benets provided by ScottishPower, may change over time e. g. due to changes in an individual's salary.
Such changes in value are crystallised on the exit of a member and can lead to significant reductions or increases to accrued pension.
These distortions have been removed from the gures shown in the table for David Nish by restating the end year accrued pension gures that appeared in the prior year Remuneration Report of the Directors.
This ensures that the gures are calculated on a consistent basis and show the true value of pension benets earned over the current accounting period.
4 Judi Johansen retired on 21 March 2006.
The capital value of her pension entitlement triggered by her termination is 652,815.
In addition, under the normal provisions of the plan she is entitled to benets that commence from age 55.
The value of this reduction in retirement age is 320,157.
Both of these values are included in the gure shown in the final column.
Part of Judi Johansens benets are provided in dened contribution form, through a company 401 k plan.
The gures in the table do not include any 401 k plan element.
The company contribution payable to the 401 k plan in respect of Judi Johansen for the period 1 April 2005 to 21 March 2006 was 7,199.
The conversion rate used is 1 $1.785, being the average exchange rate during the year.
All pension amounts are payable by PaciCorp.
i The accrued entitlement of the highest paid director Ian Russell was 270,498 2005: 246,803.
During the year, retirement benets were accrued under the dened benets pension scheme in respect of five directors 2005: five directors.
ii The transfer value of the increases after ination A represents the current capital sum which would be required, using demographic and financial assumptions, to produce an equivalent increase in accrued pension and ancillary benets, excluding the statutory inationary increase, and after deduction of members contributions.
Although the transfer value represents a liability to the Pension Scheme in respect of approved benets and to the company in respect of any unapproved benets, it is not a single sum paid or due to be paid to the individual director and cannot therefore meaningfully be added to the annual remuneration.
Instead, this value would not be payable until the directors retirement date, and thereafter would be spread over the remainder of his lifetime and also covering the cost of dependants benets after his death.
iii The total change in value B in the last column of the table above reects the following elements: 1. changes to the economic and demographic assumptions underlying the transfer value basis over the year: 2. any increases in pensionable salary received during the year: 3. the completion of further pensionable service during the year: and 4. the directors are a year closer to drawing their pensions, which increases their pension value all other things being equal.
The change in the amount of the transfer values over the year includes the effect of uctuations in factors that are beyond the control of the company and its directors, such as stockmarket movements and long-term interest rates.
iv The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based upon service to the end of the year.
Members of the companys schemes have the option of paying additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benets are included in the above table.
v Directors who joined the UK pension scheme on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to an earnings cap equivalent to the HM Revenue and Customs earnings cap that was introduced by the Finance Act 1989.
Pension entitlements which cannot be provided through the companys approved schemes, due to the earnings cap, are provided through unapproved pension arrangements, details of which are included in this section.
The pension benets disclosed above include approved and unapproved pension arrangements.
vi The increase in UK accrued pension during the year excludes the increase due to RPI ination as measured at December 2005 2.2%.
vii The value of directors UK entitlements has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance note GN11, in two parts: the approved element being based upon the normal cash equivalent transfer value assumptions: the unapproved element being calculated in line with IAS 19 assumptions.
The value of the US directors entitlement has been calculated in line with IAS 19 assumptions.
viii Benets recognised in respect of previous employments covers both transferred in benets and benets that are held outside the ScottishPower pension arrangements.
The accrued pension shown at the end of the year, and the additional pension earned in the year, include these benets.
The value of these rights, as a proportion of the benets provided by ScottishPower, may change over time e. g. due to changes in an individuals salary.
Such changes in value are crystallised on the exit of a member and can lead to significant reductions or increases to accrued pensions.
ix The total liabilities, calculated on an IAS 19 basis, arising in relation to UK unapproved benets for all executives and senior employees in the ScottishPower group for service in the year to 31 March 2006 was 1,238,000 2005: 1,520,900.
This gure relates only to the cost of benets accruing over the year but does not include any finance items or past service costs.
It therefore differs from the full IAS 19 charge for unapproved benets over the same period.
x All benets above are provided on a dened benefit basis.
64 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 TABLE 35 Directors interests in ScottishPower shares Ordinary shares Share options Executive Share options Sharesave Long Term Incentive Plan 31.3.
05 or date of or date of or date of or date of or date of or date of 31.3.
These shares represent, in each case, the maximum number of shares which the directors may receive, dependent on the satisfaction of performance criteria as approved by shareholders in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan.
These shares represent the number of shares the directors are entitled to receive when the LTIP award becomes exercisable calculated according to the performance criteria measured over the three-year performance period.
These shares include the number of shares which the directors hold in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, shown below.
Free shares Partnership shares Matching shares Dividend shares Total 31.3.
06 or date of or date of or date of or date of or date of retirement, retirement, retirement, retirement, retirement, if earlier 1.4.
Otherwise, there have been no changes to the directors interests between 31 March 2006 and 19 May 2006.
In accordance with the terms of the return of cash approved by shareholders on 4 May 2006, with effect from 15 May 2006 the ordinary shares detailed above in Table 35 were replaced by new ordinary shares and B shares.
Under the terms of the return of cash, a holder of 100 existing ordinary shares on the record date, 6pm on 12 May 2006, received 79 ordinary shares, 33 B shares and, if applicable, cash representing any fractional entitlements to new ordinary shares.
These awards became exercisable either immediately or at any other time until the seventh anniversary of grant.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares at the date of grant of these awards was 409.29 pence and on 2 May 2005, being the date of vesting, was 422.75 pence.
Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted before 2001 became exercisable on the fourth anniversary of grant.
Awards granted in 2001 and subsequently became exercisable on the third anniversary of grant, as approved by shareholders.
Awards granted during the year were granted for no consideration.
The market value of ScottishPower shares at the date of grant for Simon Lowth, Ian Russell, Charles Berry, David Nish and Judi Johansen was 469.75 pence and for Philip Bowman was 577.0 pence.
In accordance with the rules of the Plan the entitlements for these retired directors will be subject to pro-rating in respect of their period of service as a proportion of the performance period.
On 10 August 2005 the market value of a ScottishPower ADS was US$29.51.
Denotes options granted under a three-year scheme.
In accordance with the rules of the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 the options of these retired directors are exercisable on or before the later of i 12 months after the date of retirement and ii 42 months after the date of grant.
i The market price of the shares at 31 March 2006 was 582.0 pence and the range during 2005 06 was 408.0 pence to 597.0 pence.
ii The Long Term Incentive Plan makes annual awards to acquire shares in ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost to the plan participants up to a maximum value equal to 75% of base salary.
The award will vest only if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that certain performance measures related to the sustained underlying financial performance of the company and sustained underlying performance in certain customer service standards are achieved over a period of three financial years commencing with the financial year preceding the date an award is made.
Assuming that such targets have been achieved, the number of shares that can be acquired under awards granted before May 2001 was dependent upon how the company ranked in terms of its total shareholder return performance over a three-year period, in comparison to the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index and the Electricity and Water sectors.
A percentage of each half of the award would vest depending upon the company's ranking within each of the comparator groups.
For awards granted in May 2001 and subsequently, the company's total shareholder return performance is compared over a three-year period against an international comparator group of major energy companies.
A percentage of the award vests dependent upon the company's ranking within the comparator group.
The plan participant may acquire the shares in respect of the percentage of the award which has vested at any time after the third or fourth year for awards granted before 2001 up to the seventh year after the grant of the award.
No dividends accrue to participants prior to vesting.
iii The company ceased granting under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 to relevant executives and senior managers in 2004.
The exercise of options granted to UK executives and senior managers, is subject to the performance criterion that the percentage increase in the company's annualised earnings per share be at least 3% adjusted for any increase in the Retail Price Index.
This criterion is assessed at the end of the third financial year, the first year being the financial year starting immediately before the date of grant.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, it is tested again at the end of the fourth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, it is tested again at the end of the fifth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, then the options lapse.
The exercise of options granted to US participants is not normally subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria, and they normally become exercisable as follows: one-third of the options from the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further one-third from the second anniversary and the final one-third from the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In 2002, an additional, conditional share option award was made to some senior managers, including Judi Johansen, under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001.
The exercise of these additional, conditional options is subject to the same exercise period and performance criterion as options granted to UK participants.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06 67 Remuneration Report of the Directors iv Options granted to Judi Johansen under the PaciCorp Stock Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 are granted over ScottishPower ADSs.
For the purposes of the above table, these options, in the case of Judi Johansen, have been converted to ordinary shares as follows: one ScottishPower ADS equals four ScottishPower ordinary shares.
The US$ ADS option prices were converted so that they may be represented in terms of ScottishPower ordinary shares.
The prices were further converted at the closing exchange rate on 31 March 2006 of 1 $1.736 so as to be quoted in pence in the above table.
v The option price for Sharesave options is calculated by reference to the middle-market quotation on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation and discounted by 20% in accordance with the Inland Revenue rules for such schemes.
The number of options granted to a director under the Sharesave Scheme is calculated by reference to the total amount which the director agrees to save for a period of either three or five years under an Inland Revenue approved savings contract, subject to a current maximum.
vi Total gains made on exercise of directors' share options and awards during the year were 328,786 2005: 623,361.
The conversion rate for gains made by Judi Johansen is 1 $1.785, being the average exchange rate during the year.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by NOLAN KARRAS Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2006 68 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2005 06
