Remuneration Policy The principal objectives of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by Mr B Pointon and comprises the Non-executive Directors set out on page 16 and included Mr R Biffa up to his retirement, are to attract, retain and motivate high quality senior management with a competitive package of incentives and awards linked to performance and the interests of shareholders.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded taking into account all elements of their remuneration package in the light of the Groups performance.
The Committee has appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP to provide independent market information and advice relating to executive remuneration and benefits.
Deloitte & Touche LLP are considered to be independent as they provide only very limited other services to some subsidiary companies within the Group.
This remuneration report will be put to shareholders for their approval as a separate ordinary resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As described below, a significant proportion of potential total remuneration is performance related and is built around annual and longer term incentives.
For Directors achieving medium performance, performance related pay would represent approximately 31% of total remuneration.
If performance were such that the maximum award available under each incentive scheme was paid, performance related pay would represent approximately 64% of total remuneration.
Basic Salary The basic salary element is determined after evaluating the Executive Directors duties and responsibilities and is based on the complexity, know-how, decision-making involved and their overall impact on the business.
Account is taken of relevant external data that provides information to assist in the deliberations.
Basic salary is generally reviewed on an annual basis or following a significant change in responsibilities.
Annual Cash Bonuses Annual cash bonuses are payable at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as a percentage of basic salary dependent on corporate performance compared to target.
For the year to 31 March 2006, the Executives potential cash bonus ranged from 20% for achieving target performance to a maximum bonus of 75% for achieving a performance of 17% above target performance.
Cash bonuses are not pensionable.
Long Term Incentive Plan Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP senior employees may be granted an award annually, the vesting of which is subject to the attainment of two pre-determined performance conditions measured over a three year period.
Awards are in the form of a number of shares, the maximum value in any financial year cannot be more than 100% of basic salary as at the date of grant and calculated on the Companys share price at that time.
The first performance condition is based on Total Shareholder Return TSR, where the Companys TSR achieved during the three year performance period is measured against the TSR achieved by those companies that constituted the FTSE Support Services Sector immediately before the date of grant of an award.
An award will only vest in full if the Companys TSR results in it being ranked in the upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group where the company with the highest TSR is ranked first.
If the TSR of the Company results in a median position in the comparator group then 25% of the award will vest.
Vesting above the median position is on a sliding scale, with 3% of the award vesting for each percentile increase in the Companys rank above the median position up to the maximum award.
If the Companys TSR for the performance period results in a position below the median then the award will lapse.
The second performance condition is based on Earnings Per Share EPS and for an award to vest, the average growth in the Companys EPS on a consistent UK GAAP basis, before taking into account goodwill amortisation and exceptional or extraordinary items, for the three year performance period, must exceed the growth in Retail Price Index over the same period by at least nine percentage points.
No amendment may be made to the performance conditions which would be to the material advantage of participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
continued The Shanks Group plc Employee Share Trust has been established for the purpose of granting awards under the LTIP and to hold shares in the Company either purchased in the market or new shares subscribed for, with funds provided by the Company or its subsidiaries.
As at 31 March 2006 the Employee Share Trust did not hold any of the Companys shares.
Performance Review Figure 1: Shanks Group plc Total Shareholder Return versus FTSE Support Services Sector Index 140 130 120 110 Shank Group plc 100 90 FTSE Support Services Sector 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 2001 2 2002 3 2003 4 2004 5 2005 6 The graph at Figure 1 shows the Total Shareholder Return of the Company and that of the FTSE Support Services Sector Index over the five year period to 31 March 2006.
This Index has been selected as it is a broad equity index of which Shanks Group plc is a constituent company.
Share Option Schemes The Committee believes that share ownership by employees encourages the matching of long term interests between employees and shareholders.
All UK employees including Executive Directors, subject to certain service conditions, may participate in an HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS.
Senior executives were also able to participate in an Executive Share Option Scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Executive Share Option Scheme expired in August 2005 and after this date only awards under the LTIP scheme can be made to senior executives.
Under the terms of the SRSOS for employees, options may be granted during the ten year period to July 2015 to acquire up to 10% of the issued equity share capital of the Company, including options granted under the ESOS and LTIP.
Options are granted at the higher of the nominal value and an amount determined by the Remuneration Committee being not less than 80% of the market value.
At 31 March 2006 options outstanding amounted to 0.9m ordinary shares see note 5 to the financial statements.
Under the terms of the expired ESOS, options could be granted during the ten year period to August 2005 to acquire up to 5% of the issued equity share capital of the Company.
The exercise of options granted under the ESOS, is subject to a performance condition, achievement of which is a pre-requisite for exercise of options.
The condition is tested once only after a period of three years and if it is not achieved the relevant options will lapse.
Options granted after 26 July 2001 will only be exercisable if the Groups EPS on a consistent UK GAAP basis, before taking into account goodwill amortisation and exceptional or extraordinary items for the three year measurement period, exceed growth in the Retail Price Index for the same period by at least nine percentage points.
The Remuneration Committee applied a different performance condition for options granted under the ESOS prior to 26 July 2001.
These options may not be exercised unless the growth in the Groups EPS over the period of any three consecutive years after the date of grant equals or exceeds the increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period by at least six percentage points.
Options were granted at the higher of the nominal value or the market value.
At 31 March 2006 options outstanding amounted to 3.6m ordinary shares see note 5 to the financial statements.
Performance Conditions The performance conditions for the LTIP and ESOS schemes described above were chosen following recommendations from external remuneration advisers and remain consistent with market practice.
annual report 2006 Directors Service Contracts and Notice Periods The Remuneration Committee has agreed that the policy with regard to notice period for Executive Directors is one year.
Accordingly, Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham have rolling service contracts dated 29 September 1994 and 21 July 2005, respectively, which require one years notice from the Company and six months notice from the Director.
Termination payments are limited to the directors contractual remuneration including basic salary, any bonus earned and benefits for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
Any entitlement to LTIP awards or exercise of share options upon termination is governed by the rules of the relevant scheme.
Pensionable service will also accrue for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
In the event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee will consider carefully what compensation should be paid taking into account the circumstances of the particular case.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Mr P Delaunois has an agreement to provide consultancy services via his company, S. A. CGO, to the Groups Belgian subsidiary companies which is terminable on giving three months notice by either party.
External Appointments The Remuneration Committee acknowledges that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other quoted companies which have no business relationship with the Group and that these duties can broaden their experience and knowledge to the benefit of the Company.
Executive directors are limited to hold one such position and the policy is that fees may be retained by the director, which reflects the personal risk assumed in such appointments.
Mr M Averill has been appointed to one such non-executive position.
The fee received from this appointment was 34,000.
Directors Emoluments audited The following table shows a breakdown of the emoluments of the individual Directors, excluding pension contributions to the defined benefit scheme and potential gains on exercise of share options and vesting of LTIPs, for the period of time during which they were Directors of the Group.
Mr R Biffa retired on 30 June 2005 and Mr D Downes retired on 31 December 2005. i Other emoluments for Mr M Averill, Mr D Downes and Mr F Welham includes such items as a company car or car allowance, medical insurance, payments relating to FURBS and life assurance.
ii Other emoluments for Mr P Delaunois are for fees received amounting to 41,000 pa for consultancy services provided to the Groups Belgian subsidiaries.
Mr P Delaunois is a shareholder and director of S. A. CGO and the fees were paid to this company.
iii The Non-executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan and do not receive any pension contributions from the Group.
iv Mr R Biffa is also a shareholder and director of Radstrong Limited.
The fees in respect of Mr Biffas services as a Director of the Group were paid to this company.
continued Directors Pension Benefits audited Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham are members of the Shanks Group Pension Scheme, which is a funded, defined benefit scheme approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the terms of this scheme the Executive Directors have: at retirement, and subject to length of service, a pension of up to two thirds of basic salary: an employee contribution of 7% of basic salary: a lump sum death in service benefit of four times basic salary: and a spouses pension on death.
The table below shows the movement in Directors pension benefit during the year: Transfer value of Transfer value Transfer value increase in Age at Increase in at 31.03.06 at 31.03.05 accrued pension 31.03.06 Increase in accrued of pension of pension Increase in during the year or at date accrued pension Accrued benefits benefits transfer value net of inflation of pension during the year pension at accrued at accrued at less Directors less Directors retirement during the year net of inflation 31.03.06 31.03.06 31.03.05 contributions contributions ii iii iv v v v vi 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 000 000 M Averill 54 20 15 197 3,757 3,022 710 268 DDownes 60 7 6 42 844 630 208 109 F Welham 41 8 7 24 189 106 76 49 i Mr D Downes was subject to the HM Revenue & Customs cap on approved pension benefits and was provided with comparable unapproved benefits for basic salary in excess of the cap via a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme FURBS.
The Company contributed 90,000 into Mr D Downes FURBS during the year.
ii Mr F Welham is subject to the HM Revenue & Customs cap on approved pension benefits and was not provided with any pension benefits for basic salary in excess of the cap during the year.
iii The increase in accrued pension during the year represents the difference between the total accrued pension at the end of the year and the equivalent amount at the beginning of the year.
iv The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end of the year.
v The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The calculation is based on the assumption that pensions will be paid from the earliest retirement age possible without the application of actuarial reduction factors at age of 57 for Mr M Averill and 62 for Mr F Welham.
vi The increase in transfer value has been calculated taking into account market conditions and the Directors ages at 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2006.
i The option price is the price at which the option was granted.
The price is set by the Remuneration Committee but is not less than 80% Savings Related Scheme and 100% Executive Scheme of the average market price of the shares over the last three dealing days immediately preceding the date of the invitation to subscribe Savings Related Scheme or the date of grant Executive Scheme.
The performance conditions relating to the exercise of Executive Share Options are shown on page 26.
continued ii No options were exercised by serving Directors during the year.
iii The Executive options granted to Mr M Averill and to Mr D Downes on 30 July 2002 at an option price of 145p lapsed on 31 July 2005. iv The highest closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company during the year was 191p and the lowest closing mid-market price during the year was 133p.
The mid-market price at the close of business on 31 March 2006 was 177p.
Mr A Auer purchased 10,000 Ordinary shares on 1 June 2006.
The 150,000 and 15,000 Executive Share Options granted on 2 June 1999 to Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham respectively lapsed on 2 June 2006.
The 325,000 LTIPs awarded to Mr M Averill on 2 June 2003 and the 25,000 Executive Share Options granted to Mr F Welham on the same date both lapsed on 2 June 2006.
213,000 and 94,000 LTIPs were awarded to Mr M Averill and Mr F Welham respectively on 5 June 2006.
There have been no other alterations in the above interests, options or LTIPs between 31 March 2006 and 19 June 2006 for currently serving directors.
Other Interests None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
Auditable Information The information in the Remuneration Report subject to audit is that included in the tables and related notes in the sections above on Directors Emoluments, Directors Pension Benefits, Directors Interests under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares and Share Options.
