Directors remuneration report Introduction Unaudited information This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to Dear Shareholder, the Companies Act 1985 the Act and complies with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The report also meets the relevant Directors remuneration report requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority During the year ended December 31, 2006 the Remuneration and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Committee continued its work, on behalf of the Board, on Directors Directors remuneration under the Directors Remuneration Report remuneration.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the AGM of the Company at which the In 2006, the Group continued to implement a focused business strategy financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors for identifying, developing and marketing pharmaceuticals in targeted to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors therapeutic areas for diseases treated by specialist physicians.
The remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion these parts Group focused its operations business on ADHD, HGT, GI and renal of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the diseases.
Each of these businesses achieved significant successes in Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been divided into the development, approval and promotion of new and existing products separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
The Group operates in a competitive multi-national environment.
In 2006, approximately 90% of the Groups revenues were generated, and 85% of its employees were based, outside the UK.
Indeed most of the Groups revenues are generated in the US and the majority of its employees and most of its senior executives are based in the US.
Over the past two years, the Remuneration Committee has been in dialogue and consultation with shareholders regarding the challenges it faces with key elements of the remuneration package.
In the fall of 2005, the Group replaced older equity schemes with a new share plan and made amendments to the annual incentive plan.
During 2006 the Remuneration Committee conducted a regular review of executive remuneration levels relative to competitive data and is satisfied that the elements of the remuneration package as well as remuneration values are well positioned relative to the competitive market and that awards are commensurate with corporate performance.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to a continuing dialogue with shareholders and we take account of your views.
We hope that this report provides helpful context and explanation about the policies and practical considerations that inuence our decisions.
Dr Barry Price Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual report and accounts for the 41 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing, reviewing The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all elements of the and overseeing the implementation of the Groups compensation and Executive Directors remuneration, as well as the management of benets policy.
The Remuneration Committee regularly monitors the their performance.
effectiveness of the policy and reviews this policy based on independent analysis and advice, an understanding of the business drivers and The constitution of the Remuneration Committee was reviewed competitive environment in which the Group operates and on-going in 2004 and changes were made to ensure compliance with the dialogue with shareholders.
The Group considers all members of the Remuneration Committee to be independent.
During 2006 the The Groups executive compensation and benets policy is based on Remuneration Committee also reviewed and updated its charter the following principles: to effectively reect its responsibilities.
base pay is market and performance driven, with reference to a The Chief Executive officer and the Chief Financial officer attend blended US UK market comparison.
It is targeted at or around the meetings of the Remuneration Committee at its invitation, but neither median relative to the comparison, based on individual performance: is involved in any decisions relating to their own remuneration.
the Annual Incentive Plan is performance-based and is linked to The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2006 were: the achievement of an appropriate mix of corporate and individual performance targets.
The Annual Incentive Plan allows the Group Dr Barry Price, the Senior Independent Director of the Group and to measure and reward progress against its strategic goals and is Chairman of the Committee: closely tied to delivery of sustained shareholder value: Mr Robin Buchanan, an Independent Non-Executive Director: share-based compensation is a key element of the Groups remuneration policy as it aligns the interests of the Groups executives Mr Ronald Nordmann, an Independent Non-Executive Director: and with the interests of its shareholders.
This element of compensation also utilizes a blended US UK market comparison to determine the Ms Kate Nealon, an Independent Non-Executive Director face value of awards to Executive Directors: Mr Nordmann retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company benets programs are locally competitive and provide for the welfare effective December 22, 2006 and stepped down as a member of the and well-being of the Groups employees and their families: Remuneration Committee as of the same date.
In addition, Mr Patrick Langlois was appointed to the Remuneration Committee effective the Remuneration Committee currently aims for variable December 12, 2006. compensation to represent over two-thirds of total remuneration: and Details of the number of Remuneration Committee meetings in 2006 and the attendance at those meetings is set out in corporate the Remuneration Committee believes that Executive Directors governance statements on pages 32 to 38. should be encouraged to own shares in the Group in order to ensure the alignment of their interests with those of the Groups shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee was materially assisted in 2006 by Share ownership guidelines became effective in 2006.
Mrs Anita Graham, EVP Global Human Resources.
The following external advisers were appointed by and materially assisted the The remuneration package Remuneration Committee: The main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management are: Towers Perrin who provided data in relation to Executive Directors remuneration: 1 Salary Deloitte & Touche LLP who also provided audit and tax services to 2 Annual Incentive Plan the Group who provided data and advice on general issues around a Cash Component the design and operation of the Groups incentive schemes: and b Share Component Slaughter and May, who provided general legal advice to the Group.
3 Long-Term Incentives a Portfolio Share Plan Executive remuneration policy b Share Options The Remuneration Committee considers that an effective remuneration c Long-Term Incentive Plan policy, aligned to the Groups business needs, is important to the Groups success.
It directly impacts the Groups ability to recruit, retain 4 Pension and other benets and motivate high calibre executives who deliver sustained value to shareholders and build the Group for long-term success.
42 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report 1 Salary 4 Operational effectiveness The Remuneration Committee reviews salaries annually.
In late 2004 a systems implementation: and early 2005 the Committee undertook a competitive review of the b supply chain integrity: and Groups executive remuneration programs and practices, including c risk management, compliance initiatives and operational base salary benchmarks and levels.
Based on the competitive analysis excellence targets.
the Remuneration Committee determined that the correct comparator group is a blend of US and UK companies with sector, size, complexity Personal objectives are also set at the beginning of the year and and international characteristics similar to those of the Group.
Where are aligned with individual accountabilities for the development appropriate, the competitive review included a detailed analysis to align and execution of plans to achieve corporate objectives in the current these characteristics to best represent the Groups operating position.
year and build for the future success of the Group.
As part of its normal annual salary review process, the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee assesses performance against Committee conducts a review of a range of factors such as competitive objectives in the first quarter of the following year.
The target incentive market data provided by independent external consultants, US and is paid where Executive Directors have fully achieved their individual UK market conditions, performance-related pay increases across the objectives and the corporate objectives have been met in full.
The Group and individual skills, performance and results achieved.
The maximum incentive is paid when the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committees policy is for salary to be targeted at or determines that individual and or corporate performance has been around the median of the blend of US UK comparators, with appropriate exceptional.
Maximum incentive payments for 2006 were capped at differentiation based upon skills and experience as well as individual 115% of salary in cash and 65% of salary in deferred shares for the performance.
Based on this review, and on corporate and individual Chief Executive officer and 100% of salary in cash and 55% of salary performance results, salaries for the Chief Executive officer and Chief in deferred shares for the Chief Financial officer.
Financial officer were increased 5% each effective January 1, 2007, Target Maximum Weighting of target respectively, to $1,158,167 denominated in $ and 390,726 $722,843 incentive incentive incentive objectives equivalent based on the average exchange rates prevailing in 2006. as a % as a % These increases are in line with increases provided to the of salary of salary Corporate Individual Groups employees.
Mr Matthew Emmens Chief Executive officer 65% cash 115% cash 2 Annual Incentive Plan 20% shares 65% shares 80% 20% Shire operates an Annual Incentive Plan which rewards Executive Director performance based on achievement of pre-dened, BoardMr Angus Russell approved corporate objectives and Committee-approved individual Chief Financial officer 55% cash 100% cash objectives.
The Group implemented the Balanced Scorecard in 2005 15% shares 55% shares 70% 30% and utilized it to set corporate objectives in 2006.
The Scorecard organizes corporate objectives into all areas that drive the success of The incentive payments awarded to each Executive Director for 2006 the business: financial, products and markets, people and capabilities, reect the corporate and individual achievements and amounted to and operational effectiveness.
115% of salary in cash and 65% in deferred shares for Mr Emmens and 76% of salary in cash and 51% in deferred shares for Mr Russell.
At the start of the year corporate objectives are set by the Board for each area of the Scorecard.
These objectives apply to all employees These incentive awards are consistent with the overall performance participating in the Groups Annual Incentive Plan and include a of the Group in 2006, which included: description of the objective and key performance indicators KPI, including targets and deadlines.
Awards under the Plan are made only total revenue growth of 12%: when exacting levels of performance specified by the KPI have been achieved.
Objectives measured by the Groups financial performance product sales up 16%: are assessed on the Groups results, as reported in the Groups Form 10-K under US GAAP.
settlements with Impax and Barr regarding ADDERALL XR: The detailed objectives and performance standards contain the in-licensing acquisition of four new products SEASONIQUE, commercially sensitive information and therefore are not detailed here.
Transvaginal Ring technology, Valrocemide, Tissue Protective However, some of the objectives are summarised below according to Cytokine technology : the four Scorecard areas for 2006: the successful launch of three new products ELAPRASE, 1 Financial FOSRENOL in the EU, DAYTRANA : a growth in revenue: b revenue growth tied to key products, including Adderall XR: highly successful achievement of R&D milestones including the c revenue generation related to new product launches: and ling and approvable status for LIALDA and the subsequent US d business development targets.
approval in January 2007: the approvable status of VYVANSE, the submissions of SPD465 and SPD503, both for treatment for ADHD, 2 Products markets and advancement of the HGT pipeline with GA-GCB and three prea successful product launches: clinical candidates, Hunter syndrome CNS, Sanlippo Syndrome b key R&D milestones such as submissions and approvals: and and Metachromatic Leukodystrophy: and c product pipeline growth progression and in-licensing acquisition.
the highly successful implementation of other Scorecard objectives 3 People and capabilities focused on the continuing growth of the Group.
a development of capabilities to support the operating model and the businesses: and b talent acquisition and leadership development of Shires people.
Annual report and accounts for the 43 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report 3 Long-term incentives Performance criteria a The Portfolio Share Plan Awards under the Plan normally vest on the third anniversary of the date The Portfolio Share Plan the Plan, was adopted by the Groups of grant.
In the case of Executive Directors, awards will only vest if the shareholders on October 28, 2005.
This plan replaced the 2000 Executive Remuneration Committee determines that the performance conditions Share Option Scheme and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Group has have been satisfied and that, in the opinion of the Remuneration made no awards in 2006 and will make no further awards to Executive Committee, the underlying performance of the Group is sufficient to Directors or any other employee under the previous plans.
justify the vesting of the award.
The purpose of the Plan is to enable the Group to motivate and reward Performance criteria are based on relative Total Shareholder Return its workforce by reference to share price performance, and to link the TSR measured against two comparator groups.
Vesting of one-third of interests of participants with those of the Companys shareholders.
an Award will depend upon the Groups performance relative to the TSR The Plan is designed to align the interests of selected employees of performance of FTSE 100 constituents, excluding financial institutions.
the Group with long-term value creation for shareholders.
Participation The vesting of the remaining two-thirds of an Award will depend upon in the Plan is discretionary.
Under the Plan, awards granted to Executive the Groups performance relative to the TSR performance of a group of Directors will be subject to a performance target, which must, in normal international companies from the pharmaceutical sector see below.
circumstances, be met before the award vests.
Performance targets Vesting will be as follows: will normally be measured over a period of not less than three years.
Special rules apply in the event of the participants employment performance below the median versus the comparator companies terminating early or on a change of control of the Group.
and the FTSE 1000% vesting: The Plan is split into two parts, which can be operated separately.
performance at median versus the comparator companies and the 1 FTSE 10033 3% vesting: and Under Part A of the Plan, Stock Appreciation Right SAR Awards can be granted.
A SAR Award is the right to receive Ordinary shares or performance between median and upper quartile versus the ADSs in Shire Plc linked to the increase in value of a specified number comparator companies and the FTSE 100 straight-line vesting from 1 of Ordinary shares over a period between three and five years from 33 3% to 100% for at or above upper quartile performance.
the date of grant and, in the case of Executive Directors, subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
SAR Awards will normally The comparator group of international companies from the vest three years after the date of grant, subject to the satisfaction pharmaceutical sector currently includes the following companies: of performance targets in the case of Executive Directors, and can be exercised up until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
Allergan, Altana, Biovail, Cephalon, Forest Labs, King, Kos, Lundbeck, Medicis, Valeant, Novo Nordisk, Schering AG, Sepracor, Serono, UCB, Under Part B of the Plan, Performance Share PSP Awards can be Watson.
A PSP Award is the right to receive a specified number of Ordinary shares or ADSs three years from the date of grant.
In the The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to amend this group case of Executive Directors, performance targets must be satisfied of companies to ensure that the group stays both relevant and before a PSP Award vests.
Upon vesting of the PSP Award, Ordinary representative: however, the change must not have the effect of making shares or ADSs will be released to the participant automatically the performance criteria either materially easier or materially more without any action on the part of the participant.
difficult to achieve, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, than it was or they were immediately before the circumstance in question.
The Plan contains individual grant limits set at six times base salary for SAR awards in any one year and four times base salary for PSP awards TSR performance will be measured using an averaging period of three in any one year.
It is the Groups intention for awards granted under the months.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee will have regard to Plan to Executive Directors to be comprised of either or both a SAR the same calculation using an averaging period of six months as part Award and a PSP Award.
Ordinarily, it is the Groups intention to provide of a fairness review to ensure that vesting properly reects underlying annual grants to the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer performance.
with face values calculated by reference to the average share price over the prior twelve month calendar period as follows: If the performance conditions are not met, awards will lapse.
For the Chief Executive officer, equivalent to approximately four Awards made under the Plan in 2006 are detailed in the audited section times base salary in SARs and three times base salary in PSPs: and of this report.
For the Chief Financial officer, equivalent to approximately 2.2 times base salary in SARs and 1.6 times base salary in PSPs.
44 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report b Share options The performance condition attached to the vesting of awards under No awards were made under the Groups 2000 Executive Share Option the LTIP is Shires TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index over a three-year Scheme in 2006. period.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this measure is a reliable and appropriate measure of the Groups performance and that In 2005, discretionary grants of share options under this scheme were the FTSE 100 is an appropriate benchmark given that the Group is a made to Executive Directors to align their interests with those of member of the Index.
shareholders and to promote sustained long-term Group performance.
The face value of annual option grants under the Scheme was capped Under the LTIP: at three times salary.
In order for options to vest, stretching performance targets must be met.
For 2005 grants, the performance target is based all shares vest if Shires TSR is in the top 10% of the FTSE 100: on real growth in diluted earnings per share EPS as reported under US GAAP adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, 20% of the shares vest if Shires TSR is at the median of the FTSE as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back 100, with vesting between these points on a linear basis: and of significant one-time items.
no shares vest if Shires TSR is below the median of the FTSE 100.
The minimum performance required in order for Executive Directors options to vest is that Shires EPS grows by 22.9% in the three years The Remuneration Committee determines whether and to what extent following the date of grant.
In the case of an annual grant of options the performance condition has been met on the basis of data provided worth three times salary, Shires EPS must grow by 28.4% in the three by an independent third party.
To date, all awards made under the LTIP years following the date of grant for all the options to vest.
have been made as a conditional allocation, thereby allowing, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, for a cash equivalent to be paid Options with a value on maturity of the award.
Whilst the performance period is measured on grant as a % of salary Three-year EPS growth over three years, an award is normally transferred after the fourth anniversary of grant, to the extent the performance condition has Up to 100% 22.9% for Executive Directors been met.
16.9% for all other employees 101%200% 22.9% d The implementation of share ownership guidelines 201% to 300% 28.4% The Remuneration Committee believes that Executive Directors and Over 301% of salary 34.9% certain other members of senior management should be encouraged to own shares in the Company in order to ensure the alignment of their The 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme, which was approved by interests with those of the Companys shareholders.
The Remuneration shareholders in 2000, contained an unlimited retesting feature from the Committee discussed this matter with shareholders during its date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee decided, after consultation consultation process in 2005, and has developed share ownership with some of the Companys major institutional shareholders in 2003 guidelines which came into effect in 2006. that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the performance condition should be retested once only, five years after the The Executive Share Ownership Guidelines are administered by the grant and then only where Shires EPS growth has not met the minimum Remuneration Committee and are based on the following principles: level of performance over the first three years.
The level of EPS growth over the five-year period needs to be commensurately higher to meet the Remuneration Committee believes that share ownership is an the retest.
important element of an executives role in running the Group and represents both a commitment by the executive as well as an The new Portfolio Share Plan, which has replaced the 2000 Executive alignment of the executives interests with those of shareholders: Share Option Scheme, does not allow re-testing.
the Remuneration Committee believes that share ownership by Details of the Groups share option schemes are set out in Note 33 to executives should be strongly encouraged, but not mandated: the consolidated financial statements.
the Remuneration Committee understands that, depending on c Long-Term Incentive Plan personal and other circumstances, an executive may not be able No awards were made under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan to achieve the desired level of share ownership: LTIP in 2006. the Remuneration Committee believes that executives should The LTIP was adopted at the Groups 1998 AGM and amended in 2000. understand the importance of share ownership in the stewardship Under the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to make of the Group, and both appropriate time and latitude will be provided awards of shares subject to a maximum of 100% of salary a year.
to executives to achieve desired share ownership levels, where possible: and share ownership levels will be reviewed annually for each executive.
Annual report and accounts for the 45 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report Executives are encouraged, within a five-year period following the The Executive Directors contracts of employment, which were revised later of either the initiation of these guidelines, or their appointment following consultation with some of the Companys major shareholders or election, to attain and hold an investment position no less than in 2003, are dated March 10, 2004 in the case of Mr Russell and March the multiples of base salary set forth below.
Both agreements were revised on November 21, 2005 to provide for Shire plc being established as The following are the guideline share ownership levels for the Executive the new holding company for the Shire Group.
Mr Russells contract Directors: requires him to give the Company 12 months notice and expires on him reaching 65.
Mr Emmens contract requires him to give the Company, Chief Executive officer: 2 x base salary in certain circumstances, six months notice and no age is specified for retirement.
The Company is required to give Mr Russell twelve months Chief Financial officer: 1.5 x base salary notice of termination, other than if termination is for cause, whereas it is not obliged to give Mr Emmens any notice.
If Mr Emmens contract All shares beneficially owned by an executive excluding unexercised is terminated without cause the Company is required to pay him one vested Stock Options or SARs count towards achieving these years salary and the cash equivalent of one years pension, car and guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee will review share ownership levels for In the event of termination of employment within 12 months of a change each executive on an annual basis.
The Committee will discuss with of control, the amount payable in respect of each of Mr Emmens and each Executive Director their plans for share ownership on a regular Mr Russell is one years salary and the cash equivalent of one years basis: the Chief Executive officer will discuss with each of the remaining pension, car and other contractual benets.
Any incentive payable is executives their plans for share ownership on a regular basis.
at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual maximum incentive.
4 Pension and other benets The Groups policy is to ensure that pension benets are competitive The amount of incentive payable upon termination of employment in the markets in which Shire operates.
Shire contributes 30% of the in any other circumstances, other than for cause, is at the discretion Chief Executive Ofcers annual salary to a Supplemental Employee of the Remuneration Committee and is capped at the contractual Retirement Plan SERP and 401 k Plan in the US.
The SERP is target incentive.
an unfunded dened benefit scheme: the benets are payable to certain senior US employees as lump sums on leaving the Groups Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman employment or earlier due to death, disability or termination.
The Each Non-Executive Director is paid a fee for serving as a Director amount of benefit is based on the value of notional contributions and additional fees are paid for membership or chairmanship of the adjusted for earned investment returns as if they were invested Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Chairman in investments of the employees choice.
of Shire receives an inclusive fee.
Fees are determined by the Board, with the exception of the Chairmans fee which is determined by the In the UK, Shire operates a dened contribution scheme.
The Group Remuneration Committee and confirmed by the Board.
Fees are contributes 25% of salary towards pension benets for the Chief benchmarked against Non-Executive Director fees of comparable Financial officer.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are not performance-related.
Details of fees paid to the Chairman and In addition to salary, the Executive Directors receive certain benets in Non-Executive Directors in 2006 are set out in the table below.
kind, principally a car or car allowance, life insurance, private medical insurance and dental cover.
These benets are not pensionable.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join the Groups pension scheme.
Service contracts The Remuneration Committee continues to believe that Executive Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Group share Directors service contracts should be for a rolling term and, for schemes or other employee benefit schemes and no options have been UK contracts, incorporate notice periods of twelve months.
The granted to Non-Executive Directors in their capacity as Non-Executive Remuneration Committee also believes that the Group should retain Directors of Shire.
On the merger of Shire with BioChem Pharma Inc. in the right to make a payment in lieu of notice to a Director.
The contracts 2001, options were granted to The Hon James Grant in replacement for contain obligations on the Executive Directors in respect of intellectual Mr Grants BioChem Pharma options.
The grant of these replacement property, together with post-termination restrictions.
The Remuneration options and the original BioChem Pharma option grant were made on Committees view is that, in the event of early termination, Executive the same terms as applied to other employees at the time, including Directors should be treated fairly but paid no more than is necessary.
that these options are not subject to any performance conditions.
Moreover, there should be no element of reward for failure.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed ordinarily for a term of two years, subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors who have served on the Board for nine years or more are appointed for one year terms and, in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Reappointment of Non-Executive Directors following the expiry of their term of appointment is subject to Board approval.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation for loss of ofce.
46 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report Details of the unexpired terms of the letters of appointment and notice The three year graph has been included as it tracks the TSR periods are as follows: performance since the Group started to implement its new strategic plan under new management.
Date of Date of Notice Director appointment term expiry period Three-year historical TSR performance.
Change in value of a hypothetical 100 holding over three years Dr James Cavanaugh 24.03.05 23.03.07 3 months 200 Dr Barry Price 25.01.07 24.01.08 3 months 180 The Hon James Grant 11.05.05 10.05.07 3 months 160 Mr Robin Buchanan 30.07.05 29.07.07 3 months 140 Mr David Kappler 05.04.06 04.04.08 3 months 120 Mr Patrick Langlois 11.11.05 10.11.07 3 months 100 Ms Kate Nealon 27.07.06 26.07.08 3 months 80 Dr Jeffrey Leiden 01.01.07 31.12.08 3 months 60 The fee policy structure for Non-Executive Directors, effective January 40 1, 2007, is presented in the table below.
$ 20 i 2007 Board membership annual basic fees 0 Chairman of the Board inclusive of all committees 488,051 12.31.03 12.31.04 12.31.05 12.31.06 Senior Non-Executive Director inclusive of NED fee 96,689 Shire TSR Non-Executive Director 86,560 Ex-financials FTSE 100 TSR Comparator group TSR Committee Membership Fees Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Chair 36,834 Remuneration Committee Chair 23,021 Five-year historical TSR performance.
Change in Nomination Committee Chair 23,021 value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five years Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee member 18,417 160 Remuneration Committee member 13,813 Nomination Committee member 9,209 140 120 i Denominated in sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rate prevailing in 2006.
100 Related party transactions 80 Details of transactions relating to Dr James Cavanaugh, The Hon James Grant, who is a partner of a Canadian law rm with which the 60 Group incurred professional fees during the year and with Dr Francesco Bellini, a former Non-Executive Director, are given in the Directors 40 report on pages 28 to 30.
20 Performance graph The graphs below set out the TSR for the three and five years ending 0 December 31, 2006.
The graphs compare the performance of a 12.31.01 12.31.02 12.31.03 12.31.04 12.31.05 12.31.06 hypothetical 100 holding of the Companys shares with that of a holding Shire TSR of shares in the FTSE 100 index excluding financial institutions and Ex-financials FTSE 100 TSR with a holding in a group comprised of the following pharma companies: Comparator group TSR Novo Nordisk, Schering AG, Serono, Altana, UCB, Lundbeck, Forest Labs, Allergan, Sepracor, Cephalon, Watson, Biovail, King, Valeant, Other remuneration Medicis and Kos.
This comparator group is a blend of US and UK The Group believes there are benets to Executive Directors companies with sector, size, complexity and international characteristics participation at the Board level at other companies, including crosssimilar to those of the Group.
The Company is a member of the FTSE industry and cross-company exposure and the added perspective 100 Index and consequently, for the purpose of the graphs which are set of outside views.
It is therefore the Groups policy to allow Executive out below, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index excluding financial Directors to take up Non-Executive positions at other companies and institutions as the appropriate index.
These comparisons will also be retain associated earnings as long as such appointments are expressly used to determine achievement of performance conditions relating to permitted by the Board of Directors.
the Annual Incentive Plan and the Portfolio Share Plan.
Annual report and accounts for the 47 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Value of hypothetical 100 holding Value of hypothetical 100 holding Directors remuneration report Mr Emmens was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc during 2004 and was appointed a Director of Incyte Corporation in 2006.
In this capacity he was paid $42,000 and $16,107 respectively in 2006, which he will retain.
Mr Russell is a Non-Executive Director of The City of London Investment Trust plc and its associated companies, The City of London European Trust Limited, The City of London Investments Limited and The City of London Finance Company Limited.
In this capacity, he was paid 17,500 $32,230 equivalent in 2006, which he will retain.
Audited information Aggregate Directors remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration were as follows: 2006 2005 $ thousands $ thousands Emoluments 5,969 4,289 Money purchase pension contributions 532 488 Gains on exercise of share options 390 194 6,891 4,971 Directors emoluments viii viii Cash Non-cash benets benets Total Total Salary Incentive Fees in kind in kind 2006 2005 $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands $ thousands Executive i vi Mr Matthew Emmens 1,105 1,985 87 3,177 2,286 ii vii Mr Angus Russell 701 971 20 12 1,704 1,103 Total executive 1,806 2,956 107 12 4,881 3,389 ix Non-Executive i Dr James Cavanaugh 423 423 364 iii Dr Barry Price 134 134 132 i The Hon James Grant 85 85 82 i Mr Ronald Nordmann 118 118 114 iii Mr Robin Buchanan 87 87 87 iii Mr David Kappler 111 111 109 iv Mr Patrick Langlois 94 94 12 iii v Ms Kate Nealon 36 36 Total Non-Executive 1,088 1,088 900 Total 1,806 2,956 1,088 107 12 5,969 4,289 i Paid in US$.
ii Salary and benets in kind paid in Sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rates for the year.
Incentive payable in Sterling and translated at the exchange rate at the end of February 2007. iii Fees paid in Sterling and translated into $ at the average exchange rates for the year.
iv Paid in Euros and translated into $ at the average exchange rate for the service period.
v Ms Nealon was appointed a Non-Executive Director on July 27, 2006. vi Mr Emmens incentive was split 64% receivable in cash, 36% receivable in deferred shares.
vii Mr Russells incentive was split 61% receivable in cash, 39% receivable in deferred shares.
viii Cash benets in kind represent expense allowances including dental costs.
Non-cash benets in kind consist of private medical insurance, life insurance and fuel allowance.
ix Details of the exercise of share options are disclosed on pages 49 to 50.
Non-Executive Director remuneration is to from the date of resignation appointment.
48 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report Directors pension entitlements The following Directors are members of money purchase schemes.
Contributions made by the Group not included in emoluments above in respect of 2006 were as follows: 2006 2005 Name of Director $ thousands $ thousands Mr Matthew Emmens 361 323 i Mr Angus Russell 171 165 532 488 i At Mr Russells request the Group deferred pension contributions of $59,000 earned in 2005, which were paid in 2006.
Directors shareholdings Directors who held ofce at the end of the year had interests in the share capital of the Company as follows all interests are beneficial : 2006 2005 Number of Number of Name of Director Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Dr James Cavanaugh 412,849 412,849 Mr Matthew Emmens 18,938 18,938 Mr Angus Russell 1,882 1,882 Dr Barry Price 31,350 31,350 The Hon James Grant 100,128 68,269 Mr Robin Buchanan 7,500 7,500 Mr David Kappler 10,000 5,000 Mr Patrick Langlois Nil Nil Ms Kate Nealon 2,251 Nil Directors share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire Ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors.
Directors and employees have been granted options over Ordinary shares under the Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B 2000 Executive Scheme, the Shire Holdings Limited Share Option Scheme SHL Scheme, the Pharmavene 1991 Stock Option Plan SLI Plan, the Shire Pharmaceuticals Executive Share Option Scheme Parts A and B Executive Scheme, the Shire plc Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme, the Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan, the Roberts Stock Option Plan Roberts Plan and the BioChem Stock Option Plan BioChem Plan.
Details of the SARs of Directors who served during the year are as follows: Number of SARs ADSs Exercise dates Market price at At At the date January 1, December 31, of the Director Scheme 2006 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2006 award Earliest Latest vi Mr Matthew Emmens PSP part A 126,831 126,831 $49.36 08.17.09 08.17.11 vi PSP part 92,671 92,671 $49.36 08.17.09 08.17.09 219,502 219,502 Number of SARs Ordinary shares Exercise dates Market price at At At the date January 1, December 31, of the Director Scheme 2006 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2006 award Earliest Latest vi Mr Angus Russell PSP part A 128,542 128,542 8.65 08.17.09 08.17.11 vi PSP part B 96,406 96,406 8.65 08.17.09 08.17.09 224,948 224,948 One ADS is equal to three Ordinary shares.
50 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report i Options granted under this scheme are subject to performance criteria and cannot be exercised in full, unless the Companys Ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period.
If the Companys share price increases at a compound rate of 14.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, 60% of the options may be exercised.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three years, they are thereafter tested quarterly by reference to share price growth over the extended period.
If the share price does not meet these conditions at any time, none of the options granted become exercisable.
On February 28, 2000, the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the terms of Part B of the Executive Share Option Scheme so as to include a cliff vesting provision.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the Executive Scheme.
ii Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to employees.
Employees may enter into three or five-year savings contracts.
iii Options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme are exercisable subject to certain performance criteria.
In respect of any option granted prior to August 2002, if the Companys Ordinary share price increases at a compound rate of at least 20.5% per annum over a minimum three-year measurement period, the option becomes exercisable in full.
If it increases by at least 14.5% per annum over the same three-year period, 60% of the options granted become exercisable.
If these conditions are not met after the initial three-year measurement period, they will thereafter be tested quarterly by reference to compound annual share price growth over an extended period.
The performance criteria were reviewed in 2002 to ensure the criteria reected the market in which Shire operates.
Given Shires development, it was considered appropriate that an earnings per share-based measure should be adopted in place of share price growth targets.
The performance criteria are based on real growth in the diluted earnings per share reported in the Groups Form 10-K under US GAAP, adjusted to ensure a consistent basis of measurement, as approved by the Remuneration Committee, including the add back of significant one time items option EPS.
Therefore, the performance criteria were amended so that an option would become exercisable in full if Shires option EPS growth over a three year period from the date of award exceed the UK Retail Prices Index RPI for the following tranches of grants: Options with a grant value of up to 100% of salary RPI plus 9% Directors, RPI plus 15% Between 101% and 200% of salary RPI plus 15% Between 201% and 300% of salary RPI plus 21% Over 301% of salary RPI plus 27% The RPI based earnings per share performance criteria applied to options granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme from August 2002.
After consultation with certain of its institutional shareholders, the Group decided that for options granted under the scheme from 2004 onwards, the retest of the performance condition if Shires option EPS growth falls short of the minimum annual average percentage increase over the three year period from grant would be changed.
The performance condition will be retested once only, therefore, at five years after the grant.
Hence the level of option EPS growth in the next two years needs to be consequentially higher to meet the test.
In December 2006 the Remuneration Committee of the Board exercised its powers to amend the performance conditions for options granted under the 2000 Executive scheme which had not vested.
The RPI based growth rate was replaced with an equivalent xed growth rate based on historical and forecast ination.
Under Part B of the scheme, six weeks prior to the expiration date, any options that have not become exercisable at an earlier date, automatically vest without reference to the performance criteria.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the 2000 Executive Scheme.
iv Following the acquisition of BioChem Pharma Inc. on May 11, 2001, the BioChem Stock Option Plan was amended such that options over BioChem Pharma Inc. s common stock became options over Ordinary shares of Shire.
All BioChem Pharma Inc. options, which were not already exercisable, vested and became exercisable as a result of the acquisition.
It is intended that no further options will be granted under the BioChem Stock Option Plan.
v Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
The offering period is for 27 months.
vi Details of the Portfolio Share Plan and vesting criteria are set out in Note 33 of this annual report.
The market price of the Ordinary shares at December 31, 2006 was 10.59 and the range during the year was 7.00 to 10.80.
The market price of the ADSs at December 31, 2006 was $61.76 and the range during the year was $38.54 to $64.10.
Annual report and accounts for the 51 year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc Directors remuneration report Long-Term Incentive Plan The following award, granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan lapsed during the year 2006 and no payment was made under it as the performance criteria were not met at the maturity date: Actual Initial award performanceDate of Director Date of award made related award maturity i Mr Angus Russell 03.04.02 19,078 Nil 03.04.06 i The performance criteria attaching to awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan are detailed on page 45.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on February 22, 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Dr Barry Price Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 52 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2006 Shire plc
