SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 40 41 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report has Additional information regarding the Committee been prepared in accordance with the is contained in the Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Regulations Report on pages 33 to 40.
2002 and the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The The Committee is responsible for determining disclosures contained in this report that and agreeing with the full Board a broad are specified for audit by the Directors remuneration policy that is aligned with the Remuneration Regulations are covered in Companys business strategy in the creation the scope of the Independent Auditors Report of shareholder value.
Within the context of that on pages 48 to 49.
A resolution to approve policy, the Committee is responsible for setting the report will be proposed at the forthcoming the total remuneration packages of the Annual General Meeting.
The Company has Executive Directors and officers of the Group.
complied throughout the period with the The Committee also monitors the remuneration provisions relating to Directors remuneration practices and trends throughout the Groups as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in internationally based workforce, including July 2003 and set out in the Combined Code in particular for senior staff who contribute the Code.
The Company has applied the most significantly to achieving the Companys principles set out in Code provisions and in strategic aims.
Additionally, the Committee is Schedule A to the Code as described below.
responsible for setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Committees remuneration committee recommendations and decisions are developed The independent Non-Executive Directors in full consideration of the Code, institutional who serve on the Remuneration Committee guidelines and evolving market practice.
are Mr Peter Kingston Chairman, Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Martin Roberts.
Each In discharging its duties during the year, the member has been determined by the Board Committee consulted with the other Nonto be independent in character and judgement Executive Directors, and received full Board as described more fully in the Corporate approval for its proposals.
In particular, the Governance Report on pages 33 to 40.
All Committee has sought advice as it considers members are independent of management and appropriate from Mr Rui fide Sousa, who it free from any conflicts of interest arising from considers offers the Committee a valuable cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement perspective as a substantial shareholder, in running the Companys business.
No in ensuring the strategy to align executive member has any personal financial interest, interests with those of shareholders is properly other than as shareholders, in the matters weighed against the overall quantum of delegated to the Committee.
No Director remuneration and the cost to shareholders.
plays a role in deciding his own remuneration.
The Committee consulted with the Chief DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive on its proposals for the other with respect to individual and corporate Executive Director and senior management, performance during the year.
These reviews and received administrative assistance from are normally conducted in December.
The Audit Committee projected value and structure of the Executive is consulted as deemed appropriate in setting Directors packages are benchmarked against and assessing the fulfilment of targets based competitive market ranges, taking into on financial terms.
consideration the Groups size and complexity, and positioned within those ranges considering Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte was the Executive Directors critical value to the independently retained by the Committee Company and demonstrated performance as advisors and provided advice on executive over time.
Similar benchmarking techniques remuneration in terms of relevant current are applied to non-Board employees and the market practice and developments in best Committee monitors senior staff packages practice guidance, and in particular on the during the review of Executive Directors testing and setting of performance criteria for packages.
Year on year results of benchmarking incentive plans.
The original appointment of are monitored for indications of potential advisors resulted from a tender process and unwarranted upward ratcheting.
alternate advisors are considered from time to time.
Deloitte also provided audit services to package components the Group, as set out in Note 9 to the financial Executive remuneration comprises a fixed statements and described more fully in the basic salary and eligibility to receive an annual Corporate Governance Report on pages 33 performance based cash bonus and annual to 40.
The advisors terms of reference restrict awards under incentive plans approved the provision of certain services in order to by shareholders and designed to provide maintain auditor independence, and the scope appropriate longer term incentive opportunities.
and value of services to the Group is under The annual cash bonus range is structured to continuous review.
Advice is developed with use provide an appropriate balance between basic of established methodologies and the advisors salary and the performance related element of are not involved in the decision-making process.
Overall packages Advisory partners and staff have no involvement are structured to deliver 60% of the projected in audit, and are not involved in the preparation value of the Directors total compensation of audited information.
opportunity from performance related elements at performance levels in the middle of the remuneration poLicy target range, increasing to 80% at exceptional The policies described in this report have been performance levels.
Executive Directors are applied throughout 2006.
Whilst these policies eligible for additional benefits, including money are envisaged to be consistently applied in the purchase pension scheme contributions, a following and subsequent years, the Committee permanent health insurance scheme, medical has an ongoing process for monitoring its insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness policies, including its arrangements for cover, travel benefits and car benefits.
performance based pay, against evolving market practice and relevant guidance.
Any Basic saLary proposed change would only be implemented Basic salary is fixed at appointment or in relation following a consultation, review and approval to changes in responsibility, and is reviewed process deemed appropriate to such change.
Particular care is given in fixing the appropriate salary level considering that cash The Directors believe that a uniquely qualified bonus and incentive plan awards are generally and motivated executive management is vital set as a fraction or multiple of basic salary.
to the effective management of the Companys Basic salary is the only element of a Directors international portfolio and the successful pay which is pensionable.
Annual reviews take execution of the Companys stated strategy of into consideration advice from remuneration building shareholder value.
It is the Committees consultants regarding relevant current market objective to attract and retain high calibre practice for salary levels and salary increases, executives through remuneration which is as well as demonstrated performance.
Following competitive with that offered in comparable the annual review conducted in December businesses and is appropriate to those 2006, with effect from 1 January 2007 each individuals positions, experience and value to Executive Directors basic salary has been the Company.
The Committee aims to design increased by 6%.
remuneration packages with a significant short and long term performance-related element Bonus linking appropriate, but significantly greater, Bonus awards are considered in two levels, rewards for greater achievements.
The wherein expected performance will result in Committee seeks to ensure performance based awards in a target range of up to 50% of salary, pay is linked to its business strategy.
To achieve with a stretch level providing a maximum this, shorter term performance is monitored annual cash bonus opportunity of up to 100% against targets based on the Companys of salary for exceptional performance.
In the longer term, performance targets are more closely linked to share price The annual cash bonus is awarded based on performance as an indicator of the Companys individual and corporate achievements during success in building shareholder value.
the year towards goals based on the Companys strategic plan.
Goals are set annually for each executiVe directors portion of the Companys portfolio aimed at The Committee reviews all aspects of achieving the specific challenges the Company remuneration on an annual basis and faces in meeting its strategic objectives.
The SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 42 43 monitored measures for particular projects may scheme the Plans.
Participation in the include specified timetables for seismic, drilling Plans and the level of award made is and construction programmes, drilling success discretionary and is set in consideration of ratios, discovery targets, reserve levels and both corporate and individual performance, production targets.
Portfolio objectives are set taking into account awards made under both regarding progress towards potential non-core Plans.
Awards under the Plans are subject to asset divestitures and new ventures.
Corporate limits on individual participation whereby the goals, safety and environmental measures and market value, as measured at the date of financial measures against budgeted levels are grant, of shares subject to awards made in additionally established as deemed appropriate.
any financial year will not exceed 200% of The specific targets set against these measures the executives total earnings in that year, are considered to be commercially sensitive and except in exceptional circumstances on are therefore not set out herein.
The Committee, however, has achievement of each goal is ranked against a a policy of operating the Plans within the scale of expectations.
The Committee retains more restrictive annual limit of 200% of discretion over the amount of bonus paid out to the executives base salary.
ensure that appropriate consideration is given to the relative importance of the achievements The aggregate number of new issue shares in the year and the actual contribution of these which may be subject to awards under towards furthering the Companys strategic plan.
the Plans shall not exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in Achievements for the year have been any rolling ten year period.
Accordingly, exceptional when measured against the at 31 December 2006, 3.6 million new Groups 2006 goals.
Operational achievements issue shares 2005 3.6 million may be were led by the Groups drilling programmes subject to awards under the Plans, of in Vietnam and Yemen which exceeded which there is available capacity remaining aggressive targets for drilling success ratios of 0.5 million shares 2005 0.5 million.
Significant results of the An employee benefit trust currently holds programme include a stepped increase in the sufficient SOCO shares to satisfy all shares estimated potential of the Te Giac Trang TGT conditionally awarded under the LTIP, as field in Vietnam Block 16-1 and a marked more fully described in Note 26 to the increase in production capability in Yemen.
Decisions governing Reserve additions resulting from the years acquisitions of shares into the trust are drilling programmes in both Vietnam and considered and approved by the full Yemen have exceeded targets and provide Board.
Charges which have been reflected a clear link between the success of these in the Groups income statement in respect programmes and building shareholder value.
of the Plans are set out in Note 27 to the Benchmarks set for progressing an accelerated financial statements.
development plan were achieved on Vietnam Block 9-2.
Following the TGT drilling success At the date of grant of an award, the in the first half of 2006, new benchmarks Committee sets appropriate performance were set for undertaking a second Vietnam criteria which must be achieved before development which were achieved.
Targeted the award can be exercised or vest.
Award infrastructure improvements in Yemen have levels will take into account the nature of resulted in increased production capacity, performance targets to ensure that projected resulting in higher production rates in 2006 total compensation opportunity at assumed and the capacity for further rises.
Resources levels of share price growth is appropriate in have been secured to continue an aggressive the prevailing market.
Measurement of the programme in a competitive environment.
Companys performance criteria is carried out with reference to external data sources Portfolio goals were met, in particular through by the Committees remuneration advisors the addition of a block in West Africa and to ensure its independence.
success in the Groups targeted farm-out programme.
The Group was also successful The Remuneration Committee considers in acquiring an additional 2% interest in that the Companys relative total shareholder Vietnam Block 16-1 on favourable terms.
return TSR provides the primary basis for determining the value generated for Corporate goals were exceeded, in particular shareholders over the longer term, and is through the highly successful convertible bonds also the primary indicator of the Companys issue.
The Company has also seen dramatic overall corporate performance.
Accordingly, share price growth during the year, increased performance targets for awards under the sector analyst cover and gained exposure to Plans since their approvals have been set a broader range of institutional investors.
with reference to the Companys relative TSR performance over a three year period against Based on measurement of the years a range of comparator companies in the oil outstanding achievements against the targets exploration and production sector.
Prior to the set out, and in consideration of their individual vesting of an award, the Committee gives contributions, bonuses were awarded to Mr consideration to whether the results are Story and Mr Cagle at the policys maximum consistent with the underlying performance bonus rate of 100% of salary.
Once the Committee determines performance criteria have been incentiVe pLans met, there may additionally be a requirement The Committee currently operates a Long that awards be held for a specified retention Term Incentive Plan LTIP and a share option period prior to exercise or receipt.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Further details of incentive share awards are shall primarily be assessed, on the basis of set out in the table on page 46 and in Note appropriate external advice, in terms of the 27 to the financial statements.
additions to and the management and quality of the Groups oil and gas reserves in view of FiVe year tsr perFormance goals set by the Board.
Following measurement The performance graph below sets out SOCOs of the Companys performance against the TSR performance over the past five years.
The comparator group for awards granted in 2003 FTSE Oil & Gas Index performance is similarly 40% of the awards have been declared vested.
set out, being a broad market index which is The Committee is satisfied that the performance sector specific.
criteria measurement has resulted in a vesting level appropriate to the underlying performance of the Company.
Those awards not declared total shareholder return % vested have lapsed.
700 600 option scheme 500 The Committee currently operates one share option scheme for its employees, being the 400 SOCO 1997 Company Share Option Plan.
300 No options have been granted to the Directors since 1999, prior to introduction of the LTIP.
200 All options held by Directors, having been 100 measured against the relevant three year performance criteria set at the date of grant, 0 are 100% vested and exercisable.
Any future Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 grants to Directors will be subject to vesting FTSE Oil & Gas Source: Datastream SOCO and performance criteria set with reference to best practice guidelines and fully disclosed to Ltip shareholders.
The scheme will terminate on 25 LTIP awards are considered in the course April 2007 without prejudice to the subsisting of the annual review in December, which is rights of participants.
The Committee will give intended to put in place an opportunity for consideration to the introduction of a new regular annual vesting based on performance scheme to be submitted for shareholder targets achieved over successive three year approval at the 2008 AGM.
In consideration of exceptional corporate and individual performance during pre-FLoat option scheme 2006, as described in the Bonus section of The Directors hold share options under the this report, discretionary awards were granted SOCO-sub Unapproved Share Option Plan to the Executive Directors over shares with a which were granted prior to the 1997 listing market value of 200% of salary.
Shares of the Companys shares on the London Stock awarded under the Plan are subject to Exchange and are fully vested and exercisable.
performance criteria to be measured on the No additional grants are available under the third anniversary of the date of grant, and plan.
These options are currently set to lapse deemed fulfilled to the satisfaction of the in April 2007 under terms of the Plan as Committee.
If the TSR ranking exceeds the amended.
The Options are fully vested and are median, 30% of the award will become currently exercisable at an attractive price to capable of vesting, with full vesting only for the option holder.
They are therefore expected performance in the top 17 percentile.
The to be exercised, requiring disposition of actual vesting percentage will be calculated sufficient shares to fund the resulting taxation, on a pro rata basis between ranking positions prior to any lapsing.
The Board believes that an to more closely reflect SOCOs actual TSR orderly disposition is in the best interests of the performance relative to the next highest and Company and shareholders generally, and may lowest comparators.
For awards granted prior be impacted by frequent close periods and to 2004, if the TSR exceeds the median, 40% consideration of new legislation.
Accordingly, of the award will become capable of vesting the Board has exercised its power to make with full vesting for performance in the top administrative amendments to the scheme by 20 percentile.
extending the exercise date to 15 March 2008.
The comparator group comprises Aminex, pension contriButions Burren Energy, Cairn Energy, Dana Petroleum, Contributions are paid into two money purchase Dragon Oil through 2006, First Calgary from pension schemes in respect of the Executive 2007, JKX Oil and Gas from 2007, Paladin Directors.
Annual contribution levels are set at Resources through 2004, Premier Oil, Ramco 15% of salary.
The Company monitors its pension Energy through 2006, Regal Petroleum, ROC commitments, including Executive Directors Oil from 2005, Salamander Energy from arrangements, in light of pension legislation and 2007, SOCO, Sterling Energy from 2007, taxation in the relevant jurisdictions.
No changes Tullow Oil and Venture Production.
Additionally, the Committee may give other poLicies consideration, in light of any exceptional With prior approval of the Board, Executive circumstances during a relevant three Directors are allowed to accept non-executive year period, whether the recorded TSR is appointments to other boards and to retain consistent with the achievement of actual the associated directors fees.
Under this policy underlying financial and operational Mr Story has been released to serve on the performance which, for awards to date, board of Cairn Energy PLC and Mr Cagle has SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 44 4 been released to serve on the boards of Vostok Non-Executive Directors were set at Energy Limited and Dominion Petroleum plc.
125,000, 65,000 and 36,000, Mr Story and Mr Cagle retained associated respectively, with effect from 1 January fees for 2006 in the amount of 50,000 and 2007.
The fees have been set within the 3,000, respectively.
The Executive Directors aggregate limits set out in the Companys have held a meaningful shareholding in the Articles of Association and approved by Company which they have continued to build shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are since its founding in 1997.
Accordingly, and not eligible for participation in the Companys giving due respect to the Executives incentive schemes or pension schemes.
demonstrated actions, the Board has not set this requirement out in policy.
An appropriate directors contracts policy regarding shareholding targets will be Executive Directors contracts are for an given consideration upon any prospective indefinite period and are terminable by either Executive Director appointment.
party on giving one years notice which may be satisfied with a payment in lieu of notice.
non-executiVe directors The Committee has a duty to prevent the The remuneration of the Non-Executive requirement to make payments that are not Chairman is set by the Committee and strictly merited, and endorses the principle of approved by the Board.
The remuneration for mitigation of damages on early termination other Non-Executive Directors is recommended of a service contract.
Any payment on early by the Chief Executive and the Chairman termination will be assessed on the basis of and determined by the Board as a whole.
the particular circumstances, but in any event Remuneration levels are set based on outside will not be in respect of any period beyond advice and the review of current practices in the one year specified by contract.
The other companies, giving consideration to the Non-Executive Directors appointments time commitment and responsibilities of the are terminable at the will of the parties but role.
In consideration of increasing demands are envisaged to establish an initial term of and fee levels in recent years generally, SOCO three years after which they will be reviewed has given particular attention to benchmarking annually.
The dates of the Directors service data to ensure its fees remain appropriate.
contracts or letters of appointment, which Based on these factors, the annual fees for may not coincide with their initial date of services as Directors payable to the Chairman, appointment, are set out in the Directors the Deputy Chairman and the remaining Report on page 31. audited inFormation directors emoLuments Fees basic Benefits Annual Total total 1 salary in kind bonus 2006 2005 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Executive Director E Story 395 20 395 810 671 R Cagle 296 30 296 622 486 Non-Executive Director 2 R fide Sousa 33 33 29 2 P Maugein 70 70 70 3 P Kingston 60 60 59 O Barbaroux 30 30 29 R Cathery 30 30 29 E Contini 30 30 29 J Norton 30 30 29 M Roberts 30 30 29 J Snyder 30 30 29 Aggregate emoluments 1,034 50 691 1,775 1,489 1 Benefits include medical insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover and car benefits.
2 Emoluments paid to P Maugein and R fide Sousa include Chairman fees in proportion to their dates of service in the role.
3 Emoluments receivable by Mr Peter Kingston are paid to Peter Kingston & Associates.
No Directors received amounts as compensation for loss of office as a Director during the year.
2 Based on TSR performance against a comparator group, all options conditionally exercisable under the 1997 Company Share Plan have been determined to be fully vested.
Additional details regarding the plan are set out within this report.
Options were exercised on 15 June 2006 at a market price of 12.32, resulting in a gain of 8.2 million and 5.3 million on exercise by E Story and R Cagle, respectively.
3 These conditional awards are in the form of contingent rights or nil price options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
Those awards set out as exercisable prior to 1 January 2007 have been tested against the relevant performance schedules attached to the awards and the balance held as at 31 December 2006 has been determined to be fully vested.
Those awards set out as potentially exercisable from a date subsequent to 31 December 2006 remain conditional upon performance criteria.
Additional details regarding the LTIP are set out within this report.
4 Options may not be exercised without appropriate Board consents, the Board having given consideration to any requirements on participants to maintain a specified minimum number of shares under option or equivalent shareholding requirements.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 was 13.82 and the range during the year to 31 December 2006 was 7.69 to 16.10. directors transactions Pursuant to a lease dated 20 April 1997, Comfort Storyville a company wholly owned by Mr Ed Story has leased to the Group office and storage space in Comfort, Texas.
The lease, which was negotiated on an arms length basis, has a fixed monthly rent of $1,000.
In January 2001, the Group entered into an agreement the Option Agreement with Mr Rui fide Sousa wherein, in exchange for consideration in the amount of $400,000, the Group secured an option to acquire a 30% shareholding in a special purpose entity created by Mr fide Sousa to pursue a specific field development and to hold any rights as may be acquired for such development.
The Option Agreement, which was negotiated on an arms length basis, expired on 31 December 2006.
Under the terms of an acquisition approved by shareholders in 1999, the Company and its strategic shareholder group Investor Group, including Quantic Limited Quantic in which Mr Rui fide Sousa has a non-notifiable share interest, jointly participate in certain regions in which the Investor Group utilises its long established industry and government relationships to negotiate and secure commercial rights in oil and gas projects.
In the 2004 Annual Report and Accounts the form of participation to be utilised was set out to be through equity shareholdings in which the Investor Group holds a minority interest in special purpose entities SPEs created to hold such projects.
The shareholding terms have been modelled after the SOCO Vietnam Ltd arrangement which was negotiated with third parties.
Quantics minority holdings in the subsidiary undertakings which principally affected the profits or net assets of the Group are shown in Note 16 of the financial statements.
The Group has entered into a consulting agreement, which the parties have agreed to extend through July 2008, wherein Quantic is entitled to a consulting fee in the amount of $50,000 per month in respect of such services as are required to review, assess and progress the realisation of oil and gas exploration and production opportunities in certain areas.
SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2006 46 4 directors interests The Directors who held office at 31 December 2006 had the following interests all of which were beneficial except as noted below in the ordinary shares of the Company Shares, warrants to subscribe for the same number of Shares Warrants and contingent rights or options to acquire Shares Options at 31 December 2006: 1 number of shares number of options number of warrants 2006 2005 2006 2005 2006 2005 Executive Director E Story 1,596,893 1,149,254 2,753,974 3,466,129 2 R Cagle 716,246 262,209 2,401,086 3,169,998 Non-Executive Director 3 Rui fide Sousa 728,924 1,293,635 1,549,853 1,549,853 Peter Kingston 4,000 4,000 Olivier Barbaroux 20,000 20,000 Robert Cathery 100,000 70,000 Ettore Contini 60,000 60,000 John Norton 115,000 115,000 Martin Roberts 5,000 5,000 4 John Snyder 200,000 500,000 1 Details of Options granted to or held by the Directors in respect of their services as a director, including any relevant conditions of exercise, are set out in the table of Directors incentive share awards.
2 Mr Roger Cagles interests include 266,773 Shares 2005 83,850 and 865,409 2005 1,177,068 Options held by Cynthia Cagle, the Options having been granted to her in respect of her services to the Group.
3 In addition to 7,500 2005 nil Shares held personally, Mr Rui fide Sousas interest is held by Palamos Limited, which is owned by a trust company whose potential ultimate beneficiary is the family of Mr fide Sousa, and by New Falcon Oil Limited, of which Mr fide Sousa owns 100% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Palamos Limited holds 721,424 2005 721,424 Shares, 528,678 2005 528,678 Warrants at an exercise price of 0.65 per Share, 925,187 2005 925,187 Warrants at an exercise price of 0.60 per Share and 55,336 2005 55,336 Warrants at an exercise price of 0.55 per Share.
New F alcon Oil Limited holds nil 2005 572,211 Shares and 40,652 2005 40,652 Warrants at a price of 0.55 per Share.
4 Mr John Snyders interest is held by Snyder F amily Investments, L. P. which is owned by Mr Snyder, other family members and other partnerships and trusts of which Mr Snyder and members of his family are owners and or beneficiaries.
Whilst the Executive Directors, as potential beneficiaries, are technically deemed to have an interest in all Shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust Trust, the table above only includes those Shares which are potentially transferable to the Directors and their families pursuant to Options which have been granted to them under incentive schemes facilitated by the Trust.
Details of the Trust and its holdings are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
There have been no other changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2006 and the date of this report.
No Director held any other interests in any Group companies.
approVaL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Kingston Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director
