Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Remuneration Report 36 notes accompanying the Notice of AGM.
The following is the report of the Board of Company Policy on Executive Directors Directors in compliance with the Directors Remuneration The company has had in place, on a Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 The Remuneration Committees composition, contingency basis, a formal policy for the Regulations.
responsibilities and operation comply with rewarding performance defined as Section B of the Combined Code issued by exceptional.
The policy was that a further The Remuneration Committee the Financial Reporting Council.
In forming bonus of up to a maximum of 75% of base The Remuneration Committee is a remuneration policy, the Committee has salary may be paid, with a proportion being Committee of independent non-Executive given full consideration to the best practice paid in shares.
Any such bonus would not be Directors, the members of which are David provisions set out in Section B1 of the pensionable.
The option of awarding such a Payne, who chairs the Committee, Ren Combined Code.
bonus would only have been considered in Mdori and Kevin Smith.
Biographical details truly exceptional circumstances.
No such of the current Committee members are given This report sets out the companys policy payment was made during the year, nor in on pages 34 and 35.
During the year, the on Executive Directors remuneration for previous years.
As part of the new bonus and Committee met on seven occasions, with full the year ended 31 March 2006 and, so far PSP arrangements, it is proposed that this attendance at all meetings apart from the as is reasonable, for subsequent years.
exceptional bonus policy be dropped.
meeting held on 29 June 2005 which Ren The Committee considers that a successful Mdori was unable to attend.
The company remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently The Committee is fully aware of the Chairman attends the meetings of the flexible to take account of future changes need to ensure there is an appropriate Committee by invitation but does not do so in the companys business environment relationship between Executive Director when the review of his fees is being and in remuneration practice.
Any changes remuneration and the levels of remuneration considered.
The Terms of Reference of the in policy for years after 2006 will be of other Senior Management within the Committee were reviewed during the year as described in future Remuneration Reports, Group.
The Committee continues to take part of the Committee evaluation process, to which will continue to be subject to account of this when reviewing Executive ensure they conform to best practice, and shareholder approval.
they are available on the companys website scottish-southern.
The companys policy is to attract, Shareholding Policy retain and incentivise Executive Directors Share ownership is encouraged throughout The Committee sets the overall to run the company effectively and meet the Group.
The company has adopted a policy remuneration policy and determines, the expectations of shareholders whilst that the Executive Directors and certain on behalf of the Board, the detailed adopting a conservative and prudent other senior Executives should acquire remuneration terms of the Executive approach to overall remuneration.
and maintain a level of shareholding Directors including their service contracts.
This has been achieved by providing approximately equivalent to one years salary.
It also reviews the remuneration of the remuneration consisting of basic salary, This level should be attained within a Chairman and the Company Secretary.
benefits, an Annual Bonus Scheme and reasonable timescale.
Consent to sell shares The Board as a whole reviews the fees of the a Deferred Bonus Scheme both of which under the companys Share Dealing Code is non-Executive Directors.
Where requested require the achievement of demanding not normally given unless in exceptional by the Committee the Chief Executive, performance targets.
circumstances or to fund a connected tax Ian Marchant, attends and assists the liability until this level of shareholding is Committee in respect of those Directors During the year, the Committee undertook reached.
It is also expected that all nonreporting to him.
He does not participate in a comprehensive review of the companys Executive Directors should hold a minimum decisions regarding his own remuneration.
performance-related incentive arrangements of 2,000 shares in the company.
The Director of Human Resources, Jim in the light of developments in best practice McPhillimy, provides information and advice in this area.
As a result of this review, the Annual Salary and Benefits on various issues relating to the Directors Committee considers that the current The Committee continues to follow the broad remuneration, including comparative data remuneration policy is more geared towards principle that salaries should take account drawn from published remuneration and short-term performance than it thinks of those in comparable companies with benefit surveys, and advice on appropriate desirable.
Following consultation with the variations to reflect individual performance, awards of bonuses and long-term incentives.
company brokers Merrill Lynch, and with experience and job size.
Salary and benefits the ABI, RREV, and major shareholders, the levels are generally set below median, while The Company Secretary, Vincent Donnelly, Committee proposes to replace the current having regard to retention objectives.
provides information to the Committee on Deferred Bonus Scheme with a redesigned developments in corporate governance annual bonus plan and a new long-term As part of the current review of guidelines as they affect Committee incentive plan, the Performance Share Plan remuneration, the Committee considered business.
During the year, the Committee PSP.
The objective of these proposals is independent salary survey data and also the appointed the actuaries, Hymans Robertson, not to increase the overall remuneration advice of Towers Perrin.
Both the data and to advise them on the implications of package but rather to enhance the extent advice of Towers Perrin confirmed that the legislative changes to pensions.
Hymans to which the remuneration package is overall levels of remuneration continued to Robertson are the actuaries to the Scottish genuinely forward looking as well as be well below median, and the Committee Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme.
The requiring deferral of a portion of annual was satisfied that in order to maintain an Committee also received advice from Towers bonus into shares for retention purposes.
effective retention regime, salaries should Perrin on remuneration package structures Once the transition from Deferred Bonus increase whilst remaining within the prudent, and in particular received advice from them Scheme to PSP is effective, the Committee below median, policy approach.
The and from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer on expects that total remuneration for median Executive Directors salary increases with the new Performance Share Plan.
Both performance will remain unchanged, but the effect from 1 January 2006 were therefore in Towers Perrin and Freshfields Bruckhaus expected value of total remuneration for the range 10%-15%.
The current annual Deringer were appointed by the company on upper quartile performance will increase by base salary levels for the Executive Directors behalf of the Committee.
Excluding pensions, half of the are as follows: Ian Marchant 660,000: total remuneration for target performance is Gregor Alexander 345,000: Colin Hood variable.
Approval of the PSP will be sought 495,000: Alistair Phillips-Davies 345,000. at the AGM, and further information is set out in this report and in the explanatory Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 37 The Committee is satisfied that, subject to Deferred Bonus Scheme Proposed Future Incentive Arrangements approval of the new PSP at the forthcoming The Deferred Bonus Scheme, which applies Following the Committees review of AGM, the overall remuneration structure is set to Executive Directors and a selection of performance related remuneration, the at a level which is reasonable and appropriate.
senior managers, is designed to contribute following changes are proposed for 2006 07 to increasing shareholder return and and future years.
It is proposed that Current Incentive Arrangements motivation of senior management over the contingent awards under the new PSP Annual Bonus longer-term.
It also facilitates the building commence in 2006 with a performance The 2005 06 Annual Bonus Scheme for of share ownership in the company.
period from April 2006 to March 2009, and Executive Directors provides for cash that the new Annual Bonus arrangements bonuses of up to a maximum of 75% of basic Directors are granted awards based on their are operated from 2007 based on the annual salary, attributable approximately two-thirds actual annual bonus.
Therefore, if the annual bonus payable in respect of 2006 07. to corporate performance based on bonus were to be zero, there would be no achievement of profit targets and one-third award under the Deferred Bonus Scheme.
The contingent awards will only vest if to personal objectives.
The bonuses are nonThe value of the award is adjusted by performance meets the demanding criteria pensionable.
The personal objectives are reference to three retrospective factors: described below.
based on a wide range of specific business the companys relative performance in terms activities.
Whilst the specific targets are of Total Shareholder Return TSR over the Annual Bonus Scheme commercially confidential, they include three-year period to the date of the award The maximum bonus level for any year will objectively measurable improvements compared to the FTSE 100 : Safety which be increased from 75% to 100% of base in areas such as: is externally verified and compared to other salary and will comprise 60% for corporate energy companies by the Electricity performance, 25% for personal objectives k improvement in Group safety Networks Association : and relative and 15% for relative safety and service performance: performance in terms of Account and Billing standards based on externally verified data Complaints, as recorded by the independent from the relevant trade association and k reduction in customer complaints: regulatory body, energywatch.
Of the bonus so determined, k exceeding network quality of supply on actual performance each factor gives a 75% will be paid in cash so that cash payout targets: multiplier of between 0.7 and 1.35 with the is broadly the same as under the current highest multiplier requiring upper quartile scheme, and the remainder will be k delivery of specific business plans: performance.
A weighted average is then compulsorily deferred into shares which will k achievement of further efficiency taken using TSR 40%, Safety 40% and only vest, subject to continued service, after savings: Account and Billing Complaints 20%, to three years.
The number of shares under an create a single factor which is then applied award will be determined by dividing the k successful delivery of results from to the award.
The award in 2005 applied the relevant pre-tax amount of bonus by the recent acquisitions: factor of 1.35.
The resultant amount is then share price shortly after announcement of k improvement in the number of used to determine the number of shares to results for the Financial Year to which the customer gains and reduction of be awarded based on the market value of the bonus relates.
The share awards will be customer losses: and shares at the time of the award.
The satisfied by a transfer of shares from the requisite shares are purchased in the market Employee Share Ownership Trust.
k delivery of major projects on or by the independent trustees of the ahead of schedule.
companys Employee Share Ownership Trust For the year 2006 07, the maximum and held in trust for three years, at which corporate element remains payable if The companys performance in all these point the participant is entitled to realise performance exceeds by 10% or more the areas is described in the Chief Executives the award.
Upon realisation, the participant budgeted profit before tax target, but no Statement and the Directors Statement on usually receives additional shares corporate element will be payable if pages 8 to 25 of this Annual Report.
The representing the dividends paid on the performance falls below 95% of this target majority of targets set are operational in shares during the three-year period they formerly 90%.
nature, set against measurable and verifiable are held in trust.
The performance conditions data either within the Group or more were chosen because they were closely Individual targets for the Annual Bonus generally within the energy sector.
However, aligned with the interests of shareholders, Scheme have been set using the same some targets are set which require some customers and staff.
approach as 2005 06 save that the current subjective assessment.
This is done by the targets have now been reviewed by the Chief Executive and reported by the Director If a participant resigns voluntarily in the Committee and made more demanding.
of Human Resources to the Committee for three years following award, all outstanding consideration, except in the case of targets awards lapse rather than 50% of the awards, The Committee will cease to have a for the Chief Executive himself, where they which was the position until 2003.
The discretion to award an exceptional bonus are assessed by the Committee, with shares under award can normally vest after as described above.
assistance from the Director of Human three years, but can vest earlier in certain Resources and the company Chairman.
exceptional circumstances such as retirement or redundancy.
To achieve the maximum corporate element of bonus, performance had to exceed by 10%, Awards will be granted in June 2006 in the budgeted profit before tax target which is accordance with the current policy and based approved by the Board as part of the annual on performance until March 2006.
This represents a more stretching Performance Share Plan is approved by target than applied in previous years.
No shareholders, no further awards to Executive corporate element of the bonus would have Directors will be made.
been payable if performance had fallen below 90% of target.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Remuneration Report Continued 38 and private health insurance which also Performance Share Plan PSP notes accompanying the Notice of AGM covers dependants.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM which includes details on the consequences in 2006, it is proposed that the PSP will of leaving employment, and change of The contracts are each for an indefinite term replace the existing Deferred Bonus Scheme.
ending automatically on retirement date expressed to be age 60, but may be Under the PSP, the maximum value of share All-Employee Share Schemes terminated by 12 months notice given by the awards made to Executive Directors and Executive Directors are eligible to participate company or by 12 months notice given by the other Senior Executives each year is 100% in the companys all-employee share Director.
The company may at its discretion of base salary.
Awards will vest after three schemes on the same terms as other elect to terminate any Executive Directors years to the extent that performance employees.
These schemes comprise: contract by making a payment in lieu of conditions are met.
One-half of the award notice equal to the basic salary which would is subject to a TSR target relative to other a the Sharesave Scheme, a savingshave been received during the notice period FTSE 100 companies.
For full vesting, the related share option scheme available excluding any bonus and any other companys TSR must be at or above the 75th to all employees.
This scheme operates emolument referable to the employment.
percentile over the three-year performance within specific tax legislation including Payments in lieu of notice will be made in period.
30% of this element of the award will a requirement to finance exercise of the staged payments, and such payments will vest if the companys TSR is at the median.
option using the proceeds of a monthly savings contract of up to 250 per either reduce or cease completely in Awards will vest on a straight-line pro rata month, and, in common with all such circumstances where the departing basis between median and 75th percentile.
schemes, exercise of the option is not Executive Director gains new employment.
Awards based on TSR will only vest if the subject to satisfaction of a performance There is also a specific provision obliging the Committee is also satisfied with the target.
The option price is set at a departing Executive to mitigate his her loss underlying financial performance of the discount of 10% to market value: and in these circumstances.
There are no special company over the performance period.
provisions applying in the event of change The remaining one-half of the award will be b the Share Incentive Plan the SIP, also of control.
subject to an adjusted earnings per share available to all employees, under which EPS growth target.
For the three-year cycle employees allocate part of their pre-tax Remuneration and Pensions commencing in 2006 07, full vesting will salary to purchase shares up to a The remuneration of Directors who served occur if the annual growth in adjusted EPS maximum of 125 per month.
The SIP during the year was as shown below.
All the is equivalent to 8% above RPI per annum.
operates within specific tax legislation.
Executive Directors participate in either the 30% vesting will occur if the annual growth During the year, the company matched Southern Electric Pension Scheme or the in adjusted EPS is equivalent to 3% above the first five shares purchased by the Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme, RPI per annum, with vesting on a  employees each month and which are funded final salary pension line basis between 3% and 8% above RPI.
intends to continue to do so.
The Directors service contracts There will be no vesting of the relevant company also offered 50 free shares to provide for a possible maximum pension of portion of award if the TSR minimum target all eligible employees during the year, two-thirds final salary at age 60.
In relation of median is not achieved, or if the minimum with no performance conditions to Executive Directors who are subject to real annual growth of EPS is not achieved.
attached, in recognition of the the earnings cap imposed by the Finance Act contribution of all staff to the 1989 broadly, those becoming employed by The Committee considers the use of two performance of the Group.
a Group company since 1989, the company measures, in these proportions, to be provides top-up unfunded arrangements appropriate.
The TSR performance measure In the past, the company operated a which are designed to provide an equivalent is dependent on the companys relative longDiscretionary Share Option Scheme, under pension on retirement at age 60 to that which term share price performance, and therefore which Senior Executives and staff were they would have earned if they had not been brings a market perspective to the PSP.
This scheme subject to the earnings cap.
Furthermore vesting of this element requires has now been terminated.
No options have the Committee to be satisfied with the been granted under this scheme since 1998, During the year, the Committee considered underlying financial performance of the and all options granted to Executive the potential impact of legislative changes on company.
The TSR measure is balanced by a Directors have been exercised or pensions policy.
From April 2006, current key internal measure, adjusted EPS growth, have lapsed.
HM Revenue & Customs limits will cease to which is critical to the companys long-term apply to benefits provided by the pension success and ties in with its strategic goals.
If a members accrued fund The Committee considers that the It is the companys policy that Executive exceeds the new lifetime allowance LTA, achievement of annual adjusted EPS growth Directors should have service contracts with the benefits payable by the scheme from that of 8% above RPI per annum is a suitably the company which are terminable on 12 excess will be subject to a higher rate of demanding target for maximum vesting in months notice given by either party.
The company intends to light of the regulatory regime in which the aspects of each contract are as follows: maximise the use of the new allowance company operates and on the basis of thereby providing Executive Directors with independent advice.
The target range has The Executive Directors are employed under more of their existing benefits via registered been set in the light of consensus service contracts with the company each schemes.
In the case of Colin Hood, who was expectations and the companys own dated 11 March 2005.
They are eligible under not subject to the previous earnings cap but forecasts.
The Committee believes that for the contracts to participate in the companys is now limited by the LTA, further accrual will 2006 07 this target range strikes the right Executive Directors bonus scheme, the be via an unfunded top-up arrangement.
balance between being stretching at the top companys Sharesave or other employee There will be no arrangements to end, and being achievable and motivational share schemes and profit sharing schemes compensate members for any change in at the lower end.
The Committee may set if any.
They are each entitled to a company their personal tax liability.
The Committee different vesting levels in future years for the car or a cash allowance, membership of the takes the view that the overall approach EPS or TSR elements in order to ensure that companys pension scheme including life meets its objective of fulfilling existing the target remains sufficiently stretching.
assurance cover equal to four times salary, contractual obligations in a cost effective way.
There will be no retesting of either the TSR or EPS performance measures.
Further information is contained in the explanatory Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 39 Total Shareholder Return Non-Executive Directors receive an additional annual fee of 5,000 in 250 240 The remuneration of non-Executive respect of their responsibilities as members 230 Directors, apart from the company of that Committee.
The non-Executive 220 210 Chairman, is determined by the Board, with Director who is a member of the Health, 200 190 the non-Executive Directors concerned not Safety and Environmental Advisory 180 participating in this process.
The nonCommittee receives a fee of 5,000.
170 160 Executive Directors do not have service 150 140 contracts but instead have letters of Performance Graph 130 120 appointment.
They are appointed for fixed The following graph charts the cumulative 110 terms of three years, subject to retirement by Total Shareholder Return of the company 100 90 rotation and re-election at AGMs in terms of since 1 April 2001 compared to the FTSE 100 80 70 the companys Articles of Association.
They Index over the same period.
The company is 60 do not participate in the Annual Bonus a member of the FTSE 100 index, and this 50 30 Mar 01 29 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 31 Mar 05 31 Mar 06 Scheme, Deferred Bonus Scheme, any of the was considered to be the most relevant index SSE FTSE 100 share option schemes, or contribute to any for comparative purposes.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee receives an additional fee of 10,000, and the non-Executive Directors who are members of the Audit Committee The auditors are required to report on the information contained in tables A, B and D. Table A Directors Emoluments The emoluments of each of the Directors were as follows: Total Total Salary fee Bonuses Benefits 2006 2005 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Ian Marchant 615 409 16 1,040 803 Gregor Alexander 311 207 13 531 403 Colin Hood i 461 297 14 772 600 Alistair Phillips-Davies 311 207 13 531 404 Non-Executive Directors Henry Casley ii 66 38 Ren Mdori 44 44 43 David Payne 64 64 44 Susan Rice 39 39 38 Kevin Smith iii 36 36 26 Sir Robert Smith Chairman iv 218 218 99 Former Directors David Sigsworth v 00 449 Bruce Farmer vi 0 177 Sir Graeme Odgers vii 00 7 2,105 1,120 56 3,281 3,131 i During the year Colin Hood was paid 67,431 in respect of relocation expenses.
ii Retired from the Board 17 May 2005. iii From date of appointment to the Board on 24 June 2004. iv 2005 figure reflects appointment as Chairman from 1 January 2005. v Following his retirement from the Board on 31 March 2005, David Sigsworth has provided consultancy services to the company in the Energy Services business and represents the company in general industry forums.
He received 105,000 for the provision of these services during the year.
These consultancy services have been extended with a reduced time commitment until September 2006. vi Retired from the Board on 31 December 2004. vii Retired from the Board on 18 May 2004.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2006 Remuneration Report Continued 40 Table B Retirement Benefits Details of Directors retirement benefits are as follows: Accrued benefit Transfer value of accrued benefit Increase in year Increase Increase in Years of At 31 March At 31 March At 31 March less Directors year excluding industry 2006 Including Excluding 2006 2005 contributions inflation service 000 inflation inflation 000 000 000 000 Ian Marchant 14 199 42 37 2,944 1,877 1,051 546 Gregor Alexander 15 103 22 20 1,329 808 505 259 Colin Hood 28 207 41 36 3,424 2,093 1303 488 Alistair Phillips-Davies 9 69 17 15 797 459 322 179 Members of the pension schemes have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
The normal retirement age of Executive Directors is 60.
Their service contracts provide for a maximum pension of two-thirds of final salary.
The following is information relating to the Directors pension of Gregor Alexander as participant in the HMRC approved Scottish Hydro-Electric Pension Scheme: i Dependants pensions on death are half of members pension entitlements, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to half of that payable to the Director.
In addition, on death within the first five years of retirement, a lump sum is payable equal to the balance outstanding of the first five years pension payments.
ii All benefit payments are guaranteed to increase annually by the same percentage as state pensions, which are currently linked to movements in the UK Retail Price Index.
The following is information relating to the Directors pensions of Colin Hood, Ian Marchant and Alistair Phillips-Davies, as participants in the HMRC approved Southern Electric Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme: i Dependants pensions on death are four-ninths of the members pensionable pay, together with a capital sum equal to four times pensionable pay.
If death occurs after attaining the age of 55 an additional lump sum between three to five times notional pension is payable dependent upon age and length of service.
On death in retirement, the Directors spouse will receive a pension equal to two-thirds of that payable to the Director.
ii Post retirement increases are expected to be in line with inflation guaranteed up to the level of 5% per annum and discretionary above that level.
Ian Marchant, Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor Alexander have unfunded retirement benefits for salary above the Inland Revenue cap which are included in their pension benefits above with provision in respect of their accrued value included in the companys Balance Sheet.
Table C Directors Interests The interests of the Directors, all of which are beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the company on the dates shown were as follows: 31 March 2006 1 April 2005 Shares under Shares under Shares held option Shares held option Gregor Alexander 13,034 48,161 9,279 42,047 Colin Hood 24,896 88,640 21,651 64,016 Ian Marchant 73,155 103,224 64,580 80,198 Ren Mdori 2,000 0 2,000 0 David Payne 8,000 0 8,000 0 Alistair PhillipsDavies 20,498 50,754 13,144 40,120 Susan Rice 4,000 0 2,000 0 Kevin Smith 2,000 0 2,000 0 Sir Robert Smith 15,800 0 15,800 0 From 31 March 2006 to 30 May 2006, the following changes to the interests of Directors took place: Under the Share Incentive Plan, on 28 April 2006, Ian Marchant, Colin Hood, Gregor Alexander and Alistair Phillips-Davies each acquired 16 shares.
A further analysis of the Directors shares under option as at 31 March 2006, and options granted and exercised during the year, is set out below.
The Register of Directors Interests which is open to shareholders inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
No price was paid for the award of any option.
Shares exercised under the Deferred Bonus Scheme included the following arising from dividend reinvestment: Ian Marchant 1,982 shares, Alistair Phillips-Davies 807 shares, Gregor Alexander 205 shares.
The closing market price of the shares at 31 March 2006 was 1132.5p and range for the year was 879.25p to 1174.25p.
The options granted during the year were granted under either the Deferred Bonus Scheme or the Savings-related Scheme.
The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year was 284,723 2005 242,497.
Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, the aggregate value of the shares placed in trust for Directors in the year to 31 March 2006 was 972,294 2005 784,597.
The aggregate amount of gains made by the highest-paid Director, Ian Marchant was 136,481 2005 105,851.
In accordance with the companys policy for retiring participants, the award to David Sigsworth who retired from the Board on 31 March 2005 was satisfied in cash 177,188 rather than by an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Scheme.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: David Payne Remuneration Committee Chairman 30 May 2006
