Directors remuneration report year ended 25 February 2006 This is the report of the Remuneration Committee on behalf Activities of the Committee of the Board.
The Committee normally meets three times a year and circulates minutes of its meetings to the Board.
The rolling Remuneration Committee schedule for the Committee includes: a review of overall The Remuneration Committee the Committee is governed remuneration arrangements: an overview of best practice: by formal Terms of Reference.
They are reviewed annually and Executive and Non-executive Directors salary and total are available from the Company Secretary or can be viewed remuneration benchmarking: consideration of the relationship at www.
com of reward between Executive Directors and senior managers: determining the level of awards and grants to be made under the Composition of the Committee Group incentive plans: agreeing targets for next year: considering The Committee is composed entirely of independent feedback from shareholders: and an annual review of its own Non-executive Directors.
The members of the Committee effectiveness.
In addition to the routine business, this year the are Mr C L Allen Chairman of the Committee, Mrs K Cook Committee also completed a review of pension provisions.
appointed on 10 October 2005, Mr E M Davies, Dr H Einsmann, and Mr R F Chase.
No member of the Executive Directors remuneration policy Remuneration Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided, other than as a shareholder and no The Company has a long-standing policy of rewarding talent day-to-day involvement in running the business of Tesco PLC.
We also seek to provide incentives for delivering high growth and high returns for shareholders.
Miss L Neville-Rolfe is Secretary to the Committee and attends The Committee believes that a significant proportion of total meetings.
Mr D E Reid, Non-executive Chairman and Sir Terry remuneration should be performance-related and at risk of Leahy, Chief Executive of the Group, both attend the meetings forfeiture.
In addition, performance-related reward should at the invitation of the Committee except when their own be delivered largely in shares to closely align the interests remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee is supported of shareholders and Executive Directors.
In determining by Mrs C M Chapman, Personnel Director of Tesco Stores Ltd the balance between the fixed and variable elements of the and has continued to use the services of Deloitte & Touche LLP Executive Directors remuneration packages, the Committee as an external, independent advisor.
Deloitte & Touche LLP has regard to policy and also market practice.
Our current also provided advisory services in respect of share schemes, policy is for performance-related elements to form a major part pensions and taxation to the Group during the year.
Members of the total remuneration opportunity for Executive Directors.
attendance at Committee meetings is listed in the Directors The table below shows the balance of fixed and performanceCorporate Governance report on page 22. related elements for different levels of performance.
The role of the Committee The remuneration strategy for Executive Directors and other key The Remuneration Committees key objectives are to: executives is tailored to reward the delivery of strong year-ondetermine and recommend to the Board the remuneration year earnings growth as well as sustained performance in the policy for the Chairman and Executive Directors: longer term.
Long-term performance is rewarded through monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior delivery of shares and short-term performance through a management: and combination of cash and an element of compulsory deferred ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed shares.
This ensures continued emphasis on strong annual to attract, retain, and motivate the Executive Directors performance combined with long-term executive share needed to run the Company.
ownership, providing a better link between the incentives received and shareholder value delivered.
Fi Fix xed element ed element P Pe erf rfo orman rmanc ce-r e-relat elated elemen ed element ts s appr appro oximately ximately 16%-35% 16%-35% app appr ro oximately ximately 65%-84% 65%-84% Base salary Short-term performance Long-term performance Deferred Performance Cash bonus Share options share bonus share plan Tesco plc 25 Directors remuneration report continued We remain committed to driving strong financial performance long-term performance share plan based on a stretching and during the year the Committee reviewed the level of three-year ROCE target.
Shares must be held for a further reward and emphasis on performance.
The review took into 12 months after vesting: account the international nature of the business and the need performance-related share option awards via the Share to incentivise Executive Directors to continue to drive forward Option Scheme open to all senior managers: future growth and international expansion plans.
It also benefits which comprise car benefits, chauffeurs, life considered the high regard in which the Tesco management assurance, disability and health insurance, gym leisure club team is held in the market and the concern this poses about membership and staff discount : and retaining them at a crucial time in the Groups growth.
Committee is mindful of the need to ensure that the talented management team is competitively rewarded to retain their Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the skills and experience in order to drive forward further value Companys all-employee savings related share option scheme growth for Tesco shareholders.
SAYE, Shares in Success and Buy-As-You-Earn schemes on the same terms as all other UK employees.
As a result the Committee made a number of changes to ensure that the total remuneration package remains Basic pay competitive compared to the market and to increase the Basic pay must be appropriate to attract and retain talented overall emphasis on performance.
In doing so the Committee individuals.
It must reflect individual capability, and any has maintained the balance between short-term and longchanges in responsibilities as the Company faces new term remuneration, but with a greater emphasis on shares.
As the Company continues This has been achieved by increasing the maximum that can to diversify into new product areas and services, as well as be earned under the deferred share element of the annual expand internationally, the Committee seeks to reflect this in bonus as well as providing Executive Directors with the the benchmarks that are used.
We aim to reflect salary levels opportunity to earn additional shares under the Performance at the top performing retailers, the leading FTSE companies Share Plan if performance exceeds the upper levels of the as well as to give consideration to international competitors Return On Capital Employed ROCE performance hurdles.
in order to attract the best people and maintain excellent performance.
We also take into account pay conditions The Company operates in a highly competitive retail throughout the Company in deciding annual salary increases.
Business success depends on the talents of the key team, but outstanding business performance comes from Annual cash bonus and deferred annual bonus The Company operates an annual bonus scheme based on teamwork.
Building and retaining that team at senior levels within the Group is vital to success.
The Committee also achievement of stretching earnings per share EPS targets, ensures that the remuneration relationship between the assessment of total shareholder returns TSR and specific Executive Directors and senior executives of the Company corporate objectives.
The Committee sets performance targets below this level is appropriate.
In particular, any exceptional annually and confirms achievement of performance and awards remuneration arrangements for senior executives are advised to be made.
Executive Directors can earn up to 100% of salary to the Committee.
paid in cash at the end of the year and a maximum of 100% of salary paid in shares with compulsory deferral for three Total remuneration years.
The share element for the 2004 05 award was delivered in the form of nil-cost share options.
The cash element is earned The total remuneration levels of Executive Directors are through achievement of previously agreed EPS growth targets reviewed annually by the Committee.
The Committee considers and progress on specific corporate objectives.
external independent remuneration surveys to ensure it has proper regard to competitive market practice.
We are conscious It is not possible to disclose future targets for reasons of of the risks involved in paying unjustified amounts and commercial sensitivity.
By way of illustration of the approach therefore monitor carefully the basic salary and total taken on target-setting, the corporate objectives are based on remuneration that each Director receives.
our balanced scorecard, the Steering Wheel, described in more detail on page 22.
The objectives in the Finance segment The total Executive Directors remuneration package comprises include increasing sales from new space, specific profit targets the following elements: for international businesses and for retailing services.
The base salaries determined by the responsibilities, skills Customer segment objectives include like-for-like sales growth and experience of the individual against a benchmark and development of the non-food business.
The Operations determined by reference to other large retailers, major FTSE segment includes strategic objectives focussed on areas such 100 companies and certain major consumer companies as international growth and operating safely and responsibly in operating internationally: every country.
The People segment objectives relate to talent annual bonuses paid part in cash and part in shares with management and capability.
a compulsory deferral of the share element for three years: 26 Tesco plc For the TSR performance, the Committee considers whether capital spend is in line with strategic objectives performance against the FTSE 100 and a comparator group and balances short-term and long-term investment that includes Ahold, Carrefour, J Sainsbury, Metro, Morrisons, needs: and Safeway Inc, Target and Walmart.
whether this reflects other developments in the For 2005 06, the Executive Directors have been awarded 100% market place.
of the annual cash bonus and 97% of the deferred shares If the Committee exercises its judgement to allow some, element of the annual bonus.
This reflected the high level or all, of the remaining 25% of the award to vest then we will of business performance as described in the Operating and describe in the Directors Remuneration Report those factors financial review, achievement of corporate objectives, and the taken into account.
fact that while TSR performance over three and five years Share options remained very strong, performance over one year had been Share options with a value of 200% of salary were granted to slightly less strong.
Options are granted with an exercise Performance Share Plan price equal to the market value at the date of grant and any The Performance Share Plan PSP provides the opportunity gain is therefore dependent on increasing the share price to earn rewards for achieving superior long-term performance.
between the date of grant and exercise.
Vesting of the options By ensuring a focus on long-term business success and is dependent on the achievement of performance conditions, encouraging the Executive Directors to build up a shareholding with the first 100% subject to the achievement of EPS growth in the Company the plan further aligns the interests of of at least RPI plus 9% over three years and the balance shareholders and Executive Directors.
vesting for achieving RPI plus 15%.
There is no Awards under the PSP can be made up to 150% of salary.
the year ended 25 February 2006 awards were made over Share options are an important part of the incentive framework Tesco PLC shares equal to 100% of salary and will vest together for hundreds of senior managers within the Company.
The with reinvested dividends according to the achievement of Committee acknowledges that some companies are moving the ROCE targets.
The first 75% of the award will vest on a away from share options as a result of accounting changes and straight-line basis at the end of the three-year performance has kept the arrangements under review for this reason.
The period, with 25% vesting for baseline performance and the Committee concludes that the share option plans remain in the full 75% vesting for maximum performance against target.
Any best interests of shareholders as they provide a clear, simple vested shares must then be retained for a further 12 months.
incentive arrangement for a large group of senior management, The Board set out objectives for profitable deployment of including Executive Directors, and they reward increases in capital in a Placing Announcement of 13 January 2004.
2005 06 award, in respect of 75% of base salary, will vest Share ownership guideline OCE derived from based on the achievement of 11.7% R Executive Directors are normally expected to build and profit before interest less tax at the end of the three-year maintain a shareholding with a value at least equal to their performance period.
This reflects the five year objective of basic salary.
New appointees will typically be allowed around raising post tax ROCE by up to 200 basis points from the base three years to establish this shareholding.
Full participation of 10.2% in the year ended February 2003. in the PSP is conditional upon this.
The remaining 25% of the award will vest for superior ROCE Summary of remuneration elements performance.
The Committee agreed that it was appropriate All awards made to Executive Directors under the Annual to exercise judgement on whether vesting should occur to bonus and PSP and all options granted under the Executive encourage Executives to make investment decisions in the Share Option Scheme are subject to the satisfaction of long-term interests of the business without being unduly performance conditions.
If performance is lower than the influenced by the impact on the ROCE target.
When determining maximum targets set, the short-term bonus and long-term whether some, or all, of the remaining 25% of the award will incentives will reduce accordingly.
This year the Committee vest, the Committee will take into account a number of factors has increased the potential level of performance pay in light including: of its annual review of the packages payable in benchmark companies.
It has also reviewed and revised the associated the level of ROCE: performance conditions and considers that the proposed mix the expected ROCE for additional and existing capital of performance conditions best supports the Groups business investment: strategy it provides a set of comprehensive and robust measures of managements effort and success in creating shareholder value.
A summary of the elements of the package is set out in the following table.
Tesco plc 27 Directors remuneration report continued Part of remuneration Performance measure Purpose Base salary Individual contribution to the business success To attract and retain talented people Annual cash bonus Earnings per share and specified Motivates year-on-year earnings growth up to 100% of salary corporate objectives and delivery of business priorities Annual deferred share element of Total shareholder return, earnings per share Generates focus on medium-term targets and bonus up to 100% of salary and specified corporate objectives by incentivising share price and dividend growth ensures alignment with shareholder interests Performance Share Plan Return on capital employed over a threeAssures a focus on long-term business success up to 150% of salary year period and shareholder returns Share options Earnings per share relative to retail price index Incentivises earnings growth and Executive Director shareholding Other elements not capped, the intention is to offer the maximum pension Shares In Success.
The Group operates a profit sharing that can be provided up to the Lifetime Allowance from the scheme for UK employees Shares in Success for the approved pension scheme.
The balance of their pension benefit of employees, including Executive Directors.
The entitlement will be delivered through an unfunded unapproved scheme is available to employees with at least one years retirement benefits scheme URBS.
The intention is to secure service at the year end and is recognised as a powerful the URBS SURBS by using a fixed charge over a cash deposit incentive and retention tool for all employees.
Shares in the in a designated account.
This will provide no greater security Company are allocated to participants in the scheme on a than under the approved scheme.
In particular, in the unlikely pro-rata basis to base salary earned, up to HMRC approved event that the approved scheme were to be wound up with limits currently 3,000 per annum.
The amount of profit a deficit, members would be no better off under the new allocated to the scheme is determined by the Board, taking arrangements than those paid out of the existing approved account of Company performance.
Under these circumstances, to ensure parity, members of the SURBS will receive the same proportion of their total Save as You Earn.
Since 1981, the Group has operated entitlement as those in the approved scheme.
By delivering a HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme pension in this way, we expect the Income Statement and SAYE for the benefit of employees including Executive Balance Sheet positions to be broadly cost neutral.
Under this scheme, employees save up to a limit of 250 on a four-weekly basis via a bank building society As part of this review the Remuneration Committee decided with an option to buy shares in Tesco PLC at the end of a that from 2005 06 onwards, Executive Directors should pay three or five-year period at a discount of up to 20% of the a contribution to their pension.
For 2005 06 the level of market value.
There are no performance conditions contribution is 2.5% of salary, with contributions increasing attached to SAYE options.
progressively over the following two financial years to a total of 7% in order to bring these in line with contribution levels Buy As You Earn.
Since January 2002, the Group has of senior management.
operated the partnership shares element of a HMRC approved share investment plan for the benefit of Further details of the pension benefits earned by the Directors employees including Executive Directors.
Under this can be found on page 31. scheme, employees save up to a limit of 110 on a fourweekly basis to buy shares at market value in Tesco PLC.
Performance graph Pensions The graph below highlights the Groups TSR performance The retention of key management is critical to the future over the last five financial years, relative to the FTSE 100 index success of the business and to the growth of shareholder value.
This index has been selected to provide an The provision of post-employment benefits is central to our established and broad-based comparator group of retail and ability to foster loyalty and retain experience which is why the non-retail companies of similar scale to Tesco.
Company wants to ensure that the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme is a highly valued benefit.
Tesco 140 All Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of base 120 salary on retirement, normally at age 60, dependent on service.
FTSE The defined benefit Final Salary Scheme is now closed to 100 new entrants but has been replaced by a new defined benefit pension scheme which accumulates each year based on career 80 average earnings.
60 The Remuneration Committee has considered the implications Feb 01 Feb 02 Feb 03 Feb 04 Feb 05 Feb 06 of the new regulations that are contained within the Finance TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR Act 2004 and which are effective from April 2006.
From that TSR is the notional return from a share or index based on share price movements and declared dividends date, for Executive Directors whose current pension benefits are 28 Tesco plc Service agreements Non-executive Directors received a basic fee of 50,000 plus a fee of 5,000 per Committee for membership of the Audit and The Executive Directors have service agreements with Remuneration Committee.
The Chair of the Remuneration entitlement to notice of 12 months by the Company and Committee and Chair of the Audit Committee received a six months notice by the Executive.
further 3,000 for their additional responsibilities.
If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other than The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is pursuant to the notice provisions in the service agreement or determined by the Chairman and the Executive Committee by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or after considering external market research and individual conduct the Company will pay, by way of liquidated damages, contribution.
From 1 April 2006, Non-executive Directors will a sum calculated on the basis of basic salary and the average receive a basic fee of 55,000.
For membership of the Audit annual bonus paid for the last two years.
No account will be and Remuneration Committee, Non-executive Directors receive taken of pension or any other benefit or emolument.
an additional fee of 8,000 per committee.
To reflect the Termination payments will be subject to mitigation.
This means increased workload and responsibilities of chairing these that liquidated damages amounts will be paid in instalments Committees, the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and to permit mitigation and earlier payment will be made based Chair of the Audit Committee receive 15,000 in addition to on long service in line with Company policy which respects their basic fee.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director, and rewards loyalty.
If the termination occurs within one Mr R F Chase, who is also the Deputy Chairman, received a total year of retirement, the termination payment would be fee of 100,000 this year.
The Chairman and the Executive reduced accordingly.
Committee agreed to increase this fee to 110,000 from The Committee has agreed that, in future, new appointments 1 April 2006. of Executive Directors will normally be on a notice period of The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans 12 months.
The Committee reserves the right to vary this remuneration, having regard to packages awarded to period to 24 months for the initial period of appointment and Chairmen of other companies of a similar size and complexity.
for the notice period to then revert to 12 months.
The service Mr D E Reid, Non-executive Chairman, received an annual fee agreements are available to shareholders to view on request of 500,000 this year and has the benefit of the use of a from the Company Secretary.
The Chairmans fee has remained the same since appointment in 2004.
The Remuneration Committee decided Outside appointments to increase this fee to 540,000 from 1 April 2006.
The Company recognises that its Executive Directors are likely to be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other Compliance companies.
Such Non-executive duties can broaden experience In carrying out its duties, the Committee gives full and knowledge which can benefit Tesco PLC.
Subject to consideration to best practice.
The Committee is constituted approval by the Board, Executive Directors are allowed to and operated throughout the period in accordance with the accept Non-executive appointments and retain the fees principles outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services received, provided that these appointments are not likely to Authority derived from Schedule A and B of the Combined lead to conflicts of interest.
The auditors report set out on page 41, covers the can be found in the Annual Review and Summary Financial disclosures referred to in this report that are specified for audit Statement and fees retained for any Non-executive by the Financial Services Authority.
This report also complies Directorships are set out below.
with disclosures required by the Director Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Details of Directors emoluments and Company in which Fee retained by Non-executive the Directorin interests, including executive and savings-related share Director Directorship held 2005 06 000 options, are set out on pages 30 to 38.
Mr P A Clarke Whitbread Plc 7.5 Mr A T Higginson British Sky Broadcasting 47 Mr C L Allen Mr T J R Mason G Cap Media Plc 32 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed 1 January 2006 Resigned 14 March 2006 Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time commitment expected.
The letters are available to shareholders to view from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman meets with each Non-executive Director separately to review individual performance.
All Nonexecutive Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years at the Annual General Meeting and their appointment can be terminated by either party without notice.
Tesco plc 29 Directors remuneration report continued Tables 1 to 8 are audited information.
b The long-term performance-related emoluments relate to the additional 12.5% enhancements allocated on long-term awards made in 2001 and short-term awards made in 2003 under the old bonus scheme.
The long-term bonus awarded on 12 October 2005 under the Performance Share Plan was awarded in the form of nil cost options.
Details of this award are shown in Table 6. c Ms C McCall was appointed on 1 March 2005.
The figures in Table 1 are calculated from the date of Ms McCalls appointment.
d Mr G F Pimlott retired during the year.
30 Tesco plc Table 2 Pension details of the Directors Transfer Transfer Age at Increase Transfer value value 25 February Total Increase in accrued value of total of total Increase 2006 accrued in accrued pension of previous accrued accrued in transfer Years of pension at pension during the column at pension at pension at value less Company 25 February during the year net of 25 February 26 February 25 February Directors service 2006 a year inflation 2006 2005 2006 contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy b 50 27 546 67 54 654 5,117 6,715 1,583 Mr R Brasher 44 19 183 48 44 367 1,025 1,554 522 Mr P A Clarke 45 31 259 31 24 213 1,874 2,365 482 Mr A T Higginson c 48 8 173 33 29 294 1,318 1,806 479 Mr T J R Mason 48 24 283 33 26 263 2,341 2,942 592 Mr D T Potts 48 33 286 33 26 272 2,425 3,051 617 a The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 25 February 2006. b Sir Terry Leahy is entitled to retire at any age from 57 to 60 inclusive, with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
Part of his pension may be provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
c Part of Mr A T Higginsons benefits, in respect of pensionable earnings in excess of the earnings limit imposed by the Finance Act 1989, are provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
All transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
Table 3 Gains made on share options Value Value realisable realisable Number of shares at exercise price pence 2006 2005 104.0 209.5 205.0 247.0 259.0 Total 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy 248,256 b 248,256 496 162 MrRBrasher Mr P A Clarke 77,683 c 14,634 c 299,595 c 391,912 339 707 Mr A T Higginson 1,094 Mr T J R Mason 895 Mr D T Potts 299,595 a 328,185 a 627,780 383 846 Date exercisable 13 10 98 20 4 03 26 6 03 26 4 04 15 4 05 Market price at exercise Date of exercise pence a 21.07.2005 314.25 b 11.10.2005 303.75 c 23.02.2006 324.50 The value realisable from shares acquired on exercise is the difference between the market value at exercise and the exercise price of the option, although the shares may have been retained.
The share price at 25 February 2006 was 335.50 pence.
The share price during the 52 weeks to 25 February 2006 ranged from 294.75 pence to 335.75 pence.
b The vesting of these options is subject to performance conditions measured over three years as set out on page 27. c The market price at exercise is shown in Table 3.
b All options are exercisable from 1 February in the year which is six years from the year of grant.
All options expire six months from their exercise date, i. e. on 1 August of the relevant year.
c Mr A T Higginson exercised options on 8 February 2006 at a market price of 327 pence.
All other Directors exercised options on 1 February 2006 at a market price of 315 pence.
d No options lapsed in the year.
The share price on award was 253.45 pence for the 2004 award and 302.75 pence for the 2005 award.
The vesting of these options are subject to performance conditions based on ROCE targets measured over three years.
b No options lapsed in the year.
c No options were exercised in the year.
The share price on award was 311.0 pence.
The number of shares under option was increased at the time of the interim dividend to reflect dividend equivalents in lieu of the interim dividend, at a market price of 312.5 pence.
Long-Term awards from 2002 are classed as four-year cycles and Short-Term awards from 2004 are classed as twoyear cycles as no election for enhancement is possible yet.
Long-Term awards can be enhanced from the 4th year, extending the cycle to seven years.
Short-Term awards can be enhanced from the 2nd year, extending the cycle to five years.
b Bonus shares shown for Mr R Brasher were awarded before he joined the Board, under the senior management scheme, and cannot be retained for an additional three year period and enhanced.
Between 25 February 2006 and 24 April 2006, 402 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the BAYE scheme.
b Options to acquire ordinary shares shown above comprise options under the executive share option schemes, options under the savings-related share option scheme 1981 and nil cost options under the PSP and Executive Incentive Plan.
c Balance for Mr G F Pimlott shown as at retirement date.
38 Tesco plc FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities 40 for the preparation of the financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC 41 Group income statement 42 Group statement of recognised income and expense 43 Group balance sheet 44 Group cash flow statement 45 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 Accounting policies 46 2 Segmental reporting 53 3 Income and expenses 55 4 Employment costs 56 5 Finance income and costs 56 6 Taxation 57 7 Discontinuing operations and assets classified as held for sale 58 8 Dividends 60 9 Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share 60 10 Goodwill and intangible assets 61 11 Property, plant and equipment 63 12 Investment property 66 13 Group entities 67 14 Other investments 70 15 Inventories 70 16 Trade and other receivables 70 17 Cash and cash equivalents 71 18 Trade and other payables 71 19 Borrowings 71 20 Financial instruments 73 21 Provisions 77 22 Share-based payments 78 23 Post-employment benefits 81 24 Called up share capital 84 25 Statement of changes in equity 85 26 Business combinations 86 27 Related party transactions 87 28 Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash 88 generated from operations 29 Analysis of changes in net debt 88 30 Commitments and contingencies 89 31 Leasing commitments 89 32 Explanation of transition to IFRSs 91 33 Effect of adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 100 on financial instruments Parent company financial statements 104 Tesco plc 39
