Report of the Directors continued Report of the Remuneration Committee During 2006 the Committee has reviewed the remuneration The details of the proposed changes to Unilevers long-term policy and practice of the past few years, and on the basis of this incentive arrangements are described in the Notices to experience has decided to prioritise five strategic principles to Shareholders for the 2007 AGMs.
serve as the platform for Unilevers approach to remuneration.
This strategy is not only for our Executive Directors but for all In short, we believe that we have developed an approach Unilevers leadership levels.
These principles, which improve the which incorporates the right mix and level of incentives for our structure of our existing remuneration framework as explained leadership team which also aligns with shareholders interests.
It in greater detail in the following pages, are that pay should be: would also be more understandable and simpler to communicate to our staff.
robustly linked to performance: aligned with strategic priorities: The year 2006 showed a continuing improvement in top-line aligned with shareholders interests: growth, whilst trading contribution was proximate to but slightly market competitive: and below the targets we had set.
nally, easy to understand and communicate.
To remain competitive the base salaries for the Unilever Executive Our overriding objective is to ensure that Unilever recruits and team were increased by an average of 3.9% from the beginning retains the best performers and then optimises the return on of 2006.
Based on the performance over 2006 the annual investment from the reward system for Unilevers leadership incentive awards were on average 52% of base salary across group.
It is also our aim to manage the differing elements of the Unilever Executive team.
However, in industry ranked terms total remuneration in a fully integrated manner.
we are not yet in a payout position for the TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The five principles will from 2007 provide the foundation of some important changes to executive remuneration that we are In 2007, we are strengthening the linkage between business proposing for the level and structure of Unilever incentive plans.
Our proposals have been the subject of consultation with our major shareholders and their representatives.
In summary, these We hope to see continued improvement in business results changes enhance variable rewards relative to xed pay and in 2007, with the leadership team appropriately rewarded simplify the share-based incentives.
commensurate with these improved results.
David Simon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Jean-Cyril Spinetta Jeroen van der Veer Denition of auditable part of the report of the Remuneration Committee In compliance with the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulation 2002, and under Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the auditable part of the report of the Remuneration Committee comprises the Aggregate remuneration for Executive Directors on page 55, the Remuneration for individual Executive Directors on page 55, the Executive Directors Global Performance Share Plan on page 56, the Executive Directors conditional share awards under the TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan on page 56, the Executive Directors Share Matching Plan on page 57, Executive Directors share options on page 58, Executive Directors pensions on page 59, Executive Directors interests share capital on page 60, Non-Executive Directors remuneration on page 61 and Non-Executive Directors interests share capital on page 62.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 49 Report of the Directors continued Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Unilever reward policy table 2006 Indicative levels at face Element Payment vehicle value as % of base pay Plan objectives Key drivers Performance measures Base salary Cash Market competitive Attraction and retention of Individual performance key executives Annual incentive Cash 75% Executive Director: 60% Delivery of trading Trading contribution on target contribution Unilevers Executive Director: 40%, Shares 25% range of 0% 100% primary internal measure of Group Chief Executive: 50% economic value added Group Chief Executive: see page 51 and top-line Underlying sales growth 90% on target growth targets Executive Director: 40%, range of 0% 150% Group Chief Executive: 50% Individual responsibility for key Unilever business Individual contribution to objectives Unilever business strategy Executive Director: 20%, Group Chief Executive: 50% Global Shares Grant level: around 25% Ungeared Free Cash Flow Ungeared Free Cash Flow 50% Performance as the basic driver of Unilever Share Plan Vesting level: 0% 200% shareholder returns Underlying sales growth of grant 50% Top-line growth as essential to Unilevers long-term value creation TSR Long-Term Shares Grant level: around 60% Shareholder return at upper Relative total shareholder Incentive Plan half of peer group with return Vesting level: 0% 200% 20 other companies of grant Share Matching Shares 25% of annual Alignment with shareholders Plan incentive earned in interests return for the deferral of 25% of bonus earned A significant proportion of the Executive Directors total reward is linked to a number of key measures of Group performance to create alignment with the strategy and business priorities.
Depending on the level of performance the variable component could vary between 0% and around 70% of the total reward package excluding pensions.
Unilevers reward policy is benchmarked regularly against arrangements of other global companies based in Europe.
This ensures that Executive Directors reward levels remain competitive.
An internal comparison is made with the reward arrangements for other senior executives within Unilever to support consistent application of Unilevers executive reward policies.
In setting targets for the performance measures, the Committee is guided by what needs to happen to drive underlying performance.
This is reected in both the short-term and long-term performance targets.
50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Long-term three years Short-term one year
