Report of the Directors continued Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Peer group: Future developments Changes will be proposed for the structure and level of the Unilever Avon Kraft incentive plans.
In summary these changes enhance variable awards Beiersdorf Lion relative to xed pay and simplify the share-based incentives.
Cadbury Schweppes LOral Clorox Nestl Details of the proposed changes to Unilevers long-term incentive Coca-Cola Orkla arrangements are described in the notice to shareholders for the Colgate Pepsico 2007 AGMs.
Danone Procter & Gamble Heinz Reckitt Benckiser The Remuneration Committee intends to continue monitoring Kao Sara Lee trends and changes in the market.
It keeps a watching brief on Kimberly-Clark Shiseido the continuing alignment between Unilevers strategic objectives and the reward policy for Executive Directors.
Share Matching Plan linked to the annual incentive The Share Matching Plan enhances the alignment with Commentary on Executive Directors Remuneration shareholders interests and supports the retention of key paid in 2006 executives.
In addition, the necessity to hold the shares for The tables on pages 55 to 60 give details of the specic elements a minimum period of three years supports the shareholding of Executive Directors reward packages in 2006. requirements set out on page 51.
Base salary The Executive Directors receive 25% of their annual incentive In 2006, base salary levels were benchmarked against those paid in the form of NV and PLC shares.
These are matched with an in other major global companies based in Europe, excluding equivalent number of matching shares.
The matching shares will companies in the financial sector.
The increases for 2006 reect vest after three years provided that the underlying shares have the change in market levels as well as individual and Group been retained during this period and the Executive Director has performance.
The 2006 annual base salary levels for the Executive not resigned or been dismissed.
Directors are set out below: The Remuneration Committee considers that there is no need for further performance conditions on the vesting of the matching Based in the UK shares because the number of shares is directly linked to the Patrick Cescau 972 500 annual incentive which is itself subject to demanding Ralph Kugler 587 500 performance conditions.
In addition, during the three-year Rudy Markham 664 500 vesting period the share price of NV and PLC will be inuenced by the performance of Unilever.
This, in turn, will affect the ultimate Based in the Netherlands Kees van der Graaf 798 000 value of the matching shares on vesting.
Executive Directors pensions Annual incentive The Remuneration Committee has decided that from 2007 new The annual incentive awards for 2006 were subject to Executive Directors will be members of the all-employee pension achievement of underlying sales growth and trading contribution arrangement of their home country.
Executive Directors appointed targets in combination with individual key strategic business prior to 2007 have a dened benefit pension of two-thirds of final targets.
The Committee measured the results against the targets salary payable at retirement from age 60.
Annual incentive is not set and determined the annual incentive amounts for 2006. pensionable except for Executive Directors appointed prior to the change of policy for Executive Directors in 2005 for whom annual Long-term incentive arrangements incentive is pensionable up to a maximum of 20% of base salary.
Global Performance Share Plan Other benets and allowances The performance period of the first award ends on Executive Directors enjoy similar benets to many other 31 December 2007 and therefore no award vested in 2006. employees of Unilever.
For example, like other employees, The second award was made in 2006 for the performance Executive Directors are able to participate in the UK Employee period 2006-2008.
ShareSave Plan, the UK Share Incentive Plan ShareBuy and the All Employee Option Plan in the Netherlands.
TSR Plan The conditional shares awarded in 2003 lapsed in 2006 Some of the Executive Directors serve as a non-executive on the because the vesting was based on the TSR performance of Board of another company.
Unilever requires that all remuneration Unilever when ranked against its dened peer group with and fees earned from outside directorships are paid directly competitors over the three-year performance period which to Unilever.
For this period, Unilever was ranked 14 in this peer group and therefore no vesting occurred for this award in March 2006 and the shares lapsed.
52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2006
