58 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Remuneration Report remuneration policy that helps facilitate the development of Introduction managers from within the existing operations, whilst offering The Remuneration Report sets out the policies and practices remuneration packages that reflect the Groups position as a adopted by the Company during the year ended 31 March 2006 pre-eminent player in the Indian mining sector, in particular, in respect of members of the Board.
and the manufacturing sector as a whole.
The Executive Directors are based in India with the exception Accordingly, the Board remains committed to the principle of of Mr Anil Agarwal, who is UK-based, along with the majority retaining and incentivising managers by ensuring that the of the Groups professional management.
Consequently their structure of individual packages remains in line with market remuneration is set by reference to the prevailing rates within practice, whilst also taking into account the performance of that market.
This Remuneration Report seeks to describe the the individual and the Company as a whole.
This principle Companys approach to remuneration by putting it into an applies equally to the Executive Directors and the Senior Indian context.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance The following factors are taken into account when setting with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 remuneration levels for the Executive Directors and the the Regulations Schedule 7A, Companies Act 1985.
Part II Senior Management Group: of this Remuneration Report contains the information on which levels of remuneration throughout the Group: the auditors are required to report to the Companys members.
market practices prevailing in the countries in which executives work: and Part I Unaudited market practices in the Indian mining and manufacturing Remuneration Committee the Committee sectors in respect of operational management and in all The chairman of the Committee is Mr Naresh Chandra.
sectors in respect of corporate and supporting functions, The other members of the Committee are Messrs Euan excluding certain very high-paying sectors, for example, Macdonald and Aman Mehta.
All three members of the financial services, high end BPOs, etc.
Committee served during the year and are all independent Directors.
The Group attempts to align the interests of the Executive Directors and Senior Management Group with those of the The Committee is primarily responsible, on behalf of the shareholders by linking share and cash incentives to Board, for setting the remuneration policy and remuneration corporate performance.
Therefore, the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors, and for maintaining an packages of the Executive Directors and Senior Management awareness of the overall remuneration of the key operational Group comprise: and functional heads within the Senior Management Group.
a salary for day-to-day performance of duties: The Committees aim is that the Executive Directors and the an annual bonus as an incentive to meet short-term goals Senior Management Group are rewarded appropriately for these are set by reference to individual key result areas their contribution to the Group and are motivated to enhance KRAs, personal qualities and the financial performance the return to shareholders.
The Committee is directly of the Group: responsible for setting the remuneration packages for the awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP Executive Directors.
referred to below to incentivise long-term and strategic performance: and Mr Anil Agarwal, in his capacity as Executive Chairman, and benefits in kind in accordance with local market practices.
Mr Kuldip Kaura, in his capacity as Chief Executive, attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
No Director plays A significant development of this policy during the year was a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
the decision to broaden the base of the LTIP awards in order Mr S Venkatesh Head of Human Resources advises the to use that scheme to incentivise a significant proportion of Committee on the policies and practices being applied to the the professional managers within the Group.
Senior Management Group and acts as minutes secretary to the Committee.
He also provides input into discussions Given the India-focused approach taken to remuneration concerning the remuneration and benefits offered to the policy, it has not been felt necessary to appoint independent Executive Directors during the year.
compensation and benefit consultants to advise the Committee on remuneration matters during the year.
Remuneration Policy The Companys Executive Directors, together with the majority Salaries, Pensions and Other Benefits of the Senior Management Group, are based in India with the Salaries and Cost to Company exception of Mr Anil Agarwal, who is UK-based.
A consistent Salaries for Executive Directors and members of the Senior approach is used in determining the remuneration of the Management Group are set by reference to those positions of Senior Management Group, including the Executive Directors.
comparable status, skill and responsibility in the metals and Both performance-related and  mining industries, and in the manufacturing and engineering components of the remuneration packages for Executive industries more generally.
Directors and the Senior Management Group are therefore set by reference to local market practice in India and influenced by Mr Anil Agarwal has a service agreement with the Company the Groups policy of balancing the internal development of the under which he receives a salary of 600,000 per annum.
Groups management cadre with the selective introduction of new ideas and experience into the wider management team The basic remuneration of executives in India is referred to as through external recruitment.
Against this backdrop, the cost to company CTC which represents an aggregate Boards overall objective is therefore to have in place a VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 59 figure encompassing basic pay, pension contributions and with an opportunity to earn a cash amount based on the allowances.
achievement of stretching annual performance targets.
The bonus targets are reviewed by the Committee at the Messrs Navin Agarwal and Kaura both have service beginning of the financial year over which performance will agreements with Sterlite Industries India Ltd which have be measured.
The annual bonus is non-pensionable.
been augmented by letters of appointment with the Company.
During the year, Mr Agarwal was entitled to CTC of The maximum bonus payable to the Executive Directors is INR22,001,393 per annum and Mr Kaura was entitled to CTC 100% of annual base salary, whilst for members of the Senior of INR15,790,000 per annum pursuant to their Sterlite service Management Group, the maximum bonus payable is 50% of agreements.
Under their letters of appointment with the annual base salary.
In respect of Messrs Navin Agarwal and Company, Messrs Navin Agarwal and Kaura are each paid Kaura, salary means the aggregate of their salary payable fees of 50,000 per annum, to reflect the amount of time they from Vedanta and their CTC payable by Sterlite.
Performance conditions are attached to all bonus arrangements, Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis and changes will which are set by reference to individual KRAs, personal quality generally be implemented with effect from 1 April each year measures and the financial performance of the Group.
The taking into account the period of service during the year.
majority of KRA targets relate to financial or operational measures.
However, certain KRAs monitor performance in The salary levels of the Executive Directors agreed by the respect of softer issues, or enablers, for example, people Committee on 31 May 2006 take effect from 1 April 2006 and management and environmental performance.
are as follows: For the year ended 31 March 2006, the payment of the annual Vedanta Sterlite bonus was dependent on the achievement of a combination salary salary of individual and corporate objectives, which correlated to level from level from 1 April 2006 1 April 2006 the responsibilities of the individual and the Group budget Designation INR Total for the year.
AK Agarwal Executive Chairman 600,000 600,000 EBITDA was taken as the single parameter of corporate N Agarwal Deputy performance and the weighting for this parameter was 50%.
Executive 50,000 28,162,795 405,950 An individuals performance against his KRAs, as reviewed in Chairman the annual performance appraisal, accounted for 40% of an KK Kaura Chief Executive 50,000 17,600,000 272,447 individuals bonus weighting, with the remaining 10% of the bonus weighting being for the personal qualities of the individual.
Using an exchange rate of INR79.12: 1.
Employee Share Schemes Pensions The Group aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding The Company does not provide pension benefits to Mr Anil performance and a high proportion of at risk remuneration Agarwal and this is reflected in the determination of his for Executive Directors.
Three employee share schemes were overall remuneration package.
The Indian-based Executive approved by shareholders on Listing.
The Board has no Directors are entitled to contribute to the Provident Fund, a present intention to introduce any further share schemes.
Gratuity and a Superannuation Fund which provide pension benefits consistent with local market practices.
These are The Vedanta Resources Share Reward Plan was adopted defined contribution pension arrangements.
solely for the purpose of rewarding employees who had contributed to the Companys development and growth over Contributions to the Provident Fund, Gratuity and the period leading up to the Companys Listing in December Superannuation Fund are included within the CTC payable to 2003.
No further awards have been made under that plan nor an individual in India.
are any planned in the future.
Benefits in Kind Similarly, it is not intended that options will be granted in the Mr Anil Agarwal is provided with a car and fuel in the UK for foreseeable future under the Vedanta Resources Share business and personal use.
For his frequent business trips Option Plan, adopted to provide maximum flexibility in the to India, Mr Agarwal is provided with a car and driver for design of incentive arrangements over the long term.
business use and is entitled to the exclusive use of Companyowned accommodation.
Vedanta Resources Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Consistent with the Boards objective of developing the Benefits in kind provided to Indian-based senior executives potential inherent within the wider management group, the are set in line with local market practices and include private principal focus during the year under review has been on medical insurance, accident insurance, the use of a car broadening the constituency of employees eligible to and driver, and for certain individuals, the provision of participate in the LTIP.
Following awards granted in February accommodation, either in Company-owned or leased 2006, 40% of this wider management group, a total of 1,328 premises.
Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr Kaura are provided with employees, are now covered by the LTIP.
Company-owned and leased accommodation, respectively.
Mr Agarwal was also reimbursed club membership fees.
Since its launch in 2004, the Companys performance, measured in terms of Total Shareholder Return TSR, being Annual Bonus the movement in the Companys share price plus reinvested The Company operates an annual bonus scheme providing dividends, has been compared over a three-year period from the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group the date of grant with the performance of the companies 60 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Remuneration Report continued constituting the FTSE Worldwide Mining Index excluding Details of the awards held by the Executive Directors as at 31 precious metals.
March 2006 are shown in the table of Directors Long Term Incentive Awards on page 62.
The rules however do not specify the comparator companies.
It was therefore proposed by the Committee that the Total Shareholder Return Performance Graph Company adopt a specific list of companies as a comparator The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company group the Adapted Comparator Group so that periodic in comparison with that of the Adapted Comparator Group assessments of the Companys TSR performance can be for the period from 10 December 2003 the date of Listing to made.
The Committee is satisfied that the Adapted 31 March 2006.
The Adapted Comparator Group is presented Comparator Group is appropriate and will ensure the as it is the comparator group under the rules of LTIP.
To continued alignment of the interests of the Executive provide more detail, the graph presents performance on a Directors and wider management group with those of the monthly basis rather than using year end dates as required shareholders.
IDI6A H 6G: DA9:G G:IJGC E:G:DGB6C8: The maximum value of shares that can be conditionally &% 9ZXZbWZg '%% A hi c id & BVgX] '%% awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of annual KZYVciV kZghjh 6YVeiZY 8dbeVgVidg gdje 6kZgV Z gZWVhZY id &%% salary.
The maximum value of shares that can be awarded to % KZYVciV members of the Senior Management Group is calculated by 6YVeiZY 8dbeVgVidg gdje BZVc reference to the balance of fixed salary and share-based &% remuneration consistent with local market practice.
% Nominations for awards under the LTIP are made by the chief &% executive officers of each operating company and heads of ' % large independent projects based on guidelines issued by the Group.
Individuals are assessed and categorised by reference '&% to the criticality of their roles to the relevant business unit, & % past performance and future potential.
The size of awards is linked to fixed salary, being either 200%, 150% or 100% of &&% salary, based on how the individual has been assessed in % accordance with the Groups guidelines.
Where there is a 9ZX ?Vc :ZW 6eg BVn ?ja 6j HZe Cdk 9ZX ?Vc 9ZX ?Vc BVg % % % % % % % % % % % % % % specific need to fine-tune the number of options awarded, HdjgXZ 9ViVHigZVb such adjustments are made.
The extent to which an award vests will depend on the Relative Importance of Fixed and Variable Pay Companys TSR ranking against the Adapted Comparator A significant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Group at the end of the three-year performance period.
Assuming the Executive Directors receive the maximum bonus entitlement and full The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with vesting of the maximum LTIP awards, the chart below straight-line vesting in between the points shown down to the demonstrates the balance of fixed and variable pay in these nearest whole share.
circumstances for the Executive Directors.
% of : M:9 6C9 K6G 67A: E6N D: :M:8JI K: 9 G:8IDGH Vedantas TSR Performance against Adapted Comparator Group Award Vesting AI E Below median nil 7DCJH At median 40 H6A6GN$8I8 At or above upper quartile 100 The performance condition will be measured by taking the Companys TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding the date of grant and over the four weeks immediately preceding the end of the three-year performance period, and comparing its performance with that of the Adapted Comparator Group.
The information to enable this calculation to be carried out on behalf of the Committee will be provided by the Companys advisers.
The Committee considers that this performance condition, which requires that the Companys total return has outperformed the Adapted Comparator Group, provides a reasonable alignment of the interests of the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group with those of the shareholders.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 61 Executive Directors Service Contracts Chairmans Salary Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Navin Agarwal are employed under The Chairmans salary is approved by the Board without the contracts of employment with the Company which are not for Chairman being present on the recommendation of the a fixed term but which may be terminated by not less than six Committee.
Mr Anil Agarwals notice period was reduced from 12 to six months on 31 May 2005.
Provision is made in Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment their contracts for payment to be made in lieu of notice on The non-executive Directors have Letters of Appointment termination.
In the case of Mr Anil Agarwal, this would be which may be terminated by either party giving three months equal to basic salary and costs to the Company for providing notice.
The non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment certain benefits during the notice period or part thereof.
set out the time requirements expected of them in the performance of their duties.
Non-executive Directors are Navin Agarwal has a letter of appointment with Vedanta which normally expected to spend at least twenty days per year on may be terminated by giving six months notice.
Mr Kaura has Company business.
There is no provision in the Letters of a letter of appointment with Vedanta which may be terminated Appointment of the non-executive Directors for compensation by giving three months notice.
In the case of their service to be paid in the event of early termination.
agreements with Sterlite, they may be terminated by giving three months notice.
In any event, Mr Kauras appointment as External Appointments a director of Sterlite will automatically expire on 30 June 2006, The Boards policy on external appointments is that an being the expiry date specified in his Sterlite contract.
His Executive Director may accept one appointment external to contract with Vedanta has been extended until 31 March 2008. the Group other than any appointment to related parties or Mr Navin Agarwals appointment as a director of Sterlite will Volcan in the case of Messrs Anil Agarwal and Navin Agarwal expire on 31 July 2008, being the expiry date specified in his as a non-executive director of a publicly listed company Sterlite contract, whilst his appointment as a Director of anywhere, but with the prior approval of the Board, and that Vedanta is a rolling contract.
The Sterlite contracts and the the fees for any such appointment may be retained by the Vedanta letters of appointment may be renewed.
Copies of all Executive Directors service contracts and the Currently, none of the Executive Directors holds any such Letters of Appointment of the non-executive Directors are outside appointments, other than Messrs Anil Agarwals and available for inspection during normal business hours at the Navin Agarwals directorships of related parties of Volcan.
registered office of the Company.
Equity Dilution resulting from Employee Share Schemes Non-executive Directors Fees The dilution limits set out in the rules of the employee share The Board is responsible for setting non-executive Directors schemes in December 2003 allow up to an aggregate of 10% fees and reviews them periodically.
In setting the fees of nonof the Companys issued share capital to be issued or executive Directors, the Board has taken into account the issuable pursuant to awards under any of the Companys complexity of the Group, the significant travel and time employee share schemes over a period of 10 years.
Up to 5% commitments required for attending Board and other of the Companys issued share capital may be used for the meetings in India and the UK, and the unique risk profile of Companys discretionary schemes over a 10-year period.
Non-executive Directors fees are made up of Shares issued or issuable pursuant to awards made under three elements: the Reward Plan are not counted for these purposes.
Currently, 1.28% of the Companys issued share capital is issuable in respect of outstanding awards under the LTIP.
Base fee 50,000 Committee membership fee Up to 5,000 depending on the scope of the committee concerned Committee chairmanship fee Up to 20,000 depending on the scope of the committee concerned Individual Service Contract Details Date of contract Notice period Outstanding term AK Agarwal 27 November 2003 6 months Rolling notice period N Agarwal Vedanta 4 May 2005 6 months Rolling notice period N Agarwal Sterlite 1 August 2003 3 months Until 31 July 2008 KK Kaura Vedanta 4 May 2005 3 months Until 31 March 2008 KK Kaura Sterlite 20 October 2004 3 months Until 30 June 2006 1 N Chandra 1 June 2006 3 months Until 1 June 2007 A Mehta 24 November 2004 3 months Until 23 November 2007 SK Tamotia 24 November 2004 3 months Until 23 November 2007 ER Macdonald 23 March 2005 3 months Until 22 March 2008 1 Mr Chandra is engaged on a contract renewable every 12 months.
62 VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 Remuneration Report continued Part II Audited Directors Remuneration Year ended 31 March 2006 The following table sets out an analysis of the pre-tax remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2006 for individual Directors who held office in the Company during this period.
All amounts are in UK pounds sterling although payments in India under service contracts with Sterlite are paid in Indian rupees.
Directors Remuneration Compensation Annual for loss performance Benefits Salary CTC fees of office bonus in kind Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 AK Agarwal 468 164 32 664 2 N Agarwal 328 97 26 451 3 KK Kaura 250 61 2 313 Non-executive Directors N Chandra 85 85 A Mehta 75 75 SK Tamotia 73 73 ER Macdonald 63 63 Previous Director 4 PE Sydney-Smith 115 310 3 428 Total 1,457 310 322 63 2,152 1 Mr Anil Agarwals benefits in kind include life assurance, and provision of a car and fuel in the UK for business and personal purposes.
2 Mr Navin Agarwals benefits in kind include private health insurance, accident insurance and provision in India of Company-owned accomodation and a car, driver and fuel for business and personal purposes.
3 Mr Kauras benefits in kind including private health insurance, accident insurance, and provision in India of Company leased accomodation and a car, driver and fuel for business and personal purposes.
4 Mr Sydney Smiths benefits in kind include private health insurance and provision of laptop.
Directors Long Term Incentive Plan Awards Options At At 1 April 31 March Exercise 2005 Granted 2006 price $ Earliest exercise date Latest exercise date AK Agarwal 120,000 120,000 0.10 26 February 2007 26 August 2007 42,500 42,500 0.10 1 February 2009 1 August 2009 N Agarwal 50,000 50,000 0.10 26 February 2007 26 August 2007 33,400 33,400 0.10 1 February 2009 1 August 2009 KK Kaura 50,000 50,000 0.10 26 February 2007 26 August 2007 25,000 25,000 0.10 1 February 2009 1 August 2009 The performance conditions attached to LTIP awards granted The register of Directors interests is open to inspection at in the current year require the Companys TSR to equal or the Companys registered office and contains full details of exceed the TSR performance of the median of the Adapted Directors interests.
Comparator Group before 40% of the award can vest, and to be equal to or greater than the performance of the Company In addition, Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Navin Agarwal each held at the upper quartile of that group for the whole award to nominee shares in direct and indirect subsidiaries.
Awards vest on a sliding scale in between these points.
The mid-market price of the shares at 31 March 2006 was There have been no changes in the beneficial shareholdings 1,410 pence and from 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2006, the of the Directors between the end of the financial year and share price varied between 374 pence and 1,410 pence.
LTIP 31 May 2006. awards were granted to the Directors during the year.
Approval Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares This report has been approved by the Board of Directors of The interests of the Directors which are beneficial unless Vedanta Resources plc.
otherwise stated in ordinary shares at 31 March 2006 were: Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors At Number of ordinary shares At 1 April 2005 held in the Company 31 March 2006 or date of appointment if later Naresh Chandra AK Agarwal 154,157,921 154,157,911 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee N Agarwal 200,000 200,000 KK Kaura 50,000 50,000 31 May 2006 N Chandra A Mehta SK Tamotia ER Macdonald
