Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for Headline EPS growth will complement relative TSR and reflects recommending and monitoring the level and structure of the Groups strategy to enhance profitability and manage costs.
remuneration for senior management, being the first layer of The Committee believes that this blend of measures will provide management below Board level, and setting the appropriate an improved balance between absolute and relative performance.
remuneration for the Group Chairman, the executive Directors and In addition, the Committee has determined that going the Group Secretary.
A copy of the Committees Terms of Reference forward, in order to further align executive and shareholder is available on the Groups website at: www.
interests, participants in the LTIP should also receive the accrued The current members of the Committee are all the nondividends on any shares that vest.
executive Directors, namely Mr J L Hewitt, Mr J P Oosterveld, Mr B W Perry and Mr J G Sussens, who also chairs the Committee.
All Annual salary and benefits in kind Base salary is set by reference to market rates in the relevant the members of the Committee are independent.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director are invited to attend country for jobs of similar complexity and responsibility.
The salaries of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Committee meetings as appropriate.
In formulating its policies and deciding individual remuneration Director are benchmarked against the salaries of two FTSE 250 comparator groups, the first focusing on sector comparators and levels, the Committee was advised during the year by the Chief Executive, the Group Secretary and by the external advisers Kepler the second on companies of similar size.
The sector comparator group currently comprises: Abbot Group, Aga Foodservice Associates KA and New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBS, and the law firms McDermott Will & Emery UK LLP MWE and Group, Bodycote International, Carillion, Charter, Cobham, Electrocomponents, Enodis, GKN, Halma, IMI, Invensys, John Clifford Chance LLP CC.
KA, NBS and MWE were appointed directly by the Committee and CC was appointed by the Company Wood Group, Laird Group, Meggitt, Mitie Group, Morgan Crucible, Spectris, Tomkins and the Weir Group.
The size comparator group on its behalf.
NBS, MWE, and CC also provide other limited advice to the Group, in their specialist areas of share valuation, employment currently comprises: Aggreko, BBA Aviation, Carillion, Countrywide, fide La Rue, Electrocomponents, Go-Ahead Group, law and share schemes respectively.
Intertek Group, John Wood Group, Johnston Press, Marstons, Remuneration policy for executive Directors Meggitt, Misys, MyTravel Group, QinetiQ, RHM, SIG, Spectris, The Committee has established employment and remuneration Taylor Nelson Sofres, and the Weir Group.
The salaries of practices for the Companys executive Directors aimed at fostering individual executive Directors are normally reviewed on a high performance culture.
In formulating remuneration policy, 1 January each year.
With effect from 1 January 2007 Messrs the Committee has regard to the international scale and nature of Butterworth and Salmon were awarded increases of 10.7% and the Groups operations and takes into consideration guidelines 3% respectively, following a review of market data.
issued by its leading shareholders and bodies such as the Benefits in kind receivable by the executive Directors Institutional Shareholders Committee, the Association of British principally comprise company car allowances, life assurance Insurers ABI and the National Association of Pension Funds.
benefits and medical and disability insurance.
These benefits are The remuneration packages of the executive Directors have been similar to those provided to other company executives in the UK.
designed to ensure that a substantial proportion of remuneration Variable remuneration is linked to performance.
In 2006, the Committee appointed KA to undertake a review The remuneration programme is structured such that variable, performance-related remuneration potentially represents more of the Groups executive remuneration policy to ensure that it continues to provide a strong alignment with the delivery of value than half of total remuneration.
to shareholders and reflects current best practice, while meeting Annual incentive Cooksons particular business needs and enabling Cookson to In line with the Groups other senior executives, the executive attract, retain and motivate the talent it requires.
The review Directors are eligible to receive an annual incentive calculated as demonstrated that the overall remuneration package is a percentage of base salary and based on achievement against competitive in terms of both structure and quantum.
Each year the Committee establishes the review concluded that certain changes should be made to the the financial performance criteria for the forthcoming year.
criteria are set by reference to the Groups financial budget and The Committee decided to broaden the performance prior year actual financial results.
condition that applies to both Matching and Performance Shares The Annual Incentive has a Threshold level of performance under the LTIP by including Group Headline Earnings per Share below which no award is paid, a Target level at which executive Headline EPS growth.
For future awards, vesting of Matching Directors are entitled to a payment equal to 50% of their base and Performance Shares will be based 50% on Total Shareholder salary and a Maximum performance level at which a maximum Return TSR defined as the increase in the value of a share, award worth 100% of base salary is earned.
including reinvested dividends and 50% on Headline EPS For the financial year 2006, the executive Directors Annual growth.
The two measures will operate independently.
The Incentive awards were based on Group Headline Earnings Committee considers that the use of TSR relative to the FTSE 250 performance the calculation of which is shown in note 17 to the excluding Investment Trusts aligns participants interests with consolidated financial statements.
For 2006, the Group as a whole those of Cooksons shareholders and represents an objective exceeded the Maximum level of performance and so maximum measure of the Companys success.
The Committee reviewed a annual bonuses were paid to the executive Directors for 2006. number of indices and alternative comparator groups for the These are reported in the Directors remuneration table on page 50. purposes of benchmarking Cooksons TSR, but concluded that the The Remuneration Committee has determined that for 2007 FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts remains the most robust the executive Directors Annual Incentive will again be based on and meaningful comparator group for Cookson at this time.
Cookson Group plc { 46 } Annual Report 2006 Long-term incentive The Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP was introduced in 2004 and is the only long-term incentive plan under which awards are made to the executive Directors.
It rewards executives for delivering superior TSR and from 2007 onwards Headline EPS growth, and as such is intended to align executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
The LTIP has two elements: firstly, executive Directors are eligible to receive a conditional annual allocation of shares worth up to 100% of base salary Performance Shares : secondly, executive Directors can elect to invest all or part of their Annual Incentive in ordinary shares of the Company Bonus Investment Shares in return for which they receive a conditional allocation of shares worth up to 2.25 times the pre-tax equivalent of the Annual Incentive so invested Matching Shares.
Performance Shares and Matching Shares can vest after three years, with the proportion of shares vesting being based on the Companys performance against specified performance conditions.
For awards made in 2004, 2005 and 2006 vesting is based upon the Groups three-year TSR performance as explained in more detail below relative to that of the companies of its comparator group, the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Allocations were made under the LTIP to the executive Directors in April 2006, as shown in the table on page 51.
Both Mr Butterworth and Mr Salmon purchased Bonus Investment Shares under the Matching Share element of the LTIP in 2006.
In addition to the executive Directors, senior divisional and corporate executives are allocated Performance Shares under the LTIP and members of the Groups Executive Committee are also given the opportunity to participate in the Matching Shares element.
Vesting of the Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2004, 2005 and 2006 LTIP awards will be as follows: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Matching Shares vesting ratio excluding Investment Trusts Performance Shares vesting percentage Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 25% 0.5:1 Upper Quintile top 20% 100% 2.25:1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Pro rata between 0.5:1 and 2.25:1 For 2007 the Remuneration Committee has broadened the performance condition by including Headline EPS growth.
Vesting of 50% of shares awarded will therefore be based on the TSR performance measure described above and 50% on Headline EPS growth over a threeyear period.
In addition, participants will receive the dividend accrued on any awards that vest.
Vesting of the portion of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007 LTIP awards which is based on TSR performance will be according to the following schedule: TSR ranking relative to FTSE 250 Performance shares vesting Matching Shares vesting ratio compared to total pre-tax excluding Investment Trusts as a percentage of total award investment bonus Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below Median 0% 0 Median 12.5% 0.25:1 Upper Quintile top 20% 50% 1.125:1 Between Median and Upper Quintile Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 Vesting of the portion of Performance Shares and Matching Shares under the 2007 LTIP awards which is based on Headline EPS growth will be according to the following schedule: Performance Shares vesting Matching Shares vesting ratio compared to total pre-tax Annual compound headline EPS growth above RPI as a percentage of total award investment bonus Matching Shares: Bonus Investment Shares Below 3%0% 0 At 3% 12.5% 0.25:1 At or above 10% 50% 1.125:1 Between 3% and 10% Pro rata between 12.5% and 50% Pro rata between 0.25:1 and 1.125:1 Matching Share awards will only vest if the Bonus Investment Shares originally purchased have been retained.
The Committee will obtain independent external advice to assess whether the Company has met the TSR performance condition at the end of the performance period and to confirm that the companies which make up the index and the measurement of the Companys performance are both in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Measurement of the Groups TSR will take place over a performance period commencing on the first day of Cooksons financial year in which the award is granted.
Thus, for grants made in 2006, the performance period commenced on 1 January 2006 and will end three years later, i. e. 31 December 2008.
TSR will be measured as the percentage increase in a return index net of tax between the beginning and end of the performance period.
The return index at the beginning of the performance period is the average of the return index on each weekday in the three-month period prior to the start of the performance period.
The same three-month averaging method will be used to ascertain the return index at the end of the performance period.
The companies will then be ranked, in descending order, according to their TSR.
If Cookson is ranked at or above median against the comparator group then some proportion of the awards will be eligible to vest.
Cookson Group plc { 47 } Annual Report 2006 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Groups Headline EPS will be calculated on a consistent basis and the Committee will have discretion to adjust for exceptional items as it deems appropriate.
Growth in Headline EPS will be annualised percentage growth over the performance period comparing Headline EPS for the base year and final year, expressed as compound annual growth, above the compound annual growth in the Retail Prices Index RPI.
Prior to the vesting of any award, the Committee has also stipulated that, as an additional hurdle, it will need to be satisfied that vesting has been justified by the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
In prior years the Group operated a number of other executive and all employee share plans under which certain awards and options are outstanding, although neither of the current executive Directors hold options or awards under the relevant plans.
Under the executive share option schemes the Company granted share options, with an option exercise price fixed by reference to the market price prevailing at the time of grant, the exercise of which were subject to an EPS performance condition.
The last executive share option grant was made in 2003 and the Company does not intend to make any further grants under the schemes.
Under the Mid-Term Incentive Plan MTI Plan executives were eligible to receive a bonus paid partly in cash and partly in deferred shares based upon the achievement of target financial performance, measured over a three-year period.
The MTI Plan operated on a rolling three-year basis and the final remaining cycle culminated at the end of 2005.
Both the executive share option schemes and the MTI Plan were replaced by the Group's LTIP.
In addition the Group operated a UK and International Sharesave Plan and a US Stock Purchase Plan.
These plans were all closed to new participants in 2004.
Further details of the awards and options outstanding under these share plans are given in note 15 to the Company Financial Statements.
For 2007 the Group intends to implement a new Deferred Bonus Plan in place of the LTIP for certain Corporate managers.
Under this plan executives will receive an allocation of deferred shares to the value of a percentage of their annual bonus.
These shares, which will be sourced from existing shares, will vest after three years, although an executive's allocation may lapse if he ceases employment in certain circumstances before the end of the three-year period.
The executive Directors will not participate in this plan.
It is anticipated that approximately 20,000 shares will be allocated under the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2007.
Performance graph The graph below compares Cooksons Total Shareholder Return over the last five years with the return on the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
This index has been chosen as the comparator index to reflect the size, international scope and diversity of the Groups businesses and is the comparator group against which Cooksons performance is measured for the TSR performance condition of the LTIP.
250 FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts 200 150 Cookson Group plc This graph shows the value, by 31 December 100 2006 of 100 invested in Cookson Group plc on 31 December 2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index 50 excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
0 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 Dilution limits The rules of each of Cooksons share-based incentive schemes, including the LTIP, and the pre-existing share option and employee share savings schemes, contain limitations to the total number of options over new shares that can be awarded in accordance with the ABI guidelines.
Shareholding guidelines The Remuneration Committee encourages executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least one times salary.
To this end, executive Directors will normally only be able to sell a maximum of up to 50% measured as the value after tax of any Performance Shares or Matching Shares vesting under the LTIP, until this criterion has been met.
Cookson Group plc { 48 } Annual Report 2006 Value Directors service contracts Both of the executive Directors have contractual notice periods from the Company of 12 months.
Neither of the executive Directors contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
A summary of the main conditions of the contracts of the Directors is as follows: Executive Directors Both of the current executive Directors have UK service contracts which have 12 months unexpired terms and provide for 12 months notice being given.
Mr Salmons contract was dated 14 June 2004 and Mr Butterworths 25 May 2005.
Each contract provides for compensation to be paid on early termination by the Company based on one times salary, pension allowance and benefits payable half in a lump sum and the balance in six separate monthly instalments commencing six months after leaving, mitigated by any salary earned from new paid occupation.
Non-executive Directors In accordance with the Code, each non-executive Director is appointed for an initial fixed term of three years subject to their election at the Companys first AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, subject to approval of the Board and their re-election at the appropriate AGM, they are appointed for a further three-year term.
Non-executive Directors are not entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
Unexpired Date of Date of AGM at which notice appointment retirement term expires period Non-executive Directors J L Hewitt 01 06 05 2009 Not required J P Oosterveld 15 06 04 2010 Not required B W Perry 01 01 02 2008 Not required J G Sussens 01 05 04 2010 Not required The Group Chairman, Mr Beeston, was appointed on 1 April 2003 for a fixed period which expires at the conclusion of the AGM in 2008.
He is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company.
Any compensation for loss of office would be based upon his annual fee.
All Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board sets the remuneration of the non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
The Group Chairmans remuneration is set by the Remuneration Committee.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold positions as non-executive directors of other companies provided that these do not lead to conflicts of interest.
The Board sanctions each such request on a case-by-case basis.
Fees received are retained by the executive Director concerned.
In 2006, Mr Salmon received fees of 50,000 for his role as non-executive director of United Utilities plc.
No Directors had any material interest in a contract of significance other than service agreements with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
Pension arrangements Messrs Butterworth and Salmon are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups pension arrangements.
In accordance with their contracts they receive pension allowances of 25% of their respective base salaries to enable them to make their own pension provision.
Mr Butterworths pension allowance in 2006 amounted to 64,375 2005: 33,854, whilst Mr Salmons pension allowance in 2006 amounted to 119,375 2005: 115,875.
This information is audited by the Companys Auditor.
Cookson Group plc { 49 } Annual Report 2006 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration The following table details the remuneration payable to each Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006, together with comparative totals in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005.
Benefits in kind comprise mainly the assessed benefits arising from the contractual payments of medical insurance, life assurances, and company car allowances.
The Annual Incentive bonuses awarded to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon for 2006 were based on the achievement of the Group Headline Earnings target.
Details of the annual fees payable to non-executive Directors can be found on page 43.
In addition to the above, ex gratia pensions of 10,499 2005: 10,252 were paid to former Directors in 2006.
The information in the above table is audited by the Companys Auditor.
Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2006 were as shown below: Ordinary Ordinary 10p shares 10p shares at 31 Dec at 31 Dec 2 2006 2005 No.
In addition to the above interests, those Directors who are employees of the Company are each considered to have an interest as potential beneficiaries in ordinary shares of the Company held by Cookson Investments Jersey Limited as Trustee of the Cookson Group Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP.
The balance of ordinary shares held by the ESOP at 31 December 2006 was 781,150 2005: 1,151,445.
There were no changes to the Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company in the period from 1 January 2007 to 13 March 2007.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours.
None of the Directors, nor their spouses nor minor children, held non-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company during the year.
Cookson Group plc { 50 } Annual Report 2006 LTIP allocations Details of the executive Directors allocations of shares under the LTIP are shown in the table below: Number of Number of Total Performance Matching Total allocations Shares Shares Shares allocations outstanding allocated allocated lapsed outstanding Market price as at 31 during during during as at of shares on Dec 2005 the year the year the year 31 Dec 2006 date before Performance Vesting 1 1 2 Director, award date and type of award No.
The allocations were calculated based upon the closing mid-market price of Cookson shares on the day before the awards were made.
The 2006 allocations were made to Messrs Butterworth and Salmon on 6 April 2006.
Cooksons mid-market closing price on this date was 545.5p.
The 2004 and April 2005 market prices shown for shares on the date before the awards have been multiplied by 10 to reflect the impact of the share consolidation on 26 May 2005 on the Companys share price.
On this date every 10 ordinary 1p shares held by shareholders were exchanged for 1 new 10p ordinary share.
The performance criteria which apply to the vesting of these share allocations are summarised on page 47 and 48.
The performance period for the LTIP awards made in 2004 ended on 31 December 2006.
The companys TSR performance during the 3-year performance period was assessed against the comparator group and it was determined that the Companys performance was below median.
Accordingly the 2004 LTIP awards will not vest on 29 July 2007 and the awards will lapse.
On behalf of the Board John G Sussens Chairman, Remuneration Committee 13 March 2007 Cookson Group plc { 51 } Annual Report 2006
