Directors remuneration report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code relating to Executive Directors remuneration.
As required by the Act, a resolution to consider and approve the report will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion these parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
On 5th February 2007 the Board announced that it had agreed the terms of a recommended cash and shares offer to be made by Barratt Developments PLC to acquire the issued and to be issued share capital of the Company.
This report sets out the remuneration policy which would apply were the Company to remain independent, although special provisions applying in respect of the takeover offer have been described.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee composition and advisors The Company has established a Remuneration Committee in accordance with the recommendations of the Code.
All the Companys Independent Non-Executive Directors sit on the Remuneration Committee and have served throughout the year.
The names and personal details of the Independent Non-Executive Directors can be found on pages 14 and 15.
Dr A D Portno is the senior Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
There have been no changes in the composition or chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships, or day to day involvement in the running of the business.
The Remuneration Committee operates within agreed terms of reference, setting out its role and the authority delegated by the Board, which are reviewed at least annually.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the overall remuneration policy in relation to pay, incentives and benefits of the Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Company and for ensuring the appropriate implementation of that policy.
In addition, the Committee makes recommendations on and monitors the remuneration of the Directors of the principal subsidiary companies and monitors the remuneration policy of the first level of management below these subsidiary Boards.
The Remuneration Committee meets regularly and also periodically instructs external consultants to review the Executive Directors remuneration and the structure of the Companys share incentive schemes.
This review includes a comparison of the Directors remuneration with the remuneration of directors in other companies of a similar size or within the sector.
These full reviews are undertaken at least every three years with other independent guidance sought as necessary.
The last full review by the Companys remuneration consultants,  LLP, was completed in September 2006.
This review concluded that overall the remuneration of the Directors was at an appropriately competitive level and consistent with the Companys remuneration policy.
Following the review some changes have been made in the application of the Groups policy and these are reflected in this report.
Since the review, the Committee is satisfied that the overall remuneration policy remains appropriate.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 28 Directors remuneration report continued In determining the Executive Directors remuneration for the year, the Committee has consulted with Mr D W Wilson, the Chairman of the Board, and Mr I Robertson, Group Chief Executive.
None of the Executive Directors or the Chairman was involved in determining their own remuneration.
The following persons provided advice or services that materially assisted the Remuneration Committee in its consideration of Directors remuneration matters during the year: The Group Human Resources Director, Mr G A Headley, provided information to the Remuneration Committee on relative pay both within the Wilson Bowden Group and in other organisations, particularly with regard to those sectors in which the Group operates:  LLP, who were appointed by the Committee as remuneration consultants during the year, provided advice on specific matters in relation to the Executive Directors remuneration and the design and operation of the Companys share incentive schemes.
 LLP also provides advice to the Company on tax matters.
The Committee is satisfied that the services provided to it by  LLP were of a technical nature and did not create a conflict of interest.
If a conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the Committee would appoint separate consultants from those used by the Company: Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, the Companys main legal advisors, have been appointed by the Committee to advise them on compliance with the Act and the Code: and Internal support was provided to the Remuneration Committee by Mr G M Brown, a former Executive Director of the Company, who acted as Secretary to the Committee.
Compliance The Company has complied with the Codes provisions relating to Directors remuneration throughout the year.
Remuneration policy General The Companys remuneration policy is designed to provide competitive packages to attract, retain and motivate highly talented and able executives consistent with the nature, scale and complexity of the Groups operations.
It is necessary to provide reward schemes that are fully competitive and offer sufficient incentive to secure and retain the services of knowledgeable and experienced individuals who have demonstrated a high level of ability and commitment, along with a high level of future potential.
To ensure the successful growth and development of the Group and maximise shareholder value, the highest levels of reward are targeted against the delivery of outstanding personal and corporate performance both in the short and long term.
This report sets out the Companys remuneration policy for 2007 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent years.
The inclusion in the report of remuneration policy in respect of years after 2007 is required by the Regulations.
The Remuneration Committee is able to state its remuneration policy for 2007 with reasonable certainty, and this policy will continue unless changed by the Remuneration Committee in subsequent years.
The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
Any changes to policy for years after 2007 will be described in future Directors Remuneration Reports, which will continue to be subject to shareholder approval.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors comprises four main elements: Basic annual salary and benefits in kind: Annual performance related bonus, which cannot exceed a specified percentage of salary: Share incentive plans: and Pension arrangements.
It is Company policy that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be performance related.
It is also Company policy that Executive Directors interests should be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
The Company achieves this by targeting bonus and share scheme awards against stretching performance criteria aimed at enhancing shareholder value and by encouraging Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company with a value equivalent to at least one times the Directors base salary.
Basic salary and benefits Salaries are normally reviewed annually, on 1st October, or when responsibilities change.
In deciding the appropriate levels, the Remuneration Committee takes into account the external advice it has received and the level of reward provided to comparable executives elsewhere in the sector, as well as the overall pay structure within the Wilson Bowden Group.
The benefits provided to each Executive Director comprise principally an appropriate fully expensed motor car, or equivalent cash allowance, and healthcare benefits.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 29 Directors remuneration report continued The Executive Directors are encouraged to broaden their experience and knowledge by taking appropriate external non-executive appointments, provided the commitment required is consistent with their fulfilling their responsibilities to the Group.
Mr N H Richardson is a Non-Executive Director of Derby Cityscape Limited, a Government sponsored urban regeneration company.
No fees or other remuneration were received in respect of this external appointment.
Annual performance related bonus The Board has established demanding budgets and targets, which are directly related to the delivery of the Companys strategy and business plans and to the achievement of personal and corporate objectives.
The performance achieved against these targets is reviewed by the Committee at the end of each financial year to determine the degree of achievement.
Each Executive Directors remuneration includes a performance related bonus expressed as a percentage of salary.
The percentage of salary payable as bonus in 2007 is dependent upon both the profit performance of the Company and its subsidiaries, and the successful delivery of personal objectives determined between each Executive Director and the Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive at the beginning of each financial year.
The performance related bonus in 2007 will be earned on a similar incremental scale as 2006, with no bonus earned in the event of profit before tax and goodwill impairment falling 15% or more below budget.
For on budget performance the bonus will be 30% of the Directors average salary during the year.
For profit performance in excess of budget additional bonus is earned on an incremental scale with a maximum payment of 60% of average salary for achievement of profit before tax equating to 112% of budget.
Any bonus entitlement determined under the plan amounting to 40% or less of salary will be paid in cash, following approval by the Directors of the audited accounts for the relevant financial year.
For any entitlement in excess of 40% of salary one half of the excess will be paid in cash, with the balance discharged through the award of shares in the Company.
The vesting of such award will be deferred for three years and will be subject to satisfaction of income tax and national insurance liabilities.
However, this policy has been suspended for performance related bonus payments made in respect of 2006.
Part of the annual bonus due to Mr N H Richardson in respect of the 2005 financial year was required to be made in shares in the Company.
A dealing prohibition applied to the Companys shares throughout 2006, and accordingly Mr N H Richardson received a Phantom Award of 4,900 shares in respect of his 2005 bonus.
The terms of this Phantom Award are similar to those described on page 32.
The Phantom Award will vest in full on a change of control of the Company.
In addition, bonus amounting to 40% of salary is available for delivery of specific personal objectives, 80% of which must be quantifiable or measurable.
Mr D W Wilson does not participate in the Companys performance related bonus plan.
The Remuneration Committee may, if it considers it appropriate in the context of the business environment, substitute a rigorous and challenging target in lieu of budget but at a lower level.
Any decision to set such a target in lieu of budget may only be made during the first quarter of the financial year and the incremental scale of bonus awards set out above may be reduced by up to 50%, at the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee, in the event of such a target being set.
The 2006 performance related bonus plan was described in the 2005 Directors Remuneration Report.
The bonuses earned in respect of 2006, included in the remuneration table on page 35, have been determined in accordance with the criteria described in that Remuneration Report and include elements based both on profit before tax and the achievement of specific personal objectives.
During the year the Company experienced a period of considerable uncertainty and the Remuneration Committee felt it important to retain and motivate key senior executives to maximise the delivery of shareholder value.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee determined at its December 2006 meeting that, in the event of a takeover of the Company, a special bonus pool of 2,000,000 be made available for distribution to certain senior executives including the Executive Directors, being Mrs E J Aikman, Mr G H Locke, Mr N H Richardson and Mr I Robertson.
The maximum amount payable to each of the Executive Directors is 363,636.
The Remuneration Committee has power to reduce the amount of an Executive Directors special bonus in the event that any material issue arose as a result of due diligence undertaken in connection with a takeover.
These arrangements have been approved by the Takeover Panel.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 30 Directors remuneration report continued Share incentive schemes During 2006, Mrs E J Aikman, Mr G M Brown, Mr G H Locke, Mr I Robertson, Mr N H Richardson, and Mr N J Townsend were all eligible to participate in the share incentive schemes listed below.
Since 2005, all share incentive awards to the Executive Directors have been made under the Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan PSP.
For reasons explained below, a cash-based equivalent was put in place for certain of these individuals in respect of 2006.
The Remuneration Committee intends to reward and incentivise key profit accountable executives operating below Board level, by making awards under the PSP where justified by their performance and contribution to the Groups success.
Executives receiving awards under the PSP will not also be entitled to share options.
The performance conditions attached to these incentive plans, the reasons for selecting them and the methods of measuring whether they have been met and why those methods have been chosen are set out below: The Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan PSP Shareholders approved the PSP at the 2002 Annual General Meeting.
Awards under the PSP are made to each of the Companys Executive Directors, except Mr D W Wilson, and other senior executives who contribute to the successful performance of the Group.
The value of shares subject to awards in any year under the plan may not exceed 100% of annual salary.
The Remuneration Committee determines appropriate performance criteria each year.
The Committee has determined that for awards made in 2007: 1.
An Earnings per Share EPS criterion measured by reference to the increase in real EPS in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for the period of three years starting with the financial year ended before the date of the award will apply to half the award: and 2.
A Total Shareholder Return TSR criterion for the period of three years ending on the third anniversary of the date of the award and measured against a comparator group of seven companies in the Housebuilding sector, will apply to the balance.
The performance targets will not be subject to retesting over a further period if not met.
The comparator group of companies for the TSR performance criteria comprises Barratt Developments PLC, Taylor Woodrow plc, Bellway p. l. c. Persimmon PLC, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Redrow plc and George Wimpey Plc.
Crest Nicholson PLC was a member of the group of comparator companies in the previous year.
These performance criteria will be applied over a three year measurement period as follows: EPS growth in excess of % of award % of award RPI receivable TSR relative performance receivable Equal to greater than 40% 100% Upper quartile 100% Between 10% and 40% Pro rata Between upper quartile and median Pro rata Equal to 10% 10% Median 30% Below 10% Nil Below median Nil The reasons for selecting Earnings per Share as a measure of performance are that it directly reflects operational performance and is also a significant factor in determining the markets view of the Companys value.
Total Shareholder Return was selected as a measure of performance as it aligns management performance with shareholders interests.
The performance targets described above are considered to be appropriate based on current market practice and advice from the external consultants.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether performance criteria have been satisfied based on reports from the Companys corporate broker and may request the Companys auditors to report on whether the calculations, and any adjustments required under scheme rules, have been correctly performed.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 31 Directors remuneration report continued Certain senior executives including the Executive Directors, Mr I Robertson and Mr N H Richardson were due to receive awards under the PSP in 2006 but were unable to receive those awards as a result of a dealing prohibition, which applied throughout 2006.
Accordingly, with the approval of the Takeover Panel, the Remuneration Committee granted each of these executives a phantom PSP award the Phantom Award in February 2007.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, the Phantom Awards entitle the executives to a cash payment equal to the number of notional shares that the executive would have received had they been granted an award in 2006 under the PSP multiplied by the value of the consideration per share payable by the acquirer.
The Phantom Awards are subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the other awards granted under the PSP in 2006.
The Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme WBSESOS Shareholders originally approved the WBSESOS at the 2000 Annual General Meeting and amended it at the 2002 Annual General Meeting.
Options are granted under the WBSESOS to management who contribute directly to the successful strategic direction and operational performance of the Group.
The performance condition relative to the exercise of options granted prior to 17th April 2002, is that the growth in Earnings per Share shown in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for any consecutive period of three years, starting with the financial year commencing immediately before the date of grant, must exceed the increase in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period by 3% per annum.
The performance conditions relative to the exercise of options granted after 17th April 2002, is that the growth in Earnings per Share in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for any consecutive periods of three, four or five years, starting with the financial year commencing immediately before the date of grant: 1.
Must exceed the increase in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period by 3% per annum in respect of awards in any one year, the value of which does not exceed the basic annual salary of the executive: and 2.
Must exceed the increase in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period by 5% per annum in respect of awards in any one year, the value of which exceeds one times basic annual salary of the executive.
The Remuneration Committee has decided that the performance conditions of any awards made in the future will not be retested after the initial three year performance period has been completed.
The value of options granted under the WBSESOS to a participant in any one year is up to a maximum of four times their annual salary, but options would not normally be granted in excess of twice annual salary.
The reasons for selecting Earnings per Share as the measure of performance are set out under the PSP and apply similarly to the WBSESOS.
The real growth targets of 3% and 5% respectively referred to above are considered to be appropriate levels of achievement based on current market practice and advice from the external consultants who assisted in the design of the WBSESOS.
The Remuneration Committee determines whether performance criteria have been satisfied based on calculations performed internally and may request the Companys auditors to report on whether the calculations, and any adjustments required under scheme rules, have been performed correctly.
Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme WBSRSOS Under the WBSRSOS, participants are required to make monthly contributions to an approved savings authority under a contractual savings scheme for a period of three or five years.
On entering into the savings contract participants are granted an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company at a discount, of no more than 20%, to the middle market price of the Companys shares immediately prior to the date of grant.
The exercise of options under the WBSRSOS is not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as the WBSRSOS is Inland Revenue approved and open to all eligible employees.
On 16th October 2006, the Company granted options to 470 employees under the WBSRSOS over 96,942 ordinary shares at a price of 1,590 pence per share, equivalent to a discount of 10% to middle market price.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 32 Directors remuneration report continued Pensions The following section describes the pension arrangements currently in force for the Executive Directors.
All the Executive Directors, except Mr D W Wilson, are members of the Wilson Bowden plc Group Directors Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme.
The Company established a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme the FURBS to provide, at the Companys discretion, additional Directors pension benefits equivalent to the effect of the restriction on their pension contributions caused by the limitation of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
Following changes in pensions legislation, contributions to the FURBS ceased in March 2006.
These methods of reward are in accordance with competitive market practice within the housebuilding and property development sectors and demonstrate the purpose of the remuneration policy to retain the services of high quality directors and motivate them to greater success in a highly competitive market.
Performance graph The line graph shown below, which complies with the Regulations, shows the Total Shareholder Return over the last five years for a holding of shares in the Company and the corresponding performance shown by the FTSE Mid 250 index.
The shareholder return of the FTSE Mid 250 index was chosen as it represents a national and broad equity market index and because the Company has been a constituent of this index throughout the period.
Executive Directors service contracts The Companys policy on the Executive Directors service contracts is that the Companys compensation commitment on termination should not exceed the value of one years remuneration, either under a notice provision or under a specific contractual entitlement.
The service contract of the Chairman, Mr D W Wilson, is terminable on 12 months notice, but will terminate automatically on reaching age 66 increased from age 65 on 30th November 2006.
The Remuneration Committee resolved during 2006 that it was appropriate that the Executive Directors contracts other than that of Mr D W Wilson be modernised to include specific termination provisions.
The Company may therefore terminate an Executive Directors employment by making a payment equal to a years salary, Company pension contribution, the amount of annual bonus assuming achievement of budget in relation to the corporate element of the bonus and a fixed percentage in respect of the personal element of bonus and an amount equal to the cost to the Company of providing other contractual benefits for the notice period.
The Company can elect to pay the termination sum by monthly instalments, in which case the monthly amounts are reduced by an amount equal to one twelfth of 50% of the amount by which annual basic salary exceeds 20,000 earned by the Executive Director from any new employment.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 33 Directors remuneration report continued If within 12 months of a change of control of the Company, i the Company gives notice to terminate the Executive Director's employment in certain circumstances, ii the Executive Director terminates their employment for Good Reason defined as the Company materially changing the location of the Executive Director's work, duties, responsibilities or reporting relationship or the Company failing in any material respect to comply with and satisfy any of the terms of the Executive Directors service agreement or iii the Executive Director ceases to be a Director of the Company other than by reason of voluntary resignation or termination of employment, then the Executive Director is entitled to receive a liquidated damages payment equal to the payment in lieu of notice described above.
In addition to the above, a discretionary bonus may be awarded by the Remuneration Committee on termination of the Executive Directors employment, pro-rated in respect of the completed months of service in the year in which the employment is terminated.
The Executive Directors have entered into service agreements with the Company as detailed below: Notice period Notice period Name Date by Company by Director D W Wilson 30th November 1993 Expires 5th December 2007 Expires 5th December 2007 E J Aikman 18th August 2006 12 months 6 months G H Locke 28th September 2006 12 months 6 months N H Richardson 28th September 2006 12 months 6 months I Robertson 28th September 2006 12 months 6 months Mr N J Townsend retired from the Board on 8th April 2006 and remained as an employee of the Company until 8th July 2006 on his previous terms and conditions.
Mr G M Brown retired from the Board on 31st December 2006, prior to his normal retirement date.
The Company entered into a compromise agreement with Mr G M Brown on 22nd December 2006 as set out in the Directors emoluments table below.
Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement, which are terminable by the Company at any time without liability for compensation: they do not have service contracts.
Their remuneration is determined by the Board taking into account the scope and nature of their duties and the level of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of similar companies.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus or share incentive schemes and no pension contributions are made in respect of them.
No additional fees are paid for membership of Board Committees.
Details of the fees paid are set out in the audited information below.
In February 2006, the Board approved a structure for making special payments to Non-Executive Directors for additional work undertaken in the course of the year in relation to the review of their shareholdings instigated by Mr D W Wilson, his family and their trusts.
It was agreed that, in addition to their standard fees, a payment of 20,000 would be made to Mr A J Giles, Mr I P Lough, Mr P J Byrom and Mr D E Brill plus an additional sum of 2,000 for each meeting attended on the above matter other than days on which a Board or committee meeting was being held.
The Board further agreed that a payment, in addition to fees, of up to 100,000 would be made to Dr A D Portno in respect of 2006.
The actual amounts paid to the Non-Executive Directors under these arrangements, in respect of 2006, were as follows: Mr A J Giles, 28,000: Mr I P Lough, 26,000: Mr P J Byrom, 26,500: Mr D E Brill, 26,000: and Dr A D Portno, 100,000.
It was also agreed that the NonExecutive Directors would consider waiving an appropriate proportion of these payments if the anticipated workload did not materialise or the process was concluded rapidly.
The total fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors in 2006, which include the additional amounts described above, are listed next to their names in the table on page 35.
Each Non-Executive Director will continue to receive an additional 2,000 for each meeting they attend on the above matter other than on days on which a Board or committee meeting was being held and Dr A D Portno will continue to receive an additional fee, capped at 100,000, during 2007.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 34 Directors remuneration report continued Audited information Directors emoluments The remuneration of the Directors of Wilson Bowden plc for the year including remuneration as Directors of subsidiary companies is set out in the table below: Total Total Compensation before before Salary for loss of Benefits pension Pension Tax on pension fees Bonus office in kind benefits contributions FURBS Total benefits 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 Year ended 31st December 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors salaries and other remuneration E J Aikman appointed 4th 92 73 - 1 166 26 - 192 - September 2006 G M Brown retired 31st 316 183 641 25 1,165 93 - 1,258 361 December 2006 G H Locke appointed 5th 225 138 - 11 374 70 - 444 - July 2006 N H Richardson 406 366 - 27 799 115 13 927 662 I Robertson 518 301 - 21 840 152 16 1,008 569 Mr M J Stansfield - - - - - - - - 316 resigned 14th January 2005 N J Townsend retired 8th 61 85 - 14 160 36 - 196 342 April 2006 D W Wilson 721 - - 65 786 - - 786 795 Non-Executive Directors fees and other remuneration D E Brill 73 - - - 73 - - 73 40 P J Byrom 77 - - - 77 - - 77 42 A J Giles 70 - - - 70 - - 70 35 I P Lough 68 - - - 68 - - 68 35 A D Portno 154 - - - 154 - - 154 60 Directors remuneration 2,781 1,146 641 164 4,732 492 29 5,253 3,257 Gain on exercise of share options - - - - - - - 7 574 Total remuneration - - - - - - - 5,260 Total 2005 - - - - - - - 4,357 Notes 1.
All the Executive Directors, except Mr D W Wilson, are members of the Wilson Bowden plc Directors Pension Scheme, a defined contribution scheme.
As explained under the Pensions Policy on page 33 Mr I Robertson and Mr N H Richardson are also members of the FURBS.
Accordingly the Companys contributions, set out above, reflect the cost during the year of providing pension benefits to these Directors.
The tax liability in relation to the FURBS is shown separately.
Mr D W Wilson is not a member of a Company pension scheme and no pension contributions are made in respect of him.
There were no amounts paid to Executive Directors by way of expenses allowance in respect of their qualifying services that were chargeable to UK income tax.
The non-cash elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages consist principally of the provision of a fully expensed company car and healthcare benefits.
Mr N J Townsend retired on 8th April 2006.
The Company agreed to pay Mr N J Townsends legal fees of 6,277 plus VAT incurred in connection with his retirement.
Mr N J Townsends share options and awards were preserved, as set out in the table on pages 36 and 37.
Mr N J Townsend entered into a consultancy agreement with the Company after retirement under which he was paid 21,430 for the period ended 31st December 2006.
Mr G M Brown retired, before his normal retirement date, on 31st December 2006.
Mr G M Browns payment for compensation for loss of office comprised 322,900, being an amount equal to one years basic salary: 193,740, being an amount equivalent to the annual bonus: and 27,466 in respect of benefits to which Mr G M Brown would have been entitled during his notice period.
In addition to the compensation payment, the Company made a pension contribution of 96,870 in respect of Mr G M Brown and agreed to pay his legal fees of 3,000 plus VAT incurred in connection with his retirement.
Mr G M Browns share options and awards were preserved, as set out in the table on pages 36 and 37.
Mr G M Brown has agreed to act as a consultant for a limited period after retirement.
The bonus figure stated above for Mr G H Locke is the element of his annual bonus, pro-rated on a time basis, relating to the period of time he served as a Director.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 35 Directors remuneration report continued Directors share incentive schemes Wilson Bowden plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme WBSESOS and Wilson Bowden plc 2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme WBSRSOS Details of the options held by the Directors over the Companys 10p ordinary shares are set out in the table below.
No consideration was paid for the grant of options.
The performance criteria to be satisfied before an option may be exercised are explained in the remuneration policy section of this report.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares was in the range 1,326p to 2,260p during the year.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares on 29th December 2006 was 2,212p.
There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the WBSESOS interests during 2006.
Mr N J Townsend retired from the Board on 8th April 2006 and remained as an employee of the Company until 8th July 2006.
The options granted to him remain exercisable until 8th January 2007.
Mr G M Brown retired as a Director on 31st December 2006 and the options granted to him disclosed in the above table remain exercisable at the later of the normal good leaver exercise period or within thirty days of him ceasing to be prohibited from dealing in the Companys shares under the provisions of the Criminal Justice Act 2003.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 36 Directors remuneration report continued Wilson Bowden plc Performance Share Plan PSP Details of the potential entitlements of the Directors under the PSP are set out in the table below.
The performance criteria to be satisfied before an award can vest are explained in the remuneration policy section of this report.
Market Market Plan Plan price Awards price Interests interests interests Awarded of shares vesting of shares lapsed 31st Date of 1st January during on dates during on dates during December expiry of Date of 2006 year of award year of vesting year 2006 1 performance award Number Number Pence Number Pence Number Number conditions G M Brown 29 Aug 2002 1,600 915 1,600 31 Dec 2004 5 Apr 2005 13,000 1,047 13,000 5 Apr 2008 G H Locke 3 Apr 2006 11,500 1,560 11,500 3 Apr 2009 N H Richardson 29 Aug 2002 2,400 915 2,400 31 Dec 2004 5 Apr 2005 15,000 1,047 15,000 5 Apr 2008 I Robertson 29 Aug 2002 2,400 915 2,400 31 Dec 2004 5 Apr 2005 20,000 1,047 20,000 5 Apr 2008 N J Townsend 29 Aug 2002 2,400 915 2,400 31 Dec 2004 5 Apr 2005 12,000 1,047 12,000 5 Apr 2008 or later date of appointment 1 or earlier date of cessation of appointment There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the PSP interests during 2006.
The performance criteria applicable in relation to the awards made on 29th August 2002 are set out in the table below and are dependent on the extent to which the growth in the Companys Earnings per Share in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group for the periods of three years starting with the financial year ended before the date of the award, exceeds the growth in the Retail Price Index all items over the same period.
EPS growth in excess of RPI % Award receivable 30% 100% Between 10% and 30% Pro rata 10% 25% Less than 10% Nil Upon becoming entitled to receive shares following the third anniversary of the start date 60.0% of the shares vest to the executive: and subject normally to remaining in service, 11.5% vest on the fourth anniversary: 12.5% on the fifth anniversary: and 16.0% on the sixth anniversary.
Earnings per Share growth over the three years 2001 to 2004 was 79.3% and accordingly the full awards under the scheme in 2002 have vested.
The first tranche was released in 2005.
The second tranche was released in 2006, other than to certain Directors by reason of the ongoing dealing prohibition.
Approved by and signed on behalf of the Board Dr A D Portno CBE Remuneration Committee Chairman 2nd March 2007 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report 2006 37
