52 weeks ended 29 January 2006 Directors remuneration report The Group is required by the Companies Act Remuneration policy In October 2005, after the committee 1985 to prepare a Directors remuneration The committees key objectives are to: had been reconstructed and was fully report for the 52 weeks ended 29 January determine and recommend to the Board, independent, it reconsidered the 2006 and to put that report to a shareholder within the agreed terms of reference, an remuneration policy with full reference to vote.
A resolution to approve this report will overall remuneration package for the Schedule A of the Combined Code on be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Executive Directors a reference which Directors Remuneration.
In particular, in of the Group to be held on 25 May 2006. includes the Chairman throughout this setting pay levels and structures it gave report and to monitor the level and structure regard to: The auditors are required to report on part of remuneration for senior management.
of the Directors remuneration report and to What comparable companies state whether in their opinion that part of Historically, Executive Directors have were paying.
the report has been properly prepared in received a base salary and certain other Pay and employment conditions accordance with the Companies Act 1985. benefits, including pensions.
In addition, elsewhere in the Group.
The report has therefore been divided into they participate in the Groups profit sharing separate sections for audited and unaudited scheme along with all employees and were Avoiding paying more than is necessary.
granted options under the 1995 Senior The committee commissioned a Executive Share Option Scheme.
comprehensive and independent review of Unaudited information In June 2005, the committee identified the Directors individual remuneration that the Directors remuneration packages packages with comparisons made against Remuneration Committee membership, were not fully competitive and that it was listed retailers and other plcs of broadly advisers and terms of reference necessary to make some adjustments to similar size.
The review identified that most Following the appointment of four new Non ensure that the Directors were retained and Directors have above mid-market base Executive Directors, from 20 October 2005, motivated to drive the Groups recovery.
salaries, but total remuneration is below midthe committee has been constituted in At this time the Directors responsibilities and market due to the absence of an executive accordance with the Combined Code and workloads had increased significantly and the annual bonus plan and a long term incentive is now composed entirely of independent Group faced particular challenges integrating plan.
As a result, the committee decided that Non Executive Directors.
The terms of Safeway and retaining key members of the going forward it wished to put in place reference of the committee are available executive team.
The committee was also remuneration structures which will enable the from the Company Secretary on request and mindful that it had found it necessary to offer company to recruit, retain and motivate high on the website www.
extra contractual protection to the incoming calibre senior executives and that those The committee is chaired by Susan Murray, Group Finance Director for a limited period, structures will be more performance related.
with its other members comprising Brian and it considered that the task of integrating This will be achieved by moving progressively Flanagan, David Jones, Paul Manduca the senior executive team could be made over time to: and Nigel Robertson.
No member has any more difficult if his terms were substantially Base salaries around the mid-market personal financial interest in the matters different to other Executive Directors.
starting with no further increases in the being considered.
Sir Kenneth Morrison and Accordingly, base salaries were increased current financial year for Executive the Chief Executive attend meetings at the and the Directors service contracts were Directors.
invitation of the committee except if their own amended so that they would receive two remuneration is being discussed.
Details of times the annual value of certain elements of Introduce a competitive suite of annual attendance at the committee meetings are their remuneration and benefits in the event and long-term incentives.
shown on page 18. of a termination of their employment Remove two times annual compensation in certain circumstances before 1 July 2007.
During the year, the committee received provisions in contracts: replacing them independent advice from Jardine Lloyd with new 1 year service agreements.
Thompson in respect of pensions: Ashurst Limit pensionable pay to base salary only and Gordons in respect of Executive Directors see further below.
contracts: and from November 2005 New Bridge Street Consultants LLP in connection with all remuneration related matters.
22 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2006
