Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 28 January 2006 The following is a report by the Remuneration Committee which has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders.
Composition and Terms of Reference The Remuneration Committee consists of the independent Non-Executive Directors who are Andrew Beeson Chairman, Prue Leith OBE, Roger Jones, David Simons and Fru Hazlitt.
Its composition and terms of reference are in line with the Combined Code.
The Company complies with Section B of the Combined Code provisions on Directors remuneration and in respect of the Remuneration Report content.
The Committees aim is to ensure that the Executive Directors are rewarded for their contribution to the Group and are motivated to enhance the return to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
In addition, they have regard to pay and conditions for other employees in the Group, especially the arrangements for Directors of subsidiaries who are not Directors of the Company.
The Committee is advised internally by the Human Resources Director of Woolworths plc and the Head of Group Reward.
External advice was provided during the year by Towers Perrin in relation to salary benchmarking and the overall levels of remuneration packages in comparative companies.
Towers Perrin was appointed by the Head of Group Reward on behalf of the Remuneration Committee.
In addition to data provided by Towers Perrin, the Committee also took into account information from other remuneration surveys.
The Committee also took advice from Deloitte in respect of long-term incentive plans including the one-off arrangements made for the Chief Executive.
Remuneration Policy The Committee continues to maintain a policy consistent with Group Reward Principles applied for all employees throughout the Group and in line with the Companys business objectives which: attracts, retains and motivates high calibre Directors: is appropriate to the Company, taking into account information from independent sources and from within the retail sector as well as other companies of a comparable size: aligns the interests of Directors and shareholders by linking share and cash incentives to performance: complies with best practice and comprises a mix of xed and variable pay with longer-term incentives.
When comparing remuneration packages with those in other companies, particular regard is taken of companies in the FTSE 250 and other retailers.
The reward principles applied throughout the Group provide for basic salaries to be set at the median for a range of comparative companies with reward for performance aimed at delivering an overall package that is competitive.
For the Chief Executive, the variable, performance related remuneration, represents 58 per cent of the total package for on target performance.
For other Executive Directors, the variable, performance related remuneration, represents 44 per cent of the total package for on target performance.
Components of Remuneration Basic Salary Basic salary for each Director is reviewed annually in the context of market conditions affecting executive remuneration, affordability and the level of increases awarded to staff throughout the Group.
Basic salary levels are generally set at not more than the median for a range of comparative companies.
During the year ended 28 January 2006, salaries for all Directors and colleagues in the Group were frozen except for increases awarded on promotion.
Benets In addition to salaries and the items described below, the Company provides a range of competitive benets including pension, a fully-expensed car or non-pensionable cash allowance and private medical insurance.
Service Contract The policy of the Committee is that notice periods should be set at not more than 12 months.
No Executive Director has a service contract with a notice period longer than 12 months.
Bonus The Chief Executive participated in a new bonus arrangement see page 21.
For Executive Directors and Directors of subsidiaries, the Woolworths Group Annual Incentive Plan AIP applied during the year see page 20.
Gerald Corbett, the Chairman, does not participate in any incentive plans.
Share Options Executive Share Option Schemes The Company no longer grants share options under the Woolworths Group plc 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme.
For options granted in earlier years, the performance targets declared in the 2003 Directors Remuneration Report apply.
Fully diluted, adjusted Earnings Per Share, as calculated in accordance with the Scheme rules Scheme EPS, must increase by 6 per cent per annum commencing with the Companys financial year immediately prior to the date of grant plus RPI over a three-year period in order for the option to be exercised in full.
If this is not achieved, growth in Scheme EPS of 5 per cent per annum plus RPI over the same period is required in order for up to 50 per cent of the option to be exercised.
If either of these targets is not met after the first three-year period there will be a retest one year later over a four-year period, from the same base, and the same proportion of the option will be available for exercise.
If neither of the targets has been achieved after four years the option will lapse.
In the event of a change of control of the Company the performance conditions will not be automatically waived.
A minimum target of an increase in Scheme EPS of 2 per cent per annum plus RPI will normally have to be met.
The option will normally be exercisable only in proportion to the number of months that have elapsed from grant to the date of early exercise against a total of 36 months.
A limit of 5 per cent of the total issued share capital on the number of new shares that can be issued to satisfy executive options granted under Executive Share Schemes applies over a ten-year period.
At the year-end outstanding share options represented 4.5 per cent of the total share capital.
Savings-Related Share Options A savings-related share option scheme ShareSave is open to all eligible employees in the UK.
The fifth grant of options under ShareSave was made in May 2005 and it is intended that options will be granted annually under this arrangement provided the scheme continues to provide a cost-effective method of enabling employees to share in the success of the Group.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 19
