How were rewarded Directors remuneration Information that has been audited The compensation of all executive directors is determined by the Compensation Committee which is comprised wholly of non-executive directors whom the Company considers to be independent.
The Compensation Committee is advised by independent remuneration consultants as well as by Group executives as referred to in the Report of the Compensation Committee on page 120.
The information in this section pages 126 to 129 forms the part of the Report of the Compensation Committee that is subject to audit.
The compensation of the chairman and non-executive directors is determined by the Board which is similarly advised.
The components of executive directors remuneration and the principles on which these are established are described in the Report of the Compensation Committee which commences on page 119.
Remuneration of the directors who were directors during the year ended 31 December 2006 is set out in the table below.
All amounts shown constitute the total amounts which the respective director received during 2006 and for the annual bonus and awards of ESAs in respect of 2006 but received in 2007.
No compensation payments for loss of of ce have been made during 2006 to any individuals who have been directors of the Company.
2 Amounts paid in 2007 in respect of bonus entitlements for 2006.
3 All amounts payable in US dollars have been converted into pounds sterling at $1.8432 to 1.
The amounts paid to Sir Martin Sorrell and Paul Richardson were paid part in US dollars and part in pounds sterling.
This can give rise to small uctuations year-on-year.
4 The amount of salary and fees comprise the aggregate of salary fees paid under the UK Agreement and the salary paid under the US Agreement.
5 Neither Paul Richardson nor the Company received any payment from Chime Communications PLC or STW Communications Group Limited in respect of his non-executive directorships in those companies.
6 Howard Paster retired from the Board in June 2006.
7 In addition to fees paid to John Quelch in 2006 as a non-executive director of the Company additional fees were received by him of 37,000.
8 Shares under these awards are deferred for two years.
9 Mr Naganuma received no remuneration from the Company given his executive position with Asatsu DK.
10 During 2006 an amount of approximately 193,000 was paid to Sir Martin Sorrell in respect of tax liabilities incurred by him on expenditure on various items considered by the UK Tax authorities as bene ts in kind but which the committee consider to be essential to his ability to deliver his services successfully to the Group.
How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2006
