Directors Reports 43 Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee senior management and other employees.
Tax and risk management Within agreed terms of reference the Remuneration Committee has services were also received from Deloitte & Touche LLP by the responsibility for making recommendations to the Board of directors Company during the year.
on the Companys policy on the remuneration of executive directors and for reviewing the performance of these individuals.
Remuneration policy The Committee believes that a robust incentive and reward framework Performance graph is vital to the Companys continued success and is therefore committed The graph below sets out the performance of the Company relative to to the development of the Companys remuneration policy over time, the FTSE 100 index of which the Company is a constituent.
in consultation with shareholders and institutional investors where appropriate.
The performance graph has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and is not an The remuneration policy developed by the Committee since flotation is indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under any of the designed to provide a cohesive framework which maximises the Companys incentive plans.
achievement of individual and Company potential through targeted, results-driven reward and incentives which pay for good performance Yell Group total shareholder return at all levels throughout the organisation.
250 The remuneration policy continues to be based on the following key principles: Simplicity and coherence 200 Fairness of rewards against comparable companies Alignment of executive interests with the interests of shareholders Variable reward based on local profit and share price growth Encouraging all-employee share ownership 150 Incentivising exceptional performance with the potential for superior rewards Yell Group The Committee is committed to enabling the Company to achieve its 100 potential by attracting and retaining high quality people and FTSE100 providing them with a competitive overall remuneration package with clear targeted incentives.
This will enable them to be among the best 50 paid people in the marketplace if they and the Company deliver Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec Mar Jun Sep Dec Mar Apr May outstanding results.
03 03 04 04 04 04 04 05 05 05 05 06 06 06 Under the Companys remuneration policy, total remuneration is Source: Datastream broadly based on market median for on target performance, with the Rebased TSR: 1 Month 23 working day rolling average potential for upper quartile or above remuneration for superior performance.
The vehicle for delivering medium and long-term Remuneration Committee members incentives at each level within the organisation differs to The Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt and its other members accommodate the specific issues, desired behaviours and are Charles Carey and Lyndon Lea, who was appointed to the performance drivers for the different groups of employees.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors of the Company.
The Committee Development of Executive Remuneration Policy complied with the requirements set out in the Combined Code in This year the Committee has continued to follow the tiered carrying out its duties.
The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend remuneration approach developed during 2003 which encompasses Committee meetings, except when his remuneration is being discussed.
all employees within the same policy framework.
This approach highlights the Committees determination to reward all employees The Committee met on five occasions during the year ended fairly and consistently and to encourage and promote employee 31 March 2006.
The Committee received advice from the Chief share ownership.
Executive Officer and the Company Secretary.
The Committee also appointed and received advice from Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of remuneration policy, market practice and corporate governance for Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Directors Reports 44 However, the Committee recognises that since the last full Summary of individual elements of executive directors remuneration review in 2003, much has changed.
Yell is now an remuneration established listed company with a rapidly expanding business in the Executive directors total remuneration is comprised of fixed salary, US.
In light of these changes and recognising that the Companys benefits and pension and variable short, medium and long-term business and the markets in which it operates will continue to develop incentives in the form of annual and deferred bonus, share options and change, the Committee has decided that a review of and performance shares pay.
remuneration strategy for the senior management should be undertaken.
The aim of the Committee is to ensure that executive directors remuneration reflects the principles of the policy outlined previously.
As part of this review the Committee will consider whether the current comparator groups, performance targets and equity arrangements The variable elements of remuneration are subject to the achievement remain appropriate for Yell.
The Committee considers there to be an appropriate balance between fixed and variable To the extent that any major changes to policy or structure are remuneration with approximately one third of total remuneration proposed, the Committee will consult major shareholders and seek deriving from fixed salary and approximately two thirds deriving from their feedback as part of the process.
The Committee continues to recognise the importance of executives Base salary having the opportunity to be rewarded for outstanding personal and Base salaries are set taking account of the individual role, company performance, and of basing incentives on a combination of responsibility, experience, long-term contribution and market performance conditions collectively geared to enhancing shareholder positioning.
The Committee reviewed comparable base salary value.
This will be a key consideration for the remuneration strategy practice in media and FTSE 100 companies in determining appropriate review.
base salary levels of 1 April 2006 which are shown on page 47.
Remuneration structure 2005 2006 Annual bonus and the Deferred Bonus Plan Each executive director is eligible to receive a bonus subject to the achievement of performance targets.
The performance targets are set by the Committee each year having regard to the business plan.
Executive Directors LTIP Executive directors are eligible to receive a maximum bonus of 120% Executive Directors & Executive of salary.
Under the Deferred Bonus Plan, any bonus in excess of Senior Executive Group Options 100% of salary will be subject to a compulsory deferral into shares for a period of three years.
These shares will be forfeited if the director Management Capital leaves otherwise than in pre-determined good leaver circumstances.
Group Accumulation Plan For the executive directors, the Committee have determined that the All employees UK ShareSave and performance condition for the annual bonus will be related to the US Stock Purchase Plan Groups revenue, profit and cash generation targets 100% with the balance 20% based on non-financial metrics, such as people and All employees Annual Bonus Plan customer satisfaction, and process efficiency.
For executive directors, the annual bonus is operated with an element In respect of the year ended 31 March 2006, the Board accepted the of deferral.
Remuneration Committees recommendation that bonuses of 120% of salary be paid to executive directors under the Annual Bonus Plan.
All the Companys share plans incorporate dilution limits consistent with Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan are shown on page 49. the guidelines provided by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, the National Association of Pension Funds and other shareholder The Annual Bonus Plans for sales and non-sales staff similarly operate representative bodies.
For options granted in 2004 and onwards there by reference to financial and non-financial metrics.
is no longer the opportunity to retest performance conditions.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006 Directors Reports 45 Share options The extent to which awards will vest will depend upon the Companys The executive directors and other key senior managers of the TSR performance relative to the TSR performance of the FTSE 100 Company participate in the Yell Group plc Executive Share Option constituents excluding investment trusts over a three year period.
US senior managers participate in the Yell Group plc 2003 the extent that the performance condition is not satisfied, the award US Equity Incentive Plan.
Options are granted under both plans with will lapse and there will be no opportunity to retest the condition.
an exercise price at least equal to the market value of the underlying shares at the date of grant.
For an award to vest, the Companys TSR performance must not be less than that of the median company in the comparator group.
If the Current practice is for options to be granted to executive directors at a Company is ranked at the median level, 30% of the award will vest, multiple of two times base salary.
rising to 100% vesting at the upper quartile level.
Options granted in the 2006 financial year will only be exercisable if Pension the adjusted Earnings per Share EPS of the Company, taken over a Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer three year period, is equal to, or exceeds, the cumulative increase in participate in the Yell Pension Plan which is a HM Revenue & Customs the Retail Price Index RPI plus 3% per annum at the end of such three HMRC approved plan.
Under the terms of the Yell Pension Plan year period.
If the performance condition is not met at the end of the applicable, both executive directors will receive retirement benefits on third year the option lapses.
Details of options granted to executive a defined benefit basis.
directors are provided on page 48.
The Chief Executive Officer is a member of Section 2 of the Yell Pension The Committee considers that the EPS condition most appropriately Plan.
Until 5 April 2006, under that Section, he accrued an annual focuses eligible employees on increasing the Companys earnings and pension of 180th of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of therefore helps to align the interests of the executive directors with Pensionable Service.
In addition, he accrued a one-off cash sum of both shareholders and the Company.
380ths of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of Pensionable Service.
He was not subject to the HMRCs Earnings Cap for pension The Committee has determined that if appropriate, it will exercise its purposes due to his prior membership of the BT Pension Scheme and judgement and discretion to make adjustments to EPS in order to take was entitled to an enhancement of his Pensionable Service under the into account the transition to International Accounting Standards.
Yell Pension Plan by reference to the BT Pension Scheme, which was However, this would only apply where the adjustment was made for intended to continue until 13 November 2009.
Under the terms of this the purpose of ensuring that the performance condition remained enhancement, since 1July 1996, the Chief Executive Officer has been equitable to both participants and shareholders and, in the opinion of granted an additional 71 days of Pensionable Service for each actual the Committee, no less stretching to achieve.
Should the Committee year of Pensionable Service in the BT Pension Scheme or the Yell exercise such discretion and judgement in the future it will outline the Pension Plan.
The effect of the enhancement is that if he had continued reason and basis for its decision to shareholders in the Directors accrual in the Yell Pension Plan until his normal retirement date, the Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
Chief Executive Officers forecasted total Pensionable Service at age 60 will be 40 years.
Long Term Incentive Plan The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP permits awards of shares to be As a result of changes in taxation of pensions after 5 April 2006, the made, the receipt of which is dependent on meeting stretching Chief Executive Officer has chosen to cease accruals in the Yell performance targets.
Awards were made to the executive directors in Pension Plan, although his pension and one-off cash sum remain linked the 2006 financial year at a multiple of one times base salary.
to his Final Pensionable Earnings at leaving, retirement or death.
After 5 April 2006, he will receive cash payments of 27% of Basic Salary In line with current investor thinking, the Committee considers it per annum: this rate has been calculated to be broadly equivalent to important that executives are incentivised by reference to a Yells cost of his future benefits had he continued accrual in the Yell combination of financial and other performance conditions.
The result is therefore cost neutral to the Company.
use of financial measures for the Option Scheme and the Annual Bonus Plan, vesting of awards under the LTIP are based on relative The Chief Financial Officer is a member of both Sections 1 and 3 of Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The Committee considers that the use the Yell Pension Plan.
Until 5 April 2006, under each of those Sections of both financial measures and relative market performance in this he accrued an annual pension of 160th of his Final Pensionable way provides an appropriate balance across the whole of the Earnings up to the HMRCs Earnings Cap for each year of variable element of the executive directors remuneration packages.
Pensionable Service giving a total accrual of 130th each year.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2006
