Corporate governance Remuneration report The Board has delegated authority for Remuneration Committee Report provided in the Corporate Governance Report remuneration policy and determining the on page 46. specific packages for the Chairman and During the year Dick Olver and Mike Turner, in executive directors to the Remuneration their respective capacities as Chairman and Committee, and has delegated authority Chief Executive, provided advice that was of to agree fees payable to the non-executive material assistance to the Committee.
The directors to the Non-Executive Directors Committee also received material assistance Fees Committee.
The reports from both and advice on remuneration policy from the these Committees are incorporated into Sue Birley Companys Group Human Resources Director, this Remuneration report, together with a Remuneration Alastair Imrie, and from the Human report on the remuneration or fees paid to Committee Resources Director, Remuneration and directors and the policy underpinning this.
In addition, the Members: Committee received advice and services The Remuneration report is structured Professor Sue Birley Chairman from  PwC in as follows: Sir Nigel Rudd respect of the design and competitive Remuneration Committee report Roberto Quarta positioning of senior executive remuneration Peter Weinberg including a review of the share plan Non-Executive Directors Fees performance conditions and senior executive Committee report pension arrangements: from New Bridge Responsibilities Remuneration reporting Street Consultants NBSC in respect of the The Board has delegated the following Remuneration policy and service operation of share plans and the new share responsibilities to the Remuneration contracts for executive directors plans approved by shareholders in 2006: Committee: Chairmans appointment, term and fees and from Linklaters in respect of legal Agreeing a policy for the remuneration Non-executive directors appointment, advice.
NBSC was appointed by the of the Chairman and executive directors.
term and fees Committee, whilst PwC and Linklaters were appointed by the Company and, during the Within the agreed policy, determining Tabular information on directors year, provided consulting services PwC and individual remuneration packages for shareholdings, emoluments, pensions legal services Linklaters to the Company.
the Chairman and executive directors.
and share-based incentives The Committee is satisfied that the services Agreeing the terms and conditions to provided to it by PwC and Linklaters were of be included in service agreements for a technical nature and did not create any executive directors.
If a conflict of interest were to arise in the future, the Committee Approving any employee share-based would appoint separate consultants or legal incentive schemes and any performance advisers from those used by the Company.
conditions to be used for such schemes.
Activities Determining any share scheme During the year the Committee has performance targets.
discharged its responsibilities by reviewing and agreeing: The full terms of reference of the performance targets for the year and Remuneration Committee, which conform progress against those targets: with the requirements of the Combined Code, can be found on the Companys the operation of the long-term incentive plans and policy for executive share scheme website or can be obtained from the grants including the level of individual grants Company Secretary.
and performance conditions: Governance policy for the operation of the all-employee The Committee is chaired by Professor share schemes: Sue Birley and all of its members are independent non-executive directors.
The the award of bonuses based on the prior Companys Chairman and Chief Executive years performance: attend committee meetings by invitation only.
the basis for the annual review of executive They do not attend where their individual directors remuneration, including the remuneration is discussed and no director composition of the comparator groups is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
and the positioning of the remuneration In 2006 the Committee met seven times and packages for the two new incoming details of attendance at these meetings are Chief Operating Officers: www.
com 51 Remuneration report Remuneration report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued the levels and structure of remuneration Non-Executive Directors Fees Remuneration policy and service contracts payable to senior executives: Committee Report for executive directors This section of the report explains the the discretionary elements of the executive ongoing remuneration policy for executive share plans: and directors, the individual components of their pension arrangements for senior executives.
remuneration and details of their service contracts, as required by legislation.
In addition, the Committee has: The Remuneration Committees the reviewed the Remuneration Report: and Dick Olver Committee executive remuneration policy Non-Executive consulted with major shareholders over continues to be to set basic salaries at median Directors Fees aspects of remuneration policy.
competitive levels whilst seeking to reward Committee upper quartile performance with potential The Committees remuneration strategy Chairman upper quartile remuneration through the use is to provide a remuneration package that: Members: of bonus schemes and share-based incentives.
helps attract, retain and motivate the Dick Olver Chairman The Committee intends to continue with the highest calibre executives: Philip Bramwell executive remuneration policy as detailed in Walt Havenstein this report in 2007 and subsequent years, is aligned to shareholders interests Mike Turner and will continue to consult on material to create sustainable long-term changes with principal shareholders.
shareholder value: Responsibilities Remuneration of executive directors consists Reviewing the fees payable to nonis competitive against the appropriate typically of basic salary, a bonus based executive directors excluding the market, providing median reward for on annual performance, participation in Chairman and making changes to median performance and upper quartile employee share schemes and retirement such fees as deemed appropriate.
reward for upper quartile performance: benefits.
The Committee reviews the split encourages and supports a high between basic salary and the  performance culture whilst providing related elements of remuneration each year The Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee a balance between fixed and variable in order to incentivise properly executive has delegated authority from the Board to reward: and agree fees payable to non-executive directors directors, and believes that a significant on its behalf.
During the year Michael Lester proportion of remuneration should be is fair and transparent and can be applied and Mark Ronald also served as members based on schemes that encourage them consistently throughout the Group.
of this Committee until their retirement from to perform at the highest level.
Through Details of executive remuneration are the Board on 31 December 2006.
Walt this arrangement, it is possible for those set out on pages 52 to 65 of this Havenstein and the Group Legal Director, individuals who contribute to sustained high Remuneration Report.
Philip Bramwell, joined the Committee in levels of company performance to receive at January 2007. least a similar level of reward from variable Professor Sue Birley compensation to that received from fixed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Activities compensation.
At median performance, The Board has approved the following 21 February 2007 variable remuneration represents guidelines to be used by the Committee approximately 50% of the remuneration when discharging its responsibilities: package as shown in the chart below: fees shall be sufficient to attract and Target Performance median retain individuals with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge required to Salary 34% ensure that the Board is able to discharge Pension 17% its duties effectively: Bonus 17% in setting fees the Committee shall have Long-term incentive rewards 32% regard to the amount of time individual nonexecutive directors are required to devote to their duties and also the scale and complexity and international nature of the The package of the Chief Executive is more highly business and the responsibility involved: geared with almost 60% of the remuneration being performance related.
fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and shall not be At upper quartile performance variable performance related: and remuneration represents significantly more than 50% of the total package.
non-executive directors shall not participate in the Companys share-based incentive The principles of the remuneration strategy schemes or pension scheme.
are applied consistently across the Group taking account of seniority and local In 2006 the Committee held one meeting, market practice.
attended by all members, at which it agreed the structure of non-executive directors fees detailed on page 64 of this report.
Dick Olver Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee 21 February 2007 52 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Base salary aerospace, defence and general industry which implements corporate strategy on a Executive directors base salaries are sector data to produce appropriate market groupwide basis by ensuring that business reviewed each year by the Committee and figures consistent with the size and scale of plans which support the strategy are adjusted to reflect performance and the the US business, adjusting where necessary integrated across all businesses.
The IBP competitiveness of salaries relative to to reflect the extra responsibility for the plc is used to set the objectives for senior the market.
Information on the market board role.
The remuneration package of the management including the base and stretch for comparable management positions is new appointee was positioned competitively, targets for the financial measures used obtained from independent sources and but materially below that of the retiring US for the executive directors in the Annual is provided to the Committee so that it Chief Operating Officer in recognition of the Bonus Plan.
can form a view as to where to position fact that the incoming US Chief Operating The setting of non-financial targets is basic salaries and benefits relative to Officer is new to the role.
In view of the initiated by the Chairman of the Board who, comparable companies.
requirement for the role to be based in the after consultation with the Chief Executive, Washington DC area, the package includes The methodology used is to construct discusses the matter with the Committee.
relocation expenses in line with the appropriate comparator groups for the The Committee approves the Chief Companys standard US policy.
individual positions taking account of Executives objectives and those for the company size, scale of operations and As a result of this review, the Committee Executive Committee as a whole.
The Chief breadth of role.
The median and upper determined the base salaries of the executive Executive then makes proposals to the quartile positions are then analysed for directors with effect from January 2007 to Committee regarding individual non-financial base salary, total cash reward base salary be as follows: objectives for each of the executive directors plus annual bonus, total direct reward total and the other members of the Executive Mike Turner 945,000 cash reward plus long-term incentives and Committee for approval by the Committee.
Chief Executive total reward including pension.
This gives 2006 was another very successful year, George Rose 560,000 the Committee a view on the competitiveness building on the excellent performances in Group Finance Director of the individual elements of the package 2004 and 2005.
All the major business as well as the package as a whole.
The Chris Geoghegan 490,000 groupings achieved their stretch targets Committee also reviews the trends in the Group Executive Director on profit and cash and, as a result, all the elements of remuneration to ensure that the 1 Walt Havenstein $750,000 financial targets within the 2006 Annual structure of the package stays in line with Chief Operating Officer US Bonus Plan for executive directors were met market practice, and also takes account 2 Ian King 530,000 at the stretch level.
In addition, excellent of the performance of the individual, the Chief Operating Officer UK and RoW progress was made against all the key nonCompany as a whole and the pay and financial objectives and, accordingly, bonus Steve Mogford 490,000 conditions of Group employees.
payments for 2006 which are set out in Group Executive Director A number of changes were made to the Table E on page 64 range from 95% to Companys executive management structure 100% of the maximum bonus.
1 Appointed to the Board with effect from 2 January 2007 2 Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2007 towards the end of 2006 to reflect the The Remuneration Committee has reviewed evolving nature of the organisation and this and agreed bonus targets for 2007 for the Annual Bonus Plan impacted on the way in which the base salary executive directors and believes that both The executive directors and other senior structure for the executive directors has been the financial and non-financial targets are executives participate in a cash bonus determined for 2007. stretching but achievable and are aligned plan that rewards those individuals if preto the Groups overall objectives.
For the Chief Executive and Group Finance determined targets are met.
The targets Director a comparator group was constructed are derived from the Integrated Business As a result of its annual review of the consisting of the 19 FTSE 50 companies Plan IBP, which is agreed by the Board and performance related part of the remuneration excluding financial institutions with turnover closest to BAE Systems nine larger and ten smaller, the turnover figure for BAE Systems The structure of the Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors in 2007 expressed as being 12bn which excludes turnover from percentages of base salary is as follows: joint ventures.
The Committee also reviewed Steve Mogford Corporate roles remuneration data for aerospace and Mike Turner George Rose defence companies within the FTSE 100.
Base Stretch Base Stretch Bonus element target target target target For the incoming Chief Operating Officer, EPS targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5% UK and RoW, as there were no similar Group cash targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5% sized roles in the comparator group, the Committee benchmarked this new role using Non-financial objectives up to 37.5% up to 25% regression analysis for main board directors Chris Geoghegan of UK companies with responsibility for an Operating roles Ian King Walt Havenstein international portfolio of businesses that Base Stretch Base Stretch have a turnover of 6bn.
Bonus element target target target target Following the change in roles for the two EPS targets 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125% Group Executive Directors, the Committee Group cash targets 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125% reviewed data relating to the expected salary 1 Business group EBITA target 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125% trends for FTSE 50 directors in 2007 and, Business group cash target 9.375% 18.75% 14.0625% 28.125% taking account of their performance and contribution, awarded a salary increase Non-financial objectives up to 25% up to 37.5% in line with the expected trend.
1 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense For the incoming US Chief Operating Officer, Intermediate payments are payable for performance against these targets.
The Chairman and non-executive directors do not participate in the Annual Bonus Plan.
regression analysis was used on US www.
com 53 Remuneration report Remuneration report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued package, the Committee has determined that plans, taking account of continuing changes Share Matching Plan The new Share the maximum bonus potential for 2007 will in market practice and investors comments Matching Plan, which shareholders remain unchanged from 2006 at 100% of following the shareholder consultation approved last year, replaces the Restricted base salary 150% for the US-based executive exercise in early 2006 on changes to Share Plan for awards in 2007 and executive remuneration policy.
In considering introduces an EPS performance condition director and the Chief Executive, with at least the variety of ways in which companies on the award of matching shares aligned to one-third of the Chief Executives bonus being reward performance in terms of plan design, that used for share options.
The Committee compulsorily deferred into the Share Matching performance measures and different believes that this remains appropriate.
Plan in 2007. weightings of short-term and long-term Plan provisions In determining the performance measures for rewards, the review concluded that there Performance conditions for grants of options the Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee took was no standard approach with companies or awards to be made under the Executive the view that the Companys major investors tailoring their corporate approach to suit Share Option Plan, the Performance Share believed earnings per share EPS and cash their own sectoral or specific needs.
The Plan and the Share Matching Plan in 2007 targets and, where appropriate, EBITA, Committee believes that the Companys are detailed below.
Performance conditions to be key indicators of long-term financial approach provides a good balance of for earlier grants under the Executive Share performance and value creation.
These, short-term and long-term reward, potentially Option Plan are shown as notes to Table C. coupled with the non-financial measures, more weighted towards long-term rewards Performance conditions for grants of awards align the executive directors objectives than a number of other companies, but under the Performance Share Plan made with corporate strategy and targeted consequently aligned to and consistent between 2003 and 2006 are the same business performance.
with the long-term nature of the Companys as for awards to be made in 2007 as business.
The Committee has therefore The EPS figure used for the bonus plan and detailed below.
retained the current long-term the Executive Share Option Plan is based on incentive arrangements.
Executive Share Option Plan underlying EPS as reported in the report and Options granted under the Executive Share accounts but may be adjusted up or down As part of the review, the Committee Option Plan are normally exercisable between if necessary to ensure that the figures for considered the performance conditions for the third and tenth anniversary of their grant.
individual years are broadly comparable.
the various share-based incentive plans, Options may only be exercised during this benchmarking the performance conditions Share option plans and long-term period as follows: incentive plans against market practice.
The Committees 33.33% of each option grant is exercisable Policy conclusions are as follows: if the Company achieves on average real The Committee seeks to align the Performance Share Plan The Committee EPS growth per annum of 3% but less than interests of executive directors and has concluded that the current comparator 4% over the three-year performance period: other senior executives with those of other group and vesting schedule remain shareholders through the use of share-based 66.67% of each option grant is exercisable appropriate and suitably stretching.
The Company operates if the Company achieves on average real a combination of options and share awards Share Option Plan Until last year, share EPS growth per annum of 4% but less than for senior executives within the framework options awards had failed to meet the 5% over the three-year performance period: detailed below.
This is broadly in line associated performance condition for a 100% of each option grant is exercisable if with similar plans operated by other number of years.
In addition, the awards the Company achieves on average real EPS FTSE 50 companies.
made in 2001 and 2002 have lapsed as growth per annum of 5% or more over the a result of failing to meet the required In 2005, effective from 2006, the Committee three-year performance period.
Furthermore, almost revised its policy in relation to the provision half of the executives receiving share awards In determining the performance measure of share-based incentive plans by awarding are US executives for whom a performance for the Executive Share Option Plan and for share-based long-term incentives which are condition on share options is still rare.
the Matching Shares in the Share Matching settled in shares rather than cash to those US Plan described below, the Committee took senior executives who qualify as Accredited The Committee is also aware that the the view that the Companys major investors Investors, thus enhancing the alignment with anticipated dilutive effect of the sale of shareholders interests.
In order to operate believed EPS to be a key indicator of longthe Companys stake in Airbus, which term financial performance and value creation.
within existing dilution limits, the remuneration shareholders approved last year, has strategy for senior managers globally below made the existing performance conditions Option grants under the Executive Share the senior executive population has been potentially more stretching.
The Committee Option Plan will continue to be set at a reviewed with share-based rewards being has decided that the existing EPS maximum of 1.5 times base salary 2.25 replaced by a cash-based long-term incentive performance conditions on share options times base salary for the Chief Executive plan linked to earnings performance.
The will not be rebased but instead management in 2007 and there will be no retesting after Committee believes that this will promote will be expected to generate sufficient growth the three-year performance period.
a consistent global approach and will derive not only to meet the required targets but also enhanced value for money from the executive Performance Share Plan PSP to recoup the anticipated dilutive effect of reward programmes.
Conditional awards of shares are made the Airbus transaction.
under the Performance Share Plan which The Committee also decided to settle in The Committee accordingly concluded that are contingent on meeting pre-determined shares rather than cash unvested awards to change the performance condition at this performance criteria.
Under the PSP, awards of share options and performance shares time was unnecessary and would act as a may be made up to 2 times base salary.
for those US executives who qualify as disincentive until executives had experience Awards in 2007 to executive directors will accredited investors.
This further enhances of share options meeting required be granted at a value equal to 1 times base their alignment with shareholders interests performance conditions, and has therefore salary 1.5 times base salary for the Chief and reduces the volatility of the income decided to retain the existing EPS growth Executive.
The proportion of the award which statement charges arising on these awards.
condition for awards in 2007 of real EPS is capable of exercise is determined by the In 2006 the Committee reviewed the growth of 5% per annum for full vesting.
Companys Total Shareholder Return share Companys share-based long-term incentive This will be kept under review.
price growth plus dividends ranking relative 54 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 to a comparator group of 18 other defence and measures with the rest based on TSR to As a result of the Companys performance in aerospace companies operating internationally, create improved incentive and alignment with 2006, all eligible employees including the UK and by a secondary financial measure.
the individuals own business performance.
executive directors will be entitled to receive shares worth 420.
A similar arrangement Performance for the 2007 awards will be Share Matching Plan SMP operates for non-UK employees on a cash measured as follows: Following shareholder approval at the 2006 or shares basis depending on local tax and AGM, the new Share Matching Plan replaces i Total shareholder return TSR security laws.
the previous Restricted Share Plan in 2007.
100% of the conditional shares are awarded The Company operates a share purchase to directors if the Companys TSR over a The SMP is a stand-alone share investment arrangement Partnership Shares under three-year period is in the top 20% of TSRs plan with the maximum investment linked to the Share Incentive Plan which replaced the achieved by the sectoral comparator group, the bonus awarded under the Annual Bonus SAYE Share Option Scheme in 2005.
Under with 25% vesting if the TSR is in the top 50%.
Participants will be invited to acquire this arrangement, UK-based employees Intermediate positions will be calculated on shares up to an amount not exceeding the including executive directors may purchase a straight-line pro-rata basis.
No awards will net amount of any discretionary annual ordinary shares in BAE Systems by either be made if the Companys performance is bonus the individual received for the previous monthly investments of between 10 and outside the top 50%.
Awards will be made financial year Investment Shares.
As stated 125 a month, or lump sum investments in three equal instalments at the end of above, the Chief Executive is required to of between 10 and 1,500 in a tax year, years three, four and five.
defer at least one-third of his bonus into the both limited to 10% of salary if less.
The participant will be granted a ii Underlying financial performance Dividends paid in respect of the shares in the conditional award of Matching Shares under Share Incentive Plan for UK-based employees As a secondary measure the Committee the SMP against the gross bonus invested: are reinvested as Dividend Shares.
will consider whether there has been a for executive directors the match will be in sustained improvement in the Companys With effect from December 2006 the the ratio of 1:1. underlying financial performance and Committee agreed the introduction of whether it is appropriate to release some The performance condition that will apply to Matching Shares into the Share Incentive or all of the awards.
In taking a view of the Matching Shares under the SMP in Plan Partnership Shares arrangement on the a sustained improvement in underlying 2007, and the rationale for its use, is the basis of one free Matching Share for every financial performance, the Committee may same as that which has been applied to two Partnership Shares purchased by the consider but not exclusively the following options granted under the Companys employee up to a maximum monthly financial metrics: net debt cash: EBITA: executive share option plans as set out on Partnership Share investment of 30. order book: turnover: risk and underlying page 54.
The plan is an all-employee plan and project performance.
in accordance with legislation the The Matching Shares will attract dividends Matching Shares are not subject A sectoral peer group will continue to be used during the three-year deferral period which to performance conditions.
in 2007 as the principal performance measure will be released at the same time as the due to its importance to the Companys vesting of any Matching Shares.
Dilution of share capital shareholders as an indication of both earnings The Committee has agreed that, in respect Restricted Share Plan and capital growth relative to major global of new issue or treasury shares, shares The Restricted Share Plan RSP, which defence and aerospace companies.
A relative representing no more than 1% of the operated for the final time in 2006, measure is considered important as it rewards Companys issued share capital will be used historically acted as a share-based management if they outperform against major in any one financial year for the grant of extension of the Annual Bonus Plan in that companies in the sector rather than success share options under all-employee share executive directors who participated in the possibly being determined solely by growth schemes.
The table below sets out the Annual Bonus Plan could be given the option in stock markets.
The second measure was available dilution capacity for the Companys of taking any net cash bonus paid partly or included to ensure that awards will only vest employee share schemes based on the wholly in shares through the RSP.
If an if there has been a clear improvement in the limits set out in the rules of those schemes.
election was made to take shares through Companys underlying performance over the the Plan, they were held in trust for a period 2006 relevant period.
of three years after which the Company Total issued share capital as The composition of the TSR sectoral peer awarded the individual an equal number of at 31 December 2006 3,246m group for awards to be made in 2007 is shares Matching Shares provided the All schemes: the same as that in 2006 and comprises: individual normally remained in the 10% in any consecutive 10 years 324.6m Companys employment at the vesting date.
Boeing Cobham Remaining headroom 193.5m Where executive directors have elected to Dassault Aviation EADS use such bonuses through the RSP, details Executive schemes: Embraer PN Finmeccanica of the shares held are set out in Table B on 5% in any consecutive 10 years 162.3m General Dynamics GKN page 60.
None of the executive directors Remaining headroom 92.9m who served during 2006 participated in the Goodrich Honeywell International 2006 operation of the RSP.
The number of ordinary shares in issue at Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman 31 December 2006 was 3,246,232,539 and The matching award of shares was Raytheon Rockwell Collins the number of shares granted under option historically not subject to any performance Rolls-Royce Smiths Group during 2006 totalled 6,082,429 0.19% criteria and has now been superseded by Thales United Technologies of the total shares in issue.
In addition, a the Share Matching Plan which is subject decision was taken in 2006 to settle awards to performance criteria.
As agreed by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, over 8,641,212 executive share options for PSP participants other than executive Share Incentive Plan granted as Stock Appreciation Rights in directors, the Committee has the flexibility During 2006 the UK executive directors were equity, rather than in cash, for US executives to agree that up to half of any award can be eligible to participate in the all-employee free satisfying the accredited investor rules.
based on appropriately stretching internal shares element of the Share Incentive Plan.
These are included in the dilution figures.
com 55 Remuneration report Remuneration report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Personal shareholding policy of funding the deficits disclosed in the and 2.5% per year in respect of service from The Committee has agreed a policy schemes.
These changes apply to executive 6 April 2006.
Directors pay contributions whereby all executive directors are required directors in the same way as to other at the same rate as all other employees to establish and maintain a minimum employees and include the introduction of the participating in schemes.
personal shareholding equal to 200% of Longevity Adjustment Factor, a reduction in Michael Lester, who retired from the Board base salary.
As a minimum, a holding equal the maximum level of pension increases and at the end of 2006, had a normal retirement to 100% of base salary must be achieved a change in the definition of Pensionable Pay.
age of 62 and was already in receipt of as quickly as possible using shares vesting The UK-based executive directors with his pension.
or options exercised through the executive the exception of Ian King see below are Ian King is a member of the BAE Systems share option schemes or long-term incentive members of the BAE Systems Pension 2000 Pension Plan the 2000 Plan schemes, by using 50% of the shares Scheme the Main Scheme and the applicable to former employees of Marconi that vest or 50% of the options which are BAE Systems Executive Pension Scheme Electronic Systems MES and a member of exercised on each occasion.
The ExPS tops up the benefits the ExPS.
The 2000 Plan provides a pension executive directors are required to increase from the Main Scheme and, for executive of 1 50th of Final Pensionable Earnings their personal shareholding gradually, on directors, is designed to produce a target FPE for each year of pensionable service, each occasion using 25% of the shares pension payable from age 60 of two-thirds payable from a normal retirement age of 65. that vest or 25% of the options exercised of Final Pensionable Pay FPP if potential FPE under the 2000 Plan is the best threeeach year, until a personal shareholding service is 20 or more years.
FPP is defined year average of base salary and bonus in the equal to 200% of annual base salary is as basic salary averaged over the last ten Plan Years prior to leaving, less an offset achieved and maintained.
These limits 12 months prior to leaving service in respect for State pensions.
The Company decided are reviewed periodically.
of service accrued to 5 April 2006 and last year to limit pensionable bonuses in the Details of the directors personal 36 months prior to leaving in respect of 2000 Plan in the 2006 07 Plan Year to 20% shareholdings are shown in Table A. service from 6 April 2006.
These schemes of base salary and this will reduce to 10% of also provide a lump sum death-in-service base salary for the Plan Year commencing on Post-retirement benefits benefit equal to four times basic salary 6 April 2007.
However, there is a guarantee UK pension benefits at date of death, and a spouses death-inthat the FPE figure for benefits service prior As a result of the recently introduced age service pension equal to two-thirds of the to 6 April 2007 will not be less than the discrimination legislation, UK executive prospective pension at normal retirement FPE figure at 5 April 2007 to ensure that directors default retirement age will be 65 age.
Childrens allowances are also payable, employees do not lose the benefit of but they will retain any previous rights they usually up to the age of 18.
Spouses contributions paid on past bonuses.
Ian had to retire and draw their pensions without pensions and childrens allowances are also King joined the ExPS in 1999 following the actuarial reduction for early payment at payable upon death in retirement and death BAe MES merger.
The ExPS tops up the an earlier age.
after leaving the Companys employment with 2000 Plan benefits to provide a target Following the consultations with employees a deferred pension.
Pensions are increased benefit payable from age 62 of 1 30th of last year, a number of changes were made to annually by the rise in the Retail Prices Index Final Pensionable Pay for each year of ExPS the pension schemes in respect of benefits subject to a maximum increase of 5% per pensionable service subject to a maximum accruing from 6 April 2006 as a means year in respect of pre 6 April 2006 service of two-thirds.
Final Pensionable Pay for the Value at 31 December 2006 of 100 investment at 31 December 2001 Value at 31 December 2006 of 100 investment 200 450 160 360 120 270 80 180 40 90 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 06 BAE Systems FTSE 100 BAE Systems Aerospace & Defence Comparator Group UK Executive Pay Review Comparator Group FTSE 100 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2006, of 100 invested in BAE Systems on 31 December 2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial in BAE Systems over recent years as compared to i the FTSE 100 Index: ii the year ends.
companies forming the sectoral peer group for the BAE Systems Performance Share Plan: and iii the companies forming the comparator group for the 2006 executive The graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of pay review.
The graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the comparators at the Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, shows the total shareholder return for end of 2006 of a single 100 investment made at the beginning of each of the last a holding in the Companys ordinary shares for the period 2001-2006 relative to five years.
a holding of shares representing the FTSE 100.
The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad equity market index.
As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
56 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 purposes of this top up is calculated by of an unfunded promise from the Company.
period will increase by one year each year reference to base salary only, averaged over No further contributions will be paid into his beginning in 2009 and reaching a ten-year 12 months and 36 months as described funded unapproved top up arrangement.
Therefore Ian Kings total pension is Further information on the amounts paid by at the same rates as other employees in the sum of his 2000 Plan benefits plus the the Company in respect of these arrangements the plan.
The pension does not carry any top up from the ExPS.
is included in the notes to Table F. spouses pension or pension increases.
Walt Havenstein also receives a 50% match on Following the changes made last year to take US Executives his contributions to his 401 k plan up to account of the Pensions Simplification tax Mark Ronald retired from the Board at the a maximum contribution of 8% of earnings.
changes which came into effect from April end of 2006 and was already in receipt of 2006, UK executives reaching the Lifetime his pension.
Details of post-retirement benefits for Allowance LTA are given a number of each of the executive directors who served Walt Havenstein is a member of the choices as set out in last years during 2006 are shown in Table F on BAE Systems Employees Retirement Plan remuneration report.
These are: page 65 and are calculated in accordance which provides a pension from age 60 for with the requirements of Schedule 7A remain in the pension scheme and pay any each year of pensionable service of 1.25% of the Companies Act 1985. additional tax charge: or on his Final Average Pay FAP up to Social Security Covered Compensation circa Other benefits opt out of the pension scheme and $70,000 plus 1.5% on his FAP in excess of Other benefits provided to the executive so earn no further pension benefits in Social Security Covered Compensation.
FAP directors include a car allowance, the taxable respect of future service and instead is currently the highest three-year average benefit of any private use of a chauffeur, and receive a taxable salary supplement.
This of base salary plus bonus but the averaging a cash allowance for medical examination.
supplement will be 30% of salary and 20% of salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary target after at least 20 Executive directors service contracts years and 30 years service respectively: or It is the Committees policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts that provide for the company to give the individual 12 months notice of termination.
This restrict scheme benefits to the value of policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to retain the LTA with the remainder being provided the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event directly from the Company as an unfunded of the termination of a contract.
The executive directors have service contracts with Group promise.
At retirement, the unfunded companies: details of these contracts are as follows: Company benefits can be either taken as pension or can be commuted in full Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period for a taxable lump sum.
Chris Geoghegan 10 July 2002 12 months 12 months either party The Committee reviewed these arrangements amended 15 January 2004 at the beginning of 2007 in the light of and 13 October 2005 developing market practice and believes Walt Havenstein 1 December 2006 3 months 3 months either party they remain appropriate as they provide Ian King 31 January 2007 12 months 12 months either party executives with choices which may better Steve Mogford 6 April 2000 12 months 12 months either party suit their needs whilst being broadly cost amended 15 January 2004 neutral to the Company, are in line with and 28 October 2005 market practice, and do not compensate George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months from the executives for changes in taxation.
amended 3 December 1999 Company, 6 months UK executives, including the UK executive 15 January 2004 from the individual directors, affected or likely to be affected and 17 October 2005 by the Lifetime Allowance before April 2009 Mike Turner 22 February 1994 12 months 12 months from the were provided with independent financial amended 30 May 1995 Company, 6 months advice paid for by the Company.
Mike Turner 3 December 1999 from the individual and Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of 8 May 2002 the pension schemes in April 2006 in return 15 January 2004 for a cash supplement of 30% of base and 14 October 2005 salary.
Steve Mogford and Ian King elected to have their scheme benefits restricted in return for a Company unfunded promise.
In the event of the termination of an provisions in his service contract that executive directors contract it is the George Rose was affected by the previously relate to a change of control of the Committees policy to seek to limit any applicable Inland Revenue earnings cap on Company and neither does the Chairman payment made in lieu of notice to a approved pensions and has an unapproved nor the non-executive directors in their payment equal to the amount of one years i. e. non-tax qualified pension arrangement respective letters of appointment.
to top up his benefits from the approved basic salary.
The service contracts for all Michael Lester and Mark Ronald, who schemes.
This was designed so that the of the executive directors contain specific retired as directors on 31 December 2006, total pension from all sources would be provisions to the effect that the Company also had service contracts.
The service broadly in line with the pension he would has the right, and in Walt Havensteins contract for Michael Lester was dated have received from the group pension case, generally has the obligation, to pay a 26 November 1999 and had been renewed schemes had he not been subject to the sum equivalent to 12 months salary plus on a rolling one year basis since 2002 earnings cap.
The Pension Simplification tax the continuation of 18 months medical when he reached his normal retirement changes have allowed the flexibility to remove benefits in Walt Havensteins case in the age of 62.
The service contract came to the earnings cap for George Rose in respect of event of the Company terminating their service from April 2006, although some of his contracts for reasons other than gross an end when he retired from the Board benefits will remain to be provided by means misconduct.
No executive director has on 31 December 2006. www.
com 57 Remuneration report Remuneration report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued The service contract for Mark Ronald was Chairmans appointment, term and fees subject to re-election at the AGM following dated 17 April 2002 and had been renewed their appointment and subsequently at Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on intervals of no more than three years.
on a rolling one year basis since 2003 when 1 July 2004.
His appointment is for an he reached his normal retirement age of 62. initial fixed three year term with effect Michael Portillo retired from the Board at The service contract came to an end when from 17 May 2004 the date that he was the conclusion of the 2006 AGM on 4 May Mark Ronald retired from the BAE Systems appointed to the Board as a non-executive 2006, having originally been appointed plc Board and as President and Chief director unless terminated earlier in to the Board on 11 September 2002.
Executive of BAE Systems, Inc. on accordance with the Companys Articles 31 December 2006.
As disclosed previously, of Association, or by either party giving the The letters of appointment for non-executive the terms of Mark Ronalds contract other not less than six months prior written directors detail the amount of time it is contained an entitlement to a lump sum notice.
His appointment is documented in a anticipated that the individual will need to equal to 12 months salary and the letter of appointment which is not a contract devote to his or her duties as a director.
continuance of medical benefits for 18 of employment and he is required to devote Non-executive directors are proposed by the months if his contract was terminated by no fewer than two days a week to his duties Nominations Committee and are appointed BAE Systems, Inc. his directorship of the as Chairman.
The Nominations Committee by the Board on the basis of their experience parent company ceased, or if his contract will review his appointment prior to the end to provide independent judgement on issues was not renewed at the end of its one year of the three-year term and will, if appropriate of strategy, performance, resources and rolling term.
Details of this contractual and subject to the agreement of Mr Olver, standards of conduct.
The level of their payment are included in Table E on page 64. recommend to the Board that he be invited fees is set after reviewing practice in to serve for an additional period.
His In order for the Company to benefit from other comparable companies.
appointment as Chairman will automatically his considerable experience of the US terminate if he ceases to be a director of Details of the non-executive directors fees defence market, Mark Ronald has been the Company.
His fee, which has been set in 2006 are shown in Table E on page 64. appointed as non-executive Chairman by the Committee at 500,000 per annum, of BAE Systems, Inc. with effect from Fees payable to the non-executive directors will not be subject to review during the initial 15 January 2007 and will also provide are agreed by the Non-Executive Directors three-year term.
Fees payable to him in Fees Committee.
Non-executive directors are his non-executive capacity are consistent Non-executive directors appointment, term paid a fee reflecting the time commitment with those paid to other non-executive and fees required of the director.
The fee level for directors of BAE Systems, Inc.
These The non-executive directors do not have the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate arrangements will automatically cease service contracts but do have letters of Responsibility, and Remuneration Committees, on 31 December 2007 unless he and appointment detailing the basis of their and for the Senior Independent Director, BAE Systems, Inc. mutually agree to appointment.
The dates of their original reflects their additional responsibilities and extend them for a further year.
appointment were as follows: workload.
In addition, a transatlantic meeting Policy on external board appointments allowance of 4,000 per board meeting is Non-executive Date of Expiry of The long-standing policy of allowing executive payable to non-executive directors: this takes director appointment current term directors to hold external non-BAE Systems into account the additional time commitment Sue Birley 22.11.2000 09.05.2007 related non-executive directorships with the required by the European-based non-executive Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 06.09.2008 prior approval of the Committee will continue.
directors to attend board meetings in the US Ulrich Cartellieri 01.12.1999 26.09.2007 The Committee considers that external and similarly the commitment of US-based directorships provide the Companys senior Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2009 non-executive directors to attend board executives with valuable experience that is of Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2009 meetings in Europe.
It is also considered Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2008 appropriate for BAE Systems to contribute to The fees payable to the non-executive Sir Nigel Rudd 10.09.2006 09.09.2009 the pool of non-executive expertise available directors were reviewed in February 2007 Peter Weinberg 16.06.2005 15.06.2008 for the benefit of the wider business and the following fee structure was community, thereby reciprocating the benefit agreed for 2007 to reflect the various subject to re-election at the AGM following their which it in turn has received from other responsibilities of the individual directors: a appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more organisations which have permitted members fee of 77,500 for the chairman of the Audit than three years in accordance with the Companys of their senior management teams to serve Articles of Association Committee: a fee of 72,500 for each of the on the BAE Systems Board.
The Committee chairman of the Remuneration Committee, believes that it is reasonable for the The non-executive directors are normally the chairman of the Corporate Responsibility individual executive director to retain any fees appointed for two consecutive three-year Committee, and the Senior Independent received from such appointments given the terms subject to review after the end of the Director: and a fee of 57,500 for each additional personal responsibility that this first three-year period and with any third term of the other non-executive directors.
Such fees retained by the executive of three years being subject to rigorous By order of the Board directors who served in 2006 were as review and taking into account the need follows: Michael Lester: 16,135: Steve progressively to refresh the Board.
They do Dick Olver Mogford: 13,016: George Rose: 65,000: not have periods of notice and the Company Chairman and Mike Turner: 43,756 plus grants of has no obligation to pay compensation when Deferred Stock Units to the value of 42,118. their appointment terminates.
They are 21 February 2007 58 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Table A As at 31 December 2006, the directors of the Company and their families had the following beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the Companys securities.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors listed in the table below between 31 December 2006 and 21 February 2007 with the exception of: i the share interests of Steve Mogford who has acquired an additional 63 ordinary shares since 31 December 2006 under the partnership and matching shares elements of the Share Incentive Plan so that his beneficial shareholding at the date of this report stood at 149,003: and ii the option figures for Chris Geoghegan, Steve Mogford, George Rose and Mike Turner which have reduced on account of the lapse of share options in February 2007 so that their option figures as at the date of this report were as follows: Chris Geoghegan: 1,201,873: Steve Mogford: 1,235,703: George Rose: 1,400,520: and Mike Turner: 2,169,697.
The interests of the two directors appointed since 31 December 2006, as at the date of approval of this report, are stated in a footnote to the table below.
The executive directors, in common with all employees of the Company, have an interest in the unallocated shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
As at 31 December 2006, no 2005 702,481 such shares were held in the ESOP trust, 90,394 2005 80,111 91,250 as at the date of this report shares in the Profit Sharing Scheme trust, and 152,742 2005 103,158 150,771 as at the date of this report shares in the Share Incentive Plan trust.
It is the Companys policy not to seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
The interests of the two directors appointed since the year end, as at the date of approval of this report, were as follows: W P Havenstein: Ordinary shares 57,984: Options 466,586: Restricted Share Plan 25,624: and Performance Share Plan 278,788.
I G King: Ordinary shares 164,066: Options 1,096,725: Restricted Share Plan 75,627: and Performance Share Plan 638,707. www.
com 59 Remuneration report Remuneration report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Information subject to audit The Auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B, C, D, E and F on pages 60 to 65.
The Companys register of directors interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors share interests.
Details of directors interests in the share option schemes and long-term incentive plans are shown in Tables B, C and D. The figures in the tables that form part of this report have been calculated by reference to a mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 of 425.75p 2005 381.75p.
Table B Long-term incentive plans Restricted Share Plan 1 January Awarded during Vested during 31 December 2006 the year the year 2006 C V Geoghegan 42,764 42,764 1 M Lester 87,937 87,937 S L Mogford 1 M H Ronald 81,928 81,928 G W Rose 33,971 33,971 M J Turner 137,924 137,924 1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006 No awards were granted to or vested in respect of directors who served during 2006.
The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made in 2001-2004 are the same as for grants to be made in 2007, as set out on page 54 of this report, with the exception of the re-testing provision: for grants made between 2001-2003, where the original three-year performance is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant: for grants made in 2004, where the original performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of year five against the full period from grant.
In all these cases the option will lapse in year five if the targets have not been achieved.
The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made in 2005 and 2006 are the same as for grants to be made in 2007, as set out on page 54 of this report: there is no re-testing of performance for grants made in 2005 and beyond.
On completion of the BAE MES merger in 1999, options were granted to executive directors under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted to Michael Lester and Mark Ronald in 1999 could only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 9% was achieved and these options vested in full in February 2006.
Options granted to the other executive directors in 1999 which partially vested in 2004 were conditional on the satisfaction of a special performance condition based on the achievement of cost savings of the merger integration process over the three year performance period commencing on 1 January 2000.
In addition, Mark Ronald has a cash-settled Stock Appreciation Right SAR over 115,675 ordinary shares granted on 3 May 2000 at a SAR price of 3.98, exercisable from 3 May 2003.
The potential payment on exercise is the difference between the SAR price and the share price on the date of exercise.
The right is exercisable until 31 December 2007 and was subject to the performance condition relating to options granted in 2000 i. e. exercisable only if growth in pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period over the ten-year life exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 9% which has been met.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is given overleaf.
com 61 Remuneration report Remuneration report Corporate governance Remuneration report continued SAYE Share Option Scheme 1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December 2006 the year the year the year 2006 C V Geoghegan 2,465 2,030 435 1 M Lester 2,030 2,030 S L Mogford 1,212 1,212 G W Rose 435 435 M J Turner 3,529 2,030 1,499 1 retired as a director on 31 December 2006 The exercise of options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme is not subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Performance Share Plan is given overleaf.
The mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 was 425.75p 2005 381.75p.
The range during the year was 329p to 449.75p.
Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
The other pay received by Mark Ronald, the US-based executive director, is in relation to salary in lieu of unused holiday $185,000 and his contractual termination payment of $1m as previously disclosed and detailed on page 57, which relates to the 2006 financial year but will be later paid in 2007 in accordance with US law.
The other pay received by Chris Geoghegan and Mike Turner is in respect of a cash supplement payable from opting out of future accrual under the Company pension schemes.
The benefits received by the UK-based executive directors include, where applicable, the provision of a car and the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur, attendance at corporate events, support in relation to relocation second residence and independent financial planning for pension advice.
The benefit received by Dick Olver was the taxable benefit relating to the private use of a chauffeur.
The benefits Mark Ronald received include a cash allowance for a car, medical examination, dental benefits, and insured life and disability benefits.
The fees payable to the non-executive directors during 2006 comprised 70,000 for the chairman of the Audit Committee: a fee of 65,000 for the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and the Senior Independent Director: and a fee of 50,000 for each of the other non-executive directors.
In addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of 4,000 per meeting was paid to European-based non-executive directors attending board meetings in the US and to US-based nonexecutive directors attending board meetings in Europe.
Sir Charles Masefield retired as a director on 28 February 2003 and remains employed by the Company on a part-time basis in an overseas representational role.
In 2006 his remuneration was 316,600 2005 302,500 and comprised a salary and a cash allowance for a car.
Sir Richard Evans retired as a director and chairman on 30 June 2004 and remains employed by the Company in a part-time customer relationship role.
In 2006 his remuneration was 317,350 2005 303,000 and comprised salary and a cash allowance for a car.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the payment to Richard Lapthorne referred to in the notes to Table F on page 65.
64 BAE Systems Annual Report 2006 Table F Post-retirement benefits Change in Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in pension at Increase pension value at value at transfer value 31 December in accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Directors less directors 1 2006 benefits for inflation 2006 2006 contributions contributions Age NRA per annum per annum per annum 2 C V Geoghegan 52 60 246,934 5,891 517 2,947,733 3,381,361 10,816 422,812 S L Mogford 50 60 235,563 19,282 13,533 2,374,257 2,813,722 43,263 396,202 3 G W Rose 54 60 262,985 29,651 23,448 3,243,501 3,944,663 40,762 660,400 2 M J Turner 58 60 574,406 51,070 37,159 8,723,438 10,546,221 20,164 1,802,619 Normal Retirement Age 1 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the Groups UK pension schemes.
The amount of the increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Chris Geoghegan 61,658: Steve Mogford 39,874: George Rose 43,042: Mike Turner 53,331.
2 As a result of the changes to taxation of pensions introduced in April 2006, Mike Turner and Chris Geoghegan elected to opt out of their pension schemes and since April 2006 have been receiving a taxable salary supplement of 30% of their basic salaries.
3 George Roses unapproved retirement arrangement is partly funded and partly unfunded.
The Companys pension contribution to the funded unapproved retirement arrangement for George Rose in 2006 was 336,657 2005 569,378.
Of this amount, approximately 100,507 2005 377,328 relates to the cost of benefits accruing during the year and approximately 236,150 relates to fully funding the unapproved arrangement for pensionable service up to 6 April 2006.
Actual pension in payment at 31 December Increase Transfer Transfer Change in 2006 decrease value at value at Change in transfer value excluding in pension in 1 January 31 December transfer value less directors AVC pension payment 2006 2006 over the year contributions Age per annum per annum 4 M Lester 66  5 M H Ronald 65 361,511 48,502 3,623,9813,016,352 607,629 607,629 4 Under the rules of the UK schemes, Michael Lester commenced his pension in 2002 having reached normal retirement age.
There has been no further benefit accrual since retiring other than pension increases awarded to all pensioner members of the relevant pension schemes.
Michael Lester retired from the Board on 31 December 2006.
5 Under the rules of his pension arrangements, the majority of Mark Ronalds pension commenced in January 2004 when he reached normal retirement age.
The pension in payment includes an accrued pension of $47,914 $44,839 at 31 December 2005 from the BAE Systems North America Qualified Plan that commenced when he retired from the Board on 31 December 2006.
The Qualified Plan is a contributory arrangement.
Of the pension in payment, $406,322 is payable up to when he reaches age 72 and $253,242 has a contingent 50% spouses pension.
Mark Ronald participated in a Section 401 k defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company matched employee contributions up to a limit.
In 2006 the Company paid contributions of $5,293 2005 $5,465 into Mark Ronalds 401 k arrangement.
Mark Ronalds pension is paid in US dollars.
Of the change in pension 50,292 is due to currency movements and 1,790 is due to increases in his accrued pension.
In accordance with the plans standard terms the Company will match any contributions made by Mark Ronald in 2007 into his 401 k arrangement relating to eligible earnings earned in respect of service up to 31 December 2006 up to the federal limit in each year currently $15,000.
Richard Lapthorne, a former director, has an unfunded pension arrangement.
In 2006 the Company paid Richard Lapthorne 90,078 2005 87,605 in respect of this arrangement.
