remuneration report introduction remuneration policy related party transactions The focus of this report is on Directors and The Committees policy is to set After the year end, the Company entered senior managers remuneration.
It sets out remuneration at levels which attract, retain into a 12 month consultancy agreement the Groups remuneration policy and also and motivate individuals of the high calibre with James Hamilton Stubber at the rate gives details of the salaries, incentives, required by the business, while taking of 120,000 per annum.
The arrangement shares and pensions received by all the account of pay and conditions in the Group provides for him to continue to introduce Directors for the year ended 31 March 2006. as a whole.
A significant proportion of new business opportunities to the Group Directors remuneration is related to the and to review and advise on existing and This report has been prepared in accordance performance of the Group and consists of new projects.
Until 2 February 2006, with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 a base salary, pension, the bonus scheme, James Hamilton Stubber was a Director as amended, the Directors Remuneration share rights and options and a long term of the Company.
Report Regulations 2002 and associated incentive plan.
The Committee also legislation, together with the Listing Rules.
addresses the interests of the shareholders service contracts Under the provisions of Part III Schedule 7A and takes into account the remuneration None of the executive directors service Companies Act 1985, KPMG Audit Plc has practices of other relevant companies.
contracts has a notice period in excess audited the Directors emoluments, pensions, of six months or contain liquidated damages share option and long term incentive schemes The Group is committed to ensuring that provisions or provision for compensation for sections of this report.
linkage between performance and executive loss of of ce on early termination or change remuneration is maintained.
Any contract terminated at short the remuneration committee intention is that base salaries would be notice, resulting in a right to compensation, Details of the Remuneration Committees role subject to periodic reviews to ensure market would not be subject to mitigation.
are set out in the Corporate Governance Report competitiveness and re ect the performance on pages 39 to 41 and its membership on of each Director.
In order to link executive Details of the executive directors service page 29.
The Committee met five times performance with shareholder returns, contracts all rolling contracts are subject during the year.
increasing emphasis has been to six months notice : and will continue to be placed on The Committee is directly responsible to performance-related pay.
Since the last report, ng ellis shareholders and, as in previous years, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP were Dated 20 March 1996 its Chairman will be present at the AGM to instructed by the Committee to carry out a answer any questions from shareholders.
comprehensive review of senior executive ar wyatt Martin Meech took over from David Pangbourne remuneration and incentive arrangements.
Dated 15 July 1996 as Chairman of this Committee following the Having received the review, the Committee Annual General Meeting in September 2005 concluded that the incentive arrangements nsk shattock and will be offering himself for re-election by in place, in terms of structure, performance Dated 12 July 1995 shareholders at the AGM.
conditions and vesting are appropriate and are speci cally tailored to re ect the rj worthington The Committees Terms of Reference are Companys particular circumstances.
Dated 24 July 2001 available on the Company website or on request from the Companys registered Whilst the Committee strives to harmonise Details of the non-executive directors letters of ce.
They are consistent with the remuneration throughout the Group, it of appointment: recommendations of the Combined Code recognises that this is not always appropriate.
At the Companys head of ce, staff bonus t cross brown payments are linked to growth in net asset Dated 27 May 2005 unexpired term of In remuneration matters, the Committee has value, which is considered to be the most approximately two years.
the authority and funding to obtain independent appropriate measure of success for a advice.
During the year, it received advice from company in the property sector.
However, lady judge Nabarro Nathanson regarding the operation of for other businesses within the Group, Dated 9 February 2000 renewed in the 1996 Unapproved Share Option Scheme operating in different areas, bonus January 2006 for a further three years.
and the 2004 Unapproved Share Plan.
arrangements and targets vary and are Nabarro Nathanson also gave advice on the appropriate to the particular sector.
j macnaughton CB implementation of the 2005 Executive Share Dated 22 December 2003 unexpired term Option Scheme and the Sharesave Plan and No executive director plays any part in the of approximately six months.
provided the Company with advice in respect determination of his her own remuneration of corporate matters and its property activities.
package and the fees of the non-executive mr meech Additional information on remuneration issues Directors are set by the executive directors Dated 4 July 2000 renewed in July 2003 was also obtained by the Committee from the to re ect the time commitment and levels for a further three years.
Investment Property Databank IPD, being the of responsibility expected of them.
only property industry-wide benchmark, from dg pangbourne Income Data Services, various other salary and other directorships Dated 24 August 2001 renewed in bene t surveys and industry comparisons.
As at 31 March 2006, no executive director August 2004 for a further three years.
The Group also held informal discussions with held any non-Group related directorships.
comparator companies in related sectors.
During the year, James Hamilton Stubber, wjt plender During and since the year end, advice has who resigned as a Director on 2 February 2006, Dated 22 July 2002 renewed in July 2005 been sought from New Bridge Street was the only executive director holding for further three years.
Consultants LLP who were appointed by non-Group related directorships.
He was a the Committee and who provide no other director of a family property trading company services to the Company on various for which he received no remuneration.
32 quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 remuneration of directors discretionary bonus scheme outlined above for exceptional performance and senior staff The Group operates a discretionary over and above the already high The Directors remuneration and that of bonus scheme which is designed to be a standard required.
senior staff fide ned in the Committees performance-related incentive scheme to Terms of Reference as employees whose reward executive directors and all staff and Bonus payments are based on the results annual salary is 125,000 per annum or provide motivation and identi cation with the of the previous financial year, in which above and the terms of their employment success of the Group.
shareholders funds adjusted for dividends paid are reviewed at least annually in relation to best rose by 24.6%.
This resulted in bonus practice and benchmarked against relevant In relation to head of ce, for the Committee payments reaching maximum cash awards with comparator industry data where available.
to exercise its discretion and recommend additional amounts being triggered under the the payment of a bonus, the guidelines Deferred Bonus Plan, which was utilised for only In considering remuneration levels, currently adopted by it are that the Group the second time in the history of the Company.
the Committee makes reference to the must not only outperform the average of the contribution each individual has made to IPD index but also the real rate of return year Due to the exceptional performance of both the Group and also to its performance as on year must be in excess of 10%, calculated Adrian Wyatt and Nicholas Shattock, as a whole, measured in terms of the increase by reference to the increase in shareholders re ected in the results of the Company, the in net asset value per share, both in absolute funds as adjusted for any capital variations Remuneration Committee exercised its terms and relative to the property sector.
discretion and varied, for Messrs Shattock and Wyatt only, the usual terms of the bonus plan Base salaries are normally reviewed annually Under normal circumstances, under this to raise the cash element to 125%, with the with any changes taking effect from the scheme executive directors are usually able remainder of their bonus deferred in shares.
commencement of the accounting period.
to receive up to 100%, and senior staff up to To continue the concept of a three year share The audited base salaries and bene ts for 50%, of base salary in cash.
deferral, while these shares will be released each Director are set out below.
The base after one year, Mr Shattock and Mr Wyatt will salary increases for the year under review In general, any award above this level is retain these shares net of suf cient shares included an increase of 50,000 for deferred into shares under the Companys which are to be sold to satisfy their tax and Rebecca Worthington to re ect the Deferred Bonus Plan for three years.
national insurance liabilities for a further period ongoing additional responsibilities The Committee also has the discretion of two years resulting in a three year retention and work load required.
to recommend the payment of an additional period in total.
Despite being an executive bonus to a Director or other member of staff director, Nigel Ellis did not participate in the or to vary the terms of the arrangements Deferred Bonus Plan.
2 Discretionary bonuses are based on the results of the previous financial year.
3 Fees include payments of 53,000 2005: 43,000 made to BT Consulting Inc Limited on behalf of Lady Judge and 5,000 2005: 5,000 made in respect of her expenses and 52,000 2005: 23,000 to the DTI on behalf of Joan MacNaughton.
quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 33 remuneration report continued pensions lieu of a payment into his or her personal Details of share rights granted under fide ned contributions are made into personal pension plan.
Any such supplement would the Plan are set out below.
No amount pension plans arranged by the Group.
For not be consolidated with base salaries for is payable on the exercise of these rights, executive directors, the employer contribution the purposes of determining awards under and no rights were exercised during the year.
for the year to 31 March 2006 is at the rate of bonus and share schemes.
For other head of ce staff, During the year, rights over 125,000 shares the rate is 12.5%.
For staff employed by executive directors under the plan were awarded to each of Wembley London Limited, the scheme performance share plan audited AR Wyatt, NSK Shattock and RJ Worthington inherited by that company following its acquisition Adopted at the 2003 Annual General Meeting, to re ect the exceptional contribution of, and in 2002 has been continued under which the Committee believes the Plan assists in the need to retain these individuals.
These employer contributions are made ranging from securing the long term services of key Directors, awards were based on five tranches of 4% to 6% of base salary depending upon with the award of share rights being conditional 25,000 shares, on terms similar to the 2003 seniority and length of service.
upon the achievement of challenging corporate awards in respect of the length of the vesting performance targets and subject to lock-in periods and performance conditions.
All executive directors and staff have access arrangements for participants current and to the advice of an Independent Financial future shareholdings, which in the case of Aggregate awards under the Plan are limited Adviser in relation to their pensions, which the awards made in 2003 to AR Wyatt and to 2.5% of the Companys issued share is offered at the Groups expense.
NSK Shattock, will be at least until 2012, capital, with individual participants being and 2014 for awards made in 2005. limited to maximum awards of 1% of the Following the change in pensions regulations The exercise of share awards under this Plan Companys issued share capital.
which took effect from 6 April 2006, the is subject to the Director continuing to be Remuneration Committee has agreed that employed at vesting, to the Company The Committee remains of the view that a cash supplement of up to 15% less achieving an increase in net asset value the net asset value based performance employers national insurance may be plus dividends paid of at least 10% per conditions applied to awards under this offered to any Director or 12.5% to any annum above the retail prices index and Plan are appropriate, given that net asset employee who wishes to take up this option to the Company outperforming the average value growth is a fundamental indicator by the change in pension arrangements, in IPD return over the same period.
of the success of a company in the property sector.
The highest and lowest share prices were 718p and 495.5p on 1 March 2006 and 18 April 2005 respectively.
Accordingly, no finance the costs of acquisition and any tax 1 The share price at the beginning of the year grants were made under the scheme during liability.
For awards of share rights to be made was 530p and at the end of the year was the year under review.
in 2006, it is anticipated that the performance 680p.
The highest and lowest share prices conditions will be the same as for those granted during the year were 718p on and 495.5p on The Committee decided that for it to exercise in 2005.
Awards of options under the CSOP 1 March 2006 and 18 April 2005 respectively.
its discretion to grant any share options will be subject to share price growth of 10% or rights under either scheme, the Groups net of in ation over the three years following 2 All share options and rights expire at the performance over the previous three years the grant of the option.
This performance end of the exercise period.
must exceed the average of the rolling IPD condition was approved by shareholders in index.
Approved options granted during the year September 2005. share options audited at market price are subject to a performance During the year, the Company continued condition whereby the growth in share price During the financial year, a total of 440,763 to operate the 1996 Executive Share Option must exceed 7.5% net of in ation over the three options and 299,799 share rights were granted, Scheme, approved by the Inland Revenue on years following grant of the option.
Share rights 183,275 options and 51,877 share rights 17 July 1996, the 1996 Unapproved Share are granted at par value and are subject to a lapsed and 123,932 options and 672 rights Option Scheme albeit with no further grants performance condition whereby the Companys were exercised at option prices of between being made and the 2004 Unapproved Share real growth in net asset value must match or 155.3p and 271p, and rights at 25p.
On 6 September 2005, shareholders exceed by an average of 10% per annum the of options and rights granted to, and exercised authorised the introduction of the Quintain increase in the retail price index.
Option and by, the executive directors are shown above.
Estates and Development PLC Company rights awards are subject to a minimum three Share Option Plan the CSOP which will year vesting period and on exercise, Directors Non-executive directors do not participate replace the 1996 Executive Share Option are encouraged to hold shares for a further in any share option or rights schemes.
HMRC approval of the scheme period after vesting, subject to the need to quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006 35 remuneration report continued In its annual review of executive directors and Despite the transition to International senior staff remuneration policy and packages, Accounting Standards, the Group also the Committee considers various guidelines on prepares accounts under UK GAAP so executive remuneration.
In relation to the grant performance conditions relating to bonus of options and awards and the design of shareand share incentives continue to be based incentive schemes, the Committee measured on a like for like basis.
ensures the setting of suitably stretching performance criteria and the recommended dilution limit for all Group schemes including all-employee schemes of 10%.
total shareholder return The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder return growth in value assuming reinvestment of dividends of the Company for the period from 31 March 2001 to 31 March 2006, and then extended to 31 May 2006, compared with total shareholder return relating to the FTSE 350 Index and the FTSE All Share Real Estate Index chosen for this purpose as the Company is a constituent of these indices : total shareholder return !
"""#& $% ""#$% Share price as at 31 March 1 April 1 April 1 April 2006 2005 2003 2001 Quintain Estates and Development PLC 680.0p 530.0p 227.5p 181.0p Increase since 1 April 1 April 1 April 2005 2003 2001 Quintain Estates and Development PLC share price % 28.3 198.9 275.7 Quintain Estates and Development PLC total return % 30.5 217.4 327.6 FTSE 350 Index total return % 27.5 89.3 31.4 FTSE All Share Real Estate total return % 48.5 205.9 141.3 Source: Thompson Financial By order of the Board martin meech Chairman of Remuneration Committee 31 May 2006 36 quintain estates and development plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 march 2006"
