DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2006 The Board reports to shareholders on Directors remuneration as set out below.
In preparing this report, the Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee has complied with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements of consultants in order to carry out its duties.
During recommend to the board that it pay base salaries the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the year, such advice was received from at the median level and to provide the opportunity and describes how the Board has applied the  LLP.
for executives to achieve total remuneration at the Principles of Good Governance in relation to upper quartile level when justified by strong  LLP provided no other directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the performance against clearly identified measures.
services to the Company during the course of the Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual The Committee also confirmed its intentions to year.
In addition, Dr A Lee, the Group HR Director, General Meeting.
promote the retention of Executives by putting more provided advice and services to the Committee emphasis on performance related long term awards.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to during the course of the year.
the Companys members on the auditable part of The main components of the Directors The members of the Committee attend the the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in remuneration packages are: Companys Annual General Meeting and are their opinion, that part of the Report has been available to answer shareholders questions about properly prepared in accordance with the the Directors remuneration.
Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Basic Salary Regulations.
The Report has therefore been The basic salary of each Director has been fixed divided into separate sections for the unaudited taking account of advice received from independent Policy on Remuneration of and audited information.
Within the unaudited sources on the rates of salary for similar roles in Executive Directors and section, the report deals with the remuneration selected groups of comparable companies and the Senior Executives policy that is to be followed in 2007, summarises performance of the relevant individual.
As stated the results of remuneration surveys that have been The policy in respect of Directors remuneration for above, the Company has agreed the principle that undertaken and describes arrangements which the following and subsequent years is to ensure base salaries should be set broadly in line with the applied during 2006. that the remuneration packages it offers are market median.
competitive and designed to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and senior executives Remuneration Committee of an appropriate calibre.
"Performance-related Performance Related Bonus reward policies are operated which are designed to During the year, the Remuneration Committee of the The Group operates an annual performance related provide a significant element of ""at risk pay, which Board consisted of Mr S R H Beevor who chaired bonus scheme which is designed to reward is only available when good results are achieved."
the Committee, Mr G K Maddrell, Mr N P Hall and contributions and encourage the achievement of Mr R Walker.
Mr M C Allan and Mr N A Porter are During 2006, a review of executive remuneration targeted levels of performance over the short term.
invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
was undertaken on behalf of the Committee by In 2006, the maximum potential bonus payment for  LLP.
That review each of the Executive Directors, was equivalent to The Committee is required annually to consider and compared all elements of remuneration against a 100 per cent of his base salary.
However review all aspects of the Executive Directors group of 20 comparator companies, having regard, achievement of any bonus payment is subject to employment, performance and remuneration and amongst other things, to the size of the business stretching performance criteria, linked to both the the Groups policies on those matters.
Mr Allan and the sectors within which the Company individual performance of the Director and that of takes no part in the discussions concerning his operates.
The results of that review indicated that the Group.
Individual performance targets which own remuneration, nor does he attend those parts the base salaries of the Executive Directors were account for 40 per cent of a Directors maximum of the meetings of the Committee which discuss broadly in-line with the market median, whilst total potential bonus payment are set following the that issue.
remunerations were at the level of the upper Performance Development Programme reviews The Committee is able to obtain independent quartile.
The Committee confirmed its intentions to that are carried out for all employees including the professional advice from remuneration and other 32 Executive Directors at the beginning of each year.
of Mr A C Harris and Mr J M Tonkiss, the bonus will per cent are exercisable provided the Companys The remaining 60 per cent of the maximum be paid half in cash and half in shares held in an net asset growth exceeds the average net asset potential bonus payment, which is referable to the Employee Share Ownership Trust for three years.
growth of companies included in the FTSE Small performance of the Group, involves the Group Companies Index excluding investment trusts over achieving targets in relation to profitability, the three-year period from the date of grant.
Such increases in net asset value, customer satisfaction Long-term Incentives performance criteria were agreed with institutional and employee satisfaction the latter two shareholders at the time the Unapproved Scheme In addition to the annual bonus referred to above, components both being monitored by independent was adopted.
However, options granted under the the Group seeks to encourage and reward good organisations.
These performance conditions were Unapproved Scheme after 1 January 2004 are long-term performance by providing incentives selected as the most appropriate measures to subject to revised performance criteria based solely linked to the performance of the Companys achieve sustained financial performance.
This will on total shareholder return, such that options will shares.
These incentives were, prior to the occur by optimising our investment and operating be exercisable only as to 50 per cent if the total adoption of The UNITE Group plc Long Term decisions, by developing strong relationships with shareholder return for the Company, over the three Incentive Plan, provided in the form of ordinary Universities and individual customers and by year period from the date of grant, is such that it is share options and details of all options awarded to creating an environment where employees will equal to the median total shareholder return of the Directors are set out in the auditable part of choose to remain and develop their careers.
companies included in the FTSE Small Companies this Report.
The performance related bonus is not pensionable Index excluding investments trusts over that In August 1999, the Company adopted The UNITE and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in period.
If the Companys performance would put it Group plc Approved Company Share Option the scheme.
in the upper quartile upon the basis described Scheme the Approved Scheme, being a scheme above, 100 per cent of the options awarded will be In respect of the year ended 31 December 2006, approved by the Inland Revenue.
Between median and upper quartile each of the Executive Directors who served during Company also adopted The UNITE Group plc performance, the number of options which may be that year has been awarded a performance related Unapproved Share Option Scheme the exercised will be calculated on a straight line basis.
bonus equivalent to between 75% and 90% of his Unapproved Scheme.
Under the Approved To the extent any further options are granted under base salary.
As a result, the total remuneration of Scheme, the total market value of shares, at the the unapproved scheme, the performance criteria each of the Executive Directors for the year, based date of grant, over which any participant may be will be by reference to the total shareholder return on the results of the surveys carried out by awarded options is 30,000, whilst under the of the FTSE250 Index except Investment Trusts.
, is likely to be at the upper Unapproved Scheme, the total market value, at the quartile level of the comparator group of In December 2005, the Company, in general date of grant, of all shares over which any companies.
Due to a policy of the Remuneration meeting, adopted The UNITE Group plc Long Term participant may be awarded options including Committee, which states that if the Chief Executive Incentive Plan the LTIP.
Participation in the LTIP options granted under other schemes, must Officer holds an amount of shares with a value is intended to replace the grant of options to not exceed four times his total remuneration.
greater than a sum equivalent to twice his base executive directors and senior managers, with the The Non-Executive Directors are not awarded salary he will receive his bonus payment entirely in number of shares vesting in a participant being options under either the Approved Scheme or the cash, the bonuses payable to Mr N A Porter and Mr dependent on the extent to which performance Unapproved Scheme, although Mr N A Porter M C Allan for 2006 will be paid entirely in cash.
For conditions selected by the Remuneration retains options under both schemes which were the other Executive Directors bonuses are paid half Committee are satisfied over a three year awarded to him whilst he was an Executive Director in cash and half in shares unless the Director holds measurement period.
In respect of the initial LTIP of the Company.
shares with a greater value than the sum awards made after the preliminary announcement Options granted under the Approved Scheme were equivalent to his salary.
However, in view of Dr A of the results of the Company for the year ended not made subject to performance conditions, which Lee's forthcoming departure from the Group, his 31 December 2005, the maximum amount of any is considered appropriate in view of the relatively 2006 bonus will also be paid entirely in cash.
award was limited to 1.5 x base salary as was small number of options that may be granted to disclosed to shareholders at the time the LTIP was For 2007, the maximum bonus payment, for individuals under such schemes.
The limit for future awards, will be Executive Directors, will again be equivalent to 100% of base salary.
Options granted to Directors prior to 2004 under 100% of base salary.
The achievement of any the Unapproved Scheme are exercisable as to 50 bonus will be subject to the achievement of The two performance conditions that were selected per cent provided the total shareholder return for stretching performance targets on a sliding scale for the initial awards each applying to 50 per cent the Company is such that it is equal to or exceeds basis, relating to the Group achieving profitability, of an award are referable to the net asset value the median total shareholder return of companies increases in net asset value, customer satisfaction performance and total shareholder return of the included in the FTSE Small Companies Index and employee satisfaction.
For that element of an award referable excluding investment trusts over the three year paid to Mr M C Allan is likely to will be paid entirely to net asset value performance, a target net asset period from the date of grant.
The remaining 50 in cash in view of his shareholding, whilst for each value for the end of the three-year measurement 33 Nov 06 Oct 06 Aug 06 Jun 06 Apr 06 Feb 06 Dec 05 Nov 05 Apr 05 Jul 05 May 05 Mar 05 Jan 05 Nov 04 Oct 04 Aug 04 Jun 04 Apr 04 Feb 04 Dec 03 Nov 03 Sep 03 Jul 03 May 03 Mar 03 Jan 03 Dec 02 Oct 02 Aug 02 Jun 02 Apr 02 Feb 02 Jan 02 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2006 period was set by the Remuneration Committee Service Contracts Each of the Non-Executive Directors have and lodged with the Companys auditors.
At the and Notice Periods specific letters of engagement, the dates end of the measurement period, if the actual net In accordance with general market practice, each of which are set out below: asset value is less than 80 per cent of the target of the Executive Directors has a rolling service value, none of the shares the subject of that G K Maddrell 13 August 1999 contract requiring twelve months notice of element of the award will vest.
If the actual net N P Hall 6 March 2003 termination on either side.
Such contracts contain asset value is 116 per cent or more of the target no specific provision for compensation for loss of S R H Beevor 20 February 2004 value, then all the shares the subject of that office, other than an obligation to pay for any notice element of the award will vest.
If the actual net R Walker 3 November 2005 period waived by the Company.
asset value is equal to or greater than 80 per cent N A Porter 21 March 2006 of the target value, but less than 116 per cent, then the number of shares that will vest will be The dates of the service contracts of the calculated on a straight line basis, with 45 per cent Executive Directors who served during the Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial of the total number of shares the subject of that year are as follows: term of three years, subject to normal provisions element of the award vesting if the actual value is as to retirement by rotation.
Subsequent terms of N A Porter 14 January 1999 80 per cent of the target value and 100 per cent of three years may be awarded.
Current such shares vesting if the actual value is 116 per M C Allan 31 October 1999 appointments will expire at the annual general cent or more of the target value.
A Lee 21 November 2000 meeting in 2008 in the cases of Messrs G K In relation to that element of an award referable to Maddrell and R Walker: at the annual general total shareholder return, the performance of the meeting in 2009 in the cases of Messrs N P Hall Company will be measured, over the three year and N A Porter: and at the annual general meeting measurement period, against the performance of a in 2010 in the case of Mr S R H Beevor.
comparator group of companies, being those The appointment and re-appointment and the companies in the FTSE 250 index excluding remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are investment trusts at the beginning of the matters reserved for the full Board.
measurement period and which are still quoted at the end of that period.
If the Company is ranked in the top 25 per cent of the comparator group, then Total Shareholder Return all the shares the subject of that element of the The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company since 1 January 2002 award will vest, whilst no such shares will vest if it to 31 December 2006. is in the lower half.
If the Company is ranked in the upper half, but not the top 25 per cent, then the Whilst there is no comparator index or group of companies which truly reflects the activities of the Group, number of shares that will vest will be calculated the FTSE Real Estate Index the constituent members of which are all property holding and or development on a straight-line basis.
companies within the UK, was chosen as it reflects trends within the UK property market generally and tends to be the index against which analysts judge the performance of the Company.
In addition to the performance conditions outlined above, no shares will vest under either element of an award unless the Remuneration Committee 340 320 considers that the underlying financial performance 300 280 of the Company is satisfactory.
Of the total amount of basic salary referred to as having been paid to Mr N A Porter 330,000, 29,475 represents fees paid to him as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of the Company from 14 September 2006 and 69,073 amounts to payment in lieu of notice from 14 September 2006 to 31 December 2006.
A further payment in lieu of notice, in the amount of 47,527, has or will be paid to Mr Porter in respect of the period 1 January 2007 to 16 March 2007.
Post the year-end, and in addition to his normal salary to 31 March 2007, Dr A Lee will be paid a termination payment of 105,000 in recognition of his services to the company.
The fees paid in respect of Mr S R H Beevor were paid to Grosvenor Investments Limited, which company made available the services of Mr Beevor.
The Company made contributions of 21,303 and 21,031 to personal pension schemes of Mr M C Allan and Dr A Lee respectively.
Of the above, 20,477 of the options awarded to Mr N A Porter and 10,000 of the options awarded to Dr A Lee were awarded pursuant to the Approved Scheme.
All other options were granted pursuant to Unapproved Scheme.
All options have been granted for no consideration.
Details of the performance criteria, by reference to which options are exercisable, are set out under the heading Long-term incentives above.
Those details should also be taken as forming part of the auditable part of this Report.
The 140,000 shares sold by Mr M C Allan during the course of the year following the exercise of options were sold at a price of 425p per share amounting to an aggregate gross gain of 414,400.
150,039 of the shares sold by Dr A Lee during the course of the year following the exercise of options were sold at a price of 425p per share, whilst the remaining 50,000 shares sold by Dr Lee during the course of the year following the exercise of options were sold at a price of 440p per share.
The aggregate gross gain accruing to Dr Lee on the sale of all such shares amounted to 528,915.
35 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2006 LTIP Awards Market Price Period of Interests held Interests Awarded Per Share Interests Held Qualifying Interests Vested Director at 01.01.06 During Year when Awarded at Year End Conditions During Year M C Allan - 80,194 411.5p 80,194 ordinary 11.04.06 - ordinary shares shares of 25p each 11.04.09 of 25p each in in the Company the Company A Lee - 59,600 ordinary 411.5p 59,600 ordinary 11.04.06 - shares of 25p each shares of 11.04.09 in the Company 25p each in the Company G K Maddrell - - - - - - N A Porter - - - - - - N P Hall - - - - - - S R H Beevor - - - - - - R Walker - - - - - - Details of the qualifying performance conditions in relation to the above referred to awards are set out above under the heading Long Term Incentives.
No variations have been made to the terms or conditions of any awards.
The fair value in respect of Directors share options and LTIP awards recognised in the Income Statement is as follows: 2006 2005 000 000 M C Allan 100 30 A Lee 75 25 175 55 As at 29 December 2006 being the last business day of the year, the middle market price for ordinary shares in the Company was 547p per share.
During the course of the year, the market price of the Companys shares ranged from 355.25p to 547p per ordinary share.
By order of the Board S R H Beevor Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2007 36 lets unite
