CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report 59 The Committee comprises the Chairman and independent Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am delighted to present the Directors non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets on at least four occasions each year.
The members during the year were: report on remuneration for 2006, for which we will be seeking approval from shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
To 14 December 2006 The Remuneration Committee is focused on ensuring the Baroness Hogg Chairman Peter Backhouse remuneration policy enables BG Group to attract, retain and Paul Collins Sir John Coles motivate the executive talent required for the successful delivery Jrgen Dormann of our integrated gas strategy.
Philippe Varin During 2006, the Committee reviewed the Groups approach to from 13 December 2006 executive remuneration against the international oil and gas market in which we compete for talent.
Following consultation with our Ben Mathews, Company Secretary, attends meetings as Secretary to major shareholders, changes have been made to the maximum the Committee.
awards that can be granted under our annual incentive scheme for The following individuals attend meetings by invitation and provide 2007 and minor modifications have been made to our long-term advice to the Committee to enable it to make informed decisions: share-based schemes see page 60.
These changes are within the pre-approved limits and fully in accordance with our pay for x Sir Robert Wilson, Chairman of the Board following changes to performance policy.
the Committees terms of reference, Sir Robert Wilson became a member of the Remuneration Committee from 6 February 2007 We will continue to review the fiercely competitive oil and gas market to ensure that our approach aligns executive remuneration x Frank Chapman, Chief Executive with the interests of our shareholders.
x Peter Duffy, Executive Vice President Human Resources Baroness Hogg x Robert Booker, Head of Performance and Reward and his Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 April 2007 predecessor Natarajan Sundar until July 2006 x Sarah Franklin, Head of Employment Law AUDIT NOTES In accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985, as No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is inserted by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 being discussed.
the Regulations, the following sections of the report have been The Committee also meets without management and receives audited: Directors Remuneration: Directors Interests in Shares: information and independent executive remuneration advice from awards under the BG Group Long Term Incentive Scheme: options a Kepler Associates, an external consultancy firm appointed by the under the BG Group Sharesave Scheme and the BG Group Company Committee.
During 2006, Kepler Associates provided advice to the Share Option Scheme: and the table and notes in the Pensions Committee on market trends, incentive schemes and other section of the report.
The remaining sections are not subject to audit.
Kepler Associates does not advise the Company on any other issues.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities are: Other external advisers also provide support and advice to the a x setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board for Committee in relation to executive remuneration.
Towers Perrin provides general compensation and benefits advice and information approval the Companys overall remuneration policy to the Committee and to BG Group management.
Herbert Smith and strategy: a LLP provides legal advice and services on share schemes as well as x setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration other legal services to the Group and to the trustees of the b a arrangements for Executive Directors and the Chairman, Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme.
Linklaters provides legal including terms and conditions of employment and advice on employee incentives as well as other legal services to the a any changes: Group.
Watson Wyatt provides actuarial advice to the Committee, the Group, and the trustees of the BG Pension Scheme and the x reviewing and approving the salary structure and terms, Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme as well as other general conditions and benefits of employment of other consultancy services to the Group.
These advisers are appointed Group Executive Committee members and the by management or the relevant trustees as appropriate.
Company Secretary: x approving the rules, and launch, of any Company share, share option or cash-based incentive scheme and the grant, award, allocation or issue of shares, share options or payments under any such scheme: and x approving changes to the BG Pension Scheme rules or changes to funding and management arrangements.
a Kepler Associates, Towers Perrin, Herbert Smith LLP, Linklaters and Watson Wyatt have given, and not withdrawn, their written consent to the issue of this The full terms of reference of the Committee can be found on document with the inclusion of the reference to their respective names in the the BG Group website and copies are available on request.
form and content in which they appear.
A copy of each consent letter is available for inspection at BG Group plc, 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire, RG6 1PT.
Other than in the provision of the services outlined above, none of Kepler Associates, Towers Perrin, Herbert Smith LLP, Linklaters or Watson Wyatt provides any services to the Group or has any connection with the Group.
b The Ballylumford Power Pension Scheme is a BG Group pension scheme.
60 Remuneration report continued The Committee decided to make certain changes to the incentive REMUNERATION POLICY The central premise of BG Groups remuneration policy is that, while arrangements for Executive Directors in order for BG Group to maintain its competitive position: reward arrangements should be market competitive, employees should look to performance-related incentives rather than base x For 2007, the maximum annual incentive opportunity for the salaries to earn above-average reward.
Performance-related Chief Executive will be increased from 100% to 150% of salary, incentive schemes form a significant proportion of the total reward and for the other Executive Directors from 100% to 125% of salary.
package for executives and are designed to align their interests Superior levels of performance will be required to achieve these with those of shareholders and establish a clear link between pay new higher incentive levels.
x For 2006, the CSOS and LTIS awards were subject to their In defining BG Groups remuneration policy, the Committee takes individual scheme limits of 400% of salary.
The previously into account advice received from external consultants and also best applied Estimated Present Value EPV limit, of a combined practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies, including award of CSOS and LTIS of up to 175% of salary, was removed.
the principles and guidelines on executive remuneration issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI.
x For 2006 LTIS awards onwards, dividends paid during the To implement the policy, BG Group has a well-developed, performance period accrue on those shares that vest.
This will Group-wide performance management system and operates provide a closer link between shareholder returns and payments three complementary performance-related incentive schemes to the Executives.
for executives: During the year, the Committee also reviewed all share-based x the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS designed to focus executives schemes to ensure compliance with the Employment Equality Age on the business priorities of the financial year and to reinforce Regulations 2006 the Age Regulations.
the individual and Company performance ethic: The Committee approved changes to the grant policy for the LTIS and CSOS and to the rules of the Sharesave Scheme, the LTIS and x the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS aims to motivate a the CSOS: participants to maximise total shareholder return TSR as measured against a comparator group of international oil x For 2006 awards onwards, grants under the CSOS and and gas companies over a period of three years: and LTIS are made without reference to age or to length of expected employment.
x the Company Share Option Scheme CSOS aims to drive real earnings growth over the long term.
The mechanism used for x For 2006 awards onwards, the rules of the CSOS have been measuring this is the growth in the Groups earnings per share amended and aligned with the rules of the LTIS so that time prob EPS relative to the growth in the Retail Price Index, excluding rating will normally apply on early vesting.
Early vesting in both mortgage interest repayments RPIX.
schemes remains subject to the achievement of the applicable performance conditions.
The performance periods and performance conditions of the three schemes complement each other to enable the measurement and During 2007, the Committee will continue to review the operation reward of both shortand long-term performance including of the incentive schemes to ensure optimal performance alignment absolute AIS, comparative LTIS and sustained CSOS financial and to ensure continued compliance with regulations.
The Committee considers that the three-year vesting period for the LTIS and the CSOS is appropriate.
COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION The current remuneration package for Executive Directors REVIEW OF REMUNERATION comprises performance-related and  During the year, the Committee reviewed the remuneration components.
The performance-related components are the arrangements for Executive Directors.
Remuneration was incentive schemes referred to above and the  on a total reward basis i. e. including salaries, related components are base salary, taxable benefits and pension incentives and pensions against the FTSE 30 excluding financial entitlements.
In addition, the Executive Directors are eligible to services companies and the international oil and gas companies participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes.
Pay and in our LTIS comparator group.
employment conditions elsewhere in the Group have been taken into account by the Committee in determining the remuneration packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee has also followed the provisions of Schedule A to the Combined Code that relate to the design of performance-related remuneration.
The proportion of each Executive Directors total remuneration that is performance-related is significant even for target performance.
For stretch performance, the proportion of total remuneration that is performance-related is higher, as is the total amount of remuneration payable.
a TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.
TSR is calculated on a common currency basis to ensure that international comparisons are fair.
b EPS is published quarterly when BG Group reports its results.
For grants made on or after 21 July 2004, the Groups published EPS is adjusted to take into account the volatility of both commodity prices and exchange rates.
See page 61 for further details.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 61 The average proportion of remuneration including pension that ROACE and performance against a Health, Safety and Environment c was performance-related in 2006 is illustrated by the chart below.
The weighting of each of these metrics is In estimating the relative importance of those elements of illustrated below: remuneration that are, and those that are not, performance-related, as required by the Regulations, a number of assumptions have Annual Incentive Scheme organisational had to be made about the Companys share price growth and performance measures TSR, relative to the Companys comparator group, over the next Weighting of 2006 performance metrics for Executive Directors three years.
Target performance Composition of remuneration package 15% for Executive Directors average As a % of total remuneration including pension Target performance Stretch performance 85% 26% 50% 50% EPS and ROACE 75% and 25% respectively HSE 74% In determining the actual incentive payment, the Committee Performance-related pay considers these results against the context of the overall  pay performance of the business and of the individual.
The review of the overall performance of the business takes into consideration such factors as operational performance, strategy and business development activities and performance against industry peers.
Base salaries The review of individual performance takes into consideration Executive Directors salaries are reviewed each year, with any achievements against the individuals personal performance contract.
changes normally taking effect from 1 April.
This review takes into account individual performance, experience and market For the 2006 incentive year, financial performance against both the competitiveness.
Pensionable salary is derived from base salary only.
EPS and ROACE targets was rated as stretch and performance against the HSE balanced scorecard was rated as strong.
Taking into In line with our remuneration policy, the Committee benchmarks account these results and overall business and individual Executive Directors salaries against a comparator group, which, for performance, the Committee awarded the Chief Executive, the the 2006 salary review, was the FTSE 30 excluding financial services Deputy Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer AIS payments companies.
Following the review, the salaries for the Chief Executive of 100% of base salary.
Payments in respect of the 2006 incentive and Chief Financial officer were below the median of this group.
The Deputy Chief Executive position was benchmarked against a composite of Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer positions, The Committee has decided that the same performance measures taking into account the skills and experience in the role.
The will apply to the AIS for 2007.
Committee is satisfied that this is the most appropriate benchmark for this position.
Long-term incentives When making the decision on the level of award, the Committee Annual Incentive Scheme takes into consideration a number of factors including Face Value, The Group operates a cash-based annual incentive scheme, which in Estimated Present Value EPV and scheme dilution limits.
2006 provided an incentive opportunity in the range of 0 to 100% of The Face Value of an award is equal to the number of shares, or base salary.
shares under option, multiplied by the relevant share price.
The At the start of the incentive year 1 January, the Board sets relevant share price of an LTIS award is the average share price for challenging budget and stretch financial performance targets and the calendar year immediately prior to the date of grant.
The the Committee endorses other performance measures, notably with relevant share price for a CSOS award is the average share price for respect to health, safety and environmental indicators.
Bonuses at the three dealing days immediately prior to the date of award.
the higher end of the range are payable only for demonstrably The rules of the LTIS and CSOS each permit a maximum award with superior Group and individual performance.
a Face Value equal to 400% of salary in each year.
The maximum For the Executive Directors, the performance measures for the 2006 combined award granted during 2006 was 368% of salary in LTIS a b incentive year were EPS, return on average capital employed and 400% of salary in CSOS.
EPV is a measure that describes the economic or fair value of an a Actual results are adjusted to exclude the volatility of upstream prices, the US$ UK award.
The measure, which is based on generally accepted exchange rate, the volatility of US natural gas prices on contracted LNG cargoes and the Comgas regulatory current account.
b Average capital employed consists of total shareholders funds plus commodity financial instruments including associated deferred tax and net funds borrowings, averaged between the start and the end of the year.
Actual average capital employed The adjustments in a and b are independently reviewed.
is adjusted to exclude the volatility of upstream prices and the US$ UK exchange c The HSE balanced scorecard measures performance across a range of leading rate.
Return on average capital employed represents profit after tax excluding and lagging indicators reecting the Groups commitment to HSE.
disposals, re-measurements and impairments plus net finance costs.
62 Remuneration report continued remuneration practice, takes account of the performance conditions The Committee has set the following performance conditions for and the risk that grants and allocations may be forfeited.
allocations made under the LTIS: Long Term Incentive Scheme BG Groups TSR position in comparator group % of allocated shares transferred A limited number of key employees are allocated Company shares under the LTIS.
This allocation marks the beginning of a three-year Top 100 performance period.
The Companys TSR performance against that Upper Quartile 75 of a comparator group of companies over the three-year period will Median 30 determine what proportion of the allocated shares will be Below Median All allocated shares are forfeited transferred into the ownership of the employee.
There is no retest provision.
The Committee considers that measuring performance Where performance is between Upper Quartile UQ and Top T against a comparator group of companies ensures that executives or between Median M and UQ, the percentage of shares to be are rewarded based on BG Groups performance relative to the transferred is determined on a proportionate basis.
performance of the other companies in the comparator group.
These performance conditions are illustrated by the graph below: In the event of a change of control, vesting of shares under the LTIS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to which the LTIS performance conditions performance conditions had been met at the time.
% of allocated shares transferred For the 2003 and 2004 LTIS allocations, the comparator group comprised 21 companies, including BG Group plc.
The Committee 100 considered that this group represented an appropriate set of 75 international oil and gas companies against which the performance of BG Group could be compared by shareholders.
For the 2005 allocation, the group was reduced to 19, due to the merger of Royal Dutch Petroleum Co. and Shell Transport and 30 Trading Co. plc to form Royal Dutch Shell plc and the acquisition of Unocal Corporation by Chevron Texaco Corporation now called M UQ T Chevron Corporation.
For the 2006 allocation, the group was further reduced to 17, due The performance period for the 2003 allocation ended on to the acquisition of Burlington Resources Inc. by ConocoPhillips 4 September 2006.
BG Groups final TSR for this period relative and the acquisition of Kerr-McGee Corporation by Anadarko to the TSRs of companies in the relevant comparator group was Petroleum Corporation.
measured by the independent TSR monitoring service of Alithos Limited and reviewed by Kepler Associates.
This analysis placed The other companies in the comparator group are currently th BG Group in 6 position.
The Committee therefore decided, in as follows: accordance with the performance condition for the 2003 allocation, that 75% of the original allocation of shares had vested and, Anadarko accordingly, these shares were transferred to the participating Petroleum Royal Dutch Shell employees on 6 September 2006.
Corporation ENI S. p. A. plc Exxon Mobil Company Share Option Scheme BP plc Corporation Repsol YPF S. A.
Approximately 2 300 employees are currently eligible to participate Hess Corporation in the CSOS, including all UK payroll employees and those overseas Chevron formerly Amerada employees above a certain grade.
Corporation Hess Corporation Statoil ASA The Company grants an option over its shares to each eligible Marathon Oil ConocoPhillips Corporation Total S. A. employee and the option price is set at the fair market value at the time of the grant.
As described below, the CSOS measures Duke Energy performance according to EPS growth relative to the growth in the Corporation Norsk Hydro ASA RPIX.
The Committee considers that an EPS performance measure Occidental ensures that employees receive rewards only when the Company El Paso Petroleum has achieved sustained earnings growth during the performance Corporation Corporation period.
The calculation of EPS growth for grants made on or after Of these companies, nine are headquartered in the USA, one in the 21 July 2004 has been made using constant commodity prices and UK and six elsewhere in Europe.
The Committee reviews this comparator group from time to time During the transition to IFRS, EPS growth figures are being and intends to do so before making future allocations under the LTIS.
calculated on a consistent basis by restating prior years results in compliance with IFRS.
To the extent that the performance target has been met three years from the date of grant, the option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time up to the expiry of ten years from the date of grant.
For grants made on or after 21 July 2004, there is no retest provision.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 63 As in prior years, the levels of grant made to individual employees in For 2006, the Committee may approve the award of Free Shares in 2006 were differentiated based on each individuals performance to the Company up to the statutory limit for each individual.
All eligible date and expectation of future contributions.
For the 2006 grant, employees will receive the same number of shares.
This number will the Committee set the following performance targets: be determined based on the Groups performance during 2006.
Sharesave Scheme EPS growth over RPIX over 3 years % of option that is exercisable The Company continued to operate the BG Group Sharesave 30% or greater 100 Scheme in 2006.
The scheme is approved by HM Revenue & 15% 50 Customs and enables eligible employees to acquire the Companys Less than 15% Option is forfeited shares with the proceeds of a monthly savings contract.
The contract period is three or five years.
At 31 December 2006, 67% of A proportion of between half and all of the options will be eligible employees were participating in the Sharesave Scheme, exercisable if the Company achieves EPS growth over three years contributing an average monthly payment of 218.
Of those of RPIX plus between 15% and 30%, respectively.
participating, 71% were contributing the statutory maximum These targets are the same as those which apply to the 2004 and of 250 per month.
2005 grants and which applied to the 2003 grant and are considered by the Committee to be particularly demanding.
PENSIONS The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are detailed These performance targets are illustrated by the graph below: on page 68.
CSOS performance conditions As detailed in note 29, page 111, BG Group operates a number of % of option exercisable pension plans across the Group.
Outside the UK, these plans are generally defined contribution or money purchase arrangements.
100 The UK plan is a defined benefit arrangement.
The Committee is mindful of the potential risks associated with operating a defined benefit pension scheme and is taking active steps to mitigate these risks.
During the course of 2007, a defined 50 contribution scheme will be introduced in the UK for new hires.
DILUTION The ABI has published guidelines relating to the disclosure of the 15% 30% percentage of a companys issued share capital that can be issued to employees under share schemes.
In the event of all options % EPS growth over three years in excess of RPIX outstanding as at 31 December 2006 under BG Groups CSOS and Sharesave Schemes which involve the issue of new shares Over the three year performance period for the 2003 CSOS grant, the becoming exercisable, the resulting issue of shares would represent Companys EPS growth above the growth in the RPIX exceeded 30%.
less than 1.78% of the issued share capital as at that date.
As a result, 100% of the shares under option granted to employees in September 2003 are exercisable prior to September 2013.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES In the event of a change of control, exercise of an option under the The Committee has adopted guidelines for Executive Directors, CSOS is not automatic and would depend upon the extent to which Group Executive Committee members and certain other senior the performance condition had been satisfied at the time.
employees to encourage substantial long-term share ownership.
These require that, over a period of five years from the introduction All-employee share schemes of the guidelines in 2002 or date of appointment, if later, Executive In order to encourage share ownership, the Company currently Directors build up, and then retain, a holding of shares with a value provides two all-employee share schemes for its UK employees, equivalent to 200% of base salary.
The required holding for other the Share Incentive Plan SIP and the Sharesave Scheme.
members of the Group Executive Committee is 100% of base salary and for certain other senior employees is 50% of base salary.
The Share Incentive Plan guidelines require that, in relation to the 2002 and later LTIS The BG Group SIP is approved by HM Revenue & Customs.
There allocations, vested shares net of tax should be retained by the are two parts to the SIP the Partnership Shares Plan and the individual until the required shareholding level is reached.
a Partnership Shares Eligible employees are offered the opportunity to buy Company shares from pre-tax earnings as part of a regular share purchase plan.
Shares are currently purchased every six months using employees accumulated deductions and are placed in trust.
At 31 December 2006, 62% of eligible employees were participating in this plan.
Of those participating, 75% were contributing the maximum of 125 per month.
b Free Shares A Free Shares award of a maximum of 388 shares, representing the value of the 3 000 statutory limit, was made on 25 April 2006 to all eligible employees in the UK, based on the Groups performance during 2005.
These shares will be held in trust for up to five years.
64 Remuneration report continued SERVICE CONTRACTS CHAIRMAN The Executive Directors service contracts, including arrangements Sir Robert Wilson was initially appointed as Chairman with for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and effect from 1 January 2004 and was re-appointed with effect are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality from 1 January 2007.
In line with the non-executive Directors, his required to manage the Group.
The Committee considers that a re-appointment is for a three year term and there is no notice period notice period of one year is appropriate.
and no provision for payment in the event of early termination.
The fee paid to Sir Robert Wilson was reviewed during the year The Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control and revised to 625 000 per annum effective from 1 January 2007. provisions.
Should the Directors employment be terminated within It is next subject to review from 1 January 2009.
12 months of a change of control, they are entitled to liquidated damages.
The amount of liquidated damages is equal to one years PERFORMANCE GRAPH gross salary and a credit of one years pensionable service less any The graph below shows BG Groups TSR performance for the five deductions the employer is required to make, which the Committee year period ended 31 December 2006 calculated in accordance considers to be a genuine pre-estimate of loss.
The Committee with the Regulations against the performance of the FTSE 100. considers that these provisions assist with recruitment and retention and that their inclusion is therefore in the best interests The FTSE 100 was chosen because this is a recognised broad equity of shareholders.
market index of which the Company is a member.
Other than change of control, the Executive Directors service Historical TSR performance contracts do not contain provisions for compensation in the event Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding of BG Group plc of early termination.
When calculating termination payments the shares over the five year period ended 31 December 2006, based on Committee takes into account a variety of factors, including spot values.
individual and Group performance, the obligation for the Director to mitigate his or her own loss for example, by gaining new 300 employment and the Directors length of service.
Further details of the Executive Directors service contracts can be found on page 65.
250 200 SENIOR EXECUTIVES BELOW THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 150 The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior employees below the Executive Directors is entirely consistent with 100 that for the Executive Directors.
These senior executives all have a 50 significant portion of their reward package linked to performance.
0 They all qualify for AIS, CSOS and LTIS, and their financial targets 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 are the same as, or cascaded from, the targets for the Executive Directors.
The Committee reviews and approves the individual BG Group remuneration packages for the Group Executive Committee FTSE 100 members and the Company Secretary in accordance with the Sour ce: Towers Perrin overriding objectives of our remuneration policy.
Their individual performance is reviewed and their base salary increases, AIS payments, and CSOS and LTIS awards are subject to approval by the Committee each year.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board aims to recruit non-executive Directors of a high calibre with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
Non-executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
Their appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, they are generally re-appointed for a second term of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
There is no notice period and no provision for termination payments.
The terms of engagement of the non-executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
Following a review during the year, the basic fee paid to nonexecutive Directors was reviewed and raised to 65 000 per annum, effective from 1 July 2006.
Additional fees are also payable, for example, for membership of, or chairing, a committee of the Board or acting as Senior Independent Director.
Fees are reviewed every two years, taking into account time commitment, competition for high quality non-executive directors and market movements.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 65 The following section of this report provides details of the remuneration, service contracts or letters of appointment and share interests of all the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2006.
These include items such as company car, driver, financial advice, gifts and medical insurance.
b Each non-executive Director was paid a fee of 55 000 per annum until 30 June 2005.
From 1 July 2005, this fee was increased to 57 500 per annum.
From 1 July 2006, this fee was increased to 65 000 per annum.
A fee of 5 000 per annum was also paid for membership of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees, other than for the chairmen of those committees.
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees received fees of 15 000 and 10 000 per annum respectively until 30 June 2006.
From 1 July 2006, these fees increased to 20 000 per annum for chairing the Audit Committee and 15 000 per annum for chairing the Remuneration Committee.
A fee of 10 000 per annum for chairing the Corporate Responsibility Committee was introduced with effect from 15 March 2005, which increased to 15 000 per annum from 1 July 2006.
From 4 May 2005, Paul Collins received a fee of 20 000 per annum as the Senior Independent Director.
c Bonus figures for 2005 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2005 incentive year that were made in March 2006.
Bonus figures for 2006 represent payments under the AIS in respect of the 2006 incentive year that were made in March 2007. d Salary figures for Executive Directors include Free Shares to the value of 2 997 received under the SIP in April 2005 and 3 000 in April 2006.
In 2007, Ashley Almanza, Frank Chapman and William Friedrich will be eligible to receive up to a further 3 000 worth of Free Shares under the SIP.
e Salary figures for Ashley Almanza and Frank Chapman for both 2005 and 2006, and for William Friedrich for part of 2006, include a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
f William Friedrich, who is a US citizen, is covered by long-term care insurance if he returns to the USA.
The value of the taxable benefit for 2006 was 9 106.
Cover is being paid by ten instalments, the first of which was paid in 2002. g In 2006, Sir John Coles received a payment of 5 000 in respect of an overseas trip on behalf of the Company.
h Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman and Director on 31 December 2003.
The Company paid fees incurred by his tax advisers in respect of the two year period following his retirement, as provided in his contract of employment.
He continues to be entitled to private medical insurance and long-term care insurance.
The long-term care insurance is being paid by ten instalments.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors who served during the year are set out below: Compensation payable Contract Unexpired Notice upon early date term period termination a Ashley Almanza 01 Aug 02 rolling 1yr 1yr n a Frank Chapman 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a William Friedrich 14 Sep 00 rolling 1yr 1yr n a a Other than the change of control provisions, the Executive Directors service contracts do not contain provisions for compensation payable upon early termination.
Change of control As described on page 64, the Executive Directors service contracts contain change of control provisions.
For the purposes of these provisions, a change of control is deemed to occur if the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company: or if 50% or more of the voting rights of the Company or the right to appoint or remove the majority of the Board of the Company become vested in any individual or body or group of individuals or bodies acting in concert: or if all or substantially all of the business, assets and undertakings of the Company become owned by any person, firm or company other than a subsidiary or associated company.
A change of control is also deemed to occur if the whole of the issued capital of BG Energy Holdings Limited or a substantial part of the undertaking of that company including its subsidiaries is transferred to another company, unless that transferee company is a subsidiary of the Company, or a company ultimately owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the ultimate owners of the Company.
66 Remuneration report continued Change of control continued However, a change of control does not occur if and only if through a process of reconstruction the Company becomes a subsidiary of another company owned by substantially the same shareholders as are the shareholders of the Company.
The Executive Directors service contracts provide that any payments made pursuant to these provisions will be made less any deductions the employer is required to make.
Any such payments shall be in full and final settlement of any claims the Executive Director may have against the employer or any associated company arising out of the termination of employment except for any personal injury claim, any claim in respect of accrued pension rights or statutory employment protection claims.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Date of letter of appointment or Unexpired re-appointment term a Sir Robert Wilson 14 Dec 06 2yrs 9mths b Peter Backhouse 3 Jan 07 3yrs 2mths b Sir John Coles 24 Jan 07 2yrs 2mths b Paul Collins 5 Feb 07 3yrs 2mths Jrgen Dormann 23 May 05 2yrs 2mths Baroness Hogg 9 Feb 05 1yr 2mths b Lord Sharman 8 Jan 07 3yrs 2mths b Philippe Varin 2 May 06 2 yrs 2mths The non-executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain any notice period or provision for compensation in the event of early termination of their appointment.
a Sir Robert Wilson was reappointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2007.
This is subject to his re-election by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
b The unexpired term is subject to election or re-election by shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
The performance conditions for the scheme are set out on page 62. c The market price on the date of vesting, 5 September 2006, was 6.905 and on the date of transfer, 6 September 2006, was 6.805.
The Executive Directors also have a deemed beneficial interest in 165 560 shares as potential beneficiaries in the BG Group New Employees Share Trust.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES OPTIONS The numbers of share options held by the Directors under the BG Group Sharesave Scheme were as follows: Earliest Options as at Exercised Granted Lapsed Options as at Exercise normal exercise Expiry 1 Jan 2006 in year in year in year 31 Dec 2006 price date date Ashley Almanza 3 458 3 458 2.74 Nov 07 May 08 Frank Chapman 2 398 2 398 3.95 Nov 08 May 09 a William Friedrich 7 368 7 368 1 606 1 606 5.82 Nov 09 May 10 a The market price on 22 May 2006, the date of exercise, was 6.455.
The total gain on exercise was 30 688.
This option was exercisable from 1 March to 31 August 2006 at an option price of 2.29.
The total gain on exercise was 1 094 276.
The performance measure for the CSOS is set out on page 63.
The closing price of an ordinary share on 31 December 2006 was 6.93.
The range during the year was 7.825 high and 5.945 low.
All market price figures are derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
68 Remuneration report continued ORDINARY SHARES The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company at the end of the financial year were as follows: Beneficial interests in ordinary shares a As at As at 1 Jan 2006 31 Dec 2006 Sir Robert Wilson 70 000 80 000 Ashley Almanza 156 172 176 591 Frank Chapman 569 488 435 815 b William Friedrich 607 340 619 593 Peter Backhouse 20 500 20 500 Sir John Coles 5 829 5 829 c Paul Collins 100 000 100 000 Jrgen Dormann 11 000 22 000 Baroness Hogg 5 904 5 904 Lord Sharman 1 956 1 956 Philippe Varin appointed 2 May 2006 5 000 or on date of appointment if later.
a Beneficial interests including shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group SIP.
b William Friedrich holds 77 740 ordinary shares in the form of 15 548 American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Each ADS represents five ordinary shares.
c Paul Collins holding is in the form of 20 000 ADSs.
On 12 February 2007, William Friedrich sold 250 000 ordinary shares in the Company.
Other than this, there have been no changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings between 1 January and 3 April 2007.
As of 3 April 2007, the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company represent less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
PENSIONS The basis on which retirement benefits are calculated for Frank Chapman, William Friedrich and Ashley Almanza has not changed during the year.
They receive an accrual of benefits designed to target a pension of two-thirds of their final 12 months salary on retirement from BG Group at age 60, inclusive of retained benefits.
As is the case for all other UK employees who became pension scheme members before 6 April 2006, they cannot be paid an immediate pension before age 60 on a non-actuarially reduced basis unless they have attained age 55 and completed 10 years service with the Group including pensionable service transferred from previous employment and the Company expressly agrees to payment on an unreduced basis, or they are over the age of 50 and have been made redundant, or in the event of incapacity.
UK employees who became pension scheme members on or after 6 April 2006 cannot be paid a non-actuarially reduced pension until age 60, other than in the event of incapacity.
Pensions in payment are increased in line with retail price inflation.
An adult dependants pension is payable on death in service, equal to two-thirds of that payable to the pension scheme member based on potential service to age 65.
On death in retirement, an adult dependants pension is payable equal to two-thirds of the members pension prior to exchanging any of it for a cash lump sum.
All the Executive Directors were members of the BG Pension Scheme BGPS and the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme BGSBS throughout the year.
The BGPS is a funded, registered formerly approved pension scheme and the BGSBS is an unfunded, unregistered formerly unapproved pension scheme.
The allocation of the Executive Directors benefits between these schemes changed after 6 April 2006, when a new pensions taxation regime came into force.
Provision has been made in respect of the additional obligations for unfunded post-retirement benefits.
Prior to 6 April 2006, the benefits provided for the Executive Directors under the BGPS were subject to the earnings cap, a restriction on the amount of pay that could be used to calculate pensions payable from an approved pension scheme.
Retirement benefits including contingent death benefits that were not covered by the BGPS were provided by the BGSBS and a provision was made in respect of the additional obligations for these post-retirement benefits.
With effect from 6 April 2006, and subject to the consent of each member affected, the earnings cap was removed for most purposes in the BGPS.
We continue to operate the BGSBS, now as a way of providing benefits to those who are above or close to the new lifetime allowance.
As at 5 April 2006, the value of Mr Chapmans accrued BGPS benefits exceeded the lifetime allowance.
He therefore ceased to accrue pension in the BGPS for service after that date and his remaining past service benefits and pension for future service are provided through the BGSBS.
As at 5 April 2006, the value of Mr Friedrichs and Mr Almanzas accrued BGPS benefits were both less than the lifetime allowance.
They both consented to the removal of the earnings cap with the proviso that their resulting BGPS benefits should be limited to the lifetime allowance.
Their remaining past service benefits and their pensions for future service are provided by the BGSBS.
In July 2006, the Company made the first of two additional contributions to the BGPS to cover the increase in its liability arising from the removal of the earnings cap: the second payment was made in January 2007.
There has been a corresponding reduction in the provision in the Companys accounts.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 69 Directors pension provisions were as follows: Increase in accrued Directors Total accrued annual pension in year contributions in annual to 31 Dec 2006 year to pension at 000 pa 31 Dec 2006 Age at 31 Dec 2006 Retirement 000 31 Dec 2006 a b 000 pa age Ashley Almanza 16 43 27 24 126 60 Frank Chapman 16 53 64 54 438 60 William Friedrich 16 57 57 48 385 60 a Actual increase.
b Increase net of price inflation.
Transfer value of Transfer value of Increase in transfer value over accrued pension as at accrued pension as at the year less Directors own 31 December 2005 c 31 December 2006 c d contributions 000 000 000 Ashley Almanza 987 1 296 293 Frank Chapman 5 810 7 233 1 407 William Friedrich 6 124 7 895 1 755 c The transfer values shown at the end of 2005 and 2006 represent the value of each Executive Directors accrued pension based on total service completed to the relevant date.
The accrued pensions are the amounts that would have been paid if the Executive Director had left service at the relevant date.
The transfer values are calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 issued by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
d The assumptions used to calculate transfer values were changed with effect from 1 January 2007.
These figures have been calculated using the new assumptions.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS To broaden the experience of Executive Directors, it is Company policy to allow each of them to accept one external appointment as a nonexecutive director of another company, the fees for which would be retained by the individual Director.
William Friedrich is a non-executive director of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc RBS and is a member of its audit committee.
In this capacity he receives a total annual fee of 95 000 which he retains.
RBS is one of a number of relationship banks providing a variety of commercial banking and other financial services to BG Group.
By order of the Board Baroness Hogg Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 April 2007 Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Reading Berkshire RG6 1PT Registered in England & Wales No.
