Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 87 Directors remuneration report This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Companys Advice to the Remuneration Committee directors and senior executives in line with statutory requirements Hilary Oliver, the Group Reward Director, provided material and good practice guidelines and describes the elements of their assistance to the Committee during the year, advising on remuneration and discloses the amounts paid to the directors market trends, practices and appropriate levels of remuneration.
Deloitte, which provided actuarial, tax and IT services to the Group during the year, advised the Committee on the calculation of total The Remuneration Committee shareholder return for the purposes of the long-term incentive The key purposes of the Committee are to ensure that the plans.
In addition, Nic Nicandrou, in his previous role as Group remuneration of senior executives is aligned to the Companys Financial Control Director provided material assistance to the strategy and that the Company is able to attract, retain and Committee in relation to its consideration of the financial objectives motivate high calibre people within a very competitive international relevant to the Aviva Annual Bonus Plan and determining the market for talent.
extent to which the objectives had been met.
Richard Whitaker, the Group Company Secretary and Linklaters LLP Linklaters The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the advised the Committee in relation to the operation of the Companys remuneration policy and strategy and, within the Companys share plans.
Linklaters provided other legal services to policy, makes decisions on individual remuneration terms and the Group.
In addition, the Committee considered the views of the compensation packages for the executive directors with particular Chairman and Group Chief Executive in assessing the performance reference to the Companys performance.
The Committee also sets of the executive directors.
the remuneration structure and terms for the Companys other senior executives: sets the Chairmans fee and exercises the powers A review of senior executive pension provisions as described in of the Board in relation to the executive long-term incentive and detail in this report was undertaken during 2005 and 2006.
The full terms of reference for the the review Aon Consulting, which undertook other pensions Committee are available from the Group Company Secretary related work for the Company, advised the Company and Lane and can be found on the Companys website www.
Clark & Peacock LLP LC&P, consulting actuary, was appointed by the Committee to provide an independent opinion on certain Remuneration Committee composition aspects of the recommendations arising from the review.
LC&P The following independent non-executive directors served on the provided no other services to the Group during the year.
Committee during the year: Changes to remuneration policy Period The remuneration policy is reviewed by the Committee on a Member From To regular basis to ensure that it is achieving its objectives and remains Richard Karl Goeltz 3 May 2004 To date appropriate within the market.
A major review was undertaken Chairman in 2004, which included salaries, annual bonus, share schemes Mary Francis 25 January 2006 To date and benefits.
In respect of the Companys share incentive plans the review included all aspects of their operation including the Carole Piwnica 25 January 2006 To date discretions exercised, levels of grant, performance criteria and Andr Villeneuve 16 April 1996 31 December 2006 vesting schedules.
The changes resulting from the review became effective in 2005.
Pensions and long-term savings benefits were Richard Karl Goeltz succeeded George Paul as the chairman of the assessed in 2005 and 2006 with the changes becoming effective Committee in January 2006.
The Committee met on five occasions from 6 April 2006. in 2006 and each member attended every meeting.
The Group The only other modifications made during the year were to Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
the rules of the share plans to ensure compliance with the age The Group Chief Executive is normally invited to attend the discrimination legislation which became effective in October 2006. meetings of the Committee, except when his own remuneration is being discussed, as is the Group Human Resources Director.
The Chairman of the Board is invited to attend the Committee meetings when executive directors pay is being discussed.
In line with the Combined Code requirements the Board undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during the year, including the Remuneration Committee.
Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 88 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration package The remuneration package for the Groups senior executives is described in the table below.
It reflects the Boards philosophy that senior executives interests should be aligned with those of the Companys shareholders, and that, while paying a competitive basic salary, a substantial proportion of the total remuneration package should be closely linked to the performance of the business and paid in shares.
Remuneration package overview: constituent elements at target and stretch maximum Constituent elements of reward as a percentage Proportion of remuneration paid in cash and shares of total remuneration Salary, Bonus, LTIP, Cash, Shares, Target Target 45.5% 34.0% 20.5% 56.8% 43.2% Salary, Bonus, LTIP, Cash, Shares, Stretch Stretch 25.0% 37.5% 37.5% 37.5% 62.5% 0% 50% 100% 0% 50% 100% The illustrations above would vary slightly for Richard Harvey, whose long-term incentive plan award is 175% of basic salary.
The illustrations assume on target performance when 30% of an LTIP award vests and stretch performance when 100% of an LTIP award vests.
Policy How delivered Details Total remuneration Basic salary Positioned at median against a FTSE 30 comparator group, although account is taken Annual bonus of relative size and complexity of comparator LTIP organisations.
Pension Long-term savings Benefits All-employee share schemes Basic salary Monthly in cash Basic salary depends upon: Basic salary is benchmarked within the range of Reviewed annually Benchmarked salaries for comparable roles in median to upper quartile for comparable jobs.
the FTSE 50 and UK European financial Progression within this range is dependent upon institutions: performance.
An individuals performance: Predicted market movement: Avivas financial performance: and Anticipated pay increases for other Aviva employees.
Annual bonus Annually, one-third is paid in cash and twoBusiness performance of the Aviva Group in The discretionary annual bonus plan exists to thirds in deferred shares.
the case of the Group Chief Executive and the motivate directors towards the achievement of Group Finance Director and of the Group and The shares vest on the third anniversary of the the annual business plan.
appropriate business units in the case of the date of grant, subject to the recipient other executive directors determines 70% of the 75% of basic salary is payable for on target remaining in service.
bonus awards, with the remainder dependent performance, and up to 150% is payable for A resignation in the year of a bonus award upon the achievement of personal objectives, stretch performance.
would result in the forfeiture of the shares relating to strategic action, operating awarded that year.
A resignation in the performance and leadership.
following year would result in a 50% Business performance covers, inter alia, forfeiture, and in the year after that a new business contribution, operating profit, 25% forfeiture.
combined operating ratio, total expenses, return All shares would be forfeited should the on capital employed, customer satisfaction and director be dismissed for cause.
Target and maximum bonus levels 75% and 150% of basic salary respectively were set with reference to the FTSE 30 and a global financial services comparator group.
These levels are reviewed annually as part of the total compensation review.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 89 Policy How delivered Details Long-Term Incentive Plan Awards are made annually in the form of Vesting of the shares is dependent upon two This plan exists to motivate recipients to achieve restricted shares that vest, subject to equally weighted performance measures: the Companys longer term objectives, to aid the performance conditions, at the end of a three Return on Capital Employed ROCE and relative retention of key personnel and to align their year performance period.
Total Shareholder Return TSR, reflecting interests to those of shareholders.
shareholders long-term interests in both Awards that do not vest, lapse.
absolute ROCE and relative TSR performance.
The Group Chief Executive is eligible to receive ROCE vesting ROCE targets are set annually an annual award of shares to the value of within the context of the Companys three-year 175% of his basic salary.
The other executive business plan.
Vesting depends upon the directors are eligible to be awarded shares to Companys performance over the three-year the value of 150% of their basic salary.
performance period against a target return.
Under the scheme rules no awards may exceed The Groups external auditor provides a formal 200% of a participants basic salary.
opinion on the ROCE calculation.
Awards made to other senior employees vary For awards granted for the three-year based on an individuals skills and longer term performance period commencing 1 January potential.
Normally awards are made between 2006, the Companys cumulative ROCE over 0% and 150% of basic salary.
the period must exceed 31.5% for 15% of the shares to vest, with the maximum 50% of shares vesting if the cumulative ROCE exceeds 37.5% over the period.
TSR vesting 15% of the award vests for median performance rising to 50% vesting for upper quintile performance.
The group of companies against which the Companys TSR is measured comprises: AEGON, Allianz, AXA, Fortis, Friends Provident, Generali, HBOS, ING, Legal & General, Lloyds TSB, Prudential, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Royal & Sun Alliance and Zurich.
These companies were chosen for their product and geographic match to Aviva.
An independent consultant determines Avivas performance within this group.
In December 2006, the Committee reviewed the appropriateness of relative TSR as a performance measure and agreed to include Standard Life in the above comparator group in respect of future grants.
All employee share plans Eligible to participate in the Companys UK all See details below UK All Employee To provide employees with the opportunity to employee share plans.
acquire Aviva shares, where applicable.
Long-term savings Discretionary payments into an employee Payments are held in trust for a minimum of Aviva has taken the opportunity presented by benefit trust operated by independent trustees.
changes to pension legislation to introduce Currently those executive directors who are A resignation or departure for breach of a new long-term saving arrangement, the participating are not accruing benefits in the contract generally results in the forfeiture Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP.
of contribution for the year in which Contributions for the executive directors are The level of contribution varies but will not resignation occurred.
shown in the Directors remuneration table normally exceed 50% of basic salary.
Pension Deferred cash payable on retirement in the See details below Pension.
The Aviva Staff Pension Scheme Pension form of a lump sum monthly payment.
Scheme provides a competitive post retirement package.
Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 90 Directors remuneration report continued Pension In anticipation of pension legislation pension simplification that came into effect on 6 April 2006, the Committee undertook a review of the pension provisions for its senior executives and how they relate to the total remuneration package.
The review was set against a number of design principles including: The Companys need to continue attracting and retaining top quality management: That future pension arrangements for senior executives should not cost the Company more than the arrangements previously in place: The Company would not pay or compensate managers for any increase in their personal tax liability arising from pension simplification: and The long-term cost exposure associated with the current final salary arrangements should be reduced.
The relevant features of the Pension Scheme defined benefit section, to which all the executive directors belonged prior to 1 April 2006, are: Accrual at either one thirtieth Richard Harvey, Philip Scott and Patrick Snowball or one forty-fifth Andrew Moss of final pensionable salary for each year of service subject to a maximum pension of two-thirds of final pensionable salary : A contribution of 5% of pensionable salary is payable into the Pension Scheme by the employee: No pension benefits accrue on bonuses or other benefits: Lump sum death-in-service benefit of four times basic salary at the date of death: Spouses pension equal to two-thirds of a members actual or prospective pension: Post-retirement, annual review with increases guaranteed at a rate equivalent to the increase in the Retail Prices Index up to a maximum of 10% pa: and A normal retirement age of 60.
The benefits paid from the Pension Scheme to members who joined it after June 1989 were subject to Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC limits Earnings Cap which restricted the amount of pension which could be paid from an approved pension scheme.
Where executives benefits exceeded the Earnings Cap, the balance was provided through an Unapproved Unfunded Retirement Benefit UURB.
Richard Harvey and Andrew Moss were both affected by the Earnings Cap limit.
The effect of the pensions review on the executive directors was as follows: Director Impact of pensions simplification review Richard Harvey The value of Richard Harveys UURB up to the newly introduced HMRC Lifetime Allowance LTA of 1.5 million was transferred into the Pension Scheme and therefore at retirement he will receive a deferred pension of 75,000 per annum as increased in line with deferred pensions lower of the increase in RPI or 5% subject to the LTA.
The balance, valued at 11.6 million, was transferred into an Employer Funded Retirement Benefit Scheme EFRBS.
Andrew Moss The value of Andrew Moss UURB was transferred into the Pension Scheme and therefore at retirement he will receive a deferred pension of currently c. 20,000 pa. Further accrual in the pension scheme ceased from April 2006.
Philip Scott The value of Philip Scotts pension benefits on 6 April 2006 was in excess of the LTA.
Philip Scott elected to register with HMRC for enhanced protection.
As a consequence, he will remain a member of the Pension Scheme: however he will not be entitled to accrue any additional entitlement and on retirement his benefits will be based upon his final pensionable salary and years of service at that time.
On this basis, it is anticipated that Philip Scott will not be subject to a recovery charge additional tax.
Philip Scott will continue to pay an annual contribution of 5% of his basic salary to the Pension Scheme.
Should any recovery charge become payable, the cost would be borne by Philip Scott.
Patrick Snowball The value of Patrick Snowballs pension benefits on 6 April 2006 was in excess of the LTA, and he elected to register with HMRC for primary protection.
As a consequence, he will continue to accrue benefits in the Pension Scheme but may be subject to a recovery charge additional tax on his benefits in excess of the amount registered.
Patrick Snowball will continue to pay an annual contribution of 5% of his basic salary to the Pension Scheme.
The cost of any recovery charge will be borne by Patrick Snowball.
Other benefits In addition to the benefits described above, senior executives are entitled to the benefit of a company car allowance and private medical insurance.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 91 UK all employee share plans Senior executives are eligible to participate in a number of HMRC approved all-employee share plans in the United Kingdom on the same basis as other eligible employees.
These include the Free Share element of the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under this plan, eligible employees can receive up to a maximum of 3,000 per annum in the form of shares from the profits of the Companys UK business, free of tax, subject to a retention period.
The partnership element of the AESOP allows participants to invest up to 125 per month out of their gross salary in the Companys shares.
The Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme allows eligible employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a discount of up to 20% of their market value at the date of grant.
In order to exercise these options, participants must have saved the consideration through a three, five or seven-year approved savings contract, subject to a maximum savings limit of 250 per month.
Executive directors service contracts Service contracts agreed with each executive director incorporate their terms and conditions of employment.
Contracts were reviewed during the year and new contracts issued, bringing them into line with good market practice in respect of mitigation and phased payments.
The main objective of the contracts is to strike a fair balance between the Companys and the employees interests taking into account good market practice.
The key terms are as follows: Provision Policy Notice period By the director Six months By the Company 12 months, rolling.
No notice or payment in lieu to be paid where the Company terminates for cause.
Termination payment Pay in lieu of notice up to a maximum of 52 weeks basic salary.
This may be increased by a discretionary redundancy payment where appropriate but any such further termination payment is capped at 52 weeks basic salary.
Any amount is subject to mitigation and phased payments.
Remuneration and benefits As described in this Report.
The detailed operation of the annual bonus and LTIP plans is at the Companys discretion and in the case of the long-term savings plans at the trustees discretion.
Expenses Reimbursement reasonably incurred in accordance with their duties.
Holiday entitlement 30 working days plus public holidays.
Sickness In line with senior management terms ie 100% basic salary for 52 weeks, and 75% thereafter.
Non-complete During employment and for six months after leaving.
Contract dates Director Date current contract commenced Richard Harvey 6 December 2006 Andrew Moss 16 January 2007 Philip Scott 22 January 2007 Patrick Snowball 15 November 2006 Policy on external Board appointments The Company recognises that its senior executives can benefit by serving in a personal capacity as non-executive directors of non-Aviva Group companies.
It therefore has a policy of allowing senior executives to serve as a non-executive director of an external company, subject to approval by the Board, and to retain any fee.
However, during the year no executive director served in a personal capacity on the Board of a non-Aviva Group company.
Share ownership requirements In line with investor guidelines, the Group Chief Executive and the executive directors are required to build, over a five-year period, a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 1.75 times annual salary and 1.5 times annual salary respectively.
Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 92 Directors remuneration report continued Non-executive appointments The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms of the appointments are as follows: Provision Policy Period Three-year term which can be extended by mutual consent.
Termination By the director or the Company giving the other one months written notice without compensation.
Expenses Reimbursement of travel and other expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their duties.
Time commitment Between 25 and 50 days per annum depending upon Board and committee requirements and corporate activity.
Non-compete During employment and for six months after leaving.
Appointment dates Director Date of last appointment Date appointment terminates Guillermo fide la Dehesa 30 May 2005 30 May 2008 Wim Dik 7 December 2005 7 December 2008 Mary Francis 1 October 2005 1 October 2008 Richard Karl Goeltz 3 May 2004 3 May 2007 Carole Piwnica 10 May 2006 AGM 2009 Lord Sharman 14 January 2005 14 January 2008 Russell Walls 3 May 2004 3 May 2007 Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business.
All the directors seeking re-election at the Companys 2007 Annual General Meeting are independent non-executive directors and therefore do not have a service contract with the Company.
It is the Companys policy to set the fees paid to its Chairman and non-executive directors at the median level for international companies of similar size and complexity.
Non-executive directors receive a basic annual fee in respect of their Board duties.
A further fee is paid to directors other than the Chairman in respect of their membership and, where appropriate, chairmanship of Board committees.
Fees are reviewed regularly and are set by the Board to attract individuals with the range of skills and experience appropriate for a major international company.
In determining the level of fees paid to the non-executive directors, the Board receives recommendations from the executive directors who consider the non-executive directors duties and responsibilities, together with the time commitment required in preparing for and attending meetings, and the amounts paid by competitors and similar-sized companies.
The Chairman and non-executive directors receive no benefits in addition to their fees nor do they participate in any incentive or performance plans or pension arrangements.
Non-executive directors fees were reviewed in 2005 and will be reviewed again in 2007.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 93 Directors remuneration in 2006 This section of the report sets out the remuneration paid or payable to the directors in respect of the year to 31 December 2006.
The following sections headed Directors Remuneration, Executive Directors Pension Arrangementsand Share incentive plans along with their associated footnotes have been subject to audit.
Basic salary decisions The Committees decisions on basic salary increases were made in February 2006 and implemented from 1 April 2006 against a backdrop of strong financial performance by the Group as reported in the Companys 2005 Annual Report and Accounts.
In deciding basic salary increases, the Committee reviewed: FTSE 50 basic salaries for executive directors: Deloittes and Towers Perrins basic pay increase projections for 2006: and Individual performance in the role, relative to positioning within the FTSE 50 comparator group.
The 1 April 2006 pay review resulted in an increase of 10% to the aggregate basic salaries of the executive directors.
This included increases for Richard Harvey and Andrew Moss that brought their basic salaries into line with FTSE 50 peers and reflected Mr Mosss increasing contribution to the Company.
The basic salaries of the executive directors are positioned between the median and upper quartile ranking for companies with a market capitalisation over 16 billion.
Given the executive directors contribution and experience the Committee considers this to be an appropriate position.
The basic salary increases for the Companys employees in the UK averaged 4% in 2006 and ranged from 0% to 15%.
Bonus decisions In December 2005, the Remuneration Committee agreed business targets based upon the Groups annual business plan and each executive directors personal objectives.
In August 2006 the financial assumptions used in the planning process were affirmed or amended by the Committee and in December 2006 it used its discretion to determine how corporate activity and changes in executive responsibilities during the year should be dealt with in deciding bonuses for 2006.
In 2007, once the Groups results for 2006 were known, the Committee determined the executive directors bonus payments.
The Groups strong financial performance in 2006 resulted in the bonuses shown in the directors remuneration table.
In 2006, customer and employee metrics were introduced to balance the financial objectives of the Annual Bonus Plan and to ensure that Aviva acted in the interests of all its stakeholders.
As a result, 50% of the objectives were financial, 10% related to customer measures and 10% to employee morale and leadership.
The final 30% of the bonus measures related to personal objectives.
This split ensures that the environmental, social and governance responsibilities of Aviva are encouraged and that the performance measures address the broad range of Avivas objectives.
The committee reviews the Annual Bonus Plan targets annually and has discretion to make changes.
The charts below illustrate the balance between basic salary and variable performance based compensation annual bonus and long-term incentive plans received by each executive director in the year to 31 December 2006.
Bonuses include the value of shares granted under the free share part of the Aviva All-Employee Share Ownership Plan maximum 3,000 and the total amounts earned in respect of 2006 performance under the Annual Bonus Plan ie including the amounts deferred and granted in the form of shares.
All the executive directors received life assurance benefits during the year that relate to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the directors life assurance and spouses benefits which, had they died during the year, could not have been wholly paid by the pension scheme and would therefore have been met by the Company.
The disclosure also includes the cost of private medical insurance, and when appropriate, accompanied travel, accommodation and car benefits.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benefits.
No directors received an expense allowance during the year.
Payments to former directors: Since his retirement as a director in 2003, Anthony Wyand has served as a consultant and as a director on the Boards of some of the Groups European operations.
Under this arrangement, a fee of 145,000 was paid to him in 2006.
During the year, shares granted to certain former executive directors under the companys incentive plans vested.
Details of these awards were fully disclosed in the year of grant.
For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985 the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2006 was 7.9 million.
No compensation payment for loss of office was made to any director, or former director, during the year.
Andrew Moss did not benefit from the LTIPs that vested in 2006 as he was not an employee in 2003, when they were granted.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 95 Pension benefits During the year to 31 March 2006, each of the executive directors accumulated pension benefits under the defined benefits section of the Pension Scheme.
Richard Harvey and Andrew Moss, who were subject to the pre-April 2006 Earnings Cap, ceased accruing further benefits in the scheme from that date.
Executive directors pension arrangements Richard Andrew Philip Patrick 1 2 3 3 Harvey Moss Scott Snowball 000 000 000 000 Accrued annual pension at 1 January 2006 527 17 343 231 Transfer of UURB in excess of Lifetime Allowance 458 Increase in accrued annual pension during the year as a result of inflation 4 12 8 Augmentation of benefits 20 Adjustment to accrued annual pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 2 6 13 Increase in accrued annual pension as a result of additional service 3 17 4 Accrued annual pension at 31 December 2006 75 20 361 289 5 Employee contributions during the year 10 6 27 27 6 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2005 7,681 166 4,357 3,465 6 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2006 1,252 231 5,236 4,833 6 Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 6,433 61 852 1,341 Age at 31 December 2006 years 56 48 52 56 Notes 1.
Mr Harvey was subject to the HMRC Earnings Cap: hence a large part of the liability to pay his pension fell outside the Pension Scheme and was provided by the Company through an UURB.
In line with material changes affecting pensions which became effective from 6 April 2006 the Company crystallised the value of its liability for Mr Harveys UURB in excess of the LTA and transferred 11.6 million, being the actuarially calculated, and independently reviewed, value of the pension crystallised, into an EFRBS.
As a result Mr Harveys pension benefit, post March 2006 is 75,000 pa. and subject to increase in line with deferred pensions the lower of the increase in the Retail Prices Index or 5% subject to the LTA.
In addition Mr Harvey is entitled to a pension benefit of cNZ$25,000 pa from a New Zealand defined benefit scheme in respect of his service with the Groups former operations in that country.
In calculating the actuarial value of the amount to be transferred to the EFRBS an appropriate reduction was made to reflect the benefit of his New Zealand pension.
The amount of the transfer of 11.6 million to the EFRBS was accounted for as follows: Amount provided on the Companys balance sheet for Richard Harvey as part of the IAS 19 charge at 31 March 2006, immediately prior to the change on 6 April 2006 is 10.8 million.
Less the amount of 700,000 transferred to the Pension Scheme to provide a pension up to the LTA.
The balance of 1.5 million was charged to the profit and loss account to take account of the increase in pension which would have been payable on his basic pay increase at 1 April 2006 amount of pension increase 67,000 pa. 2.
Mr Moss ceased accrual in the pension scheme after 31 March 2006 and as a result his pension benefit, post March 2006 is c20,000 pa and subject to increase in line with deferred pensions the lower of the increase in the Retail Prices Index or 5% subject to the LTA.
Mr Snowball and Mr Scott have been accruing benefits in the Pension Scheme since before June 1989 and therefore were not subject to HMRCs Earnings Cap and can continue to accrue benefits in the Pension Scheme, which they did throughout 2006.
For a number of years Mr Snowball had been accruing additional benefits which were due to accrue uniformly up to his normal retirement date in 2010.
Mr Snowballs benefits were augmented to accrue in full in 2006, to reflect his increased duties following a restructuring of the UK businesses when no change was made to any other element of his remuneration.
A payment of 429,000 was made into the pension scheme to fund this and therefore that part of the annual accrual ceased.
The accrued pension is the amount of annual pension to which the directors would have been entitled at age 60 had they left service at 31 December 2006.
Contributions of 5% of salary are made by Mr Scott and Mr Snowball towards their pension.
As Mr Harvey and Mr Moss ceased accruing benefits in the Pension Scheme from March 2006 their 5% contributions ceased from that date and therefore the amounts disclosed are in relation to the period prior to that date.
The change in the transfer values over the year include the effect of changes made by the Trustee of the Pension Scheme to the assumptions used in respect of the market value of future investment returns and mortality.
The significant reduction in relation to Mr Harvey reflects the reduction in his accrued pension benefit to 75,000 pa as described in note 1 above.
Transfer values represent the estimated liability on the Scheme to pay the stated level of benefits.
They are not sums paid, or due, to a director and do not represent the true cost of providing the pension benefit.
No former directors received any increase in retirement benefits in excess of the amount to which they were entitled on the later of the date when the benefits first became payable on 31 March 1997.
Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 96 Directors remuneration report continued Share incentive plans Details of the directors who held executive office for any part of the financial year, and hold or held options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company or hold or held awards over shares in the Company, pursuant to the Companys share-based incentive plans, are set out below.
Savings related share options These are options granted under the HMRC approved Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Options are normally exercisable during the six month period following the end of the relevant three, five or seven year savings contract.
At Options Options Options At 1January granted exercised lapsing31 December 2006 during year during year during year 2006 Exercise price Number Number Number Number Number p Exercise period Richard Harvey Savings related options 2002 4,426 4,426 401.0 December 2009 May 2010 Andrew Moss Savings related options 2005 3,279 3,279 491.0 December 2010 May 2011 Philip Scott Savings related options 2002 4,096 4,096 401.0 December 2007 May 2008 Patrick Snowball Savings related options 2003 2,272 2,272 406.0 The mid-market price of an ordinary share in the Company on 29 December 2006, being the last business day of the year, was 822 pence, and the mid-market prices during the year ranged from 690 pence to 850.5 pence.
During the year, directors made an aggregate gain of 8,355 upon the exercise of share options.
Share awards The Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan 2005 was approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and is described above.
This 2005 Plan replaced the original Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan Aviva LTIP which was approved by shareholders in 2001 and under which awards were made on an annual basis up to and including 2004.
Performance testing under the Aviva LTIP Under the Aviva LTIP, which granted awards between 2001 and 2004, shares vest subject to the attainment of TSR and ROCE performance conditions over a three-year performance period.
The Companys TSR, when compared with the TSR of a comparator group of European financial services companies, needs to match at least median performance for 20% of the awards to vest.
At upper decile performance, 70% of the awards vest.
Between median and upper decile, vesting is determined on a straight-line basis.
ROCE of 24% in excess of RPI over the three-year period results in 24% of the shares vesting, rising to a maximum of 30% if the ROCE exceeds 30% over the same period.
At the end of the performance period relating to the awards granted in 2003, the Company was ranked eight out of the 20 companies in the comparator group and the ROCE was 33.6%.
As a result, 34.9% of the awards vested based on the TSR part of the Plan and 30.0% of the awards vested based on the ROCE part, making a total of 64.9% vested.
The 35.1% of the awards, which did not vest, lapsed.
The vesting history under the Aviva LTIP is as follows: Percentage of award vesting Year of grant Performance period ROCE TSR Total 2001 January 2001 to December 2003 21.7 0.0 21.7 2002 January 2002 to December 2004 23.3 23.0 46.3 2003 January 2003 to December 2005 30.0 34.9 64.9 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 97 Performance graph The following graph compares the TSR performance of the Company over the past five years with the TSR of the FTSE 100 Return Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index, of which Aviva is a member.
The graph also includes the median TSR of the companies in the comparator group as this is the group against which performance is measured for the purpose of the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The companies which compose the comparator group for TSR purposes were amended when the new Long-Term Incentive Plan was introduced in 2005 so that the group matches more closely the companies which offer similar products in similar geographic markets to Aviva.
The TSR graph for the comparator group has therefore been plotted using the 19 companies excluding Aviva in the comparator group pre-2005 and the 14 companies excluding Aviva in the group for 2005 and 2006.
Aviva five-year TSR performance against the FTSE100 Index and the median of the Comparator Group 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Aviva FTSE 100 Index Comparator Group Median The Aviva Annual Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders in April 2005 and it replaced the Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan.
The Aviva Deferred Bonus Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2001 Annual General Meeting.
The awards disclosed include those made in lieu of some or all of the cash bonus earned and deferred under the Companys Annual Bonus Plan and also the matching awards granted on a one-for-one basis.
The vesting of the awards on the third anniversary of their grant is not subject to performance conditions.
This plan was replaced by the Aviva Annual Bonus Plan in 2005 and therefore no awards have been granted under the Plan since 2005.
The Aviva Share Plan was established in May 2004 specifically to facilitate the recruitment of Andrew Moss.
The awards made under the Plan compensate Andrew Moss for the value of the long-term incentive awards granted to him by his previous employer and which lapsed when he resigned to join Aviva.
Andrew Moss is the only participant in the Plan.
On 10 May 2004, the date Andrew Moss joined the Company, 103,846 shares in the Aviva Employee Trust with a market value of 540,000 were allocated to him.
On 31 October 2004 67,307 of the shares vested, 23,077 vested on 31 December 2005 and the balance of 13,462 vested on 31 December 2006.
The vesting of these shares was not subject to any performance conditions.
The Committee monitors the number of shares issued under its various all employee and discretionary share plans and their effect on dilution limits.
The relevant dilution limits established by the Association of British Insurers in respect of all share plans 10% in any rolling ten year period and executive share plans 5% in any rolling ten year period were, based on the Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2006, 2.60% and 1.12% respectively.
Between March 1998 and March 2003, the Company met its liability for shares awarded under the incentive plans by funding an employee trust that acquired shares in the market at the time of grant.
Details of the shares currently held in the employee trusts are set out in note 29 to the accounts.
Accounting changes Major changes to accounting policies and practices in 2005, including adopting International Financial Reporting Standards and European Embedded Value principles for supplementary reporting, affected a number of the key performance indicators and performance measures used in connection with the Companys long-term incentive plans.
During the transition period the Committee received reports showing the impacts of these changes on the performance measures and satisfied itself that the evaluation of actual performance against the performance conditions which were originally set using prior accounting practices is appropriate having made allowance for the accounting changes.
Senior executives remuneration The total compensation paid during the year to key management personnel, being those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company, including the Companys directors and non-executive directors as required to be disclosed by International Accounting Standard 24 was 53 million 2005: 34 million and is set out below in note 53 to the Accounts.
Non-executive directors remuneration The Companys Articles of Association provide that the total aggregate remuneration paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors will be determined by the Board within the limits set by shareholders.
The current aggregate limit of 1.5 million was approved by shareholders at the Companys 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Executive directors are remunerated under their service contracts and receive no additional fee for serving as directors.
Chairman 375,000 pa Board membership fee 50,000 pa Additional fees are paid as follows: Senior independent director 10,000 pa Committee Chairman Audit inclusive of committee membership fee 35,000 pa Remuneration inclusive of committee membership fee 20,000 pa Committee Membership Audit 10,000 pa Remuneration 10,000 pa Nomination 5,000 pa Risk and Regulatory 5,000 pa Corporate Social Responsibility 5,000 pa Other than for the Chairmans fee, which was increased by 15,000 pa from 1 January 2006 to reflect the loss of a car allowance of 18,000 pa from that date, no increases were made to the level of directors fees during the year.
However, fees payable to the senior independent director, chairman of the Remuneration Committee and for membership of the Risk and Regulatory and Corporate Social Responsibility committees were introduced from 1 April 2006 following changes to the Board committee structure and directors responsibilities.
In addition to the Board membership and committee membership fees Derek Stevens received an additional amount of 10,000 per annum for serving as the chairman of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme.
The fee for Guillermo fide la Dehesa includes an amount of 140,000 per annum for serving as the non-executive chairman of the Groups operations in Spain.
No non-executive director accrued retirement benefits during the year.
Aviva plc Governance continued Annual Report and Accounts 2006 100 Directors remuneration report continued Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company are shown below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various all-employee and executive share schemes.
Details of the options and long-term incentive awards are shown on pages 96 to 98 and the Aviva Share Plan is described on page 97.
Shares are the directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Company and in respect of the executive directors include shares held in trust under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP being shares purchased by them under the partnership element and shares granted under the free share element of the AESOP.
Executive directors are required to build and maintain a beneficial interest in the Companys shares equal in value to 1.5 times their annual salary 1.75 times annual salary in the case of the Group Chief Executive.
The requirement was introduced as part of the revised remuneration arrangements from 2005: the holding must be attained within five years.
Bonus Plan Awards relates to entitlements to shares arising through the current, or former, Aviva Bonus Plans.
Under these plans some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the executive leaves service before the end of the period.
Long-Term Incentive Awards are awards granted under the Aviva Long-Term Incentive Plans which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
Options are options over shares granted under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Aviva Share Plan relates to shares held under the Plan referred to above in which only Andrew Moss participated.
The following changes to directors interests which relate to shares acquired each month under the partnership element of the AESOP during the period 1 January 2006 to 28 February 2007 have been reported to the Company.
Number of shares Richard Harvey 14 Philip Scott 15 Patrick Snowball 14 This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 28 February 2007.
Richard Karl Goeltz Chairman, Remuneration Committee
