The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2006 25 Directors Remuneration Report Introduction should be sufficient to enable candidates of high calibre to be The Directors Remuneration Report the Report is prepared recruited.
The policy is for the Chairman of the Board, the in accordance with Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Audit the Act in respect of the year ended 31 October 2006.
An Committee to be paid a higher fee than the other directors in ordinary resolution to approve the Report will be put to the recognition of their more onerous roles.
Annual General Meeting on 1 March 2007.
The Act requires The Companys Articles of Association limit the fees payable the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain to the directors in aggregate to 150,000 per annum.
In the parts of the Report and to state whether in their opinion year under review the directors fees were paid at the those parts of the Report have been properly prepared in following annual rates: accordance with the Act.
Therefore the Report has been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited The Chairman 28,800: the Chairman of the Audit information.
Committee and Senior Independent Director 20,000 and the other directors 18,000 each.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION Consideration by the Directors of Matters Relating to The policy is to review these rates annually, although such Directors Remuneration review will not necessarily result in any change to the rates.
The Board as a whole considers the directors remuneration.
The Board has not appointed a committee to consider matters Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the Company in respect of the directors.
relating to the directors remuneration.
The Board has not been provided with advice or services by any person in respect Performance Graph of its consideration of the directors remuneration although A line graph as required by the Regulations showing the the directors regularly review the fees paid to the boards of Companys share price total return compared to the FTSE Alldirectors of other investment trust companies.
Share Index is shown below.
Statement of the Companys Policy of Directors 1600 Remuneration 1500 The Board consists entirely of six non-executive directors who 1400 meet at least eight times a year to deal with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
New directors are appointed 1300 with the expectation that they will serve for a period of three 1200 years and receive a letter of appointment.
Directors 1100 appointments are reviewed formally every three years 1000 thereafter by the Board as a whole.
None of the directors has a contract of service or a contract for services and a director 900 may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there 800 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 are no set notice periods.
The Companys policy is for the The Company's share price total return, assuming directors to be remunerated in the form of fees, payable the investment of 1,000 on 31 October 2001 and the quarterly in arrears, to the director personally or to a third reinvestment of all dividends excluding dealing expenses.
There are no long-term incentive FTSE All-Share Index assuming the notional investment of 1,000 into the Index on 31 October 2001 and the schemes provided by the Company and the fees are not reinvestment of all income excluding dealing expenses.
specifically related to the directors performance, either individually or collectively.
The FTSE All-Share Index is selected because it was the Companys benchmark throughout the period covered by The Companys policy is that the fees payable to the directors the graph.
should reflect the time spent by the Board on the Companys affairs and the responsibilities borne by the directors and
