52 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared to comply with the Directors Remuneration It is currently intended that the policy statement set out in this report will Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
The tables included in the apply for the year to 31 March 2007 and for subsequent years.
However, the statements below on directors remuneration, pensions and share options Remuneration Committee considers that an effective remuneration policy have been audited.
needs to be sufficiently flexible and kept under review in order to take account of future changes in the companys business environment and in The Remuneration Committee remuneration practice.
Accordingly, the policy may be further amended in The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of the board future years.
Any changes in policy for financial years after 31 March 2007 whose members throughout the year were Mr M E T Davies chairman, will be described in future directors remuneration reports, which will Mr C M Allen-Jones and Mr J R H Loudon.
continue to be subject to an advisory vote of shareholders.
All statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for years after 31 March 2007 The Committee, whose written terms of reference are published on the should be read in this light.
companys website and are available on request from the company secretary, has been established for the following purposes: Policy on individual components of executive directors remuneration To determine and agree with the board the framework and broad policy Basic salary and benefits for the remuneration of the executive directors and such other members Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee by reference to of the executive management as it is requested by the board to consider the experience and responsibilities of the director concerned and taking into and to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the account external market research.
The companys policy is to pay salaries remuneration policy.
and other benefits which are competitive, but not excessive, in relation to the marketplace.
The company provides a range of benefits, such as cash To approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance allowances in lieu of company cars, life insurance, permanent health related pay schemes operated by the company and to approve the total insurance, and private medical cover.
annual payments made under such schemes.
To review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Bonus board and shareholders and, for any such plans, to determine each year The company operates a discretionary annual bonus scheme for executive whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount of such directors, which takes into account both the performance of individual awards, the individual awards to executive directors and other senior directors and the performance of the company over the short and medium executives and the performance targets to be used.
For the financial year ended 31 March 2006, the bonuses will either be paid in cash or as an employer contribution to Her Majestys Revenue and Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total individual Customs HMRC approved pension schemes.
The method of payment will remuneration packages of each executive director and, if requested by be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
the board, other senior executives including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, share options and other awards.
The maximum potential bonus that may currently be awarded is 100% of basic salary.
For the year ended 31 March 2006, the amount of bonus payable To determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements, was dependent on a combination of the level of the outperformance of service agreements, termination payments and compensation Caledonias net asset value per share NAV per share with dividends added commitments for executive directors and, if requested by the board, back over the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, but measured over the other senior executives.
financial year, and on the individual directors performance.
For the year To review and assess annually the remuneration trends across ending 31 March 2007 and future years, the company performance related the company.
element of bonus will be determined by reference to the outperformance of the companys NAV per share over the FTSE All-Share index, to provide References to executive directors also include the chairman.
consistency with the performance targets of the companys share option During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from Towers schemes and deferred bonus plan and also of the bonus schemes operated Perrin, independent remuneration consultants appointed by the Committee.
for the companys other employees.
The Remuneration Committee has the Towers Perrin advised the Remuneration Committee on the design of the discretion to reduce the amount of bonus payable if Caledonias NAV per new executive share option scheme and deferred bonus plan implemented share growth in the financial year is negative and or Caledonias NAV per following a thorough review of the companys remuneration policy in the share outperformance over the relevant financial year is greater than that of previous year and approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting the previous three financial years and, therefore, represents recovery from of the company held on 13 July 2005.
Towers Perrin also assessed the previous underperformance.
The payment of any such bonus is subject to the comparability of senior executive remuneration packages with the market overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
place for the purpose of setting executive directors salaries for the year The Remuneration Committee may also award bonuses outside the terms of commencing 1 April 2006.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee the companys annual bonus scheme.
No bonus payments are pensionable.
received advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in relation to the new executive share option scheme and deferred bonus plan.
Towers Perrin only Deferred bonus plan advised in relation to the remuneration of executive directors and senior The companys bonus arrangements are also designed to align the interests management and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer are the companys main of directors with those of shareholders and to encourage retention by legal advisers.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the requiring, in the Remuneration Committees absolute discretion, that a chairman, Mr P N Buckley, and the chief executive, Mr T C W Ingram, in proportion of any bonus paid to a director is compulsorily invested in shares relation to the remuneration of all of the executive directors other than their under the companys deferred bonus plan.
Internal support was provided to the Remuneration Committee by the current policy is that any annual bonus paid, the amount of which is above company secretary.
50% of a directors basic salary for the financial year to which the bonus relates, must be so compulsorily invested.
Remuneration policy for executive directors The Remuneration Committee has adopted a remuneration policy with the In addition, the deferred bonus plan entitles directors to convert voluntarily following objectives: a proportion of any remaining cash bonus to a conditional entitlement to shares.
The Remuneration Committees current policy is that up to half of Performance related remuneration should seek to align the interests of any bonus not subject to compulsory deferral may be voluntarily converted the executive directors with those of the shareholders.
The shares so invested are eligible for matching, on a one for A significant portion of the executive directors remuneration packages one basis, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions over a should be linked to the performance of the company.
Remuneration packages for the executive directors should be No awards under the plan will be made to executives within six months of competitive in terms of market practice in order to attract, retain and their anticipated retirement.
Awards under the plan are not pensionable.
motivate executive directors of the quality needed to manage and grow the company successfully.
Pensions The companys policy on pension provision is to provide a means whereby In determining executive directors remuneration, consideration is given to executive directors either receive a pension at retirement age from the matters specific to the company such as the performance of its net asset company, or are funded to operate their own money purchase pension value, both in absolute terms and as measured against the FTSE All-Share plans or other arrangements.
Mr P N Buckley, Mr J H Cartwright and the index, to the experience and performance of individual directors and their Hon C W Cayzer are members of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, which is areas of responsibility and to comparable external market remuneration a defined benefits scheme and is contributory for employees who joined data and levels of remuneration elsewhere in the company.
the company after 1 April 1988, but which is now closed to new members.
The scheme provides a pension of up to two-thirds of final pensionable Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 53 salary on retirement dependent on length of service and also provides for Performance graph dependants pensions.
All of the executive directors participating in the The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return TSR scheme, other than Mr J H Cartwright, transferred into the scheme from against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the five financial The Union-Castle Line Superannuation Scheme which was non-contributory, periods ending on 31 March 2006 and has been prepared in accordance and this status has been preserved.
Mr T C W Ingram and Mr J M May do not with the Regulations.
TSR has been calculated assuming that all dividends participate in any company pension scheme, but instead a fixed percentage are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return of basic salary is paid into personal pension arrangements or, in the case of index has been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company Mr Ingram, as a cash supplement, which is reduced by such amount as is measures its delivery of shareholder value over the longer term.
necessary to cover the companys National Insurance costs.
The percentage of basic salary is 25% for Mr Ingram and 10% for Mr May.
Mr J M B CayzerTotal shareholder return growth over five years Colvin and Mr W P Wyatt participate in the Caledonia Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution scheme into which employer contributions of 10% of basic salary are made on each of their behaves.
Caledonia total shareholder return FTSE All-Share Total Return % It is the companys policy that any future executive directors recruited from 300 outside the company will be funded to operate their own pension arrangements or offered participation in a defined contribution scheme and that the company 250 will not offer participation in any defined benefits arrangements.
200 Share options 150 A key objective of the companys remuneration policy is to motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value.
The Remuneration 100 Committee believes that this is best achieved through the grant of share 50 options, exercisable only if a demanding performance condition is met.
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 The grant of options is considered to be a key element of the remuneration package, alongside annual salary, annual bonus and the deferred bonus plan.
Source: Caledonia and FTSE Datastream The maximum value of options that may be granted in any year to a director Statement on directors remuneration audited is 150% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee may exceed this limit for Total emoluments of the directors were as follows: individual directors where it considers it necessary to do so to secure their appointment, provided that the maximum value that may be granted in 2006 2005 such circumstances shall not exceed 250% of salary.
000 000 No options are granted at a discount.
Fees 149 157 Salaries 1,682 1,317 Policy on executive directors service contracts Benefits 127 101 It is the policy of the company that no executive director should be offered a 1 Performance related bonuses 791 914 service contract that cannot be terminated within one year or which contains provision for predetermined compensation in excess of one years total 2,749 2,489 emoluments.
All existing directors service contracts comply with this policy.
Gains on exercise of share options 1,073 448 The Remuneration Committee has regard to compensation commitments 3,822 2,937 and believes that these are best addressed by restricting the term of the contract.
In the event of a termination, the Remuneration Committee would 1.
Amounts accrued at the year end and subsequently deferred as a voluntary contribution under the companys deferred bonus plan or paid in cash or as an employer contribution to HMRC approved consider all the relevant factors and circumstances and seek a just solution.
pension schemes, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Policy on external non-executive directorships held by The emoluments of individual directors were as follows: executive directors 1 Fees and Bonus Total Total It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold external non- 2 3 salaries Benefits Total Deferred 2006 2005 executive directorships unrelated to the companys business, provided that 000 000 000 000 000 000 the time commitment required is not material.
Normally the company will Executive retain any fees arising from such non-executive directorships, but may 4 P N Buckley 300 19 250 150 419 504 permit the executive director to retain fees in certain circumstances.
Details of any such fees retained by executive directors are disclosed T C W Ingram 380 19 380 190 589 605 in the statement on directors remuneration below.
J H Cartwright 249 19 225 100 393 423 The Hon C W Cayzer 190 18 180 86 302 318 Policy on non-executive directors remuneration and terms 5 of appointment J M B Cayzer-Colvin 140 17 133 63 227 It is the companys policy that non-executive directors should be appointed J M May 283 18 283 141 443 482 for fixed periods of no more than three years from the next general meeting 5 W P Wyatt 140 17 140 70 227 following their initial appointment in the case of new non-executive directors and that re-appointment at the end of such periods should not be automatic.
Non-executive Non-executive directors are paid an annual fee determined by the board as a J R H Loudon 28 28 27 whole within the overall limit contained in the articles of association, but do C M Allen-Jones 34 34 33 not receive any other benefits for their service as non-executive directors from M E T Davies 31 31 30 the company.
The basic fee for non-executive directors was 28,000 2005 6 27,000 and fees of 3,000 per annum 2005 3,000 were paid for the R Goblet dAlviella 28 28 5 chairmanships of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, with a further 7 Sir David Kinloch 8 3,000 2005 3,000 paid to Mr C M Allen-Jones for his role as senior D G F Thompson 28 28 27 independent non-executive director and chairman of the Governance 8 Committee.
Non-executive directors may also be paid additional fees agreed M G Wyatt 27 by the board where they have performed services that, in the opinion of the 1,831 127 1,591 800 2,749 2,489 board, are over and above their normal duties.
See note 1 to the table above.
Benefits mainly comprised cash alternatives in lieu of company cars and private medical cover.
The company is entitled to terminate a non-executive directors 3.
Deferred bonuses will be satisfied in shares shortly after the announcement of the companys appointment at any time without compensation.
preliminary results for the year.
In addition to the amount shown in the table, 50,000 was paid in respect of Mr Buckleys bonus award for the year as an employer pension contribution, as described in the statement of directors pensions below.
54 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Directors remuneration report continued The deferred bonus column in the above table shows the amount of bonus Statement on directors pensions audited compulsorily deferred into shares under the companys deferred bonus plan Pension benefits accrued by directors during the year under the companys approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting held on 13 July 2005. defined benefits scheme were as follows: In addition, up to 50% of the remaining cash bonus may be voluntarily invested J H The Hon into shares under the deferred bonus plan.
The number of shares awarded Row P N Buckley Cartwright C W Cayzer for both the compulsory and voluntary deferral of bonus is determined by ref reference to the market value of a share at the time the award is made, which Accrued pension at 31 March 2006 occurs shortly after the announcement of Caledonias results for the financial per annum 1 263,503 104,473 86,857 year to which the bonus relates or following the occurrence of exceptional Increase in accrued pension circumstances justifying the making of awards.
In both cases, the number of during the year per annum 2 31,937 9,164 14,807 shares is set on a pre-tax basis as the shares will be subject to income tax and national insurance on release.
The number of matching shares is equal to the Increase in accrued pension during number of shares awarded in respect of the voluntary deferral of bonus.
the year, net of inflation per annum 3 23,369 6,877 13,078 The shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest Transfer value of increase in together with an amount equal to the dividends that would have accrued accrued pension over the year, on those shares if the director remains an employee of the Caledonia group net of director contributions 4 434,948 67,739 157,452 for a three year period following the award.
The vesting of these shares is Transfer value of accrued pension not subject to a further performance condition.
at 31 March 2006 5 5,107,551 1,329,775 1,123,422 The shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to a Transfer value of accrued pension performance condition and will vest together with an amount equal to the at 31 March 2005 6 4,155,976 1,176,484 825,625 dividends that would have accrued on those shares at the earlier of three Change in transfer value over the years from the date of the award or the date the director ceases to be an year, net of director contributions 7 951,575 143,311 297,797 employee of the Caledonia group for any reason.
Except for Mr P N Buckley, the accrued pensions shown in row 1 were the amounts that would be paid at normal retirement age, ignoring any revaluation, if the director had left service at 31 March The vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the companys 2006.
Mr P N Buckley reached normal retirement age on 23 September 2004 but has continued in performance over a three year period, by reference to two separate employment.
The amount shown in row 1 for Mr Buckley represents the accrued pension that performance conditions.
Both performance conditions relate to the would have been paid at 31 March 2006.
During the year, the Hon C W Cayzers normal retirement performance of Caledonias net asset value per share over the three financial age was reduced from 62 to 60, which resulted in an increase in the value of his accrued pension as years starting with the year in which the award is made the Prescribed at 31 March 2006.
The increase in accrued pension, net of inflation, in row 3 is calculated by subtracting the pension Period.
This performance of net asset value per share will be compared accrued to 31 March 2005 23 September 2004 for Mr Buckley, multiplied by the increase in the against different indices as follows: Retail Prices Index for the year to 31 March 2006, from the accrued pension to 31 March 2006.
In the case of Mr Buckley, who has not yet drawn any retirement benefits and remains a deferred pensioner 50% of the matching shares will only vest if Caledonias net asset value within the scheme, the increase in accrued pension shown is the increase over the period from his per share over the Prescribed Period outperforms the Retail Price Index pension at his normal retirement date of 23 September 2004 to 31 March 2006, a period of by at least 9%.
As Mr Buckley ceased accruing pension benefits at his normal retirement date, this increase is made up entirely of increases due to the late payment of his pension.
The remaining 50% of the matching shares will only vest if Caledonias 3.
The transfer value shown in row 4 represented the value of the increase in accrued pension during net asset value per share over the Prescribed Period outperforms the the year, as set out in row 3, minus directors contributions.
FTSE All-Share index by at least 3%.
During the year, Mr Buckleys bonus award of 199,010 for the year ended 31 March 2005 was paid by the company as a contribution into the scheme in order to enhance Mr Buckleys cash lump sum benefit There will be no retesting of either performance condition.
The amounts in rows 1 to 4 do not include allowance for this contribution.
The transfer value at 31 March 2006 set out in row 5 does however include the value of this contribution.
The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance target if events 5.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in row 7 calculated as row 5 less row 6 and occur that would make the amended target a fairer measure of performance any directors contributions reflected the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the control and provided that any amended target is no more difficult to satisfy.
The of the company and the directors, such as movements in stock markets.
These can cause transfer values at different points in time to fluctuate significantly.
Disclosed changes in value may therefore Remuneration Committee will also have the ability to impose different be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
performance targets in the future, provided that any targets that are 6.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11, published imposed are no less demanding than that described above.
Any such by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
amended or different performance targets will be described in the In April 2006, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to pay directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
50,000 of Mr P N Buckleys bonus award for the year ended 31 March 2006 In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, Mr T C W Ingram was as an employer contribution to secure additional lump sum benefits for him paid an amount of 51,450 2005 44,758, before tax, in lieu of contributions under the Caledonia Pension Scheme.
This contribution is not included in to his personal money purchase pension arrangements as described in the the above table of pension benefits accrued by directors during the year.
statement on directors pensions below.
Similarly, Mr W P Wyatt was paid During the year, the company made contributions to a money purchase an amount of 3,460 2005 nil in lieu of contributions to the Caledonia personal pension plan for the benefit of Mr T C W Ingram of 36,960 2005 Group Personal Pension Plan, also as described in the statement on directors 35,700, being the maximum amount permitted for this tax year under pensions below.
Certain executive directors also hold external non-executive HMRC limits.
As described above, and in accordance with his service contract, directorships unrelated to the companys business, where it has been agreed Mr Ingram elected to receive the balance of his agreed pension entitlement that they may retain the fees arising therefrom.
Mr T C W Ingram is a nonby way of a cash payment of 51,450 2005 44,758, before tax, in lieu executive director of Sage Group, for which he received fees during the year of pension contribution.
The company also made contributions during the of 42,477 2005 37,500.
Mr Ingram was appointed to the board of Sage year of 28,250 2005 26,415 to a money purchase pension plan for the Group before he joined Caledonia.
During the year, Mr J M May received a fee of benefit of Mr J M May.
Messrs J M B Cayzer-Colvin and W P Wyatt are members 722 2005 20,000 for his services as chairman of Covenant Healthcare until of the Caledonia Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP, a defined contribution his resignation on 14 April 2005.
From 1 January 2006, Mr May also received a scheme.
During the year, employer contributions of 14,000 2005 nil fee from Catapult Venture Managers, amounting in the year to 4,531 2005 were paid to the GPPP on behalf of Mr Cayzer-Colvin.
Both of these fees were paid to a private company owned by Mr May and of 10,540 were paid on behalf of Mr Wyatt into the GPPP and 3,460 in cash.
his wife and both directorships were held prior to his joining Caledonia.
Mr Wyatt received a cash payment in lieu of part of his pension contributions, as contributions brought forward from the previous year were paid into the GPPP in the year under review, which meant that the group was unable to pay the full 10% of his salary into the GPPP due to HMRC limits.
Statement on directors share options audited Options to acquire ordinary shares in the company held by the directors during the year ended 31 March 2006 were as shown in the table on page 55.
There have been no changes in directors options to acquire ordinary shares up to the date of this report.
56 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Directors remuneration report continued The company currently has three executive share option schemes an remaining two-thirds tranche 55,334 shares, the performance measure will original scheme established in 1988, which expired in April 1998 for the be first applied five years after grant, with two re-test opportunities six and purposes of new option grants, a 1998 scheme approved by shareholders in seven years after grant.
If Mr Ingram remains in service until retirement at July 1998, under which option grants were made from September 1998 to age 62, the option will remain exercisable until ten years from grant if the May 2004, and a scheme approved by shareholders in July 2005, under performance conditions are met.
Otherwise, Mr Ingram must normally be in which option grants commenced in August 2005. employment to be able to exercise the options.
The shares required to satisfy Mr Ingrams special options either have been or will be transferred from the Under the terms of all of the above schemes, options may be exercised Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust.
The remaining terms of between three and ten years after the date of grant, although only one-third the special options are based on the rules of the 1998 scheme, and include of the shares comprised in an option may be exercised after three years provisions that any benefits obtained from the special options will not be from grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming exercisable six years pensionable and that the terms of the special options will not normally be after grant.
Options may only be exercised if a performance target is met.
capable of amendment to the advantage of the option holder without the For options granted from 1996 to 1997 under the original scheme, the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
target requires the companys adjusted net asset value per share to Included in Mr Mays options granted on 20 November 2003 are options outperform the average of the increases in the FTSE All-Share and the over 28,000 shares granted outside the 1998 scheme.
The performance FT S&P Actuaries World Pound Sterling indices over any consecutive three conditions and other terms of these options are the same as those set year period to expiry.
For options granted from 1998 to 2001 under the out above for Mr Ingram.
1998 scheme, the target requires the companys adjusted net asset value per share to outperform either the Retail Price Index by 3% per annum, or As at 31 March 2006, the market price of the companys shares was 1980p the average of the increases in the FTSE 250 and the FT Investment 2005 1367p and the range during the year was 1260p to 2015p.
Companies indices, over any consecutive three financial years prior to expiry.
For options granted in 2002 and 2003, the performance target Statement on directors service contracts and non-executive directors requires the companys adjusted net asset value per share to outperform letters of appointment either the Retail Price Index by 3% per annum, or the FTSE All-Share index, Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group Services over any consecutive three financial years prior to expiry.
Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details of which are summarised below: For options granted in 2004, the performance target is such that 50% of the shares comprised in an option will vest if the companys net asset value per Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term share outperforms the Retail Price Index by at least 9% over the relevant P N Buckley 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months measurement period, with the other 50% vesting if the companys net asset T C W Ingram 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months value per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index over the relevant measurement period.
The performance measure has to be achieved either J H Cartwright 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months over the first three years, or over the first four years, after the date of grant.
The Hon C W Cayzer 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months If the performance measure is not achieved four years after the date of J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19.04.05 12 months Rolling 12 months grant, the options will lapse.
J M May 01.09.03 12 months Rolling 12 months The performance target for the 2005 scheme requires that 50% of the shares W P Wyatt 02.06.05 12 months Rolling 12 months comprised in an option will vest if Caledonias net asset value per share outperforms the Retail Price Index by at least 9% over the measurement Directors service contracts contain provisions whereby the company may in period.
The other 50% of the shares comprised in the option will vest if its discretion terminate the contract without notice and make a payment in Caledonias net asset value per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index lieu of notice to the director and whereby a liquidated sum is payable by the by at least 3% over the measurement period.
The measurement period for company in the event of termination within one year following a change of these purposes will be a period of three financial years measured at the end control.
Any such payment in lieu of notice or liquidated sum would be of the third financial year following the date of grant of the options.
There is equivalent to no more than one years total emoluments.
no retesting of the performance targets.
To the extent that the performance target is not met over this three year period, an option will lapse.
The service contracts of Mr J H Cartwright and the Hon C W Cayzer are also subject to provisions whereby, in the event of a payment in lieu of notice or The performance targets have been met for all options granted under the payment of a liquidated sum on termination, the director concerned would 1998 scheme from 1998 to 2003.
The Remuneration Committee has also be entitled to an increase in his pensionable service equivalent to the selected the targets referred to above because it believed they provided an unexpired period of notice under his contract.
appropriate benchmark of the companys longer term performance.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but are appointed The company has prepared its accounts under International Financial under letters of appointment which provide for termination without notice Reporting Standards IFRS commencing with the year ending 31 March or compensation.
A reconciliation of the companys last audited balance sheet as at 31 March 2005 from UK GAAP to IFRS has been undertaken and the difference Executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors amounted to an increase in net asset value under IFRS of 5.3m, equating to appointment letters are available for inspection at the registered office approximately 0.5% of net assets.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee of the company.
does not expect the adoption of IFRS to have a material effect on the performance targets for options already granted under the 1998 and 2005 schemes but, if necessary, will make adjustments to the extent considered The directors remuneration report was approved by the board on appropriate to ensure that the basis of calculation of net asset value per share 31 May 2006 and signed on its behalf by: is consistent over the relevant performance measurement period.
M E T Davies Included in the options originally granted to Mr Ingram on 5 July 2002 were Chairman of the Remuneration Committee options over 83,000 shares granted outside the 1998 scheme and subject to special performance-related terms.
As in the case of options granted under the 1998 scheme, only one-third of the shares under these special options were exercisable three years after grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming exercisable six years after grant.
The special options are subject to a stretching performance condition requiring Caledonias total shareholder return TSR to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return index Index over the measurement period, which commenced on the date of grant.
A tranche will vest in full if Caledonias TSR exceeds that of the Index by an average of at least 2% per annum over the relevant measurement period.
If Caledonias TSR equals that of the Index, none of that tranche will be exercisable and there will be proportionate vesting of a tranche if Caledonias TSR exceeds that of the Index by an average of between zero and 2% per annum.
For the one-third tranche, the performance measure was to be first applied three years after grant, with two re-test opportunities four and five years after grant.
The performance target for the one-third tranche was tested on 5 July 2005 and met in full.
Accordingly, Mr Ingram subsequently exercised all of the one-third tranche 27,666 shares during the year.
