Report on Directors Remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
This report is divided into the following sections: 1.
Details of current remuneration arrangements 3.
Financial summary of directors remuneration and share options The information contained in section 3 of this report has been audited.
Although under the Revised Combined Code, the Board is not required to submit this Report on Directors Remuneration for approval at the Annual General Meeting every year, the Board has resolved to do so, to provide a means for shareholders to communicate their continuing support or otherwise to the development of the Companys policy on the remuneration of its directors.
Policies Concerning Remuneration Executive Directors The policies concerning the remuneration of Executive directors, including salaries and bonuses, are set by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Richard Kilsby who is the Committees Chairman, Keith Hamill, Patrick OSullivan and Iain Napier.
All of the members are considered independent Non-executive directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive attend meetings by invitation.
The policy of remunerating Executive directors is to provide packages that are designed to attract, motivate, reward and retain directors who have the necessary skills and experience to drive the business forward successfully.
As a general principle, the Company favours highly variable remuneration depending upon performance for both Executive directors and staff.
Where performance justifies, the Company intends to pay more attractive remuneration than competitors and hence to attract high calibre staff to work for the organisation.
No Directors have a contractual entitlement to bonuses.
Non-Executive Directors The fees of all Non-Executive directors were set by the Board.
The Non-Executive directors were not involved in any discussions or decision by the Board about their own remuneration.
In reviewing levels of fees paid to the Non-Executive directors, the Board considers both the committee and other responsibilities of the relevant directors and the fees paid to nonexecutive directors of other similar organisations.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee provide that the remuneration of the Chairman will be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman will not attend the meetings of the Committee when this is being considered.
Details of Current Remuneration Arrangements Executive Directors Components of Packages The components of the remuneration packages for all the Executive directors are basic pay, performance bonus, private medical and death in service insurance.
Initial Options have been granted to Joel Plasco under the long term incentive plan LTIP adopted pursuant to the demerger.
No share options have been granted to Terry Smith.
This is because he has the benefit of substantial equity holdings in the Company acquired pursuant to the management buy-out of Collins Stewart Limited carried out in May 2000.
This policy may change in the future.
Salary and Performance Bonuses The annual basic salary of Terry Smith, Joel Plasco, Diana Dyer Bartlett and Paul Baines were 200,000, 250,000, 200,000 and 237,000 respectively.
The Companys policy is to pay high variable remuneration reflecting superior corporate and individual performance.
Bonuses, therefore, represent a core component of the Companys approach to remuneration.
The policy takes account of general practices within the Companys sector.
Bonuses are discretionary and are not formally capped and it is considered that both of these features are in the best interest of shareholders.
No directors have a contractual entitlement to a bonus.
Decisions on bonuses are made after the results for the year are known.
In determining the total amounts available for bonuses the Remuneration Committee considers the results for the period compared with prior periods, objectives and market circumstances and other factors it considers appropriate, which in the past have included return on capital employed and absolute and relative total shareholder returns.
The amount arrived at on this basis is then allocated to Executive directors depending on the Remuneration Committees view of their contribution to performance.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to increase or reduce the total amount available for distribution as bonuses depending upon its views on the bonus levels which are an appropriate reflection of the performance of individual Executive directors.
It is not appropriate to include a graph to show the Companys total shareholder return in comparison to other companies in the FTSE mid 250 index and the FTSE General Financials index as the Companys shares were only listed on 19 December 2006.
Service Contracts In compliance with the Revised Combined Code, no directors notice period exceeds 12 months.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 35 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Executive Directors All the Executive directors have service contracts which are terminable by either party giving the other 6 months notice, except Terry Smith, whose service contract is terminable by either party giving 12 months notice.
For each director, the Company will be entitled to terminate the service contract by paying, in lieu of the directors notice period, salary and a sum to compensate for the loss of other contractual benefits excluding bonuses.
Other than as described, no benefit, payment or compensation of any kind is payable to any director upon termination of his or her employment.
Non-executive Directors Remuneration of the Non-executive directors is set by the Board in accordance with the Articles of Association without the participation of Non-executive directors themselves.
Keith Hamill, who is Non-executive Deputy Chairman received an annual fee at a rate of 65,000 until 28 February 2007.
The rate was increased to 70,000 per annum with effect from 1 March 2007.
All other Non-executive directors receive 40,000 per annum basic fee plus 5,000 for chairing a Committee.
A Non-executive directors appointment terminates if the director is not re-appointed following his retirement pursuant to the Articles of Association, if he is otherwise removed from the Board by operation of law or pursuant to the Articles of Association, or if he resigns or does not offer himself for re-election by shareholders.
In addition, the appointment may be terminated by the Company or the relevant director by written notice.
All the Non-executive directors have letters of appointment which are terminable by either party giving the other 12 months notice, except Iain Napier, whose appointment is terminable by either party giving the other 3 months notice.
Summary of Directors Remuneration and Share Options Directors Remuneration The following table shows a breakdown of the remuneration of individual directors for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The above table does not include pension contributions in respect of Joel Plasco of 4,224.
Terry Smith also received a salary of 650,000 for his services to Collins Stewart Tullett plc and after 19 December 2006, Tullett Prebon plc.
His discretionary bonus for 2006 amounts to 3.85m and was determined by the Remuneration Committee and Board of Tullett Prebon plc.
Of this amount 2.85m will be paid by Tullet Prebon plc and Collins Stewart plc has agreed to contribute 1m.
Joel Plascos remuneration is in respect of the period from the date of his appointment on 22 June 2006.
Diana Dyer Bartletts remuneration is in respect of the period from the date of her appointment on 22 June 2006.
The bonus for Diana Dyer Bartlett is subject to certain performance conditions relating to performance in 2007 6.
Paul Baines joined the Board on 22 December 2006 following the acquisition of Hawkpoint Holdings Limited and the amounts included above are the pro rata share of amounts paid to him by that company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2006 37 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Directors Share Options Options to Joel Plasco and Diana Dyer Bartlett were previously granted under Collins Stewart Tullett plc share option schemes.
They became exercisable in accordance with their respective rules as a consequence of the demerger.
Both, Joel Plasco and Diana Dyer Bartlett agreed to exchange those options for equivalent options over the ordinary shares of Collins Stewart plc.
Details of the number of shares over which share options were held by directors at 19 December 2006 and at 31 December 2006 are set out below: Options at 19 December and Earliest 31 December exercise Expiry Exercise 2006 date date price Unapproved Share Option Scheme Joel Plasco 1,723,270 18.10.07 17.10.14 103p Joel Plasco 194,703 01.11.07 31.10.14 0.26p Diana Dyer Bartlett 155,762 22.04.07 21.04.14 115p Diana Dyer Bartlett 194,703 19.01.08 18.01.15 0.26p Company Share Option Plan Joel Plasco 29,057 18.10.07 17.10.14 103p No consideration was paid by any of the directors in respect of the granting of any of the above share options.
In addition to the above Joel Plasco was granted 1,486,367 nil cost options over the Companys ordinary shares on 13 March 2007 under the long term incentive plan adopted pursuant to the demerger.
The performance conditions attaching to the options require minimum return on capital employed throughout the performance period of 25 per cent per annum.
The level of vesting will depend on the degree to which the Companys total shareholder return outperforms the constituents of the FTSE General Financials Index.
At median performance 10 per cent of the options vest, with full vesting at upper quartile performance and straight line vesting in between.
Assuming the performance conditions are met, one half of the options are exercisable 3 to 10 years from date of grant and the balance 4 to 10 years from date of grant.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares ranged from a low of 218.5p to a high of 254.0p since listing on 19 December 2006.
Termination Payments and Payments to Third Parties No termination payments or payments to third parties were made.
By order of the Board Divya Amin fcca Company Secretary 27 March 2007 38 Collins Stewart plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the group financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the parent company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
