qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 16 Directors Report AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records In accordance with the provisions of section 384 of the Companies Act which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 1985, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking auditors is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and the Each Director of the Company states that, in accordance with and as Board Report on Remuneration which comply with the requirements dened by the Companies Act 1985:- of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in 1 so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
2 each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The 2007 Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 May 2007 in accordance with the notice being sent to Shareholders.
This statement is given and should be interpreted in accordance By order of the Board.
with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and have chosen to prepare company financial Hulley Road statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Hurdseld Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, J. R. Grime Maccleseld the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each Secretary Cheshire financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 27 February 2007 SK10 2SG the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: 1 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 2 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: 2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
16 Bodycote annual report 2006 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 17 Report of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee during 2006 were Messrs R. T. The Committees areas of activity during 2006 included: Scholes appointed 1998: Chairman from 2002, J. Vogelsang 2003 Assessment of independence of auditors and L. P. Bermejo 2003.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board at the same time as appointment to the main Board of Approval of auditors re-appointment and fees Bodycote.
In the cases of Messrs Vogelsang and Bermejo, appointments Approval of scope of internal and external audits were made following a recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
All members of the Committee are independent for the purposes of Approval of accounting policies the 2003 Code.
Approval of management representations and internal representations Mr Scholes is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience Review of financial statements and results announcements having been an investment banker, and also as a Chartered Accountant.
Greater detail on the qualications and experience of all Directors is Review of management improvement letters and audit process given on page 24 and their remuneration on page 21.
The Committee Review of arrangements for reporting and investigation of Chairmans additional responsibilities are reected by fees of 9,000 employee concerns per annum for that role.
The Committee met four times during 2006 and has the assistance of the Company Secretary, who serves as Review of Bodycotes business principles committee secretary.
100% attendance at committee meetings Review of internal audit findings and monitoring of effectiveness of was achieved by all committee members who served in the year, internal audit apart from the absence of Mr L. P. Bermejo from one audit planning meeting in November 2006 due to business commitments elsewhere.
Review of effectiveness of Boards internal controls and risk The Committee and its chairman held meetings with both the management process external and internal auditors without management in attendance.
Assessment of internal and external audit effectiveness The Head of Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Those attending meetings include the Assessment of the Committees own effectiveness Finance Director and Head of Internal Audit.
Review of the terms of reference for committee In reporting financial results to shareholders, the Committee depends Approval of the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit and on the skill, objectivity and independence of the auditors.
In the year plan for enlargement of the Internal Audit department ended 31 December 2006 the Committee obtained conrmation of the auditors independence and objectivity.
Further it is the policy of Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, the Company not to use the auditors for non-audit services, save for objectivity, independence, expertise, resources and general effectiveness tax compliance, matters where the fee is unlikely to exceed 20,000, of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Committee recommends and the Board or with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Details of amounts agrees to propose their re-appointment as auditors of the Company paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit services in 2006 in accordance with the notice of meeting being sent to shareholders.
is analysed in note 3 on page 37.
R. T. Scholes Audit Committee Chairman 27 February 2007 Bodycote annual report 2006 17 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 18 Board Report on Remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible for remuneration The changes introduced include: policies that create value for shareholders.
Performance related annual bonus potential increased for all Remuneration structures and packages therefore include moderate executives for 2006: base salaries, a high potential for variable pay but clearly linked with The 2003 share option scheme being replaced in 2006 by a absolute value delivered in the business, with key business value long-term incentive plan known as the Bodycote Incentive Plan: and drivers used as a basis for measuring performance and a significant The introduction of the Bodycote Share Match Plan.
proportion of variable pay in restricted conditional shares.
The Committee considers the targets set for the variable element of This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration and has sought Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and describes how the to encourage and incentivise stretch or exceptional and sustainable Board has applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate financial performances, as measured against the Groups strategic plans.
Governance in relation to the remuneration of the Directors.
FIXED ELEMENTS OF PAY As required by the Remuneration Report Regulations, a resolution to The xed elements of remuneration are salaries, pensions and approve the Board Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the other benets.
Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Chairman of the Base salary Remuneration Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting The base salaries for each Executive Director and senior executives to answer questions about Directors remuneration.
are reviewed annually and are determined by taking into account the The sections of this report dealing with Directors emoluments paid, responsibilities and performance of the individual, having regard to pensions and share options and incentives have been audited.
remaining sections are not subject to audit.
In line with the remuneration policy the Committee has, since 2002, THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE only made inationary and where appropriate market adjustments The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the following benchmarking.
The Committee has used UK engineering remuneration of Executive Directors and senior executives in all its businesses and FTSE 250 companies, as well as other North American forms, and the terms of the service contracts and all other terms and or European companies in similar trades, as comparables.
This resulted conditions of employment of the Executive Directors.
The Committees in the following salaries being set with effect from 1 January 2007: full terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
Mr J D Hubbard 390,000 The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2006 were Mr D F Landless 250,000 J. Vogelsang Chairman, R. T. Scholes and L. P Bermejo.
Mr D R Sleight 190,000 The Committee has taken advice from Ernst & Young LLP appointed Pension by the Remuneration Committee in 2006 to provide independent Pensions for current UK domiciled Executive Directors are, up to advice in determining appropriate levels of remuneration.
In addition, the UK Government salary cap, provided for under the Groups UK the Company received actuarial and other pensions advice from JLT contributory final salary pension scheme which has a normal benefit Consultants Limited appointed in 1995 and from KPMG LLP retirement age of 65 and which is closed to new members.
appointed in 2005 in relation to the management of risk arising from The main features, in respect of the Executive Directors are: the UK final salary pension scheme.
a Pensions from age 65 of 1 60th highest average salary of any REMUNERATION POLICY consecutive three years out of the last ten years prior to retirement The Committee aims to provide a remuneration policy consistent with restricted to the earnings cap where it applies for each year of the Groups overall business objectives and thereby attract and retain pensionable service, and with increases in pensionable salary after high calibre executives, align executives rewards with the creation 31 December 2003 restricted to 4.25% each year the Salary Limit : of shareholder value and motivate executives to achieve and maintain challenging levels of company and individual performance.
Market rates b A cash death-in-service benefit of four times basic salary at date are determined by reference to other companies of similar size, of death: activities and complexity.
At the same time, policy in this area is c Spouse or dependants pension on members death equal to half sensitive to the remuneration structure within the Group.
members prospective retirement pension restricted as before The Committee keeps both the xed and variable elements of each at 65 on death in service, or half members pension entitlement Executive Directors and senior executives overall package under on death in retirement: review.
In recent years, the Committee has progressively increased the d Members contributions are 7% of basic salary: proportion of variable as against xed element of pay.
e For Executive Directors with basic salaries above the Salary Limit or the earnings cap the Group will contribute 14% between 14% and 16% from 5 April 2007 of the excess to a dened contribution arrangement.
18 Bodycote annual report 2006 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 19 An analysis of accrued pension entitlements for the two Directors The Strategic Plan targets ROCE improvement by approximately one with accruing benets under the scheme during 2006 is given on percentage point each year until a mid-teens pre-tax ROCE performance page 23. has been achieved.
In addition significant growth in EBIT is targeted.
Based on the Groups typical capital requirements in the initial three The Group proposes to amend the scheme further so that increases in year performance period 2006 to 2008, maximum vesting under the pensionable salary after 5 April 2007 are capped at 3% per annum and BIP will require a compound annual growth of EBIT of approximately so that members contributions will increase to 8% of pensionable salary.
Minimum vesting will be made for compound annual growth in EBIT of approximately 15%.
Below this level no vesting will be made.
Arrangements for Mr Hubbard are for a contribution to a dened A sliding scale will be applied to performance between the maximum, contribution arrangement of between 14% and 16% of his basic target and minimum.
Based upon the Groups Economic profit salary including any payments being made by the Group into the Performance in 2006 the Committee expects final vesting of awards Groups US 401k retirement plan from January 2004 onwards.
for performance in the three-year period 2006 to 2008 to be in the Mr Hubbard is a member of the Groups US 401K retirement plan to mid-range of possible outcomes.
As a result Executive Directors awards which the Group contributed 8,491 2005: 24,362.
Pension made in 2006 and that would vest in 2009 could equate to around 100% contributions for Mr Landless salary above the earnings cap of their basic 2005 salaries using the share price at the date of the award.
Details of the awards under the BIP are noted on page 23.
Other xed elements Deferred Share Awards The Company provides other benets in line with market practices.
In addition to the BIP, a new deferred share-matching element, which These include the provision of a company car, private medical received shareholder approval at the annual general meeting in 2006 insurance for the Executive Directors and their families, and has been introduced to provide a link between the Companys short long-term disability insurance.
and long term incentive arrangements.
This plan, the Bodycote Share Match Plan BSMP, allows the grant of awards of matching shares VARIABLE ELEMENTS OF PAY to participants on an annual basis.
This will be based on the number There are essentially four variable elements of pay.
of shares purchased by participants with monies deferred under their Annual Bonuses annual bonus arrangements.
For 2006 an annual bonus is payable to all Executive Directors and senior executives, based on the Group and individual performance.
This plan will first operate in 2007 by reference to the 2006 financial year For those senior executives with Strategic Business Unit SBU bonus.
Every year, annual bonus up to the value of 20% of base salary responsibilities, part of the performance-related bonus is based may be deferred into Company shares for three years.
The maximum on their relevant sphere of responsibility.
level of matching shall be up to one share for each share deferred based upon the achievement of a robust and challenging ROCE target.
Payment of the maximum cash bonus for 2006 required Executive The BSMP replaces the Deferred Restricted Stock Bonus Plan DRSBP Directors and senior executives to achieve challenging target increases which permitted Executive Directors and senior executives to defer up over 2005 performance in Economic profit 40% of target achieved, to one-third of their cash bonus payable in 2003 and 2004 for shares ROCE Group return on capital employed 42.9% achieved, organic sales to be held for three years and which the Company would then match.
61.1% achieved and quantitative improvements in safety and health It also replaces the Bodycote Short Term Stock Bonus Plan STSBP although accident severity rates improved by 8.6% the frequency and which was introduced in 2005 as a temporary measure until the BIP overall targets were not achieved.
As a result, Executive Directors and BSMP could be presented to shareholders for approval.
Under the received a cash bonus of 21.7% of basic salary against a maximum STSBP, Executive Directors and senior executives received the maximum of 60% and senior executives cash bonuses ranged from 18.5% to awards as a consequence of Bodycote being in the upper quartile of TSR 37.4% depending upon individual SBU performances again compared achieved by companies within the FTSE 350 Engineering & Machinery to maximum of 60%.
Index and certain other comparator companies.
Share Awards The shares will vest in 2009 and at the end of the holding period, In 2006, the Company introduced the Bodycote Incentive Plan BIP the awards will be enhanced by an amount reecting dividends paid under which Executive Directors and senior executives are rewarded on the award shares over the three-year period.
for the delivery of the Companys Strategic Plan and in particular enhanced Economic profit.
Economic profit for these purposes is No further awards will be made under the STSBP or DRSBP following dened as adjusted earnings before interest and tax EBIT, less a adoption of the BIP and BSMP.
Details of shares held by Directors 15% charge per annum for the aggregate average of shareholders pursuant to the schemes noted are given on page 23. funds, net borrowings and goodwill previously written off to reserves, amortised or impaired.
To achieve the improvement in Economic profit both pre-tax ROCE as well as EBIT improvements have to be made.
Bodycote annual report 2006 19 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
qxp 27 3 07 15:33 Page 20 Board Report on Remuneration Option Arrangements SERVICE CONTRACTS The Committee also reviews and manages share incentive schemes It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors have service established between 1994 and 2003.
Following adoption of the BIP contracts with a one year notice period.
All the Executive Directors no further share options will be granted to Executive Directors and have service agreements which are terminable by one years notice staff pursuant to the 2003 executive share option scheme, but share by either party at any time, and by one years remuneration in lieu of options granted before this decision will continue to be capable of notice by the employer, and by one years remuneration in the event exercise.
At the time each scheme was approved by shareholders, of a change in control of the Company.
Legally appropriate factors institutional guidelines were followed and latterly leading investors would be taken into account to mitigate any compensation payment, were consulted.
covering basic salary, annual and long term incentives and benets, which may arise on the termination of employment of any Executive All outstanding share options have now qualied for exercise.
Director, other than payments made on a change in control or for Options granted since 1998 have all qualied on the basis of the payments in lieu of notice.
Mr Hubbards contract is dated 5 February increase in headline earnings per share EPS since 2002 using the 2002 and those for Messrs Landless and Sleight are each dated 26 UK GAAP headline EPS data for 2002 to 2004 and the IFRS headline September 2001.
Having received and reviewed a reconciliation between the two accounting standards the calculations for which EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS have been approved by the Audit Committee, the Committee were The Company believes that there are benets to the individual and satisfied that each performance criterion had been met by a wide the Company for Executive Directors holding one non-executive margin.
directorship in other organisations, provided that they do not conict with the Companys interests and that, provided the Executive Share options granted under the 1994 and 1996 share option schemes Directors performance is not impaired, he could retain the fees were only exercisable if, over any rolling period of three years from the earned in connection with such an appointment.
There have been no date of the awarded, the growth in the Groups headline EPS exceeds appointments covered by this policy.
United Kingdom retail ination by 6% 10% in respect of those options granted in September 2002.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Under the 2003 scheme the value of shares over which options may be Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Remuneration for the Chairman granted to an executive in any one year may not normally exceed 1.5 is determined by the whole board excluding the Chairman.
The extent to which options may be exercised will Remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors takes depend on the Companies growth in pre-tax EPS exceeding the growth into account the time commitments and duties and responsibilities in the retail price index RPI in the three or five year period following involved.
The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director hold letters grant.
Options over shares worth up to 0.5 times salary may be exercised of appointment for terms of three years.
Each is terminable under if the growth in EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by 3% per annum.
the Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 1985, the The Committee believed that the use of growth in pre-tax EPS was Directors resignation or otherwise on six months notice twelve at the time the most appropriate measure of the Companys financial months in the case of the Chairman if termination occurs before performance and was consistent with market practice, when adopted.
The market price of Bodycotes ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 To determine the fees it pays to Non-Executive Directors, the Board was 228.25p, the range during 2006 was 218p to 299.25p and the takes into account the need to attract individuals of appropriate calibre average was 246.54p.
The aggregate gains made by Executive Directors and expertise, the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors by other in 2006 before the impact of tax and national insurance were 123,220 companies of a similar size and the time commitment attached to for Mr Landless and 115,447 for Mr Sleight 2005: nil in each case.
The Board keeps fees under review.
An analysis of all Executive Directors share options is given on page 22.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any pension or other employment benets or to participate in any TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR incentive scheme.
The graph on page 22 illustrates the Companys TSR performance since 2001 relative to the FTSE All Share Industrial Index of which the Approved by the Board Company is a component part.
This sector is considered the most appropriate comparator group over the five year period to December 2006 The index classications changed on 2 January 2006 and with effect from that date the Company is included in the Industrial Machinery sub-sector.
In line with market practice the calculation for TSR assumes J. Vogelsang Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reinvestment of dividends and is based on data provided by Datastream.
27 February 2007 20 Bodycote annual report 2006 ID3668 Bc AR 2006 Insides 80pp ARTWORK.
A. S. Wallace 120 120 110 R. T. Scholes 44 44 36 J. Vogelsang 39 39 33 L. P. Bermejo 34 34 30 956 49 156 1,161 1,222 Directors share interests audited The beneficial interest of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are detailed below.
Ordinary Shareholdings 31 December 2006 31 December 2005 Number of shares Number of shares J.
S Wallace 57,287 57,287 R. T Scholes 18,750 18,750 J. Vogelsang -- L. P Bermejo -- None of the directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any other Group Company, or non-beneficial interest in the Company or any other Group Company.
Executive Directors Shareholding Retention Policy The Committee introduced in 2005 a shareholding retention policy under which Executive Directors and other senior executives will be required, within five years, to build up a shareholding in the Company.
In respect of Executive Directors the requirement will be for their Directors interests in shares to be worth at least 100% of basic salary.
