Report on the activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee reviews the policies and processes for financial reporting, internal control, the identification, assessment and management of risk, audit effectiveness and compliance, the independence of the external and internal auditors and maintaining an effective relationship with them.
The Audit Committee reports its activities and makes recommendations to the Board.
Composition and meetings During 2006 the Audit Committee comprised Mr Mark Nicholls as Chairman, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh and, from 1 March 2006, Mr John Warren, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Mr Tim Melville-Ross, who was independent until his appointment as Chairman in November 2005, resigned his membership of the Committee with effect from close of business on 10 March 2006.
Mr Colin Holmes was appointed to the Committee from 1 December 2006.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and all members then current attended each meeting.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director attended all three meetings, the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, attended three meetings and the Head of Internal Audit attended two meetings.
The Committee also met privately with the external and internal auditors following Committee meetings and the Committee Chairman met privately with both the audit director of KPMG Audit Plc and the Head of Internal Audit when appropriate.
Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the work of the Committee which includes past experience in finance or as members of audit committees or other comparable experience in corporate activities.
Further to this collective capability to discharge the Committees responsibilities, the Board is of the opinion that Mr Mark Nicholls satisfies the requirement for recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr John Warren also has considerable financial experience as a former group finance director.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Audit Committee and appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
Terms of reference The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any activity within its terms of reference.
It has access to the internal and external auditors and their reports, who in turn have unrestricted access to the Committee.
If required, the Committee can obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice.
None was obtained during the year.
The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
uk and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
Overview of activities During the year under review the Audit Committee followed a programme structured around the annual financial reporting cycle and reports from the internal and external auditors and management.
Activities in discharging its duties included: Rigorous review of the Preliminary Results, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Interim Results and the Interim Report, all published under IFRS, proposed dividends and presentations to analysts prior to submission to the Board.
Review and challenge of reports, conclusions and results prepared by the internal audit function and presented to the Audit Committee by the Head of Internal Audit, including reports on the integrity of the system of internal control and risk management systems.
Examination and assessment of submissions presented by the external auditors in relation to the 2005 final audit, the 2006 interim review and the audit planning and strategy for the 2006 final audit.
Review of the results and effectiveness of the final audit including reporting by the external auditors and review of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Review and approval of the fee proposals for the final audit and the interim review.
Private discussion with the external and internal auditors with no executive management present.
Review of the system of internal control.
Review of the internal audit programme and the resourcing of internal audit.
Review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function by performance evaluation.
Review and comment on a comprehensive up-to-date risk analysis prepared by the Company prior to Board approval in January 2007.
This document is an update to the Groups risk register, and serves as a framework for the Boards ongoing internal control discussions.
Completion of a performance evaluation of its own performance.
Review of the Committees terms of reference.
Review of the Groups whistleblowing policy and reports on the effectiveness of the arrangements.
Internal audit function The activities, effectiveness and workload of the internal audit department and the adequacy of available resources were monitored using a detailed reporting process and planning and review regime.
The freedom, scope and access allowed to the internal auditors in performing their duties during the year was confirmed by management as being unrestricted.
The Head of Internal Audit continues to have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 27 Report on the activities of the Audit Committee continued External auditors During the year under review the Audit Committee reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
This included information about the policies and processes for maintaining independence, monitoring compliance with relevant requirements and ethical guidance and consideration of all relationships between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
A policy continues in place which requires the Audit Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and pension scheme audit work.
If a request for approval were made, the Audit Committee would have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditors were a suitable supplier, whether there was likely to be any threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit and the related fee level both separately and relative to the audit fee.
For details of fees paid to the external auditors, see note 5 on page 45.
Performance evaluation During 2006, the Committee commenced an internal performance evaluation, using a questionnaire process designed to produce an objective assessment of the Committees performance and audit effectiveness.
It was concluded that the Committee and the audit process continued to be effective, and that the Committee had appropriate terms of reference and achieved its remit.
Briefings and training are provided where appropriate to ensure that the Committee remains informed of all material developments in best practice and regulation concerning its remit.
Mark Nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 March 2007 Report on the activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and succession planning arrangements, and leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
Composition and meetings During 2006, the Nomination Committee comprised Mr Tim Melville-Ross as Chairman, Mrs Lesley MacDonagh, Mr Mark Nicholls, Mr John Warren from 1 March 2006 and Mr Malcolm Harris.
The Nomination Committee met four times during the year and all members, then current, attended each meeting.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee and appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the Board.
Terms of reference The Nomination Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Group in order to perform its duties.
If required, the Committee can obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional advice on any matters within its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
Overview of activities During 2006 the Nomination Committee made recommendations to the Board concerning directors to retire by rotation and seek reappointment at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
The requirement to appoint a further non-executive director was identified and, following the Boards decision to appoint the Group Managing Director, the requirement to appoint a new Group Finance Director was addressed.
Both recruitment processes were conducted and concluded on merit and against objective criteria using the services of appropriate external search consultants.
The appointment of two new directors to the Board of Bovis Homes Limited was approved and general succession planning arrangements were kept under review during 2006.
Tim Melville-Ross Chairman of the Nomination Committee 9 March 2007 28 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Report on directors remuneration Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Combined Code.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2007 inviting them to consider and approve this report.
The auditors are required to report to the Companys members on that part of this remuneration report which is subject to audit and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
This report is therefore presented in two sections: unaudited information and audited information.
Unaudited information The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is made up solely of non-executive directors with no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters to be decided.
Those non-executive directors serving on the Remuneration Committee throughout 2006 were Mr Mark Nicholls and Mrs Lesley MacDonagh.
Mr Tim Melville-Ross served until 10 March 2006 and Mr John Warren was appointed to the Committee on 1 March 2006.
Mr Warren was subsequently appointed Chairman of the Committee on 10 March 2006.
Mr Colin Holmes was appointed to the Committee on 1 December 2006.
Mr Tim Melville-Ross was appointed non-executive Chairman in November 2005, and as a result, for a small part of 2006 the Group was not compliant with the requirements of the Combined Code in respect of the Remuneration Committee having only independent directors as members.
Meetings of the Remuneration Committee are held as and when appropriate and at least annually.
During 2006, the Remuneration Committee met on four occasions and each meeting was attended by all the members then current.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, from time to time, calls upon Mr Malcolm Harris Chief Executive to assist in discussions and deliberations of the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters not pertaining to the remuneration or terms and conditions of his own employment.
The Remuneration Committee has, on occasion, appointed the services of external advisers to advise on director remuneration.
The Hay Group has been appointed as adviser to the Remuneration Committee on an ongoing basis and provides reports and advice as required.
Towers Perrin act as Trustee of the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
The Group Company Secretary, Mr Martin Palmer, acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
Duties of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the following duties: Determine on behalf of the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, the executive directors and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
Ensure that executive directors and senior management are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
Determine targets for any performance related pay schemes and ask the Board, when appropriate, to seek shareholder approval for any long term incentive arrangements.
Consider and determine the terms, scope, implementation and performance criteria of all share based remuneration schemes.
Ensure that contractual terms on termination and any payments made avoid rewarding poor performance and approve any severance payments.
Determine the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman, Chief Executive, each executive director and other designated senior executives, including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments and share options.
Determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for executive directors and pensions arrangements, termination payments and compensation commitments.
Consider and determine the terms, scope, implementation and performance conditions of the annual bonus scheme and approve annual bonuses.
In determining remuneration packages and arrangements, give due regard to the requirements and recommendations of the Combined Code as well as the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and associated guidance.
Review competitor companies but ensure that automatic increases are not implemented.
Oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company.
Ensure that the provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, including pensions, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, are fulfilled and produce an annual report of the Committees remuneration policy to be included in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Groups website www.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee determines the Company's policy for the remuneration of executive directors, having regard to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 and the Combined Code and its provisions on directors' remuneration Schedules A and B. Bovis Homes Group PLC 29 Report on directors remuneration continued The Remuneration Committee sets and implements the remuneration policy for the Chairman, executive directors and designated senior management.
The Remuneration Committee determines the need for independent professional advice where appropriate and has regard to information on compensation and salary levels in companies in the housebuilding sector and in other companies of comparable size, for executives with similar skills, qualifications and experience.
The objectives of the remuneration policy are to: ensure that the individual rewards and incentives fairly relate to the performance of the individual, the Company and the interests of shareholders: maintain a remuneration package which enables the Company to attract, retain, and motivate executives of the appropriate calibre and experience to further the success of the Company and maximise long term shareholder value: and take into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The remuneration policy was reviewed by the Remuneration Committee during 2006.
Remuneration package The remuneration package of the executive directors consists of basic salary, performance bonus, health insurance, membership of the Bovis Homes Regulated Independent Car Scheme for Employees BRICS, pension, death in service insurance, and participation in the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
In prior years, participation in the Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme and Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan has also formed part of the executive directors remuneration package.
The Group suspended use of the Executive Share Option Scheme during 2004.
During 2004, the Group also suspended use of the share incentive plan in respect of the awarding of free shares in the Company.
The Remuneration Committee aims to balance appropriately those elements of an executive directors remuneration which are subject to explicit performance conditions, accepting that all remuneration is linked with ongoing appraisal of individual performance.
By virtue of the various elements of directors remuneration subject to performance conditions, a significant part is variable and is not guaranteed.
For remuneration paid during 2006 the fixed and variable elements of the remuneration package of each director is shown, by director, in the two charts immediately below and to the left: Remuneration paid during the year % Potential fixed and variable elements % 22 Salary fixed 2006 salary fixed 1 1 33 3 33 3 2005 performance bonus variable nil Performance bonus variable 100 Gains on options LTIP variable LTIP variable 78 1 33 3 M R Harris D J Ritchie This actual out-turn, in terms of fixed and variable remuneration elements, is as compared to a potential remuneration package, dependant on performance, reflecting one-third fixed elements and two-thirds variable elements.
The chart above to the right shows this graphically.
Salary Executive director salaries are reviewed annually on 1 July taking into account the total remuneration package at the time of the review.
External directorships Executive directors may, if so authorised by the Board, accept appointments as non-executive directors of suitable companies and organisations outside the Group.
Earnings arising from such external directorships are payable directly to the Company.
Performance bonus Executive directors are able to earn a performance bonus up to a maximum of 100% of basic annual salary prevailing at the date of the Remuneration Committee meeting to determine bonuses.
It is considered that such maximum performance bonus levels create an appropriate level of short term incentive, and align suitably with the performance bonus entitlements of other companies in the housebuilding sector as well as other publicly listed companies of a similar size to the Company.
The bonuses payable to executive directors are determined by the Remuneration Committee by reference to challenging performance criteria including exceeding the previous years profit before taxation by a specified percentage and the achievement of other strategic targets.
The bonuses of the executive directors are paid from a bonus pool which is generated from increases in profits over the previous year.
All office based employees share in this bonus pool.
The rules governing the generation of the bonus pool remain consistent with prior years.
Site employees are incentivised through direct site bonus schemes based on measurable site performance.
The bonus pool remains at zero until profits before taxation and bonus charge increase over the prior year by 2% above the increase in the Retail Price Index RPI.
Thereafter, for every 1% increase in profits before taxation and bonus charge over the prior year, a value equal to 0.5% of the Groups profit before taxation and bonus charge is allocated to the bonus pool.
This applies until the increase in profits before taxation and bonus charge reaches 12% over the increase in RPI at which point the total value allocated to the bonus pool is capped.
At this maximum value the bonus pool will equal 5% of the Groups profit before taxation and bonus charge.
Bonus payments in aggregate are restricted to a maximum equal to the value allocated to the bonus pool.
The bonus pool is applied in settling individual employee bonuses subject to individual performance, corporate performance and set bonus caps.
Any surplus bonus pool remaining after settling employee bonuses reverts to the Group and is included in the profits for that financial year.
30 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Report on directors remuneration continued Executive directors have a bonus cap equal to 100% of basic salary.
In addition to the requirement for the bonus pool to have sufficient value to pay employee bonuses, the Remuneration Committee has established challenging performance criteria for executive directors to determine bonus levels.
For bonuses equal to 100% of basic salary to be considered for payment, specific financial criteria have to be met, including: achievement of an increase in Group profits before taxation and bonus of 12% over and above the increase in RPI: and achievement of return on capital employed in excess of 20% for the year: and achievement of the Groups budgeted profit before taxation for the year.
Performance bonus payments No bonuses were paid to executive directors in 2006 in respect of the 2005 financial year after considering the achievement or otherwise of the performance criteria set for the financial year 2005.
The actual performance compared to these specific financial performance criteria can be summarised: Criteria Performance criteria Actual performance Growth in Group profits before taxation and bonus 14.4% 12% RPI -17.7% Return on capital employed 20% 20% Following the consideration of performance criteria set for the financial year 2006 the Remuneration Committee has resolved to award bonuses to the executive directors serving during 2006, to be paid in 2007.
The amounts are as set out in the Directors emoluments table on page 34.
Pension All the executive directors who served during 2006 were senior executive members of the Bovis Homes Pension Scheme.
This is a contributory funded, defined benefit scheme approved by HMRC.
Pensionable earnings were equal to basic pay prior to 6 April 2006.
From 6 April 2006, increases in pensionable earnings are restricted each year to the lesser of the percentage increase in basic pay and 2.5%.
Mr Malcolm Harris is not subject to the earnings cap and Mr David Ritchie is subject to the statutory earnings cap for service until 5 April 2006.
After this, and following the introduction of the lifetime allowance pension rules on 6 April 2006, Mr David Ritchie is not subject to an earnings cap for service from 6 April 2006.
Normal retirement age for senior executive members under the scheme is 60, and the accrual rate is 1 45th of final pensionable earnings for each year of service as a senior executive.
Share schemes The Company employs a standard set of performance conditions for all executive directors in respect of the Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme and the Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
These performance conditions are described under specific headings in this report.
Granting of share options and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The performance conditions are designed to challenge and motivate executive directors to improve profitability and enhance shareholder return.
The conditions are designed to require strong collective and individual performance from the executive directors before options and awards vest, whilst at the same time offering a credible opportunity for success.
For share options and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan to vest an independent view provided by the Companys auditors, as independent experts, is required certifying achievement of the relevant performance conditions.
This independent view is evidenced by the completion of formal certificates signed by the auditors.
The performance conditions attaching to share options and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are selected intentionally to be derived from readily available information which is straightforward and transparent.
This ensures that the auditors can make objective assessments of achievement against the performance conditions.
Although there exist outstanding share options granted to executive directors and senior management which remain unexercised at the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee resolved, effective of 5 May 2004, to suspend the grant of future awards of share options.
The rules of the Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme relating to vesting and exercising outstanding share options remain unaltered.
The Board has proposed that a new employee share option plan be introduced as an incentivisation mechanism for middle management.
Executive directors of the Company will not participate and shareholder approval to the option plan is being sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme The Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme was established in 1997.
The Remuneration Committee suspended the issuing of new share options on 5 May 2004.
It is an HMRC approved scheme and has historically granted share options on an approved basis within HMRC limits and on an unapproved basis outside HMRC limits.
The scheme is operated by the Remuneration Committee with participants selected at the sole discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
For outstanding share options, the performance criteria require that any share option held under the Bovis Homes Group PLC Executive Share Option Scheme can only normally be exercised if the auditors have certified that the cumulative increase in annualised earnings per share exceeds the percentage increase in RPI by at least 4% per annum 2% per annum for share options granted before 2001 over three consecutive years.
The exercise price of a share option has been determined by the Board at the date of grant and has not been less than the higher of the market value and nominal value of an ordinary share in the Company at the date of grant.
Assuming the performance criteria are satisfied, share options may, under normal circumstances, be exercised between the third and tenth anniversary from the date of grant.
Bovis Homes Group Long Term Incentive Plan A Long Term Incentive Plan for executive directors and senior executives was approved by shareholders at the 2000 Annual General Meeting and established on 10 May 2000.
An amendment to the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Under the amended rules of the scheme at the date of this report a participant may receive in respect of any year a maximum award of shares with a market value, when the award was made, not exceeding 100% of basic salary.
Each award is made subject to the achievement of certain performance criteria and awards may only be exercised at the end of three years.
There is no cost to the participants in the scheme to exercise the awards.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 31 Report on directors remuneration continued The extent to which the awards may be exercised is determined by two measures of performance: total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS growth, each measured over a three year performance period and each relating to half of the shares awarded.
The TSR measure requires the comparison of the growth in the Companys TSR over a three year period to that of a group of comparator companies in the housebuilding industry specified by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the performance period.
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid during the three year period assuming that such dividends are reinvested in ordinary shares.
The Companys ranking amongst the comparator companies will determine the percentage of the shares under the award which will vest, as follows: TSR ranking % of total award which can be realised 1st position 50% of the shares in the award 2nd position 45% of the shares in the award 3rd position 37.5% of the shares in the award 4th position 30% of the shares in the award 5th position 20% of the shares in the award 6th position 15% of the shares in the award The group of comparator companies is as follows: Comparator companies Barratt Developments PLC Bellway p. l. c. The Berkeley Group plc Crest Nicholson PLC Wilson Bowden plc Persimmon plc Redrow Group plc Taylor Woodrow plc George Wimpey PLC The EPS growth measure is based on the extent to which the Companys average annual EPS growth over the three year performance period falls between minimum and maximum EPS growth targets set by the Remuneration Committee as follows: EPS growth % of total award which can be realised Maximum EPS growth 50% of the shares in the award Minimum EPS growth 20% of the shares in the award For the current outstanding awards, the minimum and maximum EPS growth targets are 4% and 10% above RPI respectively.
Where EPS growth falls between the minimum and maximum EPS growth targets, the number of shares which can be realised will be determined on a straight line sliding scale.
Where EPS growth falls below 4% above RPI, none of the shares in the award judged by reference to EPS growth can be realised.
The shares required to satisfy the awards have been purchased by the Bovis Homes Group Employee Trust.
The grant price of the awards is set as the market value of the shares at the date the shares are purchased by the Trustee.
The market value of the shares attributable to each director will be included in remuneration in the year in which the awards are exercised.
An award may only be exercised within six months of the realisation date, the realisation date being the date of notification from the Trustee of the Bovis Homes Group Employee Trust that the award is realisable in whole or in part.
Performance graph As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the following performance graph compares, over the last five financial years, the Total Shareholder Return of an ordinary share held in Bovis Homes Group PLC against the Total Shareholder Return of the FTSE mid-250 index.
In previous years, this graph was prepared against the FTSE All Share Construction and Buildings Material Index, but this index has been discontinued.
As Bovis Homes Group PLC is a constituent of the FTSE mid-250 index, together with all but one of the listed UK housebuilders contained in the comparator group selected by the Remuneration Committee for benchmarking performance, the Remuneration Committee considers this to be a representative broad market index against which to assess the performance of the Group, having regard to the size and nature of the companies in this index.
uk Total Shareholder Return TSR 1 January 2002 100 Report on directors remuneration continued Service agreements and terms of appointment In respect of each of the executive directors, the service agreements are rolling twelve month contracts with a twelve month notice period due from either employer or employee after one years service.
Before one years service is completed the notice period is six months from either party.
In addition to their salaries, the executive directors are entitled to participate in the Bovis Homes employee share schemes including the Long Term Incentive Plan, and to be considered for a performance bonus, dependent on the achievement of targets set down annually by the Remuneration Committee.
They are also entitled to membership of the Bovis Homes Pension Scheme as a senior executive where service began on or before 2001, membership of the defined contribution pension scheme where service began after 2001 and between 24 and 27 working days holiday per annum determined by length of service.
The directors hold membership of the Bovis Homes Regulated Independent Car Scheme for Employees BRICS.
There are no specific provisions for compensation on early termination.
The non-executive directors have entered into service agreements for their services which are established for periods up to three years duration based upon the frequency of re-election to the Board with notice periods up to twelve months.
The service agreements for the non-executive directors are available for inspection on request to the Group Company Secretary.
The fees for their services were last reviewed as follows: Fees reviewed Annual Fees Non-executive directors T D Melville-Ross 1 July 2006 95,000 C P Holmes 1 December 2006 35,000 M P Nicholls 1 July 2006 45,000 L A MacDonagh 1 July 2006 35,000 J A Warren 1 July 2006 40,000 There are no specific provisions for compensation on early termination.
Directors interests The directors interests in the share capital of the Company are shown below.
Ordinary shares of 50p each At 31 December 2006 or earlier At 31 December 2005 or date of ceasing to be a director subsequent date of appointment Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares shares under shares under shares under ordinary shares shares under shares under shares under held Executive the Long Term Save As held Executive the Long Term Save As Share Incentive You Earn Share Incentive You Earn Options Plan Options Options Plan Options Executive directors M R Harris 313,751 104,602 206,192 5,732 313,578 104,602 229,530 5,732 D J Ritchie 38,182 34,867 102,652 2,672 33,143 50,047 99,710 2,672 N Cooper -- - - -- - - Non-executive directors T D Melville-Ross 5,216 - - - 5,067 - - - M P Nicholls 5,320 - - - 5,168 - - - L A MacDonagh 1,000 - - - 1,000 - - - J A Warren 2,500 - - - 2,500 - - - C P Holmes 10,000 - - - -- - - Changes in the number of ordinary shares held arose from the exercise of share options, and the investment during the year in partnership shares through the HMRC approved Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan.
Other changes in the number of shares held arose through the electing for shares in place of dividends as part of the Companys scrip dividend offer and a share purchase by Mr Colin Holmes.
There were no changes in the holdings of ordinary shares of any of the directors between 31 December 2006 and 9 March 2007, other than the normal monthly investment in partnership shares through the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan.
Mr Neil Cooper is beneficially interested in nil shares.
The directors interests in share options and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are detailed on pages 35 to 36.
There were no changes in the holdings of share options and awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan between 31 December 2006 and 9 March 2007.
Share ownership guidelines There exist guidelines for executive directors in respect of share ownership of Bovis Homes shares.
The Board expects executive directors benefiting from the exercise of Long Term Incentive Plan awards or exercise of share options to retain at least 50% of the net value derived from the exercise, after settling all costs and income tax due, as shares.
This guideline is expected to be applied until such time as the executive director holds shares with a market value equal to current basic annual salary.
Bovis Homes Group PLC 33 Report on directors remuneration continued Audited information Directors emoluments Salary Performance Benefits Total Total fees bonus in kind Year ended 31 December 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors M R Harris 488 500 - 988 468 D J Ritchie 264 300 1 565 269 N Cooper appointed 2 January 2007 - - - - - Non-executive directors Sir Nigel Mobbs resigned 9 September 2005 - - - - 55 T D Melville-Ross 88 - - 88 36 M P Nicholls 39 - - 39 30 L A MacDonagh 31 - - 31 27 J A Warren appointed 1 March 2006 30 - - 30 - C P Holmes appointed 1 December 2006 3 - - 3 - Directors emoluments 943 800 1 1,744 885 Pension charge 151 124 1,895 1,009 Executive director salaries were reviewed by the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2006 and salary changes were approved as follows: Salary on Salary on Change Percentage 30 June 2006 1 July 2006 change % Executive directors M R Harris 475,000 500,000 25,000 5.3% D J Ritchie 250,000 262,500 12,500 5.0% Mr Malcolm Harris increase was assessed against equivalent salaries of Chief Executives working for other housebuilders and publicly listed companies of a similar size.
The increase in respect of Mr David Ritchies basic salary was assessed against equivalent salaries of Finance Directors working for other publicly listed UK housebuilders and companies of comparable size.
On taking up the position of Group Managing Director on 2 January 2007, Mr David Ritchie received a further increase taking his salary to 300,000.
This new salary was assessed against the equivalent salary for similar roles in other publicly listed housebuilders and companies of comparable size.
In addition to his basic salary, Mr David Ritchie received payments equivalent to the employers pension contributions above the statutory earnings cap.
During 2006, 7,942 was paid in this respect.
These payments ceased on 5 April 2006.
During 2006, the company reviewed the level of fees paid to its non-executive directors, supported by an independent benchmarking exercise assessing the fees payable to non-executive directors in similar companies, comparable both in terms of sector, and in terms of size.
As a result, the fees payable to Mr Tim Melville-Ross, the non-executive chairman, have been increased from 80,000 to 95,000, and the fees payable to Mr Mark Nicholls, the senior independent director and chairman of the Audit Committee, have been increased from 33,000 to 45,000.
The fees payable to Mrs Lesley MacDonagh have been increased from 27,000 to 35,000, and the fees payable to Mr John Warren have been increased from 27,000 to 40,000, partly as a a result of the benchmarking exercise, and partly following his appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors emoluments are in the form of cash with the exception of the provision of health insurance and death in service insurance provided in excess of the earnings cap until 5 April 2006, where applicable.
The gains for directors on the exercise of share options are shown on page 36.
34 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Report on directors remuneration continued Directors pension accruals under the UKLA Listing Rules Age at Employer Director Accumulated Accumulated Increase in Transfer 31 December contributions contributions total accrued total accrued accrued pension value of 2006 to pension to pension pension at pension at during the year increase scheme during scheme during 31 December 31 December net of inflation less Director the year the year 2006 2005 contributions p. a. p. a.
Executive directors M R Harris 58 104,373 28,465 329,369 303,215 17,967 285,742 D J Ritchie 37 46,312 12,631 20,409 15,239 4,758 13,151 Note 1: The accumulated total accrued pension as at 31 December 2005 has been adjusted for inflation in arriving at the increase in the accrued pension at 31 December 2006.
The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase due to inflation.
Note 2: The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 less directors' contributions.
Note 3: In respect of Mr David Ritchie, the directors' pensionable earnings were restricted to the statutory earnings cap for service until 5 April 2006.
Directors pension accruals under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Employer Director Accumulated Increase in Transfer Transfer Increase in contributions contributions total accrued accrued value of value of transfer value to pension to pension pension at pension accrued accrued of increase scheme scheme 31 December during pension at pension at less Director during the during the 2006 the year 31 December 31 December contributions year year 2006 2005 p. a.
Executive directors M R Harris 104,373 28,465 329,369 26,154 5,913,586 5,297,934 587,187 D J Ritchie 46,312 12,631 20,409 5,170 112,546 79,052 20,863 Note 1: The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 less directors' contributions.
Note 2: In respect of Mr David Ritchie, the directors' pensionable earnings were restricted to the statutory earnings cap for service until 5 April 2006.
Directors interests in share options Date of grant Scheme At 1 January Granted Exercised At 31 December Exercise 0ption 2006 lapsed in year 2006 price exercise in year per share period Executive directors M R Harris 18 March 2003 Exec 104,602 - - 104,602 358.3p 3 06-3 13 9 April 2003 SAYE 5,732 - - 5,732 286.5p 6 08-12 08 D J Ritchie 17 September 2002 Exec 15,180 - 15,180 - 415.0p 9 05-9 12 18 March 2003 Exec 34,867 - - 34,867 358.5p 3 06-3 13 11 April 2005 SAYE 2,672 - - 2,672 618.3p 6 10-12 10 All of the share options granted by the Company were granted at the market price prevailing on the date of grant, with the exception of Save As You Earn options which were granted at a 20% 10% post 1 January 2004 discount to the market price prevailing on the date of grant.
There was no payment required to secure the grant of any share options.
There was no change in the terms and conditions of any outstanding options granted under either the Executive Share Option Scheme Exec or the Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme SAYE during the financial year.
Share options held in the Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme, which are not subject to performance conditions, may under normal circumstances be exercised during the six months after maturity of the savings contract.
For those executive directors serving as at 31 December 2006, in respect of each directors holdings of Executive Share Options at 31 December 2006, no share options were held under an HMRC approved scheme.
