Directors remuneration report This is the boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration.
It covers both executive directors and non-executive directors.
The first and third parts were prepared by the remuneration committee.
The second part was prepared by the company secretary on behalf of the board.
The report has been approved by the board and signed on its behalf by the company secretary.
The report is subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting AGM.
Contents Part 1 Executive directors remuneration 68 Letter to shareholders 2006 remuneration Remuneration policy Salary Annual bonus Long-term incentives Pensions Service contracts Part 2 Non-executive directors 72 Part 3 Additional statutory and other disclosures 73 Historical TSR performance graph Pensions table Share element of EDIP and LTPPs table Share options table Part 1 Executive directors remuneration Dear Shareholder Executive directors remuneration for 2006 reects a clear set of principles, set out in the pages that follow.
At their heart is the importance of matching reward to performance, in a way that both reects shareholders interests and provides fair and competitive compensation to the executives.
As described elsewhere, 2006 was a year of strong financial performance for the group.
A number of strategic and operational milestones were attained.
However, the year also brought serious challenges and in key operational and safety areas company performance fell short of expectations.
The remuneration committee has carefully evaluated performance against the quantitative measures set at the beginning of the year.
We also made a qualitative assessment of the effect on the company and its reputation of adverse events and developments in the year.
The executive team responded to these challenges with determination and a sincere commitment to implement the lessons learned.
However, taking a balanced judgement on the year, the remuneration committee halved the bonuses that would have resulted directly from their quantitative assessment.
This, and all other remuneration received, is shown on the following page.
We have made some changes to the style and format of the remuneration report this year in order to make it easier to read and understand.
Our aim has been to set out clearly the principles and policy on which we base executive directors remuneration, as well as the gures for 2006.
In addition, full details of arrangements agreed for Lord Brownes retirement later in 2007 and information on recent changes in remuneration for Dr Hayward and Mr Inglis are included in the relevant sections.
Dr D S Julius Chairman, Remuneration Committee 23 February 2007 68 2006 remuneration All remuneration paid to executive directors in 2006 is summarized in the table below.
The annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
The remuneration committee reviewed base salaries in 2006 and awarded increases between 5% and 10% of base salary from 1 July for each director.
These increases are reected in the numbers below and their current base salary is shown on page 71.
All executive directors are part of a final salary pension scheme, the details of which are set out later in this report.
Accrued annual pension earned as of 31 December 2006 is 1,050,000 for Lord Browne, 228,000 for Dr Allen, 170,000 for Mr Conn, $675,000 for Dr Grote, 239,000 for Dr Hayward and 188,000 for Mr Manzoni.
Annual bonuses are shown in the year they were earned.
a This information has been subject to audit.
c Based on market price on vesting date 6.465 per share $67.76 per ADS.
d Gross award of shares based on a performance assessment by the remuneration committee and on the other terms of the plan.
Sufficient shares are sold to pay for tax applicable.
Remaining shares are held in trust for current directors until 2010, when they are released to the individual.
e Based on market price on vesting date 5.37 per share $62.91 per ADS.
f Maximum potential shares that could vest at the end of the three-year period depending on performance.
Annual bonus result In terms of individual performance, in a period of significant challenges, The 2006 annual bonus was based on performance relative to measures the executive directors demonstrated commitment, determination and and targets set at the beginning of the year, as well as other factors unity to address issues and improve performance.
the remuneration committee determined were relevant.
Financial and While the quantitative assessment generated a near-target score, operational metrics from the annual plan carried a 50% weighting and the remuneration committee also considered broader qualitative focused on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization factors.
These included the findings of internal and external reports EBITDA, return on average capital employed ROACE and safety, on operational and safety issues in the US business.
On balance, the environment and production targets.
Strategic milestones, including those committee judged that bonus levels should be reduced by 50% from the relating to technology, operations and business development, accounted level they would otherwise have been.
The resulting annual bonuses are for 30%.
Individual performance, including both leadership objectives and set out in the table above.
living the values of the group, accounted for 20%.
On the financial side, underlying EBITDA was marginally below target.
2004-2006 share element result There were negative effects from US operating issues and positive effects For the 2004-2006 share element of the Executive Directors Incentive from improvements in operating performance.
ROACE was marginally Plan EDIP, BPs performance was assessed in terms of shareholder above target.
Cash costs and capital expenditure came in around target return against the market SHRAM, ROACE and earnings per share EPS levels.
Planned divestments of non-strategic assets achieved premium growth.
BPs three-year SHRAM was measured against the companies prices.
Targets were met for personal safety, greenhouse gas emissions, in the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
Companies within the index are oil and gas discovered volumes and proved reserves.
Average production weighted according to their market capitalization at the beginning of the rate was below target.
three-year period in order to give greatest emphasis to oil majors.
BPs With respect to milestones, seven of nine major projects were ROACE and EPS growth were measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total completed as planned.
However, the Thunder Horse development was and Chevron.
Based on a performance assessment of 60 points out of delayed.
Good progress was achieved to define and sanction a further 200 0 for SHRAM, 50 for ROACE and 10 for EPS growth, the committee 18 major projects.
The alternative energy business exceeded its made awards of shares to executive directors as shown in the 2004-2006 objectives.
Good progress was made in developing and implementing columns in the table above.
a major six-point plan for improving safety and operational integrity.
Any Our remuneration policy for executive directors aims to ensure there significant exercise of discretion will be explained in the subsequent is a clear link between the companys purpose, the business plans and directors remuneration report.
executive reward, with pay varying with performance.
In order to achieve this, the policy is based on these key principles: Group chief executive The remuneration structure will support BPs aim to maximize long-term As for previous years, the target level for 2007 for Lord Browne is 130% shareholder value.
of base salary, with a maximum payment for substantially exceeding The structure will reect a fair system of reward for all the participants.
performance targets of 165% of base salary.
Lord Browne will retire on The remuneration committee will determine the overall amount of each 31 July 2007.
His annual bonus award for 2007 will be pro-rated to reect component of remuneration, taking into account the success of BP and his service during the financial year up to his retirement in July.
The majority of executive remuneration will be linked to the Long-term incentives Each executive director participates in the EDIP.
It has three elements: achievement of demanding performance targets, independently set to support the creation of long-term shareholder value.
shares, share options and cash.
The remuneration committee did not use There will be a quantitative and qualitative assessment of performance, either share option or cash elements in 2006 and would only do so in with the remuneration committee making an informed judgement 2007 in exceptional circumstances.
This section describes the share within a framework approved by shareholders.
We intend that executive directors will continue to receive Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group will be taken performance shares under the EDIP, barring unforeseen circumstances, into account, especially in setting annual salary increases.
until it expires or is renewed in 2010.
Executives will develop a significant personal shareholding in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Policy The remuneration policy for executive directors will be reviewed The remuneration committee can award shares to executive directors that regularly, independently of executive management, and will set the will only vest to the extent that demanding performance conditions are tone for the remuneration of other senior executives.
satisfied at the end of a three-year period.
The maximum number of these The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand performance shares that can be awarded to an executive director in any shareholder preferences.
year is at the discretion of the remuneration committee, but will not Remuneration policy and practice will be as transparent as possible.
normally exceed 5.5 times base salary 7.5 times base salary in the case of the group chief executive.
Executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, annual bonus, In exceptional circumstances, the committee also has an overriding long-term incentives, pensions and other benets.
The remuneration discretion to reduce the number of shares that vest or to decide that no committee reviews this structure regularly to ensure it is achieving its shares vest.
In 2006, well over three-quarters of executive directors total The compulsory retention period will also be decided by the committee potential remuneration was performance-related, in line with the target.
and will not normally be less than three years.
Together with the The same will be true for potential remuneration in 2007. performance period, this gives executive directors a six-year incentive structure, as shown in the timeline below, which is designed to ensure Salary their interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
The committee makes a Performance period Retention period judgement on salary levels based on its assessment of market conditions and the external advice.
Annual bonus Award Vesting Release All executive directors are eligible to take part in an annual performancebased bonus scheme.
The remuneration committee sets bonus targets 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and levels of eligibility each year.
In normal circumstances, the maximum payment for substantially exceeding Where shares vest under awards made in 2007 and future years, the performance targets will continue to be 150% of base salary.
executive director will receive additional shares representing the value Annual bonus awards for 2007 will be based on a mix of demanding of the reinvested dividends.
financial targets, based on the annual plan and the leadership objectives The committees policy continues to be that each executive director set at the beginning of the year.
The weightings on annual bonus should hold shares equivalent in value to five times his or her base salary targets are: within five years of appointment as an executive director.
This policy is 50% Financial metrics from the annual plan, principally EBITDA, reected in the terms of the EDIP, as shares awarded will only be cash costs and capital expenditure.
released at the end of the three-year retention period, described below, 30% Non-financial measures focusing on health, safety and the if these minimum shareholding guidelines are met.
20% Individual performance against leadership objectives and against Performance conditions living the values of the group incorporating BPs code of conduct.
For performance share awards in 2007, the performance conditions will continue to relate to BPs total shareholder return TSR compared with The remuneration committee will also review carefully the underlying other oil majors ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron over a threeperformance of the group in the light of the five-year business plan and year period.
We have the discretion to alter this comparison group if will look at competitors results, analysts reports and the views of the circumstances change, for example, if there are significant consolidations chairmen of other BP board committees when assessing results.
In exceptional circumstances, the remuneration committee can decide We consider this relative TSR to be the most appropriate measure to award bonuses moderately above the maximum level.
The committee of performance for the purpose of long-term incentives for executive can also decide to reduce bonuses where this is warranted, and in directors.
It best reects the creation of shareholder value while exceptional circumstances bonuses could be reduced to zero.
We minimizing the impact of sector-specic effects such as the oil price.
have a duty to shareholders to use our discretion in a reasonable TSR is calculated as share price performance over the relevant period, and informed manner, acting in the best interests of the company, assuming dividends are reinvested.
All share prices are averaged over the 70 three months before the beginning and end of the performance period.
The Supplemental Executive Retirement benefit supplemental plan is They are measured in US dollars.
At the end of the performance period, a non-qualied top-up arrangement that became effective on 1 January the companies TSRs will be ranked.
Executive directors performance 2002 for US employees above a specified salary level.
The benefit formula shares will vest at 100%, 70% and 35% if BP is ranked first, second is 1.3% of final average earnings, which comprise base salary and bonus or third respectively: none will vest if BP is in fourth or fifth place.
in accordance with standard US practice and as specified under the As the comparator group is small and as the oil majors underlying qualied arrangement, multiplied by years of service.
There is an businesses are broadly similar, a simple ranking could sometimes distort offset for benets payable under all other BP qualied and non-qualied BPs underlying business performance relative to the comparators.
This benefit is unfunded and therefore paid from The committee is therefore able to exercise discretion in a reasonable corporate assets.
and informed manner to adjust the vesting level upwards or downwards Dr Grote is eligible to participate under the supplemental plan.
His to reect better the underlying health of BPs business.
This would be pension accrual for 2006, shown in the table on page 74, includes the judged by reference to a range of measures including ROACE, growth total amount that could become payable under all plans.
in EPS, reserves replacement and cash ow.
The need to exercise discretion is most likely to arise when the TSR of some companies is Other benets clustered, so that a relatively small difference in TSR performance would Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee benefit produce a major difference in vesting levels.
plans and in all-employee share saving schemes and savings plans The remuneration committee will explain any adjustments in the applying in their home countries.
Benets in kind are not pensionable.
next directors remuneration report following the vesting, in line with its Expatriates may receive a resettlement allowance for a limited period.
These focus on sustaining BPs financial, strategic and Dr D C Allen 29 Jan 2003 485,000 organizational health.
They include, among other measures, maintenance I C Conn 22 Jul 2004 485,000 of BPs performance culture and the continued development of BPs Dr B E Grote 7 Aug 2000 $1,000,000 business strategy, executive talent and internal organization.
As with J A Manzoni 29 Jan 2003 485,000 the TSR element, this element will be assessed over a three-year a performance period.
Subsequent to 31 December 2006, Dr Haywards salary was increased to 750,000 and Mr Inglis salary, on appointment to the board, to 425,000.
The remuneration committee has agreed that Lord Browne will be granted a share award under the 2007-2009 plan on the above basis.
The performance targets for this award and those granted to him on When Lord Browne retires on 31 July 2007, he will become entitled to a the same basis in 2005 and 2006 will be assessed by the remuneration payment equal to the aggregate of 12 months base salary at that date, his committee at the end of the three-year performance period that applies target annual bonus level 130% of base salary and 90,000 in respect of to each award.
The actual number of shares received will depend on the fringe benets.
In accordance with the committees policy, the payment will extent to which relevant performance conditions are satisfied.
be made in four quarterly instalments the first payable in November 2007 and each instalment will be reduced by an amount equal to any of Lord Pensions Brownes replacement earnings for the quarter in question, to the extent Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension that such earnings exceed one-third of the relevant quarterly instalment.
schemes applying in their home countries.
Additional details are given Service contracts are expressed to expire at a normal retirement age on page 74. of 60 subject to age discrimination.
The contracts have a notice period of one year.
UK directors The service contracts of Dr Allen, Mr Conn, Dr Hayward and UK directors are members of the regular BP Pension Scheme.
The core Mr Manzoni may be terminated by the company at any time with benets under this scheme are non-contributory.
They include a pension immediate effect, on payment in lieu of notice equivalent to one years accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of service, up to a salary, or the amount of salary that would have been paid if the contract maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary and a dependants benefit of had terminated on the expiry of the remainder of the notice period.
two-thirds of the members pension.
The scheme pension is not Dr Grotes contract is with BP Exploration Alaska Inc.
He is seconded integrated with state pension benets.
to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement of 7 August 2000, which had The rules of the BP Pension Scheme have recently been amended an unexpired term of one year on 31 December 2006.
The secondment such that the normal retirement age is 65.
Scheme members can retire can be terminated by one months notice by either party and terminates on or after age 60 without reduction.
Special early retirement terms apply automatically on the termination of Dr Grotes service contract.
to pre-1 December 2006 service for members with long service as at There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early 1 December 2006. termination of the above contracts.
In the event of the early termination In April 2006, the UK government made important changes to the of any of the contracts by the company, other than for cause or under a operation and taxation of pensions.
The remuneration committee decided specic termination payment provision, the relevant directors then-current to deliver pension benets in excess of the new lifetime allowance of salary and benets would be taken into account in calculating any liability of 1.5 million set by the legislation via an unapproved, unfunded pension the company.
arrangement paid by the company direct.
Since January 2003, new service contracts have included a provision to allow for severance payments to be phased, when appropriate.
The US directors committee will also consider mitigation to reduce compensation to a Dr Grote participates in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan US departing director, when appropriate to do so.
plan, which features a cash balance formula.
The US plan took its current form on 1 July 2000.
Pension benets are provided through a combination of tax-qualied and non-qualied benefit restoration plans, consistent with US tax regulations as applicable.
The b Sir William Castell 38.5 n a remuneration of the chairman is set by the board rather than the remuneration committee, in line with BPs governance policies, as we E B Davis, Jr 100 110 believe the performance of the chairman is a matter for the board as a D J Flint 100 90 whole rather than any one committee.
The boards policy is that nonDr D S Julius 105 107 executive remuneration should be consistent with recognized Sir Tom McKillop 85 90 best-practice standards.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to Dr W E Massey 130 130 establish a holding in BP shares broadly related to one years base fee.
Sir Ian Prosser 130 135 P D Sutherland 500 500 Annual fee structure Directors leaving the board in 2006 Non-executive directors remuneration consists of the following elements: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- cd Cash fees, paid monthly, with increments for positions of additional H M P Miles 30 90 responsibility, reecting workload and potential liability.
e M H Wilson 22.5 105 A xed allowance, currently 5,000, for transatlantic or equivalent inter-continental travel to attend a board or board committee meeting a This information has been subject to audit.
Appointed on 20 July 2006. c Also received a superannuation gratuity of 46,000.
Reasonable travel and related business expenses.
d Also received 37,500 for serving as a director and non-executive chairman of BP No share or share option awards are made to any non-executive Pension Trustees Limited.
e director in respect of service on the board.
Also received a superannuation gratuity of 21,000.
The fees were reviewed in 2005 by an ad hoc board committee and were increased with effect from 1 January 2005 to reect the change Based on the current fee structure, the table above shows the 2006 in workload and global market rates for independent or non-executive remuneration of each non-executive director.
directors since the previous review in 2002.
There was no increase Non-executive directors have letters of appointment that recognize in 2006. that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the discretion of shareholders.
All directors stand for re-election at each AGM.
Directors were allocated Board member 75 restricted stock in remuneration for their service on the board of Amoco Committee chairmanship fee 20 Corporation prior to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, interests in c Transatlantic attendance allowance 5 Amoco shares in the plan were converted into interests in BP ADSs.
The restricted stock will vest on the retirement of the non-executive director a The chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or transatlantic at the age of 70 or earlier at the discretion of the board.
Since the attendance allowance but has the use of a fully maintained office for company business, a chauffeured car and security advice.
merger, no further entitlements have accrued to any director under b The deputy chairman receives a 25,000 increment on top of the standard board the plan.
The residual interests, as interests in a long-term incentive fee.
In addition, he is eligible for committee chairmanship fees and the transatlantic scheme, are set out in the table below, in accordance with the Directors attendance allowance.
The deputy chairman is currently chairman of the audit committee.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. c This allowance is payable to non-executive directors undertaking transatlantic or -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- equivalent intercontinental travel for the purpose of attending a board meeting or Interest in BP ADSs Date on board committee meeting.
at 1 Jan 2006 and which director a b 31 Dec 2006 reaches age 70 Superannuation gratuities -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- J H Bryan 5,546 5 Oct 2006 In accordance with the companys long-standing practice, non-executive E B Davis, Jr 4,490 5 Aug 2014 directors who retired from the board after at least six years service are, at the time of their retirement, eligible for consideration for a superannuation Dr W E Massey 3,346 5 Apr 2008 gratuity.
The amount of the payment is c M H Wilson 3,170 4 Nov 2007 determined at the boards discretion having regard to the directors a period of service as a director and other relevant factors.
No awards were granted and no awards lapsed during the year.
The awards were granted over Amoco stock prior to the merger but their notional weighted average In 2002, the board revised its policy with respect to superannuation market value at the date of grant applying the subsequent merger ratio of 0.66167 gratuities so that: i non-executive directors appointed to the board after of a BP ADS for every Amoco share was $27.87 per BP ADS.
b 1 July 2002 would not be eligible for consideration for such a payment: For the purposes of the regulations, the date on which the director retires from the board at or after the age of 70 is the end of the qualifying period.
If the director and ii while non-executive directors in service at 1 July 2002 would retires prior to this date, the board may waive the restrictions.
remain eligible for consideration for a payment, service after that date c Mr Wilson resigned from the board on 28 February 2006.
Mr Wilson had received would not be taken into account by the board in considering the amount awards of Amoco shares under the plan between 1 November 1993 and 28 April 1998 prior to the merger.
These interests had been converted into BP ADSs at the of any such payment.
In accordance with the terms of the plan, the board exercised its The board made superannuation gratuity payments during the year discretion over this award on 11 May 2006 and the shares vested on that date to the following former directors: Mr Miles 46,000 who retired in when the BP ADS market price was $76.07 without payment by him.
April 2006 and Mr Wilson 21,000 who resigned from the board in February 2006.
These payments were in line with the policy arrangements agreed in 2002 outlined above.
72 In 2006, the committee continued to engage Towers Perrin as its principal external adviser.
Towers Perrin also provided limited ad hoc Part 3 Additional statutory remuneration and benets advice to parts of the group, principally and other disclosures changes in employee share plans and some market information on pay structures.
The committee continued to engage Kepler Associates to advise on performance measurement.
Kepler Associates also Remuneration committee provided performance data and limited ad hoc advice on performance All the members of the committee are independent non-executive measurement to the group.
Throughout this year, Dr Julius chairman, Mr Bryan, Mr Davis, Freshelds Bruckhaus Derringer provided legal advice on specic Sir Tom McKillop and Sir Ian Prosser were members.
Lord Browne was matters to the committee, as well as providing some legal advice to consulted on matters relating to the other executive directors who report the group.
to him and on matters relating to the performance of the company: Ernst & Young reviewed the calculations on the financial-based targets he was not present when matters affecting his own remuneration that form the basis of the performance-related pay for executive directors, were discussed.
that is, the annual bonus and share element awards described on page 69, to ensure they met an independent, objective standard.
They also Tasks provided audit, audit-related and taxation services for the group.
The remuneration committees tasks are: To determine, on behalf of the board, the terms of engagement and a remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors Historical TSR performance and to report on these to the shareholders.
This graph shows the growth in value of a hypothetical 100 holding in To determine, on behalf of the board, matters of policy over which BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years, relative to the FTSE 100 and to the company has authority regarding the establishment or operation the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
BP is a constituent of both indices, of the companys pension scheme of which the executive directors which are the most relevant broad equity market indices for this purpose.
To nominate, on behalf of the board, any trustees or directors of corporate trustees of the scheme.
To monitor the policies being applied by the group chief executive in remunerating senior executives who are not executive directors.
Constitution and operation Each member of the remuneration committee named on page 80 is subject to annual re-election as a director of the company.
The board considers all committee members to be independent see page 77.
They have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the committees decisions.
The committee met five times in the period under review.
There was a full attendance record except for Mr Davis, who was unable to attend one meeting.
Mr Sutherland, as chairman of the board, attended all the committee meetings.
FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index The committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual a This information has been subject to audit.
report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the outcome of the vote at the AGM on the directors remuneration report and take into account the views of shareholders in its future decisions.
The Past directors committee values its dialogue with major shareholders on remuneration Until 30 September 2006, Mr Olver acted as a consultant to BP in matters.
relation to its activities in Russia and served as a BP-nominated director of TNK-BP Limited, a joint venture company owned 50% by BP.
Advice Under the consultancy agreement, he received 225,000 in fees in Advice is provided to the committee by the company secretarys ofce, 2006 as well as reimbursement of costs and support for his role.
He which is independent of executive management and reports to the was also entitled to retain fees paid to him by TNK-BP up to a maximum chairman of the board.
Mr Aronson, an independent consultant, is the of $120,000 a year for his role as a director, deputy chairman and committees secretary and special adviser.
Advice was also received chairman of the audit committee of TNK-BP Limited.
from Mr Jackson, the company secretary.
Mr Miles non-executive director of BP until April 2006 was appointed The committee also appoints external advisers to provide specialist as a director and non-executive chairman of BP Pension Trustees Limited advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
This position is for a term of three years and he receives independence of the advice is subject to annual review.
b Additional pension earned during the year includes an inflation increase of 2.2% for UK directors and 3.3% for US directors.
c Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
Group chief executive As stated in previous years reports, Lord Browne is eligible for consideration for an ex-gratia lump sum superannuation payment equivalent to one years base salary.
This is in line with the companys past practice for directors retiring on or after age 55 having accrued at least 30 years service.
The remuneration committee has approved the payment of this sum to Lord Browne immediately following his retirement.
This payment will be in addition to his pension entitlements under the scheme described above.
No other executive director is eligible for consideration for an ex-gratia payment on retirement because in 1996 the remuneration committee decided that appointees to the board after that time should cease to be eligible.
b BPs performance is measured against the oil sector.
For the periods 2003-2005 and 2004-2006, the performance measure is SHRAM, which is measured against the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index, and ROACE and EPS growth, which are measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
For periods 2005-2007 onward, the performance condition is TSR measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
c Represents awards of shares made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan.
During 2006, the highest market prices were 7.12 and $76.47 respectively and the lowest market prices were 5.64 and $63.72 respectively.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2005 as described on page 70.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
SAR Stock Appreciation Rights under BP America Inc. Share Appreciation Plan.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share scheme.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to the relevant individuals prior to their appointments as directors and are not subject to performance conditions.
b Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary, on 23 February 2007.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2006 75
