would have had a disruptive effect on the final delivery of the system if Deloitte & Touche LLP personnel were to be withdrawn prior to completion of the project.
The Audit Committee further noted that those members of Deloitte & Touche LLP who worked on the project were completely separate from the Deloitte & Touche LLP audit team and also were not involved in the development of any of the financial systems within the project.
Since the CRM system went live, Deloitte & Touche LLP personnel have been withdrawn.
For the year ended 30 June 2006, the Audit Committee has discussed the matter of audit independence with Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Groups external auditors, and has received and reviewed confirmation in writing that, in Deloitte & Touche LLPs professional judgement, Deloitte & Touche LLP is independent within the meaning of all UK and US regulatory and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
There were no services provided during the year that were not pre-approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the Groups policy.
Communication with shareholders Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
In addition, any letters from shareholders are duly circulated to the Board.
The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each year, some of which are attended by the Senior Independent Director.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and fund managers following the half year and full year results of the Company, conference calls are held with analysts following the announcement of the first quarter and third quarter results and presentations are made during the year to overseas shareholders.
During the year, various members of the Board have met with institutional shareholders and representative bodies, reinforcing the continuation of open dialogue and discussion of strategy between the Board and its shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are expected to attend if required.
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
All members of the Board are encouraged to attend the meeting.
Nicholas Ferguson was unable to attend the 2005 AGM due to prior commitments.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief resum e of the C ompanys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
The Company, in accordance with the Combined Code, announces the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the AGM.
From 2003 there has been a year on year 2% increase in the number of votes cast.
Directors responsibilities The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 72.
REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee 1.1 Role of the Remuneration Committee and terms of reference The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for recommendations to the Board regarding: the Companys policy on remuneration for Board Directors and other Senior Executives of the Group who report directly to the CEO.
In the latter case, decisions shall be the subject of recommendation to the Committee by the CEO: the design and implementation of incentive compensation arrangements including share-based schemes: and remuneration packages for Executive Directors of the Company, including basic salary, performance-based short and long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
The Committee sets the performance targets applicable to incentive compensation arrangements.
As part of this process, it seeks to ensure that such packages provide employees with appropriate incentives to perform, reflect their positions and roles within the Group, and that the employees are, in a fair and reasonable manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Payments or benefits offered to employees in excess of 250,000 which do not form part of an employees expected remuneration or benefits require the approval of the Committee.
The Committee met five times during the year.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 63 1.2 Membership of the Committee The Committee comprised the following independent Non-Executive Directors during the year ended 30 June 2006: David Evans Nicholas Ferguson Chairman Jacques Nasser Jacques Nasser resigned as Chairman and Nicholas Ferguson assumed the role in January 2006.
There have been no other changes to the membership of the Committee during the year.
During the year, the Committee sought the advice of James Murdoch, the CEO, on matters relating to the Executive Directors and Senior Executives who report to him and advice from the Director of People and Organisational Development: the Committee was supported by the Company Secretary, and the finance function.
The CEO was not present when matters affecting his remuneration were considered.
The Chairman, Rupert Murdoch, did not attend any Remuneration Committee meetings during the year.
Advisors The Committee has engaged the services of both a lead adviser Patterson Associates LLP.
and a support adviser New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
The lead adviser advises the Committee and the Company on overall direction and acts as the primary lead for advice.
The support adviser advises on share based awards, performance monitoring, remuneration data and accounting including IFRS and US GAAP for any existing or new incentives and remuneration schemes and provides analytical support.
The support adviser works in conjunction with the lead adviser.
Remuneration policy The Committees reward policy reflects its aim to align Executive Directors remuneration with shareholders interests and to engage world-class executive talent for the benefit of the Group.
The main principles of the policy are that: Total rewards should be set at appropriate levels to reflect the competitive market in which the Group operates.
The majority of the total reward should be linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets.
Appropriate benchmarks are used when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
The Company uses a subset of the FTSE 100 as its major benchmark.
Executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company, but are allowed to take up one external non-executive FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payments in respect of this appointment.
In formulating its remuneration policy, the Committee is keen to understand shareholders views on executive remuneration.
From time to time, the Company holds consultation meetings with a range of institutional investors, concerning aspects of the Committees policy, and has taken their advice into account in arriving at remuneration decisions.
The Committee believes that performance share awards continue to be the best long-term incentive vehicle for Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
The Committee also believes that the Groups historically strong operational performance has led the market to expect continued excellence in operational delivery.
Accordingly, 70% of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP vests based on operational performance, while 30% vests based on Total Shareholders Return TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100.
The operational performance conditions chosen include earnings per share EPS, free cash flow per share FCF and Direct to Home DTH subscriber growth.
As detailed in last years Annual Report, in 2005 the Company implemented an alignment programme to convert outstanding historical share awards to the new set of measures being used going forward.
All of the Companys long-term incentives are now aligned in three important ways: time horizon: denomination: and performance measurement.
All LTIP programmes are now measured over three years, they are all based on performance shares, and use the performance measures described above for the LTIP.
The Committee also recognises that the interactions between different areas of the business in creating long-term shareholder value are complex.
Therefore, rather than Senior Executives being incentivised primarily through measures relevant to their own business area, the remuneration of Senior Executives now emphasises a smaller number of Group-wide goals, in order to maximise the benefits of teamwork and collaboration across the Group.
The Executive Directors of the Company are employed on twelve-month rolling contracts.
Elements of Executive Director remuneration 4.1 Remuneration Mix The Executive Directors and Senior Executives total direct compensation consists of salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
This reward structure is regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that it continues to support the Groups objectives.
Overview of current remuneration elements for executives, including Executive Directors Performance Element Objective Period Performance Conditions Base salary Reflects the market value of the position, Not applicable Reviewed annually on the basis of external market benchmarking see below as well as the skills and experience of the and or reference to internal positioning incumbent Annual bonus Rewards achievement of short-term One year Cash award is subject to achievement of team and individual objectives.
see below objectives set during the year For Executive Directors, award is wholly dependent on group-level objectives Earnings, cash and subscriber growth.
LTIP Rewards the achievements of long-term Three years 30% of the award is subject to achievement of relative TSR see page 66 objectives set during the year of award performance vs. the FTSE 100 over three years.
70% of the award is subject to achievement of operating targets for earnings per share, cashflow per share and DTH subscriber growth.
In the year ended 30 June 2006, approximately three quarters of Executive Directors remuneration was performance-related, as shown by the chart below: Salary Annual Bonus LTIP Notes to chart: Annual bonus valuation assumes on-target performance LTIP valuation assumes annualised expected value, where expected value is face value at the time of grant, discounted to reflect expected vesting for target performance.
4.2 Basic salary The basic salary for each Executive Director and Senior Executive is determined by the Committee taking account the recommendations of the CEO other than in respect of his own salary and information provided from external sources relative to the industry sectors in which the Group operates.
Salaries for the CEO and CFO are periodically benchmarked against a subset of the FTSE 100.
4.3 Annual bonus Executive Directors and Senior Executives participate in a bonus scheme under which awards are made to participants at the discretion of the Committee.
For the Executive Directors the level of bonus paid depends purely on Group-wide operational performance measures specifically, Operating Profit, Free Cash Flow and DTH Subscriber Growth.
For the Senior Executives these operational performance measures contribute to 75% of their bonus with the additional 25% attributable to the performance of that individuals performance area.
For the CEO, the maximum bonus that may be awarded is 200% of salary, and for on-target performance, he would receive 130% of salary, while for the CFO, these percentages are 160% and 110% respectively.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 65 4.4 LTIP The Company operates an LTIP for Executive Directors and Senior Executives, under which awards may be made to any employee or full-time Director of the Group at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards under the scheme are made as a nil priced option.
Awards are not transferable or pensionable and are made over a number of shares in the Company, determined by the Committee.
LTIP awards are satisfied using shares purchased in the market.
Design of LTIP plan The LTIP has a structure tailored to the needs of the Company in which grants are made every year, but vesting occurs biennially, designed to reduce Executives reliance on annual vesting of LTIP awards.
In the first year, an Executive is granted an award of shares that vests at the end of the three year performance cycle, subject to performance conditions.
In the second year, a further discretionary award of up to 100% of the year one award can be made.
This award vests at the same time as the first award.
While second year grants are linked to the previous year and therefore capped, the size of first year grants is determined by the Committee on the basis of a range of factors including internal, and external market benchmarks.
A number of shares are granted and therefore values in relation to salary may vary with share price movements.
Performance conditions for LTIP plan The awards vest, in full or in part, dependent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets.
Measurements of the extent to which performance targets have been met are reviewed by the Committee at the date of vesting of each award.
As explained in section 3 Remuneration Policy, vesting is based partly on relative TSR, and partly on operational measures.
TSR Performance 30% of the award vests dependent on TSR performance over the three year performance period, relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 at the time of grant.
If the Companys TSR performance is below median, the TSR element of the award lapses with no vesting.
For median performance, one third of the award vests.
For performance in the upper quartile, the whole award vests.
For performance between median and upper quartile, vesting is on a straight-line basis, as shown in the chart below: TSR Vesting Schedule 35% 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% TSR Performance - Percentile rank vs. FTSE 100 TSR calculations are conducted independently by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, employing a methodology which averages share prices over 3 months prior to grants and the three months prior to the end of the three year performance period.
Operational performance 70% of the award is based on operational measures: EPS FCF Growth in DTH subscribers.
Other share plans 5.1 Management Long Term Incentive Plan Management LTIP The Company now operates a Management LTIP, which has replaced options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme see below.
It is intended that selected employees will participate in the Management LTIP, but this will not include any Executive Directors or Senior Executives who 66 Percent of award vesting participate in the LTIP.
In the past this plan was open to only a small number of managers within the Group but there will be more participants going forward.
Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of the CEO.
The Management LTIP mirrors the LTIP for Senior Executives and Executive Directors, with the same performance conditions.
Awards that are exercised under the Management LTIP can only be satisfied by the delivery of shares purchased in the market.
5.2 Executive Share Option Schemes Executive Schemes The Company operates Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes under Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC guidelines.
Executive Directors and Senior Executives who participate in the LTIP do not participate in the Executive Schemes.
It is the Committees intention that no further options will be granted to any employee of the Group during the year.
5.3 Sharesave Scheme The Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK Irish employees, including Executive Directors.
Options are normally exercisable after either three, five or seven years from the date of grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of invitation.
It is the policy of the Group to make an invitation to employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the year end results.
Pensions The Group provides pensions to eligible employees through the BSkyB Pension Plan Pension Plan, which is a defined contribution plan.
Employees contribute a minimum of 4% of pensionable salary into the Pension Plan each year and the Group matches this with a contribution of 8% of pensionable salary.
Until 5 April 2006, for those Executives whose pensionable salary was restricted by the cap on pensionable earnings introduced in 1989, employee and employer pension contributions may have been restricted.
In such cases, a cash supplement was paid to the Executive equal to the shortfall in the 8% employer contribution rate.
The Company has reviewed its policy following changes to the tax regime for pensions.
Since 6 April 2006, contributions on full salary are being paid into the Pension Plan by the Company and by Executives.
This replaces the use of cash supplements, allows for a consistent approach between Executives and provides a cost saving to the Company since it involves a reduction in National Insurance contributions.
Where an Executives pension benefits might exceed his or her Lifetime Allowance, the Company will, however, offer an alternative to continued membership of the Pension Plan of a cash allowance equal to the employer pension contribution.
Other benefits Executive Directors are entitled to a company car, life assurance equal to two times base salary, increased to four times base salary when they become members of the Pension Plan and private medical insurance.
Service agreements Policy The Committee introduced a policy that Executive Directors service agreements will contain a maximum notice period of one year.
The Committee will also consider, where appropriate to do so, reducing remuneration to a departing Director.
However, the Committee will consider such issues on a case by case basis and will consider the terms of employment of a departing Director.
A large proportion of each Executive Directors total direct remuneration is linked to performance and therefore will not be payable to the extent that the relevant targets are not met.
James Murdoch James Murdoch has a service agreement with the Company which commenced on 27 November 2003 and shall continue unless, or until, terminated by either party giving to the other not less than 12 months notice in writing.
James Murdochs remuneration consists of a base salary of 825,000 per annum.
James Murdoch will be paid a bonus amount depending upon the performance criteria adopted by the Committee for each financial year during the continuance of his service agreement with the Company.
James Murdoch is also entitled to other benefits, namely pension benefits, company car, life assurance equal to four times base salary, medical insurance, an entitlement to participate in the LTIP and a relocation allowance Expense Allowance of 200,000 per annum up until 27 November 2006.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 67 James Murdoch has a non-compete clause in his service agreement specifying that he shall not be able to work for any business or prospective business carried on within the UK, which wholly or partially competes with the Groups businesses at the date of termination of his agreement.
Such restriction will be for a period of six months.
On termination of the agreement, James Murdoch will be entitled to one years salary, pension and life assurance benefits from the date of termination, plus his Expense Allowance equal to the value received over the previous twelve months, except that the Expense Allowance would be reduced to the extent that it would have ceased to be payable in the following twelve months.
James Murdoch will also be entitled to a pro-rata bonus up to the date of termination.
James Murdoch would be entitled to a bonus in full if he was able to terminate his employment for cause.
Jeremy Darroch Jeremy Darroch has a service contract with the Company that commenced on 16 August 2004 and shall continue unless, or until, terminated by either party giving to the other not less than 12 months notice in writing.
Jeremy Darrochs remuneration consists of a base salary of 500,000 per annum.
Jeremy Darroch will be paid a bonus amount depending upon the performance criteria adopted by the Committee for each financial year during the continuance of his service agreement with the Company.
Jeremy Darroch is also entitled to other benefits, namely pension benefits, company car, life assurance equal to four times base salary, medical insurance and an entitlement to participate in the LTIP.
Jeremy Darroch has a non-compete clause in his service agreement specifying that he shall not be able to work for any business or prospective business carried on within the UK, which wholly or partially competes with the Groups businesses at the date of termination of his agreement.
Such restriction will be for a period of twelve months.
On termination of the agreement, Jeremy Darroch will be entitled to one years salary, pension and life assurance benefits from the date of termination and a pro-rata bonus up to the date of termination.
Jeremy Darroch would be entitled to a bonus in full if he was able to terminate his employment for cause.
Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Marks & Spencer Group plc on 1 February 2006 and retained fees, for this appointment, of 22,000 for the period 1 February 2006 to 30 June 2006.
Non-Executive Directors The basic fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, set by the Board of Directors, were 42,600 each for the financial year.
It is intended that in future these will be increased on an annual basis by 5% or RPI, whichever is the greater, unless the Board determines otherwise.
The basic fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors for the year ending 30 June 2007 will increase to 44,700.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid an additional 5,000 per annum each, for membership of each of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee.
The Chairmen of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, and the Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee, and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director each receive an additional 10,000 per annum.
Each Non-Executive Director is engaged by the Company for an initial term of three years.
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic, but may be mutually agreed.
68 The dates on which the Non-Executive Directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and current expiry dates are as follows: Expiry date of current service agreement or Commencement Date letter of appointment Chase Carey i 13 February 2003 3 November 2006 David DeVoe iii 15 December 1994 3 November 2006 David Evans 21 September 2001 November 2008 Nicholas Ferguson i 15 June 2004 3 November 2006 Andrew Higginson 1 September 2004 November 2008 Allan Leighton 15 October 1999 November 2008 Rupert Murdoch iii 3 November 1990 3 November 2006 Jacques Nasser i 8 November 2002 3 November 2006 Gail Rebuck iv 8 November 2002 November 2007 Lord Rothschild iv 17 November 2003 November 2007 Arthur Siskind iii 19 November 1991 3 November 2006 Lord St John of Fawsley ii 20 November 1991 3 November 2006 Lord Wilson of Dinton 13 February 2003 November 2008 These letters of appointment will expire on the day of the Companys AGM in either November 2007 or 2008, the dates of which have yet to be agreed.
All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and reappointment by shareholders in accordance with the Companys current Articles of Association see Shareholder Information.
Notes: i Non-Executive Directors retiring by rotation and offering themselves for reappointment by shareholders at the Companys next AGM, to be held on 3 November 2006.
James Murdoch will also retire by rotation.
ii Lord St John of Fawsley will retire by rotation but will not offer himself for reappointment by shareholders at the Companys next AGM.
iii David DeVoe, Arthur Siskind and Rupert Murdoch are subject to annual reappointment by shareholders in accordance with requirement A.
7.2. of the Combined Code as they have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than nine years.
iv Gail Rebuck and Lord Rothschild will be subject to retirement by rotation and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys AGM in 2007, the date of which has yet to be agreed.
In accordance with the Companys current Articles of Association, one-third of the Directors must retire by rotation.
Therefore, assuming that the Board continues to comprise fifteen Directors, five Directors will be required to retire by rotation at the Companys AGM in 2007 in addition to those then subject to annual reappointment.
Accordingly, the remaining three Directors to retire by rotation in 2007 will be selected by drawing lots from those Directors who would otherwise be due to retire by rotation at the AGM of the Company to be held in 2008.
Non-Executive Directors service agreements do not contain a notice period.
Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by TSR to 30 June 2006.
This graph shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in the Companys ordinary shares over five years, relative to three indices, which are considered to be the most relevant BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 69 broad equity market index for this purpose.
The graph is included to meet a legislative requirement and is not directly relevant to the performance criteria approved by shareholders for the Companys long-term incentive plans.
Breakdown of shareholder return from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2006 140 BSkyB FTSE 350 Media FTSE 100 NYSE TMT 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Jun-01 Jun-02 Jun-03 Jun-04 Jun-05 Jun-06 Source: Thomson Financial AUDITED INFORMATION 11.
Share interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company during the year were: At At At 27 July 30 June 30 June Name of Director 2006 2006 2005 David Evans 16,000 16,000 16,000 Nicholas Ferguson 10,000 10,000 10,000 Andrew Higginson 2,000 2,000 2,000 Lord Rothschild 100,000 100,000 100,000 Lord St John of Fawsley 2,000 2,000 2,000 Lord Wilson of Dinton 486 486 486 Held in the form of 4,000 ADSs American Depositary Share, one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares.
Lord Rothschild is also deemed to be interested in 2 million ordinary shares registered in the name of Bank of New York Nominees, as a result of being a director of RIT Capital Partners plc: and in 15,250 ordinary shares as a result of being a trustee of a Charitable Foundation where Lord Rothschild is not a beneficiary and in 3,500 ordinary shares of another Charitable Trust where again Lord Rothschild is not a beneficiary but is a Trustee.
Except as disclosed in this report, no other Director held any interest in the share capital, including options, of the Company, or of any subsidiary of the Company, during the year.
All interests at the date shown are beneficial and there have been no changes between 1 July 2006 and 27 July 2006.
At 30 June 2006, the ESOP was interested in 4,448,876 ordinary shares in which the Directors who are employees are deemed to be interested by virtue of Section 324 of the Companies Act 1985 see note 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
At 27 July 2006, the ESOP was interested in 4,381,463 ordinary shares.
At 27 July 2006, 38.36% of the Companys shares are held by News UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of News Corporation.
According to News Corporations Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended 31 March 2006 filed with the SEC on 11 May 2006, as a result of Rupert Murdochs ability to appoint certain members of the Board of Directors of the corporate trustee of the A. E. Harris Trust, which beneficially owns 2.8% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 30.0% of its Class B Common Stock, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the A. E. Harris Trust.
Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares.
Also, Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns an additional 0.8% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 1.1% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 3.5% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 31.1% of its Class B Common Stock.
During the year ended 30 June 2006, the share price traded within the range of 4.785 to 5.79 per share.
The middle-market closing price on the last working day of the financial year was 5.735.
ii Tony Ball resigned as a Director of the Company on 4 November 2003.
Details of the emoluments Tony Ball received during the fiscal year ended 30 June 2004 were disclosed in the Companys 2004 Annual Report on Form 20-F. iii Philip Bowman resigned as a Director of the Company on 14 November 2003. iv Martin Stewart resigned as a Director of the Company on 4 August 2004. v John Thornton resigned as a Director of the Company on 11 May 2004. vi The amounts shown above are those which have been approved by the Committee for the year ended 30 June 2006. vii James Murdoch received a payment of 21,844 2005: 23,125 in relation to the shortfall in his pension arrangements.
Employer contributions of 43,835 2005: 36,555 were paid into the BSkyB Pension Plan.
Jeremy Darroch received a payment of 5,625 2005: 6,219 in relation to the shortfall in his pension arrangements.
Employer contributions of 34,290 2005: 26,949 were paid into the BSkyB Pension Plan.
BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2006 71 13.
LTIP Details of outstanding awards to Executive Directors under the LTIP are shown below: Number of shares under award At Granted Exercised Lapsed At Date from 30 June during during during 30 June Exercise Date of which Expiry Name of Director 2005 the year the year the year 2006 Price award exercisable date James Murdoch 450,000 450,000 n a 11.08.04 11.08.07 11.08.08 382,500 382,500 n a 08.11.05 11.08.07 11.08.08 Jeremy Darroch 250,000 250,000 n a 16.08.04 16.08.07 16.08.08 212,500 212,500 n a 08.11.05 16.08.07 16.08.08 The awards took the form of nil-priced options and were not enhanced to meet the employers National Insurance obligations.
Notes: The performance conditions attaching to these awards are set out in section 4.4 LTIP 14.
Sharesave Scheme options Details of all outstanding options held under the Sharesave Scheme are shown below: Number of shares under options Date At Granted Exercised At from 30 June during during the 30 June Exercise which Expiry Name of Director 2005 the year year 2006 Price exercisable date Jeremy Darroch 4,281 4,281 3.86 01.02.10 01.08.10 Options under the Companys Sharesave Scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
Signed on behalf of the Board Nicholas Ferguson Remuneration Committee Chairman 27 July 2006 72
