DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, as approved by the Board, embody the purpose of the Committee as ensuring that the Companys executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Groups overall performance having due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Group.
Membership All members of the Committee, who are identified on page 17 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement, are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
Members of the Committee do not have any personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters decided by the Committee, nor do they have any potential conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the Groups business.
The Committee meets at least three times during the year and at other times as may be required.
While neither the Chairman of the Company, Mr A J Habgood, nor the Chief Executive, Mr M J Roney, are members of the Committee, they normally attend meetings except when the Committee is considering matters concerning themselves.
The Director of Group Human Resources acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Audit The directors remuneration in 2006 and the details of the directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares disclosed on pages 45 to 52 have been audited by the Companys independent external auditor.
Remuneration policy The Companys current remuneration policy for 2006 and beyond is designed to help ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors by providing fair reward for the responsibilities they undertake and the performance they achieve on behalf of shareholders.
In this context, the Committees policy is to set the overall remuneration package at a competitive level and in a form that permits significant additional remuneration to be earned for high performance over a sustained period.
This is normally achieved by benchmarking base pay against comparator companies taking into account a range of factors including performance and by providing, in addition, short and long term incentives geared to performance.
In assessing the balance of performance related and non-performance related elements of remuneration, base pay and benefits are treated as non-performance related, whereas annual bonus including awards under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme the DASBS and long term incentives are treated as performance related.
For this purpose, share options and performance shares are valued at an appropriate proportion of their face value on grant or award.
On this basis, the Committee sets the remuneration package such that about half the total target remuneration package is derived from the performance related elements.
Both the overall competitiveness of the remuneration package and the balance between performance and non-performance related elements are kept under regular review in the light of market practice and the needs of the Company.
The Committee commissions reports and receives advice on directors remuneration from independent remuneration and benefits consultants, namely Monks  LLP and New Bridge Street Consultants, who may from time to time also provide other services to the Company on remuneration and benefit matters that are not the subject of review by the Committee.
In addition  LLP provides the Company with some accounting, tax and pre-acquisition due diligence services.
Further details of the remuneration policy and how it is currently applied to the various aspects of remuneration is provided in the relevant sections below.
With regard to external pay survey data, the Committee reviews each year, prior to the annual review of base pay in January, information on remuneration and benefit levels based on an external survey conducted on its behalf by Monks  LLP.
The Committee seeks to maintain, wherever possible, a consistent and appropriate basis for comparison year-on-year in terms of the survey methodology and, in particular, the use of comparator groups on which the survey is based.
There are three comparator groups that the Committee uses.
These are related to revenue, profit before tax and market capitalisation.
In each case the comparator group consists of 20 non-financial UK based companies that have substantial operations overseas.
10 of the companies in each comparator group are the next highest and 10 are the next lowest compared to Bunzl.
The results from each of the comparator groups are blended by Monks  LLP to provide an overall assessed market position as at 1 January of the year of the review.
Neither Monks  LLP nor New Bridge Street Consultants provide specific recommendations to the Committee on remuneration or benefit levels for the executive directors.
The Committee does, however, review survey information provided by them in the light of its established remuneration policy before making its decisions.
All decisions of the Committee were implemented in full.
Base pay The base pay of each executive director is set to reflect the size and scope of that directors responsibilities undertaken on behalf of the Board, the level of overall performance achieved, including that related to environmental, social and governance issues, and experience in the post.
As stated above, it is benchmarked against comparator companies and the actual pay level is set after taking account of performance, relevant external survey data and the general movement of base pay within the Group.
Annual bonus plan The executive directors participate in an annual bonus plan intended to support the Companys overall remuneration policy.
The bonus plan for each executive director contains meaningful targets that seek to focus attention on one or two key measures of short to medium term achievement.
Bonus awards are not pensionable.
In 2006 the target for the annual bonus for Mr M J Roney and Mr B M May was linked to the Groups achievement of earnings per share after certain specified adjustments eps.
Detailed terms of the plan were determined by the Committee and provided for a bonus to be awarded if the Group achieved, in 2006, a threshold eps level.
No bonus was to be awarded for eps achievement below the threshold level.
The bonus plan provided for an increase in the bonus award pro rata for eps achievement above the threshold up to a target level of eps and for above target achievement.
Half of this annual bonus will be paid in cash to a maximum level of 52.5% of annual base pay and the other half the total aggregate amount is capped at 105% of base pay is deferred under the rules of the DASBS, details of which are set out below.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Remuneration Report 45 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Mr P L Larmons bonus plan for 2006 was partly based on the profit and capital employed in the business for which he was directly responsible.
In addition a portion of his bonus was based on Group performance.
Part of Mr P L Larmons annual bonus is normally paid in cash to a maximum level of 60% of annual base pay and the balance but with the total aggregate amount capped at 100% of base pay is deferred under the rules of the DASBS.
Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including the executive directors, receive the deferred element of their annual bonus as an award of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are purchased in the market and deposited with the Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit Trust the Trust until 1 March in the third year after the year in which the award is made, following which they are transferred to the executive provided normally that the executive has remained in the employment of the Group throughout that period or until their normal retirement date.
The DASBS forms a part of the annual bonus plan so as to provide, in total, an annual bonus opportunity linked to the overall performance of the Group, with a significant portion of any bonus award held in shares for a three year period.
The Committee believes this supports the overall remuneration policy and contributes to the alignment of executives and shareholders interests.
The table below shows the number of shares under the DASBS held by the executive directors and by Mr A J Habgood relating to his previous service as an executive director.
Mr A J Habgood is not eligible to receive further awards under the DASBS.
Shares awarded Shares transferred Shares held at during 2006 or during 2006 or 31 December 2006 Shares held at prior to date ceased prior to date ceased or date ceased 1 January 2006 to be a director to be a director to be a director Current directors A J Habgood 191,365 66,686 59,703 198,348 M J Roney 8,637 8,637 P L Larmon 27,586 30,990 3,374 55,202 B M May 33,179 12,503 13,005 32,677 Former director D M Williams 102,057 102,057 Notes a All awards of shares are made in respect of bonus performance in the previous year.
b The market values of the shares at the date of transfer in 2006, in each case which related to awards made in 2003, were as follows: Mr A J Habgood 391,991, Mr P L Larmon 22,152 and Mr B M May 85,386. c All awards held by Mr D M Williams on 31 January 2006, the date he ceased to be a director, remained outstanding to be transferred to him in accordance with the rules of the DASBS during various periods up to 1 March 2009.
The Committee also reviews and authorises the outline structure of annual bonus plans for other senior executives within the Group.
These plans are based on performance targets relevant to individual businesses or areas of responsibility and are compatible with the principles of the bonus plans approved for the executive directors.
Share based incentives The Committee believes that the long term performance of the Group is an important consideration for shareholders and that share based incentives are an important part of helping to align the interests of shareholders and those employed by the Group.
A formal share ownership guideline is in place under which executive directors are expected to retain a shareholding worth at least equal to their basic salaries.
A period of three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve this shareholding with an additional two years permitted in the case of external appointments.
The Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP was approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2004 under which the executive directors and other senior executives in the Group may be granted share options and awards in respect of performance shares.
Participation in the LTIP is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee periodically reviews the level of grant, taking account of each executives performance and job responsibilities.
No further options will be granted under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme the 1994 Scheme which is now closed with the exception of any outstanding options.
Options were granted and performance shares awarded under the LTIP to the executive directors in 2006 in respect of market purchased shares some of which are held through the Trust.
The LTIP is divided into two parts.
Part A allows the Board to grant share options.
Annual grants may not exceed an amount equal to three times base salary.
In normal circumstances options granted are exercisable, subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions as referred to below, not earlier than three years and not later than 10 years after the date of grant.
Share options granted to date have a performance condition attached based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance and intangible amortisation relative to UK inflation over three years.
The performance conditions for options granted operate on the following sliding scale: Face value of annual Total margin share options granted over UK inflation as a proportion of salary after 3 years First 150% of salary 9% Next 75% of salary 12% Next 75% of salary 19% 46 Directors Remuneration Report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 The performance condition is tested after three years, with no provision for retesting.
Accordingly, to the extent the performance condition has not been met after three financial years, the relevant share options will lapse.
The performance condition has been satisfied in relation to the options granted in 2004 under Part A of the LTIP.
The Committee can set different performance conditions from those described above for future options, provided that the new conditions are no less challenging.
Similarly the Committee can adjust the performance conditions of existing options to take account of technical changes, for example changes in accounting standards or in the event of a rights issue.
The amended condition will be no less challenging as a result of the change.
The table below shows the number of share options under the executive share options schemes held by the executive directors and by Mr A J Habgood relating to his previous service as an executive director.
Mr A J Habgood is not eligible to receive further grants of executive share options.
b The exercise price of executive share options is the market price prevailing at or immediately prior to the date of grant of the option.
c The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 29 December 2006 was 628.5p and the range during 2006 was 578p to 710p.
d The performance condition for options granted under the 1994 Scheme is that they may not be exercised unless the growth in eps over a period of three consecutive financial years exceeds the growth in the UK retail price index over the same period by at least 6%.
This performance condition has been satisfied in relation to all options granted under the 1994 Scheme.
e All share options granted prior to 25 May 2004 are under the 1994 Scheme.
Options granted since then have been made under the LTIP.
f The grant to Mr B M May of 20,000 options at an exercise price of 372.25p will be settled in cash.
g All share options held by Mr D M Williams on 31 January 2006, the date he ceased to be a director, remained outstanding to become exercisable according to the rules of the relevant scheme during various periods up to 31 August 2008, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
The UK based executive directors may also participate in a Sharesave Scheme which was approved by shareholders in 2001, is approved by HM Revenue & Customs and is open to all UK employees who have completed at least three months of continuous service.
It is linked to a contract for monthly savings of up to 250 per month over a period of either three or five years.
Under the Sharesave Scheme options are granted to participating employees at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted.
The following table sets out the number of share options under the Sharesave Scheme held by the UK based executive directors and the remaining number of options held by Mr A J Habgood on 1 January 2006 relating to his previous service as an executive director.
Mr A J Habgood no longer holds options nor is he eligible to participate in further grants under the Sharesave Scheme.
b The share options held by Mr D M Williams on 31 January 2006, the date he ceased to be a director, remained outstanding and became exercisable according to the rules of the scheme during the period up to 31 July 2006.
US based executive directors may participate in the Bunzl Employee Stock Purchase Plan US.
This Plan provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs at a 15% discount to the market price, up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or $25,000 worth of ADRs, whichever is lower.
The purchase of the ADRs is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount.
Based on the authority obtained at the 2001 Annual General Meeting, the Company introduced the International Sharesave Plan during 2002 and the Irish Sharesave Plan in 2006.
These operate on a similar basis to the Sharesave Scheme except that options are normally exercisable three years after they have been granted.
None of the executive directors are eligible to participate in these Plans.
48 Directors Remuneration Report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Part B of the LTIP allows the Board to award performance shares which is a conditional right to receive shares in the Company for nil consideration.
Annual awards may not exceed an amount equal to two times base salary.
A performance share award will normally vest i. e. become exercisable on the third anniversary of its grant to the extent that the applicable performance condition has been satisfied and will remain capable of being exercised for the three year period following the date on which it vests.
The extent to which performance share awards vest will be subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a three year period relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies the Peer Group.
The process for identifying the Peer Group is the same as that used for identifying the comparator group for the setting of base pay as described under Remuneration policy on page 45.
The companies currently within the Peer Group for any awards to be made in 2007 are: BOC Group Imperial Tobacco Group Rexam Burberry Inchcape RHM Cable & Wireless Invensys Rolls-Royce Group Cairn Energy Johnson Matthey Ryanair Holdings Cobham Kesa Electricals Sage Group Compass Group LogicaCMG Signet Group EMI Group Lonmin Smith & Nephew GKN Partygaming Tate & Lyle Group 4 Securicor Pearson Taylor Woodrow Hanson Rentokil Initial Tomkins IMI Reuters United Business Media Imperial Chemical Industries A performance share award will vest in full only if the Companys TSR performance is ranked at upper quartile or above within the Peer Group and the following vesting schedule will apply: Proportion of performance TSR share award exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Median to upper quartile 25% 100% pro rata, on a straight line basis Upper quartile 100% The performance condition will be tested after three years and there is no provision for retesting.
Accordingly, to the extent the performance condition has not been met after three years, the relevant performance share awards will lapse.
As with the share option grants, the Committee reviews the performance condition each time performance share awards are made in order to ensure that they remain challenging and may impose different conditions on performance share awards made in subsequent years provided that any new conditions are no less challenging.
The table below shows the number of performance share awards under the LTIP, all for nil consideration, allocated to the executive directors and to Mr A J Habgood relating to his previous service as an executive director.
Mr A J Habgood is not eligible to receive further awards of performance shares.
Awards Awards shares shares Conditional Awards held at held at shares shares 31 December 2006 1 January awarded vested or date ceased 2006 during 2006 during 2006 to be a director Current directors A J Habgood 450,397 450,397 M J Roney 120,353 99,816 220,169 P L Larmon 136,208 58,633 194,841 B M May 37,500 46,076 83,576 Former director D M Williams 140,625 140,625 Notes a Performance share awards were made on 4 April 2006 to Mr M J Roney of 49,816 shares, Mr P L Larmon of 27,633 shares and Mr B M May of 23,076 shares at a value of 683p per share and on 4 October 2006 to Mr M J Roney of 50,000 shares, Mr P L Larmon of 31,000 shares and Mr B M May of 23,000 shares at a value of 686p per share.
b In addition to the performance share awards under the LTIP to Mr M J Roney as listed above, a further 175,000 conditional shares were awarded on 1 November 2005 as an exceptional discretionary benefit to implement the terms agreed on the recruitment of Mr M J Roney as Chief Executive in order to compensate him for the loss of existing entitlements from his previous employer.
This award will vest if Mr M J Roney remains employed by the Company until 31 October 2008 or earlier if the Company terminates Mr Roneys employment prior to this date for any reason other than gross misconduct or if his employment terminates due to death, disability, sickness or a change of control of the Company.
c All awards held by Mr D M Williams on 31 January 2006, the date he ceased to be a director, remained outstanding and will become exercisable according to the rules of the LTIP during various periods up to 31 August 2008, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Remuneration Report 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Any shares required to fulfil entitlements under the share based incentive schemes in respect of options and awards over market purchased shares will be provided by the Trust.
Mr A J Habgood, Mr M J Roney, Mr P L Larmon and Mr B M May are deemed by virtue of the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in all the shares held by the Trust, which at 31 December 2006 amounted to 8,119,432 ordinary shares, because they are potential beneficiaries under the Trust together with all other directors and employees of the Group.
These interests do not reflect the awards actually made to them individually that are summarised above.
The Companys TSR over the last five years compared to that of the FTSE Support Services Sector is shown in the graph on page 25 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
Retirement benefits As stated in the Accounting Policies section of the financial statements and elaborated upon in Note 22, the Group utilises both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes throughout the world.
All defined benefit schemes are now closed to new entrants who are offered a defined contribution arrangement.
In the UK the Group has historically operated as its main contributory scheme for senior executives the Bunzl Senior Pension Scheme BSPS.
BSPS provides for members contributions currently at the rate of 9% of pensionable salary which is basic salary with the Group being responsible for the balance of the cost of providing the benefit as determined from time to time by the consulting actuaries to BSPS.
Subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits, BSPS members are eligible for a pension which accrues at a maximum rate of 3% per annum up to two thirds of pensionable salary, with a normal retirement age of 60 years.
BSPS also provides for payment of certain benefits in the event of death or disability.
Because of the cap on pensionable salary introduced in the Finance Act 1989, which has been maintained by the Company notwithstanding the changes introduced to the legislation with effect from April 2006, the amount of direct contribution by the Company to defined benefit pension schemes for the UK executive director who is a member of BSPS is limited.
Arrangements have therefore been made to provide that executive director with an allowance of 30% of base salary above the cap which permits him to make provision, of his choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
Alternatively the executive director may choose to opt for a pension allowance of 30% of base salary, part of which could be paid directly into a private pension scheme.
Currently any UK executive director newly appointed to the Group including for this purpose Mr M J Roney is offered a pension allowance of 30% of base salary and has the choice of joining the defined contribution section of the Bunzl Pension Plan or to opt for a private pension scheme or other investment vehicle.
The Company also contributes to lump sum life assurance cover of four times base salary.
In the US the main scheme for employees is the non-contributory Bunzl USA, Inc Retirement Plan the US Plan.
Subject to IRS limits, members of the US Plan earn a lifetime pension which accrues at a rate of 1.67% per annum, up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at $140,000.
The US Plan also provides for certain benefits in the event of death or disability.
On closure of the US Plan to new entrants all existing participating employees had the choice to continue in the existing scheme or freeze their benefit and join a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit the RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at $200,000 per annum.
Because of the cap on pensionable salary under the US Plan and the RSB, the pensions of senior US executives are limited and arrangements have been made to provide certain executives with supplementary pensions through a Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Mr P L Larmons SERA provides for a lifetime pension of $100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
Directors service contracts and terms of appointment It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
However, on appointment Mr M J Roney, due to his relocation and move from his previous company after 24 years service, was provided with 24 months notice which during the first 12 months of employment reduced on a quarterly basis by one month for each quarter.
During the period of months 13 to 24 of employment, the notice period continues to reduce quarterly but by two months each quarter so that after 24 months service the Company will provide Mr M J Roney with 12 months notice.
For the UK executive directors there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these contracts.
Mr P L Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
There are no provisions for any of the directors for predetermined compensation in excess of one years remuneration and benefits in kind.
Mr M J Roney, for the first three years of service in limited circumstances only, is also entitled to receive a repatriation payment to cover relocation and school fees that have been incurred.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract M J Roney 1 September 2005 P L Larmon 1 January 2005 B M May 9 December 2005 Mr D M Williams retired as Finance Director on 31 December 2005 and retired from the Board and from the Company on 31 January 2006.
His service contract was dated 16 January 1996.
With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Currently none of the executive directors hold any such appointments.
In common with many senior executives in the Group, the executive directors are eligible for certain benefits which include the provision of a company car and payment of its operating expenses, or a cash allowance in lieu thereof, in line with prevailing Group policies and, in the case of Mr M J Roney and Mr B M May, private medical plan coverage under the Companys prevailing UK healthcare plan.
Mr P L Larmon participates in welfare benefit plans made available to all US employees of the Group covering life insurance, medical, dental and disability cover.
In addition on appointment Mr M J Roney received a relocation package consisting of reimbursement of travel costs, temporary accommodation, legal and professional fees for securing accommodation and tax advice and a disturbance allowance.
50 Directors Remuneration Report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 The Chairman and the non-executive directors are paid annual fees for their services.
In addition, where relevant, the non-executive directors are paid a fee for chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Board.
Neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors have service contracts and they are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the Groups bonus, share option or long term incentive plans save in respect of the Chairmans accrued entitlements relating to his previous service as an executive director.
The Chairman receives certain benefits which include the provision of a company car and payment of its operating expenses, private medical plan coverage under the Companys prevailing UK healthcare plan and life assurance cover of four times his annual fee.
Both the Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually, based on external market survey data.
The fee for the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the fees for the non-executive directors are determined by the Board.
Directors remuneration The following table gives details of each directors remuneration for the year.
The benefits received by Mr M J Roney in 2006 include 273,074 of one-off relocation related expenses.
c The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including, in the case of the executive directors, the cash element of the bonus, which is paid in the year following that in which it is earned.
The deferred element of the bonus is conditionally allocated as shares as described on page 46 and is not included in the table above.
Shares relating to the 2005 bonus were allocated in 2006 as shown in the table on page 46 and for the 2006 bonus will be allocated in 2007. d Mr M J Roney is not a member of the Company pension schemes and therefore he received a pension allowance of 30% of base salary as shown in the above table.
The values of the pension benefits for the other executive directors are shown in the following table and are not included in the directors remuneration table above.
In addition the Company paid all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA for Mr P L Larmon which in 2006 amounted to 49,057 2005: 44,975. e The remuneration of Mr D M Williams for 2006 relates to the period from 1 January 2006 until 31 January 2006 when his service contract terminated upon reaching his normal retirement age.
No termination payments were made.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006 Directors Remuneration Report 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Change in transfer value of Transfer value of accrued benefits accrued benefits Accrued benefits during the year, at 31.12.06 at 31.12.06 or date after deducting or date of of termination Transfer value of contributions made termination Accrued benefits whichever is the accrued benefits by the director whichever at 31.12.05 earlier at 31.12.05 during the year is the earlier P L Larmon 15,190 13,330 72,541 3,320 69,221 B M May 23,583 26,851 257,035 462 266,280 D M Williams 45,144 43,041 969,787 134,304 836,275 Excluding SERA entitlements.
Notes a Of the additional benefits accrued since 1 January 2006, the increases attributable to factors other than inflation were 2,420 for Mr B M May and nil for Mr D M Williams and Mr P L Larmon.
b Pension accruals shown are the amounts accrued based on service with Bunzl plc or its subsidiaries.
Mr D M Williams left the service of Bunzl plc when he retired on 31 January 2006.
His retirement pension is lower than his disclosed accrued pension at the start of the year as a result of the provision of incomplete and inaccurate retained pension benefit information from his previous employers.
Due to HM Revenue & Customs regulations, the pension payable from BSPS was restricted by the level of these retained benefits.
c The above figures do not take account of any Additional Voluntary Contributions that all members of BSPS have the option to make.
d The transfer values of accrued benefits have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation and, in the case of Mr B M May and Mr D M Williams, are net of their contributions.
e Mr P L Larmons benefits under the US Plan are frozen.
Mr P L Larmon is now a member of the RSB to which the Company has made contributions in 2006 of 5,435 2005: 5,525. f In addition Mr P L Larmon participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2006 such contributions for Mr P L Larmon amounted to 5,380 2005: 5,097.
On behalf of the Board C A Banks Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2007 52 Directors Remuneration Report Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2006
