Operating and Financial Review Board of Directors 1 2 345 6 1.
Sir Rob Margetts CBE, Chairman, aged 60, 3.
Andrew Palmer, Group Director Finance, 5.
Robin Phipps, Group Executive Director was appointed as a non-executive director aged 53, was appointed to the Board in UK, aged 56, was appointed to the Board in June 1996 and Chairman in February January 1996.
He joined Legal & General in in January 1996.
Rob is a senior non-executive director 1988.
Andrew is a non-executive director of in 1982.
Robin is Deputy Chairman of the of Anglo American Plc and Chairman of Slough Estates Plc, Chairman of the Association ABI and Chairman of the ABIs Life Insurance Ensus Plc.
He is also a Trustee of the Council of British Insurers ABI Financial Regulation Council.
Former roles include: Group for Industry and Higher Education and a and Taxation Committee and is Chairman Director UK Operations, Group Director member of the Council for Science & of the ABIs Financial Reporting Panel.
Former Retail Business : Group Director Technology.
Former roles include: Chairman roles include: Group Director Corporate Sales & Marketing and IT Director.
of BOC Group Plc: Chairman of the Natural Business, Group Director Services.
Environment Research Council and Vice 6.
John Pollock, Group Executive Director Chairman of ICI Plc.
Kate Avery, Group Executive Director Protection & Annuities, aged 48, was Wealth Management, aged 47, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
Tim Breedon, aged 49, was promoted to appointed to the Board in January 2001.
He joined Legal & General in 1980.
Former Group Chief Executive in January 2006 from She joined Legal & General in 1996.
Kate is roles include: Director, UK Operations, Deputy Group Chief Executive.
He joined a non-executive director of Kelda Group Plc Managing Director, Legal & General Asia the Board as Group Director Investments in and is a member of the Association of British and various posts in Customer Services January 2002 having joined Legal & General Insurers Distribution & Regulation and IT.
Tim is a director of the Financial Committees.
Former roles include: Retail Reporting Council.
Former roles include: Customer Director and Director Group Managing Director Index Funds and Marketing and Direct.
Before joining Director Index Funds.
Legal & General, Kate was Managing Director, Barclays Stockbrokers Limited and Managing Director, Barclays Bank Trust Company Limited.
Frances Heaton, an independent non- 9.
Rudy Markham, aged 61, was appointed 12.
James Strachan, aged 53, is an executive director, aged 62, was appointed as an independent non-executive director independent non-executive director who to the Board in July 2001.
Rudy is also a non-executive was appointed to the Board in December executive director of Jupiter Primadona director of Standard Chartered PLC and is 2003.
James is a member of the Court of Growth Trust Plc and BMT Limited.
Former Chairman of its Audit & Risk Committee.
Directors of the Bank of England, a nonroles include: non-executive director AWG Rudy is an executive director and Chief executive director of Care UK Plc, Chairman PLC, member of the Court of Directors of the Financial officer of Unilever PLC and of RNID, a visiting fellow at the London Bank of England: Deputy Chairman of WS Unilever NV.
Former roles include: Director, School of Economics and a Trustee of Atkins PLC and executive director of Lazard Strategy & Technology, Unilever PLC: Somerset House.
Former roles include: Brothers & Co. Limited.
Chairman and Chief Executive officer Chairman of the Audit Commission of Unilever Japan, Chairman of Unilever and Managing Director of Merrill Lynch.
Beverley Hodson OBE, an independent Australia and Group Treasurer of Unilever.
Sir David Walker, Vice Chairman, aged appointed in December 2000.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz, aged 68, is an 67, was appointed to the Board in March currently a non-executive director of Robert independent non-executive director, and 2002 as the senior independent nonWiseman Dairies Plc, First Milk Limited and was appointed in October 2000.
Former roles include: Vedior NV.
Former roles include: nonis also a non-executive director of Chairman of Morgan Stanley International executive director of M&G Group GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Rohm & Haas Limited: executive director of the Bank Prudential : director of The National Company, Cabot Corporation and Sick AG.
of England: Chairman of the London College for School Leadership Limited: Former roles include executive director of Investment Banking Association: member of the North Yorkshire & Humberside Deutsche Bank AG.
Chairman of the Securities & Investments Regional Development Agency: Managing Board and Deputy Chairman of Lloyds Bank.
Director of WH Smith Group Plc: Managing 11.
Henry Staunton, aged 58, was appointed Director of Childrens World part of Boots as an independent non-executive director and Managing Director of Dolcis, Bertie in May 2004.
Henry joined Ladbrokes Plc as Shoes and Cable and Co. a non-executive director during 2006 and is also a non-executive director of Standard Bank Plc.
Former roles include: Finance Director of ITV Plc and Granada Group Plc: Chairman of Ashtead Group Plc and nonexecutive director of EMAP Plc and ITN.
com 33 Governance Information and Financial Statements Contents 75 15.
Associates and joint ventures 40 Directors report on remuneration 78 18.
Goodwill resulting from acquisitions 48 Report of the audit committee 78 19.
Management of capital resources 50 Report of the nominations committee 79 20.
Risk Management and control 51 Directors report 80 21.
Derivative assets and liabilities Supplementary financial statements 53 Statement of directors responsibilities 81 22.
Reinsurers' share of contract liabilities 117 Consolidated income statement Financial Statements 81 23.
Purchased interest in long European embedded value basis term businesses 118 Consolidated balance sheet Group consolidated financial statements 82 24.
Deferred acquisition costs European embedded value basis 82 25.
Income tax 54 Independent auditors report 118 Consolidated statement of recognised 83 26.
Other assets 55 Consolidated income statement income and expense European 83 27.
Cash and cash equivalents 56 Consolidated balance sheet embedded value basis 83 28.
Share capital, share premium 57 Consolidated statement of recognised 119 Notes to the supplementary and treasury shares income and expense financial statements 84 29.
Other reserves 58 Consolidated cash ow statement 134 Independent auditors report 84 30.
Retained earnings 59 Notes to the financial statements 84 31.
Minority interests Company financial statements 59 1.
Impact of significant events and 85 33.
Insurance contract liabilities 135 Independent auditors report changes in 2006 88 34.
Investment contract liabilities 136 Company balance sheet 66 3.
Unallocated divisible surplus 137 Company statement of total 69 4.
Value of in-force recognised gains and losses 71 5.
New business gross of reinsurance non-participating contracts 137 Company reconciliation of 72 6.
Long term insurance movements in total equity 72 7.
Net claims and change in valuation assumptions 138 Notes to the company insurance liabilities 92 38.
Auditors' remuneration sheet date Shareholder information 73 10.
Provisions 144 Shareholder information 73 11. profit before income tax 96 41.
Deferred income liabilities 145 Financial calendar 73 12.
Deferred tax liabilities 145 Abbreviations exchange rates 97 43.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees and indemnities 34 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate Governance The Board of Legal & General Group Plc is committed to high All the above changes have been achieved without undue standards of corporate governance.
It supports the Combined Code disruption to the business.
on Corporate Governance the Code, which sets standards of The Chairman holds at least two meetings a year with the good practice for UK listed companies.
non-executive directors without executive directors being present.
This section of the Annual Report, together with the Directors The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between Report, the Remuneration Report and the Nominations Committee the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The roles of the Report, explains how Legal & General complies with the principles Chairman, Group Chief Executive and directors are clearly dened and relevant provisions of the Code.
so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
The Chairman, Sir Rob Margetts, is responsible for leadership of The Board the Board and for ensuring effective communication with The Board of Legal & General Group Plc is collectively responsible shareholders.
As part of its regular evaluation, the Board considers for determining the strategic direction of the Group and for ensuring the Chairmans availability and his capacity to undertake his role, that Legal & General meets its obligations to shareholders.
During against the background of his other commitments.
The Board 2006, the Board met 11 times and also held a separate strategy remains satisfied that the Chairman continues to be able to full the event at an offsite location.
normal time commitments required of his role and has the personal At each Board meeting, the directors receive a detailed brieng commitment and capacity to make himself available when from a senior manager on an important business issue.
This is unforeseen circumstances arise.
In September 2006, Sir Rob Margetts designed not only to help non-executive directors develop a resigned as a director and Chairman of the BOC Group Plc.
thorough understanding of key issues facing Legal & General, but The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day also to allow non-executive directors to build working relationships management of the Group and implementation of the strategy with senior managers below Board level.
The Board has a formal approved by the Board.
The Board delegates responsibility to the schedule of matters specically reserved to it, including decisions Group Chief Executive, who is supported by the executive directors on strategic issues, capital expenditure and material contracts.
and heads of specialist functions.
Throughout 2006, the Group Chief In addition, the Board regularly reviews major projects, considers Executive chaired the Management Committee, which consists operating and financial issues and monitors performance against of all executive directors, the Resources and International Director, plan.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Secretary, and the Group Secretary.
ensures that the Board receives the information it needs to Sir David Walker, Vice Chairman, is the senior independent discharge its duties.
The senior independent director is available to Board Composition and Structure shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be resolved through the usual channels.
As at 31 December 2006, the Board consisted of 13 directors.
Biographies of all directors currently holding ofce appear on pages The Group Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring 32 and 33.
The Board consists of a part-time non-executive Chairman, five good information ows within the Board.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary, as well as executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
Throughout 2006, the majority of directors were non-executive, all of whom with external advice, as required, at the expense of the Group.
the exception of the Chairman the Board has determined to be Board Evaluation independent in both character and judgement.
Their diverse The Board and its directors participate in an annual evaluation business experience and wide range of skills enable them to make process, the aim of which is to assess the effectiveness of the a significant contribution at meetings of the Board and its Boards collective performance as well as the contributions of Committees.
Their remuneration consists only of fees and they do individual directors.
not participate in any performance-related pay arrangements.
The An externally facilitated evaluation is carried out in alternate terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are years.
In 2005, the process was facilitated by an external available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and at consultant from the London Business School.
Consequently, the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Attendance records for all directors who have held ofce during the year appear on page 39. the 2006 evaluation was conducted internally by means of The following changes to the composition of the Board or to questionnaires and interviews.
All members of the Board executive roles took place during 2006: participated in the 2006 process.
A summary of the key findings was provided to the Board by the On 1 January 2006, Tim Breedon, formerly Group Director Chairman.
Overall, there was a high level of satisfaction with the Investments, succeeded Sir David Prosser as Group Chief Executive way in which the Board functions and the changes implemented Following a review of the structure of the UK business, Robin Phipps during the year.
Feedback on individual performance was delivered was appointed Group Executive Director, UK in March 2006.
In May to directors by the Chairman.
In the case of the Chairman, 2006, Kate Avery was appointed Group Executive Director Wealth feedback was delivered by the senior independent director.
Management and John Pollock was appointed Group Executive Separate evaluations are carried out to assess the effectiveness Director Protection & Annuities.
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Barrie Morgans retired as a non-executive director at the AGM on In addition to the Board evaluation, executive directors are 18 May 2006 subject to an annual appraisal and to regular review of their Rudy Markham was appointed as a non-executive director on performance by the Group Chief Executive.
The Chairman conducts 1 October 2006. the annual appraisal, and the regular reviews of performance, of the Group Chief Executive.
Appointments to the Board the executive directors and senior management.
The performance Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board as of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Audit a whole on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
Committee, the GRCC and the boards of subsidiary companies.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast performance of AGM after their appointment and, thereafter, are subject to its businesses compared with their one year plans, as well as other re-election once every three years.
The removal and appointment key performance indicators.
of the Group Secretary are reserved to the Board.
Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly dened.
The Groups control policies and procedures are published Induction and Training on a dedicated intranet site, which is regularly updated and New directors participate in a formal induction programme tailored accessible throughout the Group.
Directors are required to confirm to their individual needs.
The induction programme is designed to compliance with these policies throughout the year.
The results of give directors an understanding of Legal & General, its business and this conrmation process are reported to the Audit Committee.
the markets in which it operates.
Introductory visits are arranged to The Chairman and Group Chief Executive oversee the policies for Company sites and with key suppliers and stakeholders.
All directors employee selection, assessment and development and have direct are required to maintain and develop their knowledge throughout involvement in senior management appointments.
Succession their period of ofce.
As part of its continuing training programme, planning and contingency arrangements are in place for senior Legal & General runs occasional training events solely for directors management and have been reviewed by the Board.
The Group eg capital management and reserving.
seeks to conduct business in accordance with ethical principles and In addition, all directors are invited to participate in there is guidance for employees on the standards required.
Legal & Generals educational and business awareness The arrangements for establishing policies in respect of the key seminars for senior management.
Recent sessions have included, risks to the Group are set out below.
Age Discrimination Legislation and Doing Business in the UK.
Review of Internal Control Relations with Shareholders The Combined Code requires directors to review and report The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good to shareholders on the Groups internal control systems, relationships with shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with which include financial, operational and compliance controls, institutional shareholders.
Care is exercised to ensure that any and risk management.
price-sensitive information is released at the same time to all The Board has controls in place to identify, evaluate and manage shareholders, whether institutional or private.
The Board regards significant risks faced by the company on an ongoing basis and for the AGM as an important opportunity to communicate directly determining the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
Board members, including the chairmen Where failings or weaknesses are identied, necessary actions are of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees, attend taken to remedy any such failings or weaknesses.
the meeting and are available to answer questions.
Established procedures, including those already described, Board Committees are in place to comply with the Combined Code.
The Board The Board has a number of standing committees: assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems on the basis of: Audit Committee Regular reports by management to the main operating boards The role and work of the Audit Committee is set out on pages and the Audit Committee, on the adequacy and effectiveness 48 and 49. of internal control systems and significant control issues: The GRCCs review of the continuous Groupwide process for Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The role and work of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee formally identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives: is set out on pages 28 to 31.
Compliance reports and presentations from the Director, Nominations Committee Compliance, on at least a quarterly basis: and The role and work of the Nominations Committee is set out on Presentations of the results of internal audits, by the Group page 50.
Chief Internal Auditor, to the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Board takes regular account of the signicance of social, The role and work of the Remuneration Committee is set out on environmental and ethical matters to the businesses of the Group.
The GRCCs review of the significant risks to the Group includes Group Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC these matters.
The work of the Corporate Social Responsibility The role ond work of the Group Risk and Compliance Committee Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive, is set is set out on page 37. out on pages 28 to 31.
The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, Disclosure Committee rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives The Disclosure Committee advises the Board on the management and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance and disclosure of insider information in accordance with the against material misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes requirements of the Listing and Disclosure Rules.
The Disclosure reasonable assurance, the Board has regard to materiality and to Committee is chaired by the Group Financial Controller and the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from, internal comprises the heads of specialist functions.
It meets when control systems.
The results of the ongoing monitoring of financial, operational Internal Control and compliance controls, and the risk management process, are The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control reported to the Board.
For 2006, the Board was able to conclude, systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control systems maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of have been maintained throughout the year.
36 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Internal Audit Group Board.
To support it in this role, a risk framework is in place Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which systems comprising formal committees, risk assessment processes and risk of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business review functions.
The framework provides assurance that risks are risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with being appropriately identied and managed and that an legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance independent assessment of risks is being performed.
on risk and control to senior management and the Board.
Committee Structure Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Oversight of the risk management framework is performed on Group as determined by a structured risk assessment process behalf of the Group Board by its sub-committee, the GRCC.
involving executive directors and senior managers.
The output from The GRCC meets monthly and is chaired by the Group Chief this process is summarised in a plan which is presented to the Audit Executive.
All executive directors are members.
The Group Chief Internal Auditor reports regularly to the senior managers drawn from across the Group are regular Group Chief Executive and to the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and , as external auditors, have a standing Compliance invitation to attend.
The Group Compliance function is responsible for oversight of the The primary role of GRCC is to ensure there are appropriate Groups compliance with regulatory requirements and standards.
processes in place across the Group to identify, assess, monitor This encompasses the provision of policy advice and guidance and control critical risks facing the Group, including regulatory to the regulated rms, oversight of regulated rms compliance risks.
It reports regularly to the Group Board and its minutes are arrangements to assess whether rms have appropriate systems, provided to the Audit Committee.
procedures and controls in place to manage their permitted The table below shows the sub committees of the GRCC that regulatory activities, and oversight of regulatory risks arising from are in place.
In addition, Risk and Compliance Committees RCCs authorised rms compliance responsibilities.
The Director, are in place for each of the main operational business units of Compliance, reports monthly to the GRCC and regularly to the the Group.
These committees are predominantly responsible for Group Board.
the oversight of the management of operational risks and Management of Risk regulation.
RCCs formally report both to their operating boards The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to and to the GRCC on a monthly basis.
Management of risks arising Insurance, Market, Credit, Liquidity, and Operational risks.
Overall from the Groups overseas subsidiaries is performed by the Boards responsibility for the management of these risks is vested in the of the local holding companies, which provide reports to the GRCC.
Committee Role Membership Group Capital To assess the capital requirements Group Chief Executive, Committee including the risk based capital Group Director Finance, requirements of the Group: to monitor Group Executive Director the sources of capital available to Protection & Annuities, meet these requirements and oversee Group Actuary, the allocation of capital to rms.
Actuary UK Counterparty To set limits for the Groups exposure Group Director Finance, Credit Committee to any single counterparty failure and Chief Executive officer LGIM, to manage exposures within these Group Treasurer established limits.
UK Asset and Liability To ensure that assets and liabilities Group Director Finance, Committee ALCO for the UK insurance business are Chief Executive officer LGIM, appropriately managed.
Group Actuary, Actuary UK, Managing Director Portfolio Managers UK Pricing and Insurance To ensure that products for the UK Group Executive Director Risk Committee Group are appropriately designed Protection & Annuities, and priced, that product legal risks Group Actuary, are assessed and that appropriate Actuary UK, processes are in place to identify, Director UK Finance assess, monitor and, where deemed appropriate, reinsure risk.
Group Operational Risk To ensure consistency in approaches Group Director Finance, Assessment Committee to operational risk management Senior Finance and Risk Managers, across the Group.
Risk Assessment Processes Liquidity Risk A continuous Groupwide process is in place formally identifying, Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, though solvent, either does evaluating and managing the significant risks to the achievement not have sufficient financial resources available to enable it to of the Groups objectives.
A standard approach is used to assess meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at risks.
Senior management and the Risk Review Functions see below excessive cost.
review the output of the assessments.
A Groupwide risk assessment A degree of liquidity risk is implicit in the Groups businesses.
process is used to determine the key risks within the Group reported Liquidity risk arises as a consequence of the uncertainty surrounding to the GRCC.
the value and timing of cash ows.
The Groups Treasury function manages liquidity to ensure the Group maintains sufficient liquid Risk Review Functions assets and standby facilities to meet a prudent estimate of its net Group and rm level Risk Review Functions provide oversight of the cash outows.
risk management processes within the Group.
A central risk function is responsible for setting the risk management framework and Operational Risk standards.
Risk Review Functions in each of the business operating Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequate or failed internal units manage the framework in line with these standards.
Their processes, people and systems, or from external events.
responsibilities include the evaluation of changes in the business The Group identies and assesses operational risk as part of its operating environment and business processes, the assessment continuous risk assessment processes.
RCCs ensure that appropriate of these changes on risks to business and the monitoring of the policies and procedures are in place for these risks and that they mitigating actions.
The Risk Review Functions also ensure that risk are properly controlled.
There are detailed procedures covering committees are provided with meaningful risk reports and that there specic areas of operational risk.
is appropriate information to assess risk issues.
Contagion Risk Details of the categories of risk to the Group, and high-level The occurrence of a risk in one part of the Group may result in management processes, are summarised below.
More detailed contagion risk elsewhere in the Group.
Such matters are assessed analysis may be found in pages 27 and 106.
The Group has dened and monitored by the GRCC.
policies for the management of its key risks, the operation of which are supported by Risk Review Functions and are independently Prudential Regulation of Insurance Business confirmed by Group Internal Audit.
The GRCC reviews and approves Most of the activities of the Group relate to the businesses which these policies.
are subject to prudential regulation and require management to operate in a sound and prudent manner.
In the UK, the Financial Insurance Risk Services and Markets Act 2000 the Act established the Financial Insurance risk is the risk arising from higher claims being Services Authority FSA as the regulator for most Group operations.
The Act, in particular, requires long term insurance business to be Insurance risk is implicit in the Groups insurance business and written within long term insurance funds, for which the actuaries arises as a consequence of the type and volume of new business appointed under the Act have certain legal accountabilities.
written and the concentration of risk, in particular, policies, or groups These actuaries are subject to the disciplines of professional of policies, subject to the same risks.
conduct and guidance and have a reporting relationship to The Group controls its insurance exposures through policies and the directors of the relevant insurance company and to the FSA.
delegated authorities for underwriting, pricing and reinsurance.
The actuaries have access to their boards and must report fully Pricing is based on assumptions, such as mortality and persistency, and impartially on the financial condition of the funds, annually which have regard to past experience and to trends.
Insurance quantifying and conrming each funds liabilities and solvency exposures are further limited through reinsurance.
The FSA receives a copy of these reports, which are also Market Risk subject to audit and overall peer review.
Market risk is the risk arising from uctuations in interest and Going Concern exchange rates, share prices and other relevant market prices.
The directors have prepared the financial statements on the The investment policies for long term and other businesses have going concern basis consistent with their view, formed after due regard to the nature of liabilities and guarantees and other making appropriate enquiries, that the Group is operationally embedded options given to policyholders.
The interest rate risk of and nancially robust.
such liabilities is normally managed by investing in assets of similar duration, where possible.
It is further managed by maintaining Compliance with the Code capital sufficient to cover the consequences of mismatch under For the year ended 31 December 2006, the Company believes a number of adverse scenarios and by the use of derivatives.
it complies with all principles and provisions of the Code to The Group is also potentially exposed to loss as a result of the extent applicable to Legal & General Group Plc except in uctuations in the value of, or income from, assets denominated relation to: in foreign currencies.
Balance sheet foreign exchange translation exposure in respect of the Groups international subsidiaries is i Membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The Combined actively managed in accordance with a policy, agreed by the Code was updated in June 2006 for the reporting periods Group Board, which allows between 25% and 75% of net foreign commencing on or after 1 November 2006.
One of the changes currency assets to be hedged.
made was the removal of the restriction on the Chairman of the Board being appointed as a member of the Remuneration Credit Risk Committee.
To enhance the membership of the Remuneration Credit risk is the risk that the Group is exposed to loss if another Committee, the Board anticipated this change and appointed party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group.
Sir Rob Margetts as a member with effect from 12 December 2006. Credit risk is not sought in its own right.
However, the investment of shareholders and policyholders monies requires credit risks to ii Proxy votes.
In compliance with the Code, the level of proxies be taken.
Exposure to credit risk also arises in the reinsurance of lodged on each resolution at the AGM was made known after insurance contracts.
Credit risk is managed through the setting and it had been dealt with on a show of hands.
However, shareholders regular review of detailed counterparty credit and concentration limits.
Compliance with these limits for investment and treasury may also have received copies of the proxy votes in papers transactions is monitored daily.
distributed at the start of the meeting.
38 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Board Attendance The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by each director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Group Risk and Board Remuneration Audit CSR Nominations Compliance Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Sir Rob Margetts 11 11 3 3 3 3 Non-executive Chairman Tim Breedon 11 11 3 3 12 12 Group Chief Executive Andrew Palmer 11 11 12 12 Executive director Group Director Finance 1 Kate Avery 11 11 10 12 Executive director Group Executive Director Wealth Management Robin Phipps 11 11 12 12 Executive director Group Executive Director UK 1 John Pollock 11 11 10 12 Executive director Group Executive Director Protection & Annuities 1 Frances Heaton 10 11 4 4 3 3 Non-executive director 1 Beverley Hodson 11 11 2 3 3 3 Non-executive director 1 1 1 Barrie Morgans 3 4 2 4 0 1 2 Non-executive director 3 Rudy Markham 0 3 1 1 3 Non-executive director 1 Ronaldo Schmitz 8 11 3 3 3 3 Non-executive director 4 Henry Staunton 11 11 4 4 3 3 9 12 Non-executive director Chairman of the Audit Committee 1 James Strachan 10 11 3 3 4 4 3 3 Non-executive director Sir David Walker 11 11 3 3 3 3 Non-executive Vice Chairman, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director 1 Indicates that absence was agreed with the Chairman in advance.
2 Barrie Morgans retired from the Board on 18 May 2006.
3 It was known prior to Rudy Markhams appointment on 1 October 2006, that he would be unable to attend Board meetings for the remainder of 2006.
He did, however, attend the two day Group Board Strategy event in October 2006 and has also attended corporate induction sessions.
4 As Chairman of the Audit Committee, Henry Staunton has a standing invitation to attend the Group Risk & Compliance Committee but is not a member.
