Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Regulations require The Groups policy is to maintain levels of remuneration sufficient to the Auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the auditable attract, motivate and retain senior executives of the highest calibre part of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether in their who can deliver growth in shareholder value.
Executive remuneration opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared.
The report currently consists of basic salary, a limited range of benefits and has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and performance related incentive schemes.
The report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board Basic salary for submission to shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee reviews basic salary regularly, taking into account any changes in responsibilities and competitive market unauDitED inFormation practice.
In this respect the Remuneration Committee has regard to introduction the pay policies of mid-cap oil & gas companies as well as the broader During 2006 the Remuneration Committee undertook a detailed review range of FTSE 250 companies.
Historically, salaries have deliberately of all aspects of the structure of remuneration, a process which included been set at substantially below market levels because high rewards consultation with the Companys major shareholders and representatives were available under the 5% bonus pool described in more detail of significant investor groups.
The key conclusions of this review below.
With the abolition of the bonus pool, the Remuneration Committee were that: has awarded significant salary increases that took effect from a for 2007 and future years, the current 5% bonus pool arrangement 1 January 2007.
Notwithstanding this increase, the total combined would be replaced with an annual bonus plan where management basic salary and benefits of Executive Directors remains at below are rewarded for achieving and outperforming targets set at the market levels.
beginning of the year: b annual grants will be made under the Companys existing Benefits Performance Share Plan: Benefits available to executive management comprise payment c the Company would continue its policy of not establishing of premiums for private health insurance, personal life insurance, or funding an employee pension scheme: and disability and death in service benefits.
d there should be some transitional arrangements, in relation to the allocation of the 2006 annual bonus pool.
Pension The Company meets its statutory obligations by providing all personnel The Remuneration Committee believes that these changes in the with access to stakeholder pension arrangements.
The policy of the remuneration policy are appropriate given the development of the Company is not to make any contributions and to permit individuals Company since its flotation in 2003 and relevant to its status as a to be responsible for their own pensions.
The Committee looks forward to shareholder approval for this remuneration report at the Annual General Meeting.
annual Bonus Plan Under the previous annual profit sharing arrangement the Company remuneration Committee paid 5% of the Groups operating profits on ordinary activities after The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of Non-Executive deducting interest, financing charges, taxation and the amount of this Directors.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Keith bonus sum, but before deduction of any exceptional items to its Henry Chairman, Brian Lavers, Alan Cole and Michael Calvey.
employees as an annual bonus.
The level of the bonus pool was During the year the Chief Executive Officer was asked to attend determined by reference to the annual audited results of the Group.
some of the meetings and was consulted in respect of the proposed The Remuneration Committee then determined individual bonus changes to the remuneration policy, but was not involved in determining entitlements.
Any amounts payable in excess of 100% of annual base his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible salary 50% of base salary for senior staff and executive management for making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of were deferred for a period of three years and made as a right to reference, regarding the framework policy for remuneration matters.
As a result of the Companys success These terms of reference are published on the Groups website.
the size of this bonus pool has increased year-on-year and based on All recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee were the 2006 statutory profits, it would have resulted in a total bonus pool accepted by the Board.
None of the members of the Remuneration Committee has any personal However, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that certain financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interest arising amendments should be made to the 2006 bonus arrangements, as from directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
described in Transitional Arrangements below.
The Remuneration Committee has previously appointed New Bridge The Remuneration Committee recognises its responsibility to incentivise Street Consultants LLP to provide it with independent remuneration and reward executives and staff for achievement and exceptional advice.
New Bridge Street Consultants does not provide any other performance.
For 2007 and later years, it will establish criteria, both services to the Group except advice on the implementation of the internal and external against which the Companys performance will remuneration policy.
be measured and potential bonuses awarded.
The primary bonus metric for 2007 will be earnings per share compared to budgeted earnings per share.
For Executive Directors, the maximum annual bonus potential will be 100% of salary.
Consistent with the former annual profit sharing scheme, any bonus in excess of 50% of salary will be paid in shares and deferred for three years.
29 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents Directors remuneration report continued Performance share Plan To the extent that the performance conditions are not satisfied The Company adopted the Performance Share Plan at the time of after three years the relevant portion of the award will lapse.
To date only one set of awards, being options to acquire shares in the Company for US$nil consideration, The extent to which the targets are met will be assessed by the have been granted, which was at the time of the flotation.
The TSR target will be verified by a third performance target was based on absolute growth in share price, party on behalf of the Remuneration Committee and the proven with full vesting occurring for doubling the flotation share price.
and probable reserve growth per share will be based on published This was achieved and these awards vested in November 2006. information, with the Remuneration Committee having the power to refer this to a third party expert if there is any significant doubt.
As part of the remuneration review, the Remuneration Committee concluded that from 2007 it should adopt an annual grant policy.
Capital Enhancement Plan The 2007 individual grants of options to Executive Directors will not This is a bespoke long-term incentive plan under which cash payments exceed 100% of salary.
may be made to a selected group of senior executives following a sale of the Company or return of capital to shareholders following Awards will vest on the third anniversary of grant to the extent that the a sale of a material asset.
It provides no entitlement to shares in the performance conditions described below have been satisfied and Company.
The rationale for the Capital Enhancement Plan is that if a provided that the parties are still employed by the Group.
Awards will significant shareholder return can be delivered through such sales, remain capable of exercise for a period of six months from this vesting management should be encouraged to proceed with the transaction date.
The performance targets for the 2007 awards will be relative total even though it may not otherwise be in their personal longer term interests.
shareholder return TSR and Proven and Probable Reserves Growth per share: each applying to half of the shares subject to an award.
In the event of a triggering sale, participants will only be eligible to receive a payment if the annual average compound rate of return Under the relative TSR target the Companys TSR performance will for shareholders from the date of flotation in December 2003 is at be compared to the companies in a comparator group expected to least 10%.
The maximum payable under the plan will be equal to comprise: Cairn Energy, Tullow Oil, Sibir Energy, Venture Production, a percentage of the Companys value as determined by the total Dana Petroleum, Premier Oil, SOCO International, JKX Oil & gas, sale consideration calculated as follows: Relevant percentage of sale Melrose Resources, Sterling Energy, Salamander Energy, Addax Annual rate of return for shareholders consideration payable under the CEP Petroleum, Lundin Petroleum, Maurel & Prom and Dragon Oil.
The Less than 10% 0 vesting schedule will be: 10% or greater but less than 20% 0.5 TSR Performance Percentage of total award that vests 20% or greater but less than 30% 1.0 Below median Nil 30% or greater 1.5 Median 15% Between median and upper quartile 15 to 50% pro-rata Alternatively, if capital is returned to shareholders via the payment of a Upper quartile or above 50% maximum special dividend or share re-purchase, in whatever form, for example, following the sale of a material subsidiary or asset, an amount equal to The vesting of the other half of the performance shares will be 1% of the total special dividend will become payable.
The Board will subject to a target based on the growth of reserves per share.
The be responsible for determining whether a return of capital constitutes exploration and the development of reserves is as important as a special dividend for these purposes.
production, and accordingly, this performance target provides a good balance to the profit based target used in the annual bonus plan.
transitional arrangements The remuneration review was carried out during 2006 with the The main features of this target are: expectation of maintaining the current 5% bonus pool in place until It will be based on proven and probable reserves, and not the year-end.
To provide a fair and smooth transition to the new policy, possible reserves.
the Remuneration Committee is proposing to introduce a transitional Reserves will be calculated on a working interest basis and arrangement.
Within this arrangement a significant performance assessed annually.
element is being applied to the 2006 potential bonus.
The bonus pool, The treatment of acquisitions and disposals will be reviewed amounting to 5 105 of Burrens 2006 profits after tax, will be reduced by the Remuneration Committee on a case-by-case basis.
by 1 million in recognition of the 2007 salary increases.
The remainder Shares will be calculated on a weighted average fully diluted of the pool will be allocated as: basis in the same way as for diluted earnings per share.
i cash bonus: The vesting schedule will be from 0 to 50% of the total shares ii a deferred share vesting in three years subject to no further subject to an award based on a growth range of 5% to 20% performance conditions: and over the three years.
For example: if the opening reserves were iii the balance being allocated to a one-off set of 2006 100 million barrels and over three years production was 30 million Performance Share awards.
barrels, then new reserves over the three years must be at least 25 million barrels for any of the awards to vest and at least 50 million barrels of new reserves would be required to achieve full vesting.
This example assumes no change to the issued share capital during the period.
30 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents The grant of the 2006 Performance Share awards requires shareholder old incentive schemes approval at the 2007 AGM and full details appear in the Notice of The incentive schemes existing prior to flotation have been AGM.
In summary, the main terms of the proposed 2006 Performance discontinued and no further awards will be made under these Share awards will be: schemes.
The schemes and their key features are set out below: Awards will be over Burren Energy shares for US$nil consideration.
Awards will normally vest on 1 January 2009 or such later date Executive share option scheme 1998 once the performance target has been measured.
All options became exercisable following flotation and expire after The performance period will be for two years from 1 January 2007 seven years from the date of grant.
Vesting of the awards will depend on the extent to which an internal long term incentive Plan 1998 Reserve Replacement Ratio target has been met.
This broadly Under the terms of the Long Term Incentive Plan, Executive Directors is the sum over the performance period of revisions to proven and other senior managers received awards of ordinary shares in and probable reserves plus discoveries in respect of assets held the form of nil priced options.
Awards vest two years after the end at the beginning of the performance period, divided by the total of the initial performance year.
Subsisting awards under the Long production during the performance period arising from assets held Term Incentive Plan have now vested according to the relevant at the beginning of the performance period.
This information will be performance conditions.
published in the annual reports for these years.
The internal Reserve Replacement Ratio will be calculated on a service Contracts working interest basis with a voluntary verification process by The Companys policy is for all Executive Directors and Executive external consultants if requested by the Remuneration Committee.
Managers to have permanent contracts of service that can be The vesting range will be on a sliding scale of 0 to 100% directly terminated by either the Director or the Company upon 12 months linked to a 0 to 100% internal Reserve Replacement Ratio result.
Under these contracts compensation on termination may be To the extent that awards vest, they will be enhanced by the value negotiated individually but will not exceed 12 months base salary plus of any dividends paid between the date of grant and the date of a sum representing benefits and any bonuses that may be applicable, vesting: such payment to be in shares.
and a duty to mitigate applies.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman have letters of appointment that can be As this performance related award is in effect replacing what otherwise terminated by either the Director or the Company upon one months would have been a direct award of deferred shares for 2006 based on notice.
There is no legally binding commitment as to the terms of the 5% bonus pool, the Remuneration Committee believes that it is office though any appointment or reappointment would be subject acting in shareholders best interests by establishing some additional to the Companys Articles of Association that provide for retirement criteria during this transitional period.
by rotation at least every three years.
The letters of appointment applicable to the other Non-Executive Directors can be terminated share incentive Plan with immediate effect, appointment or reappointment being subject For all UK employees, including Executive Directors, the Company to the Companys Articles of Association.
operates a tax favoured share incentive plan SIP under which shares Contracts Effective date Unexpired term Notice period are allocated to individuals annually up to the value of 10% of salary, subject to a cap of 3,000.
Such shares are held in trust for individuals Executive service contracts for a minimum of three years and if held for five years no income tax Atul Gupta 5.12.03 n a 12 months is payable.
Finian OSullivan 5.12.03 n a 12 months Andrew Rose 5.12.03 n a 12 months Dilution Executive management The rules of the annual profit sharing scheme under which awards of service contracts deferred bonuses are granted and the rules of the Performance Share Hywel John 5.12.03 n a 12 months Plan permit awards to be over new issue shares, shares purchased in Brian Thurley 5.12.03 n a 12 months the market or treasury stock.
The number of new shares that may be Independent Non-Executive issued by the Company in the 10 years following the date of flotation in letters of appointment December 2003 to satisfy awards granted after Admission under these Alan Cole 2.10.06 n a 1 month share plans and any other future employee share scheme operated by Brian Lavers 24.5.
06 n a 1 month the Company will be restricted to 10% of the issued share capital of Chairman the Company from time to time.
The number of new shares that may Keith Henry 24.5.
06 n a 1 month be issued in the same period under the discretionary share plans Other Non-Executive i. e. not the Share Incentive Plan and any other all-employee share letters of appointment scheme operated by the Company in respect of awards granted after Michael Calvey 7.11.03 n a None Admission will be restricted to 5% of the issued share capital of the Pierre Lasry 10.2.
04 n a None Company from time to time.
All shares issued in respect of the special Andrei Pannikov 7.11.03 n a None 2006 Performance Share awards will also count towards these limits.
The remuneration of the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman takes the form solely of fees, the level of which has been set by the Board having taken advice from New Bridge Street Consultants.
No fees are payable to the other Non-Executive Directors.
31 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006 Click to return to contents Directors remuneration report continued share price performance graph The performance graph below sets out Burrens annual total shareholder return since its flotation in December 2003 to 31 December 2006.
This is compared to the FTSE 250 Index, which was selected as an appropriate comparator because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a member.
5PUBM 4IBSFIPMEFS 3FUVSO m DVNVMBUJWF Burren FTSE 250 5PUBM 4IBSFIPMEFS 3FUVSO m NPOUIMZ 30% Burren 25% FTSE 250 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% -5% -10% -15% -20% auDitED inFormation Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2006 was as follows: 2006 2005 $000 $000 Emoluments 4,490 5,958 Gains on exercise of options 8,745 17,409 Total 13,235 23,367 Directors emoluments Bonus Deferred 2006 2005 1 1 Salary fees cash shares Benefits Total Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Executive Directors Finian OSullivan 558 279 836 3 1,676 2,057 Atul Gupta 490 279 836 4 1,609 1,969 Andrew Rose 372 186 372 2 932 1,752 Sub total 1,420 744 2,044 9 4,217 5,778 Non-Executive Directors Brian Lavers 80 80 91 Alan Cole 63 63 51 Keith Henry 130 130 38 Sub total 273 273 180 Total 1,693 744 2,044 9 4,490 5,958 1 Represents amounts awarded on 16 January 2007 under the transitional arrangements of the Annual Bonus Plan referred to above.
2 The market price on the date of exercise 19 April 2006 was US$17.44 resulting in a gain on exercise of US$3,915,525.
3 Otherwise referred in this as the Annual Bonus Plan.
Throughout 2006, no options held by any of the Companys Directors lapsed.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2006 was $17.34, and the range during the year was $13.01 to $19.61.
In addition to the above, Finian OSullivan holds a controlling interest in Balor Holdings Limited, which is the registered holder of 409,002 options with an exercise price of $1.20 and which are exercisable between now and December 2008.
Otherwise, no options were granted, exercised or lapsed during the year or prior to the date of this report, in relation to those interests.
During the year the Company recorded a charge of $481,000, as described in note 31 in relation to managements estimate of national insurance contributions that will be payable by the Company on exercise of certain of the above options.
This charge results from the increase in the Companys share price during the year.
approval This report was approved by the Board on 16 March 2007.
Keith Henry Chairman to the remuneration Committee 33 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
