DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee and Advisers Reference is made to pages 45 and 46 of the Corporate Governance Statement, where there is a summary of the role of the remuneration committee.
Cairns remuneration committee operates within terms of reference set by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the remuneration committee remains up to date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business environment in which it operates.
The deliberations and decisions of the remuneration committee are governed by the provisions in the Listing Rules and the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules and the remuneration committee has followed these provisions and those of the Companies Act, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, in preparing this report.
As and when the remuneration committee deems appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from the Companys legal advisers, Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP, and auditors, Ernst & Young LLP in respect of the Companys share option schemes and long term incentive plans.
Advice obtained from Ernst & Young LLP is purely in relation to their independent verification of the Companys performance against performance criteria applicable to the Companys share option schemes and long term incentive plans.
In respect of comparative remuneration, advice had also previously been obtained from New Bridge Street Consultants, who last conducted a comprehensive review of the directors remuneration packages in 2004.
The remuneration committee had intended to instruct a further review at the end of 2006 but given the transition phase the Company had entered into following the flotation of Cairn India, decided that this was not currently appropriate.
The current members of the remuneration committee are Hamish Grossart Chairman, Ed Story, Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are not members of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and are consulted in respect of certain of its proposals although they are not consulted or involved in any discussions in respect of their own remuneration.
The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the GMB.
The remuneration committee also determines, within the terms of the agreed policy and having consulted with the Chairman and the Chief Executive about their proposals, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and any compensation payments to be paid on termination.
Remuneration Policy Cairns policy on executive directors remuneration for the current year and subsequent financial years is that the overall remuneration package should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality individuals capable of achieving the Groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The package is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, in relation to the variable pay element, the package is weighted more towards long term performance.
Each executive directors remuneration package currently consists of basic salary, benefits, annual performance related bonuses, long term incentive plans, defined contribution pension if appropriate and life assurance of four times basic annual salary.
The package is designed to support the Groups business strategy and to provide an appropriate incentive to maximise individual and corporate performance, whilst ensuring that overall rewards are market competitive.
Details of the individual components of the package and of contracts are given below.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form solely of fees, which are agreed by the executive members of the Board and the Chairman, having taken independent advice on appropriate levels, within an overall limit determined by shareholders.
The fees are designed to attract experienced individuals and reflect the responsibilities of the role.
The fees stated are in respect of all responsibilities undertaken by the non-executive directors, including membership of Board committees.
56 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Basic Salary and Benefits Basic salary is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee and any changes take effect from 1 January each year.
For the year 2007, the basic salaries of the executive directors were retained at 2006 levels, being 480,000 for Sir Bill Gammell, 350,000 for Dr Mike Watts, 300,000 for each of Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy, and 250,000 for each of Jann Brown and Simon Thomson.
The salaries of Jann Brown and Simon Thomson were agreed as at their date of appointment as directors and will next be reviewed in January 2008.
The non-executive directors fees were retained at 2006 levels being 140,000 for Norman Murray, 90,000 for Hamish Grossart and 50,000 for each of Ed Story, Todd Hunt, Mark Tyndall and Andrew Shilston.
Benefits available to the executive directors comprise a company car, permanent health insurance, private health insurance and death in service benefit.
Share Options Details of the Groups current share option plans are as follows:- 1.
1996 Second Share Option Scheme 1996 Scheme 2.
2002 Unapproved Share Option Plan 2002 Plan 3.
2003 Approved Share Option Plan 2003 Plan 4.
Cairn India Share Option Schemes Cairn India Schemes 1996 Scheme The 1996 Scheme was adopted in 1996 and expired in May 2006.
The date of grant of the last award of options under the 1996 Scheme was 1 October 2002.
2002 Plan and 2003 Plan The 1996 Scheme was superseded by two subsequent share option plans the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan.
The principal difference between the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan is that the approval of the Inland Revenue was not sought for the 2002 Plan.
The 2003 Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2003 AGM and subsequently by the Inland Revenue.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 2002 Plan was 18 March 2003.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 2003 Plan was 30 June 2003.
Following the adoption of the 2006 Plan, no further awards will be granted under the 2002 Plan or the 2003 Plan.
The date of grant of the last award of options under these arrangements was 4 July 2006.
Options granted under the 1996 Scheme, 2002 Plan and 2003 Plan are exercisable three to ten years following the date of grant and are subject to performance conditions on exercise.
In the case of all outstanding options under these arrangements, the option holder may only exercise their awards if Cairns share price has increased by 5% on a compound basis over the period from the date of grant of options up to the date they are exercised.
In addition, the percentage increase in Cairns share price over the period must be at least equal to or greater than the percentage movement in the FTSE Oil & Gas Index.
2006 Plan The 2006 Plan was approved by shareholders at the EGM held on 17 November 2006, conditional on the flotation of Cairn India becoming effective, which occurred on 9 January 2007.
No awards have yet been made under the 2006 Plan.
It is, however, expected that the 2006 Plan will be used to make regular annual grants to those of the Groups employees who do not participate in the new LTIP.
No options will be granted to the Companys executive directors or to any employee or director of the Cairn India Group.
This new plan, together with the new LTIP described below, reflects the fact that, following the flotation of Cairn India, there are two distinct arms to the Groups business namely, a majority shareholding in Cairn India and an exploration and production business owned and operated by the Capricorn Group and therefore seeks to incentivise employees of the Group in relation to the arm s which they can affect.
The 2006 Plan will enable selected employees excluding those that are employed by the Cairn India Group to be granted phantom options over units in the Capricorn Group see below under New LTIP for how these units are created and valued.
On the exercise of an option, participants will generally become entitled to such number of Cairn shares as have a market value equal to the notional gain that they realise i. e. the difference between the notional exercise price attributable to their option and the price of the units in respect of which their option has been exercised.
However, the extent to which options become exercisable will be dependent on continued employment with the Group and the extent to which predetermined performance conditions are met over a specified period.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The remuneration committee has decided that, initially, all options granted under the 2006 Plan will be subject to a Capricorn unit price target measured over a three year performance period.
Under this target, vesting will occur as follows: Average annual compound growth in Percentage of Capricorn units comprised in option that vest Capricorn unit price over the performance period 0% Less than 5% 50% 5% 100% 10% or more 50% 100% on a straight-line basis More than 5% but less than 10% Notwithstanding the above condition, no part of an option will vest unless the notional total shareholder return TSR of a Capricorn unit over the performance period is sufficient to place it at or above the median level in the same comparator group of companies that is used for the purposes of the Capricorn awards granted pursuant to the New LTIP see below.
None of the directors hold any options under any of the Companys share option plans.
Since 1999, the long term incentives for executive directors and certain other senior executives have been made pursuant to long term incentive plans and therefore no options have been granted to these individuals under any of the Companys share option plans since that time.
Cairn India Schemes As part of the arrangements surrounding its flotation, Cairn India established the following share option schemes pursuant to which options to acquire its shares can be granted: the Cairn India Senior Management Plan: the Cairn India Employee Stock Option Plan 2006 : and the Cairn India Performance Option Plan 2006.
These arrangements brief details of which are set out on pages 90 and 91 in note 5 of the Notes to the Accounts have been or will be used to grant options to selected employees and executive directors of Cairn India and its various subsidiary undertakings.
None of the executive directors of the Company participate, or will participate, in any of the Cairn India Schemes.
Existing LTIP Details of directors awards granted pursuant to the existing LTIP, which was implemented in 2002 the Existing LTIP are given on pages 66 and 67.
The Existing LTIP has now been replaced by the New LTIP, further details of which are set out below on pages 60 to 62.
As such, no further awards will be made under the Existing LTIP.
Participants have been granted Tier One and Tier Two awards under the Existing LTIP.
Performance conditions for each are determined by the remuneration committee and the calculation of shares vesting based on these conditions is subject to independent verification by Ernst & Young LLP.
Performance Conditions Tier One A Tier One award is an award of Cairn shares with the vesting and release of all part of those shares being dependent upon the executive remaining an employee and achievement of performance conditions over a performance period of three years.
The vesting of all outstanding Tier One awards is subject to a TSR target which is calculated in two steps, each of which must be satisfied.
Step One First, the TSR of a Cairn share during the performance period is compared to the average TSR performance of the companies comprising the relevant FTSE Index the Index at the beginning and at the end of the performance period details of the FTSE Indices used are set out on the page opposite.
If Cairns TSR performance exceeds the average TSR performance of the Index, then the step one test has been passed.
The step two test is then used to calculate how many if any Cairn shares the subject of the award will vest.
58 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Step Two Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares is compared to the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group comprising exploration, production and integrated oil companies over the performance period details of the relevant comparator groups are set out on page 60.
Each company is then ranked in order of TSR performance.
Cairns position in the comparator group list then determines how many if any Cairn shares the subject of the award will vest, as follows: Percentage of Cairn shares comprised in Tier One Award that vest Ranking of Cairn in relevant comparator group 0% Below median 20% Median 100% Upper quartile or above 20% 100% on a straight-line basis Between median and upper quartile In addition, no Tier One award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in Cairns underlying financial position and performance over the performance period.
Performance Conditions Tier Two A Tier Two award is a share appreciation right over a number of notional Cairn shares.
The maximum potential benefit a participant may receive under a Tier Two award is calculated by comparing the increase in Cairns share price over the performance period with the change in the average share price of the comparator group over the same period.
The increase in Cairns share price if any over the rise or fall in the average share price of the comparator group over the performance period is then multiplied by the number of notional shares the subject of the award.
This gives rise to a monetary figure which is then converted into an actual number of Cairn shares using the market value as at the date of vesting.
Where there has been a fall in Cairns TSR, no Tier Two award will vest.
Vesting of the Tier Two award is then subject to a further TSR target which is calculated in two steps, each of which must be satisfied.
Step One This step is the same as step one of the performance conditions in respect of Tier One.
Step Two Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares is compared to the TSR of a share in each company comprised in the comparator group over the performance period.
As with Tier One awards, each company is then ranked in order of TSR performance.
Cairns position in the comparator group list then determines how many if any shares the subject of the award will vest, as follows: Percentage of Cairn shares comprised in Tier Two Award that vest Ranking of Cairn in relevant comparator group 0% Below upper quartile 40% Upper quartile 100% Number one position 40% 100% on a straight-line basis Between upper quartile and number one position In addition, no Tier Two award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in Cairns underlying financial position and performance over the performance period.
Release of shares following vesting At the end of the performance period, 50% of vested shares under both Tier One and Tier Two awards are transferred to participants immediately, and the remaining shares are transferred at the end of one year.
FTSE Indices used for Existing LTIP For the first step of the TSR target described on the previous page, for 2004 and 2005 awards, the Companys performance is measured against the FTSE 250 Index.
The remuneration committee reviewed this performance condition in March 2006 and decided to measure awards made in 2006 against the FTSE 350 Index.
For awards prior to 2004, the Companys performance was measured against the FTSE Small Cap Index excluding investment trusts.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Comparator Groups used for Existing LTIP The table below shows the comparator groups applicable to: awards made in 2003 and 2004: awards made in 2005: and awards made in 2006.
The New LTIP will enable selected executive directors and employees excluding those that are employed by the Cairn India Group to be granted conditional awards over two separate pools of notional units, the first relating to Cairn India Cairn India Units and the second relating to the Capricorn Group Capricorn Units together, Units.
For the purposes of the New LTIP, each of these Cairn India Units and Capricorn Units will be ascribed a notional price.
On any day, the price of a Cairn India Unit will be equal to the price of a Cairn India share, as quoted on the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India the Exchanges.
The price of a Capricorn Unit will be calculated by taking the total value of the Capricorn Group and dividing it by the number of Capricorn Units created for the purposes of the New LTIP.
For these purposes, the value of the Capricorn Group will generally be determined by deducting i the value of the Companys holding in Cairn India: and ii the amount of any cash held by the Company that is to be returned to shareholders, from the total market capitalisation of the Company.
The extent to which an award over Cairn India Units a Cairn India Award or an award over Capricorn Units a Capricorn Award together Awards vests will be dependent on continued employment within the Group and the extent to which predetermined performance conditions relating to Cairn India or the Capricorn Group are met over a specified period see below.
Following the vesting of an Award, the participant will then generally become entitled to such number of Cairn shares as have a market value equal to the aggregate price of the vested Units.
Only 50% of these shares will be transferred to the participant immediately.
The remaining 50% will be held for a further year.
No Awards have as of the date of this report been made under the New LTIP.
It is however expected that the New LTIP will be used to make regular annual grants to the Companys senior management team, including its executive directors.
On each occasion that Awards are granted, the remuneration committee will determine whether a participant is granted a Cairn India Award or a Capricorn Award or both.
This decision will be based on the extent to which the ongoing role of the individual in question relates to the Companys holding in Cairn India or the business of the Capricorn Group or a mixture of both.
Notwithstanding this discretion, it is the remuneration committees intention that: on any occasion that the Companys Chief Executive is granted Awards, half those Awards will be Cairn India Awards and half will be Capricorn Awards: and on any occasion that Awards are granted to any other executive directors of the Company, not more than 75% of such Awards will be either Cairn India Awards or Capricorn Awards.
60 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Conditions The remuneration committee has decided that, initially, all Awards granted under the New LTIP will be subject to a relative TSR target measured over a three year performance period.
For the purposes of applying this measure to any Cairn India Award, the TSR of a Cairn India share will be used.
For a Capricorn Award, the condition will be based on the notional TSR of a Capricorn Unit.
Under the TSR condition, the extent to which a Cairn India Award or Capricorn Award vests will be determined by comparing the TSR of a Cairn India share or Capricorn Unit as appropriate over the performance period with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group.
The way in which this multiplier will operate is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of Cairn India Units TSR of a Cairn India share TSR of a Capricorn Unit Capricorn Units that actually vest over the performance period over the performance period 1 40% or less 75% or less 1.33 80% or more 150% or more 1 1.33 on a straight-line basis Between 40% and 80% Between 75% and 150% Notwithstanding the performance of a Cairn India Share or Capricorn Unit against the above targets, no part of any Award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
The New LTIP is designed to provide the executive directors and other senior executives with a long term incentive based on the performance of the particular arm of the business that they can affect.
As such, the performance conditions described above are deemed appropriate by the remuneration committee.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Individual Limits The total value of Units over which an individual may be granted Awards under the New LTIP during the period commencing on 9 January 2007 i. e. the date of its adoption and ending on the final day of the Companys financial year ending 31 December 2007 will not exceed 400% of his her rate of annual base salary.
In any subsequent financial year of the Company, the total value of Units over which an individual may be granted Awards during that year will not exceed 300% of his her annual base salary save in exceptional circumstances where a 400% limit may be applied.
These limits are broadly consistent with those that applied under the Existing LTIP and reflect the remuneration committees policy of placing a significantly higher weighting on variable pay rather than fixed pay.
Share Scheme Dilution In any 10 year rolling period, the number of shares which may be issued in connection with the New LTIP and 2006 Plan, when added to the number of unissued shares which have been allocated in that same period under any other discretionary share scheme adopted by the Company, cannot exceed 5% of Cairns issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any 10 year rolling period, the number of shares which may be issued in connection with the New LTIP and 2006 Plan, when added to the number of unissued shares which have been allocated in that same period under any other discretionary share scheme adopted by the Company, cannot exceed 10% of Cairns issued ordinary share capital.
Annual Cash Bonus Scheme Cairns annual cash bonus scheme has been in place since 1999 and applies to all employees and executive directors.
Bonuses under the scheme are based on individual and Company performance measures.
Individual performance is measured through the Companys performance management system.
Company performance measures are based on annually defined key performance indicators KPIs.
The KPIs for 2006 encompassed various budgetary, portfolio growth and procedural compliance targets, the substantial majority of which were met.
For employees other than executive directors, only the individual and Company performance measures determine the overall bonus award.
As was the case in 2004 and 2005, the bonus award to the executive directors was subject to two additional performance measures, being performance against annually defined corporate objectives and reserve replacement performance.
This resulted in one quarter of the award being determined by individual performance, one quarter by company performance, one quarter by performance against corporate objectives and one quarter by reserve replacement performance.
The corporate objectives for 2006 are commercially sensitive and are therefore excluded from this report, as are the 2007 corporate objectives.
The maximum level of bonus award for the executive directors for 2006 was up to 100% of salary.
The bonuses awarded to the executive directors for performance in 2006 are shown in the table on page 66.
The maximum level of bonus award for other senior executives for 2006 was 40% of salary.
The remuneration committee has the discretion to award bonuses in addition to those payable under the annual cash bonus scheme in recognition of particular efforts or achievements by employees, including executive directors.
In this regard, the remuneration committee approved a limited number of discretionary bonus awards to employees in the project team responsible for implementation of the IPO.
These included bonus awards to Kevin Hart, Jann Brown and Simon Thomson, which are shown in the table on page 66.
62 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pension Arrangements The Company is the principal employer for a defined contribution pension scheme in the UK: the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme.
This scheme is non-contributory and all UK employees aged 18 and over are eligible to participate in the scheme.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives to the pension scheme on behalf of all qualifying employees.
Sir Bill Gammell was a member of the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme for the period to 31 March 2006.
With effect from 1 April 2006, he instead elected to receive an amount equivalent to the contributions to him as additional salary.
The total amount paid by the Company in 2006 in respect of Sir Bill Gammells pension arrangements was equivalent to 15% of his annual basic salary.
Dr Mike Watts, Jann Brown and Simon Thomson were members of the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme throughout 2006 and received a contribution to the scheme equal to 15% of their respective annual basic salaries.
With effect from 1 February 2007, Simon Thomson is no longer a member of the scheme and has instead elected to receive contributions into a self-invested personal pension plan.
Malcolm Thoms has a personal pension plan and receives a contribution from the Company equal to 15% of his annual basic salary.
For the period to 31 March 2006, Phil Tracy also received contributions into a personal pension plan.
With effect from 1 April 2006, Mr Tracy has instead elected to receive an amount equivalent to the contributions to him as additional salary.
The total amount paid by the Company in 2006 in respect of Mr Tracys pension arrangements was equivalent to 15% of his annual basic salary.
Kevin Hart was a member of the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme for the period to 17 November 2006 and received a contribution to the scheme equal to 15% of his annual basic salary for that period.
Further details of the contribution made by the Company in respect of each executive director are set out in the table on page 66.
The Company is also the principal employer for a Small Self-Administered Scheme.
Sir Bill Gammell is the sole member of this scheme.
The Company is not contractually obliged to make any contributions into this scheme on behalf of Sir Bill Gammell.
Service Contracts The Companys policy is for all executive directors to have contracts of service which can be terminated by either the director concerned or the Company on giving 12 months notice of termination.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the directors is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to their annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment in terms of which he is appointed for a fixed three year period, subject to the Companys articles of association, which provide for retirement by rotation at least once every three years.
The letters of appointment set out the time commitment expected by the Company and can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to fulfil his duties as a director of the Company.
None of the non-executive directors has any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
The terms and conditions for the appointment of the non-executive directors of the Company are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection before and during the AGM to be held on 17 May 2007.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Service Contracts continued Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment of the current directors of the Company are given in the table below.
Effective Date Unexpired Term Notice Period Executive service contracts Sir Bill Gammell 19.02.03 n a 12 months Dr Mike Watts 19.02.03 n a 12 months Malcolm Thoms 19.02.03 n a 12 months Phil Tracy 06.02.04 n a 12 months Jann Brown 17.11.06 n a 12 months Simon Thomson 17.11.06 n a 12 months Former director Kevin Hart 19.02.03 n a n a Mr Harts service contract was terminated with effect from 17 November 2006, being the date of his resignation as a director.
The notice period in Mr Harts contract was waived by mutual consent.
Non-executive letters of appointment Norman Murray 19.02.06 23 months None Hamish Grossart 19.02.06 23 months None Ed Story 19.02.06 23 months None Todd Hunt 14.05.06 25 months None Mark Tyndall 10.10.06 30 months None Andrew Shilston 08.11.04 7 months None Certain of the Companys executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain the fees relating to those positions.
Details of the positions held and the fees receivable are set out in the table below: Position Held Fees 2006 Executive Director Sir Bill Gammell Non-executive director, Artemis AiM VCT plc 12,500 1 Malcolm Thoms Non-executive director, Revus Energy AS 25,854.06 Phil Tracy Non-executive director, Vienco Oil & Gas Limited 18,000 Former director 2 Kevin Hart Non-executive director, Glasgow Income Trust PLC 9,000 3 Non-executive director, Argent Energy PLC 10,634 1 Payable partly in cash and partly in shares.
2 Kevin Hart resigned as a director of the Company on 17 November 2006 and consequently these fees are for the period from 1 January 2006 to that date.
3 Kevin Hart was appointed a director of Argent on 1 August 2006 and consequently these fees are for the period from that date to 17 November 2006.
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments are not unduly onerous.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the Board.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
64 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Graphs Both the FTSE 100 Index and FTSE 250 Index were selected as appropriate comparator indices for the two performance graphs shown below as although Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index throughout 2006, it has subsequently dropped out of this index and became a member of the FTSE 250 Index with effect from 19 March 2007.
The graphs compare Cairns TSR with that of the chosen indices.
The bar chart is presented as additional information to that required by the Companies Act, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Performance Graph Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Shareholder Return on an investment of 100 Performance graph Comparison of year on year change in the value of an investment over the past five years The market value of one Cairn share on 29 December 2006 was 17.99.
During 2006, the range of high and low market value of shares was 25.08 to 17.55.
2 The annual bonus for 2006 is payable in the subsequent financial year, with the exception of Kevin Harts which was paid in 2006.
3 Jann Brown and Simon Thomson were appointed as directors on 17 November 2006.
With the exception of the IPO bonuses detailed at 4 and 5 below, the figures stated are in respect of the period from that date to 31 December 2006.
4 This bonus payment was made to Jann Brown in respect of the IPO 50% of the bonus was paid in December 2006 and the remaining 50% in January 2007.
5 This bonus payment was made to Simon Thomson in respect of the IPO and was paid in January 2007.
6 This payment was made to Norman Murray in respect of additional work on the IPO and his services as a non-executive director of Cairn India.
7 This payment was made to Hamish Grossart in respect of additional work on the IPO and his services as a non-executive director of Cairn India.
8 This payment was made to Mark Tyndall in respect of additional work on the IPO.
9 Kevin Hart resigned as a director on 17 November 2006.
The figures stated are in respect of the period from 1 January 2006 to that date.
10 This bonus payment was made to Kevin Hart in respect of the IPO and Kevin subsequently donated the full amount to charities of his choice.
Vested Awards Details of awards which vested during 2006 are given in the table below.
Calculations to determine the number of shares vesting, based on the performance conditions described on pages 58 to 60 of this report were carried out by Cairn and independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
By Order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 27 March 2007 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006 67
