CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued In addition to the expansion of our Gosforth headquarters, We successfully completed four securitisation issues in 2006 a new office complex has commenced development near through our Granite programme, totalling 17.8 billion, including Sunderland, we have opened several new specialist mortgage our biggest ever single issue of 6.0 billion.
The appetite for branches and an office in Copenhagen in support of our new securitisation, particularly in the US and Europe, remains huge.
online savings operation in Denmark.
We now have a total securitisation book of 40.2 billion, representing 43% of total funding stock, and we would expect this to remain LENDING at or about that level going forward.
2006 was another year of record lending.
Total gross lending was 33.0 billion - 23% higher than in 2005 and our second half Finally, in 2006 we completed two covered bond issues totalling performance was particularly strong.
Again demand remains strong, particularly in Europe, we were able to grow net lending by 14% to 16.6 billion.
and it represents a very attractive form of funding.
Our share of This strong momentum in our lending means we entered this market is small and we are receiving encouraging noises from 2007 with a total pipeline of 6.2 billion - 18% higher than international investors to launch a covered bond in wider the previous year.
territories in 2007, so again we can see more capacity for the future.
Looking at residential mortgages, our gross lending for the year was 23% higher at 29.0 billion and net lending was 13% higher CREDIT QUALITY at 15.1 billion, again with a strong second half performance.
The credit quality of our assets remains strong.
The arrears We are now the fifth largest UK mortgage lender by stock.
performance of our residential lending book reflects this, with only 0.42% of accounts three months or more in arrears - below However, we have not sacrificed quality of lending and saw three half the industry average - compared with 0.45% at 30 June 2006. month plus arrears numbers fall in the second half of the year to 0.42% - less than half the industry average.
The proportion The reason for this improvement is partially because we have of together lending, our highest risk product, fell from 35% enhanced our debt management operation and partially because in the first 6 months of the year, to 26% in the second half we have further improved our credit scoring and front-end risk of 2006 and the proportion of lending over 90% LTV fell underwriting processes to eliminate higher risk applications.
Our scorecards are highly predictive and are now used extensively in our risk management approach.
We have also strengthened our Our standalone unsecured personal loan book has also continued to monthly behavioural scoring of existing mortgage borrowers, which prove resilient.
Total balances in the portfolio have increased to gives an early warning of potential default - so we are confident 4.2 billion.
The level of loans over 3 months in arrears has that the current historically low level of default will continue.
remained stable since the half year, at 1.09%, an extremely low level of default for unsecured loans.
The proportion of personal unsecured loan arrears and commercial loan arrears also remain very low, reflecting our consistent policy FUNDING of attracting only high quality lending in these areas.
We continued to develop our broad based and diversified funding platform in 2006.
There are four arms - retail funding, wholesale BASLE II funding, securitisation and covered bonds - and we raised a total We continue to expect to be a beneficiary from Basle II and of 18.8 billion.
anticipate moving to full IRB waiver for our mortgage portfolio very soon, subject to sign off by the FSA.
It must of course be Our retail funding of 2.5 billion represented 14% of flow and we remembered that there is a three year transitional period over now have retail balances of 22.6 billion - 24% of total funding which any capital release will be realised.
We have 1.3 million accounts, with a strong franchise spread geographically across the UK, Guernsey and Ireland.
In February we expanded our funding operation into Denmark.
New wholesale funding in 2006 reached 2.9 billion reflecting both improved credit ratings and our continued expansion into new geographical territories.
We now have established funding programmes in most major international capital and debt markets.
Within these markets we have established a strong profile which meant that around 25% of the total was raised in the private placement medium term note market.
We see plenty of scope to increase our funding in these markets to support our business growth.
8 The outcome of our Basle project continues to mean for us: reorganise debts and seek the next follow-on teaser product.
We perform very well in retaining these customers.
The second Lower credit risk weightings part of the remortgage market relates to home movers and this Upward pressure on our capital ratios compared to Basle I is an area we will focus on going forward.
Of the volume lenders, Reduced capital appetite for good quality new lending only Northern Rock now genuinely offers best deals to all customers For the industry, there is unlikely to be significant capital release and we are well placed to compete in this market.
Nor do we expect to see front-end I am pleased to be able to report another encouraging year of spreads get pushed down by excess capital being competed away.
We are focussed on delivering our strategic OUTLOOK targets and continue to build on the foundations we have in place.
UK economic fundamentals are set to remain supportive for the mortgage market - our core market.
Whilst interest rates have nudged up, they remain historically low and long-term unemployment also continues to trend at low levels, meaning mortgage affordability remains good.
Last years gross market was 345 billion and this year we expect it to be at least 350 billion, with 2008 a little higher, reflecting recent house price growth, which we see rising in line with earnings.
There are very limited alternative forms of tenure and inelastic supply.
New housing completions cannot keep pace with the key demand drivers - immigrant workers, first time buyers drifting back into the market, the average size of households falling and home ownership being the preferred tenure option.
The professional buy-to-let market also has structural support, from both the immigration of labour and students leaving University with over-hanging debt but still seeking an independent household - they are natural tenants for rental properties.
The remortgage market also remains strong, the trigger event here is the end of a teaser rate product.
Households typically then LOCAL HEROES Local rugby luminaries the Newcastle Falcons have appeared on the regional, national and international scenes as ambassadors for the brand.
9 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Left to right R F Bennett Former Group Finance Director D F Baker Deputy Chief Executive K M Currie Treasury Director A M Kuipers Commercial Director A J Applegarth Chief Executive D A Jones Group Finance Director C Taylor Company Secretary 10 THE BOARD During 2006, the number of meetings attended by each Director was as follows: Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk Number of meetings held in 2006 11 5 3 2 4 Non Executive Directors Dr M W Ridley, BA, DPhil Chairman 11 3 N A H Fenwick, MA 11 5 2 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE 10 4 3 2 4 Senior Independent Director N Pease, BA 10 4 2 M J Queen, BA, FCA 10 5 2 R A Radcliffe, CBE, MA, MPhil, FIMC 5 1 2 3 Sir Derek Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS 11 5 3 2 4 Sir George Russell, CBE, DEng.
BA 4 1 Retired 25 April 2006 Executive Directors A J Applegarth, BA 11 4 D F Baker, BSc, FCIB 10 4 R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA 11 3 K M Currie 10 4 A M Kuipers 11 4 Member of Audit Committee from 28 June 18 December 2006 during which time one meeting of that Committee was held.
11 THE BOARD M W Ridley, Chairman D A Jones, Group Finance Director Matt Ridley aged 49, was appointed Chairman of the Company The Group Finance Director, Dave Jones aged 48, is a Chartered on 27 April 2004.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Accountant.
He was appointed to the Board in February 2007.
In of Northern Rock plc in November 1996 having previously joined his present role, he is responsible for Finance, Internal Audit and the Board of Northern Rock Building Society on 1 June 1994.
Compliance, Group and Credit risk management.
Mr Jones is also a Dr Ridley is an author and businessman who also holds other NonTrustee of the Northern Rock Pension Scheme.
Mr Jones is a Executive Directorships which include Northern Investors Company Member of both the Chairmans and Risk Committees.
PLC, Northern 2 VCT plc and P A Holdings Limited.
He is Chairman A M Kuipers, Commercial Director of both the Nominations and Chairmans Committees.
Andy Kuipers aged 49, was appointed to the Board as an A J Applegarth, Chief Executive Executive Director in January 2005.
He is responsible for the Adam Applegarth aged 44, has worked for Northern Rock since co-ordination and direction of the Companys sales, marketing, 1983.
He became an Executive Director of Northern Rock Building products, pricing and retention activities.
Mr Kuipers is a Member Society in January 1996, was appointed as an Executive Director of of both the Chairmans and Risk Committees.
Northern Rock plc in October 1996 and subsequently became the N Pease, Non-Executive Director Companys Chief Executive in March 2001.
Mr Applegarth is a Nichola Pease aged 45, is Chief Executive of J O Hambro Capital Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Management Limited.
She was appointed as a Non-Executive Committee of Persimmon plc.
He is also governor of the Royal Director of Northern Rock plc in February 1999.
Ms Pease is Grammar School, Newcastle upon Tyne.
Mr Applegarth is a Member Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a Member of the of both the Chairmans and Risk Committees.
D F Baker, Deputy Chief Executive M J Queen, Non-Executive Director David Baker aged 53, was appointed as the Companys Deputy Michael Queen aged 45, is a Director of 3i Group plc where he is Chief Executive in September 2005.
He became an Executive responsible for Infrastructure and Growth Capital Investments.
He is Director of Northern Rock Building Society in January 1996 and a Non-Executive Director of Osprey plc.
He was appointed to the was appointed as an Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2005.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Member of both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
In his present role he is responsible for the direction and management of the Companys operations.
Mr Baker is Chairman of R A Radcliffe, Non-Executive Director the North East Enterprise Bond and a Trustee of the University of Rosemary Radcliffe aged 62, was appointed to the Board as a Newcastle upon Tyne Development Trust.
Mr Baker is a Member of Non-Executive Director in March 2005.
She is currently Nonboth the Chairmans and Risk Committees.
Executive Chairman of Newcastle International Airport Limited, and a member of the Guernsey Financial Services Commisson.
Until July K M Currie, Treasury Director 2001, she was a Partner with , and served Keith Currie aged 50, was appointed to the Board as an Executive as a member of PwCs Global Board.
She also acted as the first Director in January 2005.
Mr Currie is responsible for the independent Complaints Commissioner for the UK Financial management of the Companys Group Treasury function including Services Authority.
Miss Radcliffe is currently a Member of the liquidity, wholesale funding, derivative portfolios and the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
management of the Companys securitisation funding and covered bond programmes.
Mr Currie is a Member of both the Chairmans Sir Derek Wanless, Non-Executive Director and Risk Committees.
Sir Derek Wanless aged 59, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 2000.
He was previously Group Chief Executive N A H Fenwick, Non-Executive Director of National Westminster Bank plc from 1992-1999 and is currently Adam Fenwick aged 46, was appointed to the Board as a NonChairman of Northumbrian Water Group plc.
Sir Derek is Vice Executive Director in November 2003.
He is Group Managing Chairman of the Statistics Commission and is a member of the Director of Fenwick Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Board for Actuarial Standards at the Financial Reporting Council.
John Swire and Sons Limited.
He is also a Trustee of Newcastle Sir Derek is Chairman of both the Audit and Risk Committees and a Theatre Royal Trust Limited.
Mr Fenwick is a Member of both the Member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Note Sir Ian Gibson, Senior Independent Director On 25 April 2006 and 31 January 2007, Sir George Russell and The Senior Independent Director, Sir Ian Gibson aged 60, was Bob Bennett respectively retired from the Board of Directors.
appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September 2002.
He is a Non-Executive Director of both GKN plc and Greggs plc, and Chairman of Trinity Mirror plc.
He was also a member of the Court of the Bank of England from 1999 to 2004.
Sir Ian is a Member of the Audit, Nominations, Risk, and Remuneration Committees.
12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Northern Rock plc the Company regards procedures of the Board, its Committees their previous re-election.
Non-Executive adherence to the principles of good and its officers.
Directors are appointed for a specified corporate governance to be of the utmost term subject to re-election.
Authority for the execution of approved importance.
The Board is accountable to policies has been delegated by the Board The Companys policy is that Nonthe Companys shareholders for corporate to the Companys Executive Committee and Executive Directors will stand down from governance.
The revisions to the Combined the Chief Executive.
The Executive office at the conclusion of the next Annual Code published in 2006, will apply to the Committee comprises the Chief Executive, General Meeting following their seventieth Company for reporting year 2007.
The the other Executive Directors and the birthday.
In accordance with this policy, following describes how the Company Company Secretary.
Sir George Russell retired from office at applies the principles and provisions the conclusion of the 2006 Annual Within the parameters set out in the contained in the Combined Code of General Meeting.
Executive Committees terms of reference, Corporate Governance published in July the Committee has responsibility for 2003 the Combined Code.
The Listing DIRECTORS facilitating the Companys effective Rules of the United Kingdom Listing More than half of the Board comprises operation to ensure that it meets its Authority require listed companies to Non-Executive Directors, all of whom have objectives through the implementation of disclose how they comply with the experience in a wide range of commercial or the Strategic and Operational Plans.
The Combined Code and, where they do not do banking activities.
The Board is required to Committee also monitors developments in so, to provide a clear explanation of why determine whether each Director is the Companys core markets, and examines, they do not comply.
independent in character and judgement appraises and reviews defence initiatives, and whether there are relationships or For the period 1 January 2006 to potential acquisitions and corporate circumstances which are likely to affect, or 31 December 2006, the Company complied finance initiatives.
It also establishes could appear to affect, the Directors with all aspects of the Combined Code and processes to control, appraise and review judgement.
The Board considers all of the with the 2005 Turnbull Guidance on the implementation of any new procedures Non-Executive Directors to be independent Internal Control Turnbull Guidance.
for the purposes of the definition in the The Management Board Asset and Liability THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Combined Code.
Both individually and Committee is responsible for overseeing The Board of Directors meets regularly collectively, they provide close scrutiny of the management and review of the throughout the year and retains full and the performance of management and the Companys balance sheet risk profile and effective control over the Company and its reporting of its performance.
processes, the Companys balance sheet, subsidiaries the Group.
It is collectively income statement and liquidity profiles.
In INDUCTION AND TRAINING responsible for the success of the Group addition, the Committee has authority to It is the Companys policy that every and determines its strategy and policies authorise use by the Company of Director should receive appropriate training whilst monitoring performance.
The Board structured financial products and private when he or she is appointed to the Board, met eleven times during 2006 and, after equity investments in accordance with the and subsequently as necessary.
The the retirement of Sir George Russell on polices and procedures set down in the Companys induction process is designed 25 April 2006, comprised the Chairman, Corporate Finance and Structured Financial to ensure that every new Director the Senior Independent Director, five other Policy statement approved by the Board.
understands his or her responsibilities as a Non-Executive Directors, the Chief Director of the Company.
Where Executive and four other Executive A clear division of responsibility exists appropriate, the process also enables Directors.
Where Directors were absent between the Chairman, who is responsible Directors to build an understanding of the from Board or Committee meetings, on for running the Board, and the Chief Company, its business and the market in each occasion the Board or respective Executive who has responsibility for running which it operates.
It also assists with the Committee was satisfied with the apologies the business.
This division is clearly set out formulation of a link with the senior that were offered.
in the Chairmans letter of appointment and executives in the Company and facilitates the Chief Executives job description.
The Board has a written schedule of an understanding of the Companys main matters reserved for its review and relationships with its major customers, APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD approval.
Reserved matters include: the suppliers and shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association setting of capital expenditure budgets, the require that each Director stands for reThe initial induction programme is declaration of dividends, the setting of election at least every three years and that supported by an ongoing training policies for balance sheet structural risk Directors appointed by the Board should programme for all Directors to ensure that management, the raising of non retail be subject to election by shareholders at they remain fully up to date with legal, funds, liquidity, credit risk, and the approval the first opportunity after their regulatory and financial developments.
In of the annual report and accounts.
The Directors to retire by addition to this programme, at Board also adopted a detailed procedures manual rotation will be those in office longest since meetings during 2006, a number of the which covers the responsibilities and 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Companys senior executives provided Directors in accordance with the provisions the interaction between the Board and its presentations concerning their areas of of the Companies Act 1985.
This ensures that the Board The Secretary reported to the Board on BOARD EVALUATION AND DIRECTOR remains fully up to date on the Groups the outcome of the evaluation exercise, APPRAISAL business.
All Directors were also offered which showed that the Board and its The Combined Code requires that Nonindividual training on the application of the Committees were discharging their Executive Directors, the Board and its revised international accounting standards responsibilities effectively.
The process was Committees should be subject to annual to the Companys business.
The ongoing completed by the Board considering and appraisal.
Where a Non-Executive Director training process is enhanced by the annual debating the Secretarys report and is proposed for re-election beyond six appraisal process, where Directors are reviewing the respective strengths and years, the proposal should be subject to a asked to identify areas where additional weaknesses of the Board, its members and particularly rigorous review, and should training is required.
take into account the need for progressive To enable the Board to function effectively, As a result of this review process the Board refreshing of the Board.
all Directors have full and timely access to decided that a programme of departmental All Executive Directors, Non-Executive all information which may be relevant to site visits would be organised for NonDirectors and the Chairman were subject to the discharge of their duties and Executive Directors during the course of an appropriate appraisal during the year obligations.
It was also agreed that agenda of under review to ensure that their additional, specific training or support for certain Board meetings during the year contribution continued to be of the any Director who requests it.
would provide for a greater element of highest standard.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are consideration of wider strategic topics.
The Chief Executive and all of the Nonproperly briefed on issues to be discussed Executive Directors were appraised by the BOARD COMMITTEES at Board meetings.
All Directors are able to Chairman whilst the appraisal of the each In accordance with the Combined Code obtain further advice or seek clarity on of the Executive Directors was completed and the best principles of corporate issues raised at Board meetings from within by the Chief Executive.
After a meeting of governance, the Board has established a the Company or from external professional the Non-Executive Directors, in absence of number of Committees to assist it in the sources.
All Directors have access to the the Chairman, and having also canvassed way that it deals with matters that are advice and services of the Company the opinions of the Executive Directors, the reserved for its consideration.
The Secretary who is responsible for ensuring Senior Independent Director conducted Chairman and membership of each that Board procedures and applicable rules the appraisal of the Chairman.
Committee are set out on page 17. and regulations are observed.
For the year under review, the conclusion of Each Committee has detailed terms of Additionally, the Company Secretary the appraisal exercise was that each Nonreference clearly setting out its remit and provides regular reports to the Board to Executive Director, Executive Director and authority.
In accordance with the ensure that it remains up to date on the the Chairman continued to demonstrate a Combined Code, the terms of reference of latest regulatory, legal and governance continued commitment and effective the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and developments relevant to the Company and contribution to their position.
The terms of Risk Committees are available on the its officers.
Where necessary, the Directors appointment of each Non-Executive Companys website and on request in are able to take independent professional Director have been renewed for a further writing from the Company Secretary.
advice at the Companys expense.
year with effect from 1 January 2007, In addition to the meetings of the Board INDEMNITIES subject to re-election where appropriate at and the Committees which took place The Companys Articles of Association the Annual General Meeting to be held in throughout the year, the Chairman also provide an indemnity to Directors against April 2007. held meetings with Non-Executive Directors certain liabilities incurred as a result of In addition to the appraisal of the in absence of the Executive Directors and their office.
The indemnities extend to individual Directors, an evaluation of the the Non-Executive Directors met in absence defending any proceedings in which Board and its Committees was also of the Chairman and the Executives.
judgement is given in the Directors favour, completed.
This evaluation process The following paragraphs set out details of or in which they are acquitted or in any consisted of a lengthy questionnaire that the Committees and the particular work proceedings in which relief is granted by a canvassed the Directors views on a wide that they undertake.
court from liability for negligence, default, range of matters including, the breach of duty or breach of trust in effectiveness of the Board, its Committees AUDIT COMMITTEE relation to the affairs of the Company.
The Directors were also The Audit Committee comprises six addition, the Company arranges Directors asked to comment on the Board meeting independent Non-Executive Directors and and Officers Insurance on behalf of its process, the composition of the Board, and met five times during 2006.
During 2006, 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued membership of the Committee increased to the Audit Committee and its Chairman.
The During 2006, the Committee considered six, following the appointment of Rosemary Executive Directors are not members of the the succession to the position of Group Radcliffe to the Committee.
Miss Radcliffe Audit Committee but attend meetings by Finance Director.
Whitehead Mann was attended one meeting of the Committee invitation of the Audit Committee, as retained to undertake a search to identify before resigning from it in light of concerns necessary, to facilitate its business.
potential candidates for the role and in raised by  LLP addition to the external candidates that The Audit Committee reviews the internal about the effect that her membership of were identified by Whitehead Mann, control system on behalf of the Board and the Committee may have on their Mr Dave Jones, an internal candidate, was is also responsible for reviewing the independence as Reporting Accountants also considered.
Following a series of effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
under SEC rules in the USA.
Miss Radcliffe interviews with all of the candidates, the At each meeting the Committee receives is a former  Nominations Committee recommended to reports of reviews conducted throughout partner.
Following further detailed the Board that Mr Jones be appointed as the Company by the Internal Audit and, consideration of this matter Miss Radcliffe successor to Mr Bennett as Group Finance periodically, Compliance functions.
has been reappointed to the Committee on Director.
After consideration by the Board, The Combined Code requires the Board to 15 February 2007. the recommendation was approved.
be satisfied that at least one member of Mr Jones became Group Finance Director The Committee considers and, where the Audit Committee has recent and on 1 February 2007. appropriate, advises the Board on all relevant financial experience.
The Board is matters relating to regulatory, prudential satisfied in this regard and, in addition, in REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and accounting requirements that may the opinion of the Board the qualifications The Remuneration Committee comprises six affect the Group.
It reports to the Board of each of the Audit Committee members independent Non-Executive Directors and on both financial and non-financial controls gives the Audit Committee the breadth met twice in 2006.
It is responsible for and monitors the integrity of the financial of financial experience to discharge considering and advising the Board on the statements of the Company and any formal its responsibilities.
remuneration policy for Executive Directors announcements relating to the Companys and the Chairman, and for determining financial performance.
An important aspect CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE their remuneration packages.
In discharging of its role is to ensure that an objective The principal function of the Chairmans its responsibilities the Remuneration and professional relationship is maintained Committee is to review the Companys Committee takes professional advice from with the external auditors.
strategy and to consider any major within and outside the Company.
It is the operational issues or proposals for The Audit Committee has responsibility for Boards responsibility to determine the significant new initiatives that may arise.
recommending the appointment, reremuneration policy for Non-Executive The Committee only meets as a formal appointment and removal of the external Directors within the limits set in the Committee in exceptional circumstances auditors.
In February 2006, the Audit Articles of Association.
The Remuneration and its activities are reported to the Board.
Committee reviewed the effectiveness of Committee also determines the level of The Committee comprises the Chairman, the external auditors and made a remuneration for the Companys the Executive Directors and the recommendation that they be re-appointed Management Board Directors comprising Company Secretary.
The Board management at the level immediately below accepted this recommendation and an the Board.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE appropriate resolution was passed at the During 2006, with the assistance of New The Nominations Committee comprises the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC, Chairman, the Senior Independent Director The Audit Committee reviews the scope the Remuneration Committee approved a and one other independent Non-Executive and results of the annual external audit, its revised structure of remuneration for Directors.
The Committee met three times cost effectiveness, and the independence Executive Directors, shareholder approval during 2006.
It monitors and reviews the and objectivity of the external auditors.
It for which will be sought at the Annual membership of, and succession to, the also reviews the nature and extent of any General Meeting in April 2007.
In Board of Directors and the Committee non-audit services provided by the external accordance with the requirements of the makes recommendations to the Board in auditors.
The external auditors may attend Directors Remuneration Report this regard.
One of its functions is to all meetings of the Audit Committee and Regulations 2002 further information may identify potential Executive and Nonthey have direct access to the Committee be found in the Directors Remuneration Executive Directors taking into account and its Chairman at all times.
NBSC has no other connection the requirement for the members of the with the Company.
The Director Audit and Compliance Board to have an appropriate range of provides further assurance that the skills and experience to understand the RISK COMMITTEE significant risks identified by the business activities of Northern Rock and its The Risk Committee comprises three are properly managed.
The Director Audit subsidiary undertakings.
independent Non-Executive Directors and and Compliance also has direct access to 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued the Executive Directors.
Mr Jones joined key risk exposures is in accordance with planning cycles, and the Board reviews the the Committee with effect from 1 February statutory requirements and financial results monthly against budgets, forecasts and prior year actual results, together with 2007.
The Risk Committee met four times reporting standards.
The main role of the Risk other key business measures.
INTERNAL CONTROL Committee is to review, on behalf of the The Chief Executive reports to the Board Board, the key risks inherent in the The Board of Directors is responsible for the on behalf of the Executive Committee on Groups system of internal control and for business, the system of control necessary significant changes in the business and the annually reviewing its effectiveness.
The to manage such risks, and to present its external environment which affect system of internal control is designed to findings to the Board.
The Board also receives manage risk rather than eliminate it and in This responsibility requires the Risk monthly financial information, which this regard, the Board considers that Committee to keep under review the includes key performance and risk Northern Rock is a well-controlled, risk-averse indicators.
Where areas for improvement in effectiveness of the Groups system of internal business that continues to adopt a prudent controls, which includes financial, operational, the system are identified, the Board stance in the management of risk.
The Board compliance and risk management controls considers the recommendations made by has reviewed the effectiveness of the system and to foster a culture that emphasises and the Executive Committee, the Risk of internal control and is satisfied that there Committee and the Audit Committee.
demonstrates the benefits of a risk-based is a sound system of internal control that approach to internal control and management A detailed description of the Groups safeguards shareholders investments and the of the Group.
The Risk Committee fulfils this approach to financial risk management and Companys assets.
Where necessary, the remit by reinforcing managements control the related use of derivatives is set out in Board confirms that action has been taken or consciousness and making appropriate the Operating and Business Review and is being taken to remedy any significant recommendations to the Board on all note 37 to the accounts.
Material risk failings or weaknesses identified from its significant matters relating to the Groups risk exposures are subject to Board policy review of the effectiveness of the internal strategy and policies.
statements that set out the exposure limits control system.
Other responsibilities of the Risk Committee of the risks and the hedges and control In accordance with the guidance set out in include keeping under review the effectiveness techniques to be utilised.
the Turnbull Guidance, the Company has of the Groups risk management infrastructure.
In addition, regular reporting of all risk an ongoing process for identifying, This involves an assessment of risk exposures is monitored throughout the evaluating and managing the significant management procedures for the Company by the Operational Risk Group risks faced by it.
This process was in place identification, measurement and control of whose membership is drawn from each of for the period 1 January 2006 to 31 key risk exposures in accordance with the Companys departments within which December 2006 and remained in place on changes in the operating environment.
It is operational risk may arise.
This Group the date that the 2006 Annual Report and also primarily responsible for considering any reports to the Management Board Asset Accounts was approved by the Board.
As major findings of the Financial Services and Liability Committee on a monthly basis part of the Companys continuing Authority and managements response to any and subsequently to each meeting of the evaluation of Internal Control, the Board risk management review undertaken by Risk Committee.
has reviewed and where necessary Internal Audit or the External Auditors.
updated the process for identifying and The Companys Internal Audit function To assist the Board in discharging its evaluating significant risks affecting the provides a degree of assurance as to the responsibilities for the setting of Risk business and the policies and procedures operation and validity of the system of policy, the Risk Committee periodically by which these risks are managed but it internal control and planned corrective reviews the Groups credit risk, interest rate should be noted that the system can only actions are independently monitored for risk, liquidity risk and operational risk provide reasonable not absolute assurance timely completion.
exposures in relation to the Boards risk against material misstatement or loss.
The Company has in place a formal appetite and the Groups capital adequacy.
The Company is committed to developing procedure by which staff can, in As part of the implementation of the and maintaining a control-conscious confidence, raise concerns about possible International Convergence of Capital culture in all areas.
This is achieved through improprieties in financial and other matters Measurement and Capital Standards: a well-defined organisational structure with commonly referred to as whistleblowing Revised Framework commonly known as clear reporting lines and a commitment to procedures.
Details of these arrangements Basle II the Committee has responsibility recruiting and training staff governed by are set out in the Companys Standards of for monitoring the performance of the appropriate codes of conduct.
The Companys Companys Basle credit rating systems and the Group maintains procedure manuals whistleblowing policy is intended to reviewing reports prepared by the that detail the procedures to control encourage and enable staff to raise serious Companys Basle designated committees.
physical and logical access, segregation of concerns.
Employees reporting concerns in The Risk Committee also ensures that the duties and credit, expenditure and other this way are afforded certain rights through public disclosure of information regarding authorisation limits.
There are welllegislation Public Interest Disclosure Act the Groups risk management policies and established budgetary and strategic 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued 1998 and have access to a confidential Executive or Group Finance Director has dissemination of financial statements may whistleblowing telephone line.
failed to resolve or for which such contact differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Audit Committee reviews this COMMITTEES procedure on an annual basis and remains To ensure that opportunities are offered to Membership of the Board's Committees is satisfied that it incorporates arrangements major shareholders to meet with members set out below.
for the proportionate and independent of the Board, a number of more informal investigation of matters raised and for meetings are also held throughout the year AUDIT COMMITTEE appropriate follow up action.
where investor feedback on strategy and Sir Derek Wanless Chairman governance is encouraged.
N A H Fenwick COMMUNICATIONS Sir Ian Gibson GOING CONCERN A Summary Annual Report is issued to all N Pease shareholders and a copy of the Annual The Directors are satisfied that the Group M J Queen Report and Accounts and The Northern has adequate resources to continue in R A Radcliffe Rock Foundations report is available by business for the foreseeable future.
For this CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE reason, they continue to adopt the going written request to the Company Secretary Dr M W Ridley or from the Northern Rock website: concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Company D F Baker STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS communicates regularly with its R F Bennett resigned from Committee RESPONSIBILITIES shareholders who are given the opportunity 31 January 2007 The Companies Act 1985 requires the to raise matters for discussion at the Annual K M Currie Directors to prepare financial statements for General Meeting.
The Company also deals D A Jones appointed to Committee each financial year that give a true and fair with a number of written enquiries from 1 February 2007 view of the state of affairs of the Company shareholders throughout the year.
A M Kuipers and Group as at the end of the year and of The Company regards communication with C Taylor the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
institutional shareholders as important and The Directors consider that in preparing the NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE its Investor Relations department maintains financial statements on pages 58 to 102 Dr M W Ridley a high level of contact throughout the year appropriate accounting policies, consistently Sir Ian Gibson with institutional shareholders.
On Sir Derek Wanless applied and supported by reasonable and 1 November 2006, the Company held its prudent judgements and estimates, have second biennial Corporate Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE been used and that applicable accounting presentation for investors, invitations to N Pease Chairman standards have been followed.
which were sent to the Companys top 50 N A H Fenwick investors.
The presentation was attended by The Directors are responsible for ensuring Sir Ian Gibson the Chairman, Senior Independent Director that the Company and Group keeps M J Queen and the Chief Executive and investors were accounting records that disclose with R A Radcliffe afforded the opportunity to raise any issues reasonable accuracy at any time the Company Sir Derek Wanless that they had on the Companys governance and Groups financial position and that enable Sir George Russell retired 25 April 2006 arrangements.
It is presently the Companys them to ensure that the financial statements RISK COMMITTEE intention to repeat this exercise in 2008. comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They Sir Derek Wanless Chairman are also responsible for safeguarding the The Company Secretary also reports Sir Ian Gibson regularly to the Board on feedback received assets of the Company and Group and hence R A Radcliffe for taking reasonable steps to prevent and from shareholders.
Additionally, the Chief Sir George Russell retired 25 April 2006 detect fraud and other irregularities.
Executive, Group Finance Director and other A J Applegarth Executive Directors have extensive ongoing The maintenance and integrity of the D F Baker contact with shareholders and feedback Northern Rock plc website is the R F Bennett resigned from Committee arising from this is also reported to the responsibility of the Directors: the work 31 January 2007 Board.
Coupled with presentations from carried out by the auditors does not involve K M Currie analysts and brokers throughout the year, consideration of these matters and, D A Jones appointed to Committee these arrangements ensure that all Directors, accordingly, the auditors accept no 1 February 2007 both Executive and Non-Executive, remain up responsibility for any changes that may have A M Kuipers to date on the views of major shareholders.
occurred to the financial statements since Non-Executive Director they were initially presented on the website.
As Senior Independent Director, Sir Ian Executive Director Gibson is available to shareholders if they Legislation in the United Kingdom Company Secretary have concerns which contact through the governing the preparation and normal channels of Chairman, Chief 17 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY to the remuneration of all Executive Performance-related remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report is Directors.
Neither was present when should seek to align the interests of presented to shareholders by the Board.
It their own remuneration was under Executive Directors with those of the complies with the Directors Remuneration consideration: shareholders through the imposition of Report Regulations 2002 the stretching corporate performance Internal support was provided to the Regulations and also sets out how the targets and the satisfaction of most Committee by the Company Secretary: principles of the Combined Code relating short and longer term incentives in the to Executive Director remuneration are New Bridge Street Consultants LLP form of shares: and applied by the Company.
NBSC advised the Committee on a To motivate for future achievement, a range of issues including the A resolution will be put to Shareholders at significant proportion of remuneration benchmarking of Executive Directors the Annual General Meeting on 24 April should be based on operational and salaries and the Chairmans fee.
In 2007 inviting them to consider and financial performance both in the short addition to providing this advice they approve this Report.
and long term together with the advised the Board on the benchmarking individual contribution made by the of Non-Executive Directors fees and THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Executive Directors.
they also provided advice to the The Remuneration Committee the Committee on the proposed Committee consists entirely of EXISTING REMUNERATION PACKAGE amendments to the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors and In 2006 the Executive Directors executive remuneration structure comprises Ms N Pease Chairman, remuneration package comprised: outlined below : Mr N A H Fenwick, Sir Ian Gibson, Basic salary, pension benefits and other Mr M J Queen, Miss R A Radcliffe and Watson Wyatt Limited are the benefits in kind: Sir Derek Wanless.
consulting actuaries to the Company who advised on various pension issues: An annual cash bonus worth up to The Committee operates within agreed 100% of salary: terms of reference which are available to Inbucon Administration Ltd were shareholders on the Companys website responsible for preparing Total A Deferred Share Scheme with and on request from the Company Shareholder Return TSR awards of shares equal in value to the Secretary.
The Committee has responsibility calculations for the purposes of the cash bonus i. e. up to 100% of salary for making recommendations to the Board Companys Long Term Incentive Plan subject to the Company achieving real on the Companys general policy relating to and this Remuneration Report.
Inbucon Earnings Per Share EPS growth of executive remuneration.
It also determines Administration Ltd did not provide 3% p. a. over a three year period: on behalf of the Board, specific other advice or services to the A Bonus Matching Plan where remuneration packages for the Chairman, Company: and Executives could invest their cash the Executive Directors and the Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer advised bonus in shares and receive an award of Management Board Directors, being the the Company on various share plan Matching Shares of an equivalent value level of management immediately below matters and compliance with the subject to the Company achieving real the Board.
They are the Companys EPS growth of 3% p. a. over a three The Committee meets regularly and takes main legal advisors.
year period: advice from both inside and outside the A Long-Term Incentive Plan Old LTIP Company on a range of matters, including REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE with conditional awards of shares the scale and composition of the total DIRECTORS worth up to 100% of salary subject to remuneration package payable in comparable The Board has adopted, on the a TSR performance condition relative financial institutions to people with similar recommendation of the Committee, a to other FTSE 100 companies.
remuneration policy to achieve the objectives set out below: The following persons and advisors INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF EXISTING provided advice or services that materially The Committee believes that the ARRANGEMENTS assisted the Committee in its consideration continuing improvement in the To assess whether these existing of Directors remuneration matters during performance of the Company depends remuneration arrangements were consistent the year: on individual contributions made by with the remuneration policy, the the Executive Directors.
For this reason, Committee and its advisers undertook a The Committee consulted the Chief the remuneration policy is designed to review.
The outcome of the review Executive on matters relating to the provide transparent, competitive indicated, in particular, that: remuneration of the other Executive packages to motivate, reward and retain Directors who report to him.
The Executive Directors of high quality: Chairman was also consulted in relation 18 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued up to the value of their after tax cash COMPLIANCE Having two schemes the Deferred bonus and will offer a potential award The Company has complied with the Share Scheme and Bonus Matching of Matching Shares at a 2:1 ratio i. e. provisions of the Combined Code relating Plan with the same performance target higher than the current Plan, albeit to Directors remuneration throughout both leveraged off the annual bonus with full vesting occurring only if a the year.
was unnecessarily complex and significantly more challenging upper rewarded the same performance twice: target of real EPS growth of 15% p. a. is BASIC SALARY An EPS target requiring real growth of achieved compared to real growth of The Committees objective is that Executive 3% p. a. for full vesting did not provide 3% p. a. currently : Directors basic salaries should be paid at sufficient stretch to really incentivise an appropriately competitive level, taking Shareholder approval will also be and reward Executives for continued account of both personal performance and sought for a new Long-Term Incentive exceptional performance.
Additionally, of salaries within a comparator group of Plan New LTIP to replace the Old it was recognised that the target was financial institutions.
The Committee LTIP, the ten year life of which expires in unlikely to be viewed as adequately considers that exceptional performance, 2008.
Awards under the New LTIP will challenging by shareholders given the whether corporate or individual, should be be made from 2007.
The New LTIP will growth prospects of the Company: rewarded through bonus and incentive largely mirror the Old LTIP although it schemes rather than basic salary.
The Old LTIP was generally well will be updated to reflect best practice understood by Executives: where required and it will offer Salaries are reviewed annually for each additional flexibility for the Committee Executive Director.
During 2006, the The use of a mixture of TSR and EPS to make more competitive awards in Committee codified its existing policy for performance targets to determine the future, if this is felt to be appropriate: NBSC to use when providing it with a vesting of long-term incentive awards relative market benchmark for the Executive was felt to provide an appropriate A formal share ownership guideline will Directors.
The aim of this codification is to balance so as to ensure Executives were be introduced for Executive Directors provide the Committee with consistent focussed on both the organic growth of requiring them to retain at least half of benchmarks year on year, against which it the Company and had a broader any vested share awards as shares provides guidance for the Committee to external perspective through relative after paying any tax due on the set salaries.
stock market performance: and shares until they have a Company shareholding worth at least 100% of The relevant benchmark provided for the Although all of the current Executive their salary.
Chief Executive Officer is the average of Directors have considerable i the lower quartile of the other 8 largest shareholdings, the absence of a formal At the 2007 AGM, shareholders will be UK listed banks the use of the lower share ownership guideline for senior invited to approve the new Share Matching quartile reflecting the fact that the executives was noted as being out of Plan and New LTIP full details of which are Company is smaller in size and operates in step with current best practice.
set out in the shareholders circular for the less diverse markets than most of the other AGM.
In the event that either scheme PROPOSED CHANGES FOLLOWING REVIEW banks and ii the median of a pan-sectoral does not receive shareholder approval, the In light of the findings of the review, the group of 24 FTSE 100 companies based relevant existing plan that is being replaced Committee has proposed the following around the market capitalisation of the Bonus Matching Plan or Old LTIP would alterations to the remuneration structure in Company as at the date of the review.
be used instead to grant awards in 2007. order to make the remuneration Benchmarks for the other Executive arrangements more appropriate for the The remuneration structure will be kept Directors are set as percentages of the Companys current requirements: under regular review by the Committee to CEOs salary.
The Committee is aware of ensure that it remains appropriate in light the risks of an upward ratchet from overly To simplify the incentive arrangements, of any future changes in the Companys relying on market data so uses it primarily the Deferred Share Scheme will cease business environment or general as a guide but also takes account of from the 2007 Financial Year onwards.
Any future changes individual circumstances and performance In its place, the Short Term Bonus in remuneration policy and or structure when determining where to set salaries Scheme potential will be increased from will be described in future Directors relative to these benchmarks.
2007 to 200% of salary with half of Remuneration Reports and such reports any bonus earned compulsorily In determining salary adjustments for will continue to be subject to deferred in shares for three years: 2007, the Committee therefore considered shareholder approval.
a number of factors including: a higher Shareholder approval will be sought for Details of each of the proposed elements market benchmark than 2006 reflecting a new Share Matching Plan to replace of the Executive Directors remuneration both general salary inflation and the the current Bonus Matching Plan for packages for 2007 are described in more enhanced size of the Company, the high awards from 2007.
This plan will allow detail below.
performing nature of the management team executives to voluntarily invest in shares 19 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued which has created significant shareholder by way of bonus for 20% increase in profits with a sliding scale between these points.
The value and, in the cases of Mr Currie and Committee is satisfied that this very robust and transparent profit-based target ensures that Mr Kuipers, whose salaries were there is a strong alignment to genuine underlying financial performance.
deliberately set at below market levels when Payment of one-third of the bonus will be subject to the Committees view of the they were initially appointed to the Board participants personal performance, and the remaining two-thirds relates to the performance in 2005, the need to reflect their of the business.
The bonus payable is reduced by the value of shares appropriated under development as Board directors.
the all-employee H M Revenue & Customs Share Incentive Plan for the year, to the extent Revised salaries, calculated in accordance needed to ensure that the relevant bonus cap is not exceeded.
with the above, took effect from 1 January Half of any bonus will be payable in cash with half compulsorily deferred into Company 2007 as follows with the exception of shares for three years and potentially forfeitable over that period if the executive leaves the Mr Jones, whose revised salary took effect Group.
from 1 February 2007 being the date of his appointment as Group Finance Director.
BONUS MATCHING PLAN A J Applegarth Each year, the Executive Directors and selected other senior executives are encouraged to 760,000 2006 690,000 identify with the interests of shareholders by investing some of their own funds in Northern Rock shares up to the value of their after tax cash bonus earned in respect of the prior D F Baker years performance.
The shares invested will be eligible for additional Matching Shares at 530,000 2006 455,000 the end of a three-year performance period.
K M Currie Assuming shareholder approval is obtained at the AGM, these Matching Shares will be 415,000 2006 365,000 generally awarded in 2007 under the new Share Matching Plan.
Executives would receive a D A Jones conditional award of Matching Shares at a 2:1 ratio to the gross value of the invested 415,000 shares.
The one intended exception to this policy is Mr Bennett, who is retiring during 2007.
In his case, the Committee felt that it was inappropriate that he should participate in A M Kuipers the new scheme which has greater potential upside tied to future performance in 415,000 2006 365,000 circumstances where he would not be able to influence the delivery of the Companys During 2006 the Companys 15 Management performance during the three year vesting period.
Consequently, it was agreed by the Board Directors were paid salaries ranging Committee that Mr Bennett should be allowed to participate only in the existing Bonus from 90,000 to 250,000.
Matching Plan as operated in 2005 and 2006 details of which are set out on page 25.
Vesting of the initial award of Matching Shares under the Share Matching Plan will normally SHORT TERM BONUS SCHEME occur provided that: As outlined above, the Company will operate a simplified short term annual The Executive is still employed at the end of the three year vesting period: bonus scheme in 2007 for the Executive The invested shares are still held by the Executive at the end of the vesting period: and Directors and certain senior executives all of whom participate at the discretion of To the extent that the EPS performance target set out below has been satisfied.
The overall reward EPS performance will be measured over a single three-year performance period from a base potential available under this scheme point of EPS in the Financial Year preceding the year in which an award is granted.
EPS has 200% of salary is unchanged from the been selected by the Committee as an appropriate performance measure because it is potential available in 2006 under the considered to be a measure that is most likely to encourage Executive participation in the combination of the existing Short Term plan and also because it only rewards Executives in the event of the achievement of Bonus Scheme 100% of salary and the ambitious growth targets.
Vesting will be as follows: Deferred Share Scheme 100% of salary.
Average annual growth in EPS of Company Matching The bonus scheme rewards year-on-year over Performance Period Ratio increases in the Groups underlying profit Less than RPI 5% p. a.
2:1 match there is an increase in underlying profit Between RPI 5% p. a. and RPI 15% p. a.
Pro rata on straight-line basis between attributable to shareholders will 0.5:1 and 2:1 match participants be eligible for a short term bonus.
Every 1% increase generates a When Matching Shares vest, participants will receive a payment usually in shares equal to the potential bonus payment equal to 10% of dividends which would have been paid on such vested shares during the performance period.
salary with a maximum of 200% of salary 20 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN PENSION BENEFITS All Executive Directors and certain other senior executives receive conditional awards of The following section describes the shares under a long term incentive plan.
pension arrangements currently in force for the Executive Directors.
These Under the New LTIP, the policy for 2007 and for the foreseeable future will be for awards arrangements were affected by changes to over Northern Rock shares to be granted each year to executives worth 100% of basic the tax treatment of the current UK salary.
The Committee will review grant levels each year, taking account of the performance pension regime contained in the Finance conditions, the value of the rest of the package and the overall positioning against the Act 2004 which was effective from 6 April market.
Vesting of the award of shares will normally occur provided that: In January 2007, all Executive Directors The Executive is still employed at the end of the vesting period: and opted for primary and enhanced protection under the A-Day regulations.
Nevertheless, To the extent that the performance targets set out below which are the same as for the all the current Executive Directors are Old LTIP have been satisfied: continuing to accrue benefits in the Final No awards will vest unless the Companys EPS has grown by an average of at least Salary section of the Northern Rock 3% p. a. in excess of RPI over a single three year performance period: Pension Scheme, a contributory pension scheme which provides a pension of up to If this EPS underpin condition is satisfied, the extent to which awards vest will be two-thirds of pensionable salary on determined by the Companys TSR compared to that of the other members of the retirement, dependent upon service, with FTSE 100 at the start of the TSR performance period: benefits accruing at the rate of 1 60th for TSR will be measured over a single three-year performance period with the calculation each year of pensionable service.
On death performed by independent advisers and will be calculated by comparing average in service the scheme also provides for a performance over three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
dependants pension and a lump sum of Vesting will be based on an equivalent basis to the Old LTIP, namely: four times basic salary.
This pension and life assurance is provided from the scheme TSR Ranking of Company Vesting to the extent permitted by legislation and over Performance Period Percentage otherwise from separate arrangements.
Below Median 0% Median 25% The normal retirement age under the Final Upper Quartile 100% Salary section of the pension scheme is 60.
Between Median and Upper Quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100% For death before retirement whilst in The Committee considers that the use of TSR is appropriate as it complements the use of service, a capital sum equal to four times internal financial measures elsewhere in the incentive structure and ensures that Executives the annual rate of basic earnings, excluding retain a broader external perspective as measured by the relative returns to an investor in Directors fees, is payable, plus for the Company compared to other FTSE 100 companies.
members who joined before 1 January When Performance Shares vest, participants will receive a payment usually in shares equal to 1999 a return of members contributions.
the dividends which would have been paid on such vested shares during the performance In addition, a pension of 50% of the period.
Directors accrued pension, based on pensionable earnings at death and ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES prospective service to age 60, is payable to Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes a surviving spouse.
On death before on the same terms as other employees.
These schemes comprise: retirement after leaving the scheme, a benefit of 50% of the members deferred i The Sharesave Scheme, a savings-related share option scheme available to all pension, revalued to the date of death, is employees: payable to a surviving spouse providing the ii The Employee Share Option Scheme, an H M Revenue & Customs approved share couple were married or in a registered civil option scheme under which options have been granted to substantially all employees partnership before the date of leaving.
although Executive Directors have elected not to participate : and For death in retirement, a spouses pension iii The Share Incentive Plan SIP, under which the maximum value of free shares awarded of 50% of the members pre-commutation to employees cannot exceed 3,000 per year.
The value of share awards under this pension, increased in line with pension scheme is dependent on the Groups profits.
increases awarded up to the date of death, is payable, provided the couple were married or in a registered civil partnership before the date of retirement, together 21 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued with the remaining balance if applicable within regulatory limits, to which the scheme in respect of a transfer payment of 5 years of the members pension Company does not contribute.
that he brought into the scheme.
payments from the date of retirement, at For any Executive Director, now or in the the rate prevailing at the date of death.
BENEFITS IN KIND future, who elects to opt out of the Benefits payable to registered civil partners Each Executive Director is provided with pension scheme, the Company has agreed are in respect of pensionable service after company car and medical insurance to pay a cash supplement in respect of the 5 December 2005 only.
The Executive Directors had, as loss of future pension accrual, on a cost circumstances a childrens allowance is employees of Northern Rock Building neutral basis to the Company.
The payable, usually up to the age of 18 or up Society or in the case of Mr Currie, Company will reimburse reasonable to the age of 21 if they are in full-time Mr Kuipers and Mr Jones as employees of professional fees for advice to Executive education.
Subject to the Companys and the Company prior to their appointment as Directors concerning the changes to the Trustees approval, early retirement may be Directors, entitlement to participate in a pension regime.
granted from the age of 50 age 55 from concessionary mortgage scheme at the 6 April 2010 subject to an actuarial As Mr Bennett and Mr Jones joined the discretion of the Board.
No further new reduction, or at any age due to ill-health.
Companys Pension Scheme after the cap loans may be made under the scheme on Pensionable Earnings and Final following conversion to plc status, but The pension is calculated at the date of Pensionable Earnings was introduced by existing loans are not affected.
retirement based on final pensionable the Finance Act 1989, the Company service and final pensionable earnings at provides them with arrangements to POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS the date of retirement.
Where applicable, provide the difference between benefits SERVICE CONTRACTS the pension will be actuarially reduced to based upon actual Final Pensionable It is the policy of the Company that take account of early payment.
The Earnings and the scheme specific cap.
Executive Directors service contracts can Company has agreed that if Mr Applegarth These benefits provided by the Company be terminated by 12 months notice given or Mr Baker having attained age 55 retire outside of the Pension Scheme, attract the at any time except when in the final year with the consent of the Company, they will same terms as those provided by the of their service contract, whereupon the receive immediate payment of their accrued Scheme, save for the option to take a tax notice would end on the day of their pension without the application of an free lump sum at retirement.
Each Executive Director can actuarial reduction.
Where this occurs, the arrangement does not affect the level of terminate his employment by giving Northern Rock Pension Scheme will apply contribution made to the scheme by 6 months notice.
All of the Executive its standard actuarial reduction factors for Mr Bennett and Mr Jones, whose Directors contracts may be terminated early retirement.
The remainder of the contributions are made by reference to full immediately by Northern Rock either with pension will be paid by the Company on pensionable earnings.
for Mr Baker and Mr Bennett the an unfunded basis.
payment of liquidated damages equal to The pension benefits that are provided to Post retirement increases to pensions 12 months salary and the value of annual Mr Jones, which accrue at the rate of arising from membership of the final salary bonus paid in respect of the preceding 1 60th of pensionable salary for each year section of the scheme are guaranteed each financial year and the annual cost to the of service and pro rata for each part year year at the rate of 3% per annum Company of providing contractual pension are split between the Northern Rock compound in respect of pensionable and other benefits or for Mr Applegarth, Pension Scheme and an unfunded service accrued up to 5 April 2006, Mr Currie, Mr Kuipers and Mr Jones a arrangement.
The pension scheme provides subject to any guaranteed minimum payment in lieu of notice equal to such benefits up to an earnings cap, currently pension.
The 3% minimum increase does amount.
Payments in lieu of notice may be 108,600 for 2006 07 2005 06 not apply in respect of pensionable service made in phased payments at the 105,600 per annum, whilst the accrued from 6 April 2006.
unapproved arrangement provides benefits benefits accrued after 5 April 1997 are on earnings in excess of the cap.
Mr Jones Mr Applegarth, Mr Baker and Mr Bennett guaranteed to increase in line with inflation, contributes 5% of his basic salary to the would, in the event of a change of control to a maximum of 5% per annum.
pension scheme, including those earnings of Northern Rock, be entitled to terminate In addition to the normal scheme increases, in excess of the earnings cap.
If, with the employment at one months notice within and subject to the defined benefit scheme agreement of the Company, Mr Jones were six months of the change of control and fund having adequate resources, the to commute some of his unapproved receive a liquidated damages payment Trustees, with Company consent, may pension for a lump sum at retirement, the calculated on the same basis.
The terms award further discretionary increases each Company would not re-imburse Mr Jones of reference of the Committee make it April.
Members of the scheme have the for any taxes that are due on any such clear that the Committee seeks, in option to pay additional voluntary payment.
Mr Jones has also been awarded a appropriate circumstances, to mitigate the contributions to secure additional benefits pensionable service credit in the pension 22 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued amount of termination payments made to PERFORMANCE GRAPH Executive Directors.
The performance graphs set out below illustrates the Groups TSR performance over the preceding five years, 2002 to 2006, compared with that of the FTSE 100 Index of which Service contract dates for the Executive Northern Rock has been a constituent since September 2001 and that of the FTSE 350 Directors are as follows: Index of which Northern Rock was a constituent prior to September 2001.
A J Applegarth 1 March 2001 The FTSE 350 Index has been included because members of this index comprise the D F Baker 26 August 1997, amended comparator group for long term incentive plan purposes for 2004 and prior.
The by supplemental agreements performance graphs have been prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
dated 12 March 1998 and FTSE 100 1 July 1999 TSR % 40 R F Bennett 26 August 1997, amended 30 by supplemental agreement 20 dated 12 March 1998 10 D A Jones 1 February 2007 0 K M Currie 5 January 2005 -10 -20 A M Kuipers 5 January 2005 -30 The provisions of this section and 2002 % 2003 % 2004 % 2005 % 2006 % Northern Rock 8 12 13 25 29 Executive Directors service contracts -22 18 11 21 14 FTSE 100 generally are subject to Age Discrimination FTSE 350 Legislation where applicable.
TSR % 40 POLICY ON EXTERNAL NON-EXECUTIVE 30 DIRECTORSHIPS HELD BY EXECUTIVE 20 DIRECTORS 10 Executive Directors are permitted to hold 0 one external non-executive directorship -10 unrelated to the Companys business, -20 provided that the time commitment is not material.
Executive Directors are permitted -30 2002 % 2003 % 2004 % 2005 % 2006 % to retain any fees arising from such a nonNorthern Rock 8 12 13 25 29 executive directorship.
On this basis, FTSE 350 -23 20 13 22 17 Mr Bennett is a Non-Executive Director of REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Greggs plc, and Mr Bennett was entitled to The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee and that of the other fees of 34,000 from that company in Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole, on the basis of external respect of 2006.
Mr Applegarth, is a Nonindependent advice.
Executive Director of Persimmon Homes plc Revised fees for 2007 for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were determined after and was entitled to fees of 49,916 in consideration of an extensive report by NBSC which, in particular, assessed fees paid for respect of 2006. similar roles at banks in the eight other largest UK listed Banks and at the 24 companies grouped around the Companys position in the FTSE 100 at the date of the review and also took into account the required time commitment from the Companys Non-Executive Directors relative to FTSE 100 norms.
The resultant revised fee structure is as follows: Chairman 315,000 2006 300,000 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 72,000 2006 67,000 Non-Executive Directors Basic Fee 45,000 2006 44,000 Additional Fee for Membership of a Board Committee 5,000 2006 5,000 Additional Fee for Chairman of a Board Committee 16,000 2006 16,000 The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve the Company under letters of appointment, which are terminable by the Company at any time without liability for compensation: they do not have service contracts.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are entitled to fees from the Company and it is the Companys policy that they do not participate in bonus, incentive or pension schemes.
23 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT The information set out below in the remainder of the Directors Remuneration Report has been subject to audit as required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
DIRECTORS INDIVIDUAL REMUNERATION Details of Directors individual remuneration is set out below: Non-Executive Directors 2006 2005 000 000 Dr M W Ridley Chairman 300 218 N A H Fenwick 54 43 Sir Ian Gibson 80 49 N Pease 65 53 M J Queen appointed 5 January 2005 54 43 R A Radcliffe appointed 1 March 2005 56 37 Sir George Russell retired 25 April 2006 26 60 Sir Derek Wanless 86 69 721 572 Sir George Russell is a former member of the Non-Executive Directors section of the Northern Rock Pension Scheme, which ceased to accrue benefits after 30 June 1997.
His deferred pension came into payment on 25 October 2005 at a rate of 12,229 p. a. and was increased to 12,371 p. a. on 1 April 2006, in line with the scheme rules.
Executive Directors Chief Executive Deputy Chief Group Finance Executive Executive Total Executive Director Director Director A J Applegarth D F Baker R F Bennett K M Currie A M Kuipers 000 000 000 000 000 000 2006 Salaries and fees 690 455 455 365 365 2,330 Bonus 660 435 435 349 349 2,228 Total remuneration 1,350 890 890 714 714 4,558 Non cash benefits 14 10 19 11 11 65 Total emoluments 1,364 900 909 725 725 4,623 2005 Salaries and fees 625 390 390 270 270 1,945 Bonus 529 330 330 229 229 1,647 Total remuneration 1,154 720 720 499 499 3,592 Non cash benefits 14 10 18 11 11 64 Total emoluments 1,168 730 738 510 510 3,656 The cash bonus scheme rewards year-on-year increases in the Groups underlying profit attributable to shareholders.
In 2006, every 1% increase in profit before taxation generated a cash bonus payment equal to 5% of salary with a maximum of 100% of salary by way of bonus for 20% increase in profits.
The bonus earned in respect of 2006 was 95.6% of salary for each of the Directors.
There were no payments by the Company during the financial year for compensation for loss of office or payments in connection with the termination of qualifying services.
There were no amounts paid to the Executive Directors in respect of their qualifying services by way of expenses allowance that was chargeable to UK income tax.
The nature of the non-cash benefits is set out on page 22.
Executive Directors and certain other senior executives are entitled to elect for all or part of the after tax amount of their annual cash bonus to be used to acquire shares: alternatively they may elect to deposit their own shares.
The shares acquired or deposited are eligible under this scheme for additional Matching Shares at the end of a three-year period.
For 2004 and previous years, the release of Matching Shares was not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition.
For awards in 2005 and 2006 the release of Matching Shares will be dependent on the Group achieving real EPS growth of 3% p. a. over the three years prior to their release.
The value, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, of these awards is being charged to the income statement over the three-year period to which they relate.
2007 awards will be granted to all Executive Directors other than Mr Bennett under the new Share Matching Plan after the AGM based on a share price of 11.98 per share the share price prevailing on 26 January 2007 the normal date on which such awards would have been granted but for the requirement to obtain prior shareholder approval for the new scheme.
As explained on page 20, Mr Bennett received an award under the existing Bonus Matching Plan on 26 January 2007.
25 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DEFERRED SHARE SCHEME Subject to shareholder approval of the new share scheme arrangements, there will be no further awards under the Deferred Share Scheme following the January 2007 award details of which are outlined below relating to the 2006 annual bonus.
Executive Directors and certain other senior executives who received a cash bonus were eligible under this scheme to receive deferred shares of an equivalent value.
Prior to 2005, the release of deferred share awards was not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition other than normally remaining in employment until the date of vesting because the value of deferred share awards was derived from annual bonus criteria and was therefore dependent on corporate performance.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years the release of any deferred share awards became dependent on the Group achieving average real EPS growth of 3% p. a. over the three years prior to their release.
There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the plan interests during 2006.
Shares may only be released if demanding performance targets are achieved and if the participant remains in employment, except in certain good leaver circumstances.
In relation to awards granted in 2004 and previous years, performance is measured over a three year period on the basis of TSR, comparing the Companys performance to that of the other companies in the FTSE 350 Index at the date of the award.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years, the Companys TSR will be compared to that of other companies in the FTSE 100 Index at the date of the award.
See page 21 for further details.
Subject to the performance criteria being met, awards may be exercised during the three-month period commencing on the third anniversary of the award dates.
The awards will lapse if they are not exercised during these times.
2007 awards will be granted under the New LTIP after the AGM based on a share price of 11.98 per share the share price prevailing on 26 January 2007 the normal date on which such awards would have been granted but for the requirement to obtain prior shareholder approval for the new scheme.
27 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued PENSIONS Set out below are details of the pension benefits to which each of the Executive Directors is entitled.
Age at Years and Accrued pension Accrued pension Additional Additional 31 Dec 06 months of entitlement at entitlement at pension entitlement service at 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 05 entitlement earned in year 31 Dec 06 Per Annum Per Annum earned in year in excess of inflation A J Applegarth 44 23 yrs 2 mths 266,417 230,903 35,514 29,280 D F Baker 53 29 yrs 7 mths 255,306 211,250 44,056 38,352 R F Bennett 59 13 yrs 2 mths 303,334 260,000 43,334 36,314 K M Currie 50 26 yrs 5 mths 183,007 130,125 52,882 49,369 A M Kuipers 49 19 yrs 3 mths 117,104 82,125 34,979 32,762 Transfer value of Transfer value of Increase in Transfer value of increase in accrued pension accrued pension transfer value accrued pension entitlement entitlement entitlement less Directors in excess of inflation at 31 Dec 06 at 31 Dec 05 contributions less Directors contributions A J Applegarth 2,235,907 1,842,785 358,633 218,677 D F Baker 3,516,436 2,793,613 700,073 515,834 R F Bennett 6,069,333 5,131,167 915,416 705,545 K M Currie 2,129,335 1,430,644 680,442 572,279 A M Kuipers 1,245,550 837,525 389,775 343,124 The accrued pension entitlement is the amount at the end of the year that the Director would receive if he retired at age 60.
The increase in the accrued pension entitlement is the difference between the accrued pension entitlement at the year end and that at the previous year end.
The Listing Rules also require this to be disclosed excluding inflation.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values of the accrued pension entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent the sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The increase in the transfer value less Directors contributions is the increase in the transfer value of the accrued pension entitlement during the year after deducting the Directors personal contributions to the scheme.
The transfer value of the increase in accrued pension entitlement, required by the Listing Rules, discloses the current value of the increase in accrued pension entitlement excluding inflation that the Director has earned in the period, whereas the change in his transfer value, required by the Companies Act 1985, discloses the absolute increase or decrease in transfer values and thus includes the change in value of the accrued pension entitlement that results from market volatility affecting the transfer value over the year, as well as the value of the additional accrued pension entitlement earned in the year.
Including Mr Bennetts unfunded arrangement he has an estimated accrued annual pension entitlement at 31 December 2006 of 303,334, amounting to 2 3 of his full pensionable earnings.
28 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The following Directors held a beneficial interest in the Companys Ordinary Shares: Contingent Interests At At At At At At 27 Feb 07 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 05 27 Feb 07 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 05 Non Executive Directors Dr M W Ridley 46,150 46,150 46,150 N A H Fenwick 3,750 3,750 1,500 Sir Ian Gibson 15,000 15,000 15,000 N Pease 8,350 8,350 8,350 M J Queen 4,000 4,000 4,000 R A Radcliffe Sir George Russell 6,605 6,605 36,755 Sir Derek Wanless 20,500 20,500 20,500 Executive Directors A J Applegarth 98,257 94,746 101,398 413,881 541,587 549,430 D F Baker 62,525 70,182 73,041 266,549 351,861 370,118 R F Bennett 63,598 65,187 351,861 370,118 K M Currie 43,746 48,694 47,074 186,225 226,693 217,811 D A Jones appointed 1 February 2007 25,988 94,988 A M Kuipers 52,699 61,559 38,015 186,225 226,693 217,811 Contingent interests represent Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the Bonus Matching Plan, the Deferred Share Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan which is subject to stringent performance criteria being met as described previously.
DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS Movements in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in the Company in which the Directors have an interest during the period 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006 are as follows: Option type At Exercised Exercise At Date from Expiry date 31 Dec 05 in 2006 price 31 Dec 06 which first exercisable A J Applegarth Sharesave 4 2,273 7.27 2,273 1 May 10 1 Nov 10 D F Baker Sharesave 4 1,303 7.27 1,303 1 May 08 1 Nov 08 R F Bennett Sharesave 3 1,580 1,580 5.98 K M Currie Share Option Scheme 4,854 6.18 4,854 1 Jun 01 1 Jun 08 Sharesave 4 1,303 7.27 1,303 1 May 08 1 Nov 08 A M Kuipers Sharesave 2 8,546 2.15 8,546 1 May 07 1 Nov 07 Sharesave 4 2,273 7.27 2,273 1 May 10 1 Nov 10 No Executive Director option terms were varied during 2006 and no price was paid for any of the options in the table, other than the all employee Sharesave Scheme, where each Director paid 250 per month.
Options listed in the table above are H M Revenue & Customs approved schemes.
The Employee Share Option Scheme was subject to an earnings per share target which was met in 2006.
Options under the Sharesave Scheme do not have any performance conditions.
For each unexercised option at the end of the year, the market price of each share at 31 December 2006 was 11.78, the highest market price during the year was 12.18 16 November 2006 and the lowest market price during the year was 9.31 10 January 2006.
On 2 May 2006 RF Bennett exercised 1,580 share options.
The market price of the shares on 2 May 2006 was 10.60.
On 26 January 2007 KM Currie exercised and sold 4,854 share options.
The market price of the shares on 26 January 2007 was 11.92 The specific individual interests of Executive Directors are shown in the tables above.
In addition the Directors are deemed to have an interest in shares held by Trusts for various executive and other employee share schemes at 31 December 2006 as follows: i Northern Rock Employee Trust holds 6,740,740 shares 31 December 2005 4,048,207 shares : ii Northern Rock Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust holds 600,852 shares 31 December 2005 1,117,287 shares : and iii Northern Rock Trustees Limited holds 85,708 shares 31 December 2005 287,252 shares.
Nichola Pease Chairman, Remuneration Committee 27 February 2007 29 COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT INTRODUCTION our sites.
All confidential waste is Award Nomination Northern Rock We have had a transparent approach to our shredded and certificates of was short-listed in the IR Investor reporting on Corporate Social destruction are issued for all Relations Magazine for Best Practice Responsibility CSR for many years.
The process is audited in Corporate Social Responsibility.
year we are not producing a summary hard regularly by CSR staff.
In addition to this recognition we also copy Community Report but instead are Financial Services Authority FSA engaged with Times 100, producing a case providing this fuller summary.
We have also Northern Rock works closely with the study on Pursuing a Growth Strategy for updated the format and content of our web FSA and had numerous meetings with use by both students and teachers in a site, which provides full details of our CSR officers throughout the year, wide variety of studies for National policies and performance.
This is available particularly in relation to Basle II and Curriculum subjects.
asp GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY Our CSR reporting is broken down into a BUSINESS ETHICS AND HUMAN RIGHTS Northern Rock regards adherence to the number of sections and the key activities In the same way that the Company adheres principles of good corporate governance to within each area are summarised below: to the principles of good corporate be of the utmost importance and full governance it is also important that all staff details are included in the Corporate ENGAGEMENT should know what standards of conduct are Governance Report on pages 13 to 17.
Northern Rock has a policy of active expected from them.
Key points from 2006 are: communication and as part of this process Our relationship with shareholders, management are regularly engaged in verbal, Corporate Governance Day 2006 customers and other stakeholders is of face-to-face and written communications On 1 November 2006 the Chairman, paramount importance to us and to retain with a variety of stakeholders.
Senior Independent Director and Chief their trust and faith in us our staff must act Executive met a number of stakeholders It is particularly pleasing when independent in an appropriate manner at all times.
Our as part of our commitment to hold third parties recognise the work we do and Code of Business Ethics and Human Rights, regular Corporate Governance Days.
the key points from 2006 are: therefore, forms a key element in the way we conduct business and we believe that The Banking Code Northern Rock DTI Research In an independent the Code is designed to be beneficial to follows The Banking Code.
It provides assessment by the DTI based on our all stakeholders.
valuable protection for customers and 2005 Annual Report and Accounts, explains how financial institutions are Northern Rock was cited as one of the Work done this year in this area includes: expected to deal with them day to day higher performing UK owned An updated draft Code of Ethics and and in times of financial difficulty.
This highlighted that our Human Rights has been produced and staff and assets are used effectively, Risk Management Northern Rocks will be adopted formally in 2007.
This create wealth and provide a sustainable risk management framework is designed will be followed by a Supplier Code of performance for our stakeholders.
to maintain and continually improve the Conduct and Ethics.
Human Rights and established processes and tools for the Ethical Investment Research EIRIS Diversity are integral to both Codes.
identification, assessment, control and During the year we engaged in two way Age Discrimination Regulation monitoring of existing and future risks.
communication with EIRIS, the principle implications have been introduced and organisation in the assessment of The management of risk within embedded into corporate procedures.
company performance in CSR issues.
It Northern Rock is embedded within the is pleasing to note that our work on A further review of accessibility to the business, with responsible individuals customer related issues and key Companys website has been being empowered to manage the risks environmental performance indicators undertaken and improvements will be within a framework of policies, were highlighted as areas where initiated in 2007. procedures and delegated authorities improvements had been made.
established by the Board and senior WORKPLACE management.
A process of regular risk FTSE4GOOD This index is designed Northern Rocks employees are reporting provides evidence of control, to measure the performance of fundamental to the continued success of supervision and monitoring by the companies that meet globally Northern Rock.
recognised corporate responsibility standards and we are delighted to be We strive to be the employer of choice and Disposal of confidential waste from included in their UK, European and look continuously to improve staff Northern Rock Sites Northern Rock Global Indices, with pass ratings retention initiatives, staff recruitment, has robust procedures in place for the received in all appropriate areas.
disposal of confidential waste from all 30 COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT continued Key points from 2006 are: Significant progress has been made in Growth in Branch Outlets Northern raising standards in recent years to Rock currently has 56 full branches and Further development of the Graduate improve the fair treatment of customers 16 mortgage only branches.
In Training Scheme with an intake of 24 and we believe that our programme of February 2007, mortgage branches will this year.
continued customer research and also start to offer a limited range of Introduction of a Modern Apprenticeship engagement will allow us to build on savings products.
Additional branches Scheme for trainee clerical staff.
will be opened in key centres as and when suitable opportunities arise.
Continued support for the AMICUS full Responsible Lending Northern time representative based on site at Rocks approach to lending is pragmatic COMMUNITY Head Office.
and aims to reinforce the principles of Following Northern Rock Building Societys responsible lending and affordability in Introduction of extended sickness conversion to a plc in October 1997 we line with FSA Regulations, without management procedures supported by donate 5% of pre-tax profits to The becoming intrusive.
an Employee Assistance Programme Northern Rock Foundation under a Deed of and an on site occupational health and Our salesforce, at the point of Covenant.
The Foundation is an physiotherapy service.
interview, check outgoings and conduct independent grant making organisation assessments on the basis of the where donations are used to support Our commitment to creating information received all of which is community and charitable causes in the employment opportunities in the North duly recorded.
Intermediaries are asked North East of England and Cumbria.
East of England was once again to complete the Confirmation of Further details of the initiatives of the demonstrated by the commencement Affordability section in the application Foundation can be found on page 33. of a 40m redevelopment of the form which is alongside all other original Head Office building in In addition to the Foundation we are regulatory information required from Gosforth, Newcastle upon Tyne and involved with a number of other the intermediary.
detailed negotiations for a 60m office community initiatives: at Rainton Bridge, Sunderland.
Mortgage Regulation Northern Northern Rock Charity Committee Completion of both schemes is planned Rock seeks to comply with all aspects The Corporate Charity for 2006, for 2008. of mortgage regulation.
It is a selected by our staff, was Tiny Lives requirement of mortgage regulation to The Neonatal Unit at the Royal Victoria MARKETPLACE keep borrowers with regulated loans Infirmary, Newcastle upon Tyne.
Staff Northern Rock is committed to profitable fully apprised of any arrears position throughout the Company were active in growth in high quality business and seeks and subsequent consequences.
All raising funds through a wide range of to meet the increased service expectations loans that fall into arrears are treated events, all of which are double of customers.
We have a number of training individually and all decisions made are matched via the Foundation.
This programmes for staff to support the based on the circumstances of the years total was over 373,000. provision of excellent service at all points customer.
The company has adopted of the customer journey and we continue the same approach to both regulated A full-time Charity Co-ordinator has to strive for improvements in all areas.
It is and non-regulated loans, ensuring that been appointed to assist with the pleasing to note that our efforts have been all customers are treated fairly.
organisation of the events for the rewarded by a number of industry awards.
Corporate Charity in 2007 and Mortgage Arrears Position These include Outstanding Industry beyond.
Northern Rocks arrears position is Achievement, Hamptons International, consistently half the UK average.
This is Payroll Giving 7% of our staff Brightest new star, North East Contact attributed to both our front end donate to charity via payroll giving.
We Centre of the Year Awards and Best lending policy decisions which ensures have achieved Silver Award Status with Provider of Lifetime Mortgages, Mortgage that our customers can afford their the Charities Trust.
loans and also the support we provide Northumberland Wildlife Trust Our Key points from 2006 are: when difficulties arise.
Graduate Trainees are encouraged to Treating Customers Fairly The high Lifetime Mortgages Northern Rock support the local community and this level principles outlined by the FSA has developed a number of products to year helped Northumberland Wildlife require that all regulated firms treat enable elderly homeowners who may be Trust dam drainage ditches at Holburn their customers fairly.
The fair asset rich but cash poor to release Moss, so water would be retained in a treatment of customers is central to capital.
These include Equity Release, peat bog, encouraging growth of consumers having confidence in the Cash Plus Lifetime Mortgage, Protected diverse plant species.
Equity Mortgage and an Age Concern Lifetime Mortgage.
31 COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT continued and community groups.
All our paper Reducing corporate transport Road and Transport Improvements waste, cardboard and pamphlets are mileage wherever practical As part of our commitment to improve recycled following destruction.
There the transport network around our Continuing to introduce revisions are also recycling schemes in place in Gosforth Head Office we have funded a to the corporate transport fleet Head Office sites for plastic bottles, number of pedestrian crossings to including the use of dual fuel and plastic cups, aluminium cans, waxed improve safety.
electric vehicles paper cups, toner cartridges, computer consumables, glass and mobile phone Promoting the use of conference ENVIRONMENT batteries.
call facilities within Head Office We are committed to ensuring that sites environmental awareness and best practice In advance of the Implementation of form an integral part of our corporate the EU Directive on Waste Electrical Transport Plan Management We thinking.
We consider the key and Electronic Equipment the WEEE recognise that staff have an impact on environmental impacts arising from our Directive a secure licensed disposal the environment as a result of the way corporate operations to be the use of contract has been established with a they travel to and from work.
We have energy, carbon dioxide emissions, waste, national contractor.
a number of schemes and incentives water use, corporate transport and staff in place to encourage staff to Our recycling rate for waste is 61% and transport to work.
use alternatives to single person our total waste output has remained car journeys.
Energy In line with Government the same as last year.
targets to reduce emissions by 20% To monitor car usage a further staff Water We benchmark and target our between 1990 and 2010 we have transport survey was conducted during water use against the DEFRA corporate actively managed carbon dioxide 2006 and this showed a marginal environmental reporting guidance for outputs from the Company since decrease in car drivers of 0.5%, to 49.9% 3 offices which is 0.05m per employee 1996.
At that time our output was of staff.
During 2006 our 3.10 tonnes per employee and in 2 corporate figure was 0.0358m per 2006 it was 0.42 tonnes, a decrease of TARGETS AND OBJECTIVES employee per working day.
61% on 2005 and further CSR is integral to our whole approach to demonstration of our commitment to Corporate Transport The demand business and as such we look to make efficiency and sustainability.
for business travel is greater than ever continued improvements so long as they and the Company has continued to make sound business sense.
Whilst some Waste Northern Rock follows the seek methods to control carbon of our future plans have been identified in principles of Reduce, Reuse and dioxide emissions from Company this summary, our website sets out key Recycle.
We have improved operational transport activities by: objectives and targets for the next procedures and enhanced IT systems to three years.
Furniture and Promoting our corporate transport equipment that are no longer required policy are donated to local schools, charities 32
