Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 35 Remuneration report The following report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other by the Board for submission to the shareholders at the 2007 AGM.
than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions, and they have no conflict of interest arising from cross directorships.
Fees for serving as a  LLP have audited the following items stipulated committee member and chairing committees of the Board are described in law for their review: in the non-executive directors section of this report on page 40.
The table of directors remuneration and associated footnotes on Advisors to the Remuneration Committee page 41 and the disclosure of the items comprising benefits in kind, In developing remuneration strategy during the year, the Committee The tables of defined benefit and defined contribution pensions on obtained its principal advice from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, page 41 and associated footnotes, who were appointed by the Committee and provided no other services to it during 2006.
The table of disclosure of directors share options and share awards on pages 42 to 44 and associated footnotes.
The terms of engagement for the remuneration consultants are available to shareholders on request and on our website at In constitution and operation, the Committee complies fully with the www.
Combined Code as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and as described in the corporate governance section of The Group CEO is invited to attend all meetings of the Committee to this report, on page 31. provide context and advice to the Committee on company strategy and performance and senior executive pay strategy.
The Group Human The role of the Remuneration Committee Resources Director normally attends meetings to provide information on The Committee is a formal committee of the Board and is accountable to wider remuneration strategy and practice within the Group.
The Chairman shareholders through its annual remuneration report which is voted on at the of the Board is invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The General AGM, and remains committed to reflecting the best interests of shareholders Counsel and Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the and to the pursuit of best practice in remuneration policy.
None of the non Committee attendees are present as of welcomes ongoing dialogue with shareholders on remuneration policy.
right, and do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed.
The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference Activities of the Remuneration Committee which are available to shareholders on request and on our website at The continuing focus of the Committee is the maintenance of a strong www.
These include: link between performance and reward.
It is the Committees view that the Determining the terms and conditions and remuneration of the interests of shareholders are best served by ensuring a remuneration Chairman of the Board and the executive directors, structure which has a significant element of performance related pay, and reinforces the culture of high performance and accountability that Overseeing the operation of the Companys share based long term applies at all levels throughout the Group.
incentive schemes, including approving the value and timing of awards and overseeing the operation of performance conditions, The Committee meets as often as necessary throughout the year to ensure that it is able to fully report to the Board and shareholders on all Consideration of, and advice to the Board on, the Groups broader relevant matters.
In 2006, the Committee met eight times and the remuneration policy in relation to senior executives reporting to principal business of those meetings included the following activities: the Group CEO the Executive Team.
The design and development of the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, The Committee presents a summary of its principal activities to the key features of which are described later in this report the Long shareholders through this report, and the Committee Chairman attends Term Incentive Plan.
As well as discussions of the key features of the the AGM to answer questions from shareholders on the activities of the Long Term Incentive Plan, the Chairman of the Committee engaged in Committee and its remuneration policies.
consultation with major shareholders in order to attain the support of Membership of the Remuneration Committee shareholders at the 2006 AGM, During the year, the directors who served on the Committee were The determination of performance conditions, and approval of the John Maxwell Chairman, Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May.
All of the initial awards, under the Long Term Incentive Plan, non-executive directors on the Committee were determined by the Board to be independent.
The attendance of members in 2006 is Conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive directors shown in the table on page 34. and the Group CEOs recommendations for his Executive Team, Royal & SunAlliance 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Remuneration report continued The consideration and approval of annual bonus payments for 2005, This structure will be replicated for other members of the Executive Team.
The review of actual performance of the executive directors in 2005 As an indication of the balance of remuneration, including long term against agreed goals and objectives, incentives LTIs, the following charts illustrate the remuneration attributable to the continuing executive directors over the year excluding allowances The review of proposed annual objectives and performance goals of and pension provision : executive directors for 2006, The ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions and Andy Haste reports on performance for awards under the Share Matching Plan and various share option grants, The ongoing review of share incentives generally, including the approval of changes of an administrative or regulatory nature, Salary 26% The determination of termination arrangements for senior executives LTIs 42% Bonus 32% who left the Group in 2006, including those of David Paige, A review of the Committees terms of reference, George Culmer The drafting of the remuneration report for the 2006 Annual Report and Accounts.
Remuneration policy principles The Committees remuneration policy is consistent with the high Salary 28% performance culture across the Group.
The key principles which LTIs 42% underpin the remuneration policy are: Bonus 30% Total remuneration is set at a level which enables the recruitment, retention and motivation of high quality executive talent, Bridget McIntyre There is a strong and visible link between remuneration and performance, Executive remuneration and shareholder interests are strongly aligned.
This is reflected in the design of the Long Term Incentive Salary 34% Plan, which provides a co-investment opportunity, LTIs 33% Bonus 33% The observation of existing share ownership guidelines to further enhance the alignment of shareholder interests with those of For the purposes of the above charts, the bonus value is based on executive directors, the cash bonus received plus the fair value of the compulsory Deferred Incentive arrangements are leveraged so that only exceptional Shares.
The LTI value is based on the fair value of awards of Performance performance attracts the highest levels of award, Shares and half of the maximum potential number of Matching Shares that may vest subject to performance relating to voluntary and A balance of short and long term performance is used, incorporating compulsory Deferred Shares under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
measures of financial performance, delivery of shareholder value Details of how the fair values, referred to above, have been calculated and a robust assessment of personal contribution, are set out in note 27 on page 85.
Remuneration policy and practice is transparent to shareholders.
Base salary Elements of remuneration Policy: Base salary is set with reference to the median level for Remuneration for executive directors in 2007 will consist of the equivalent roles in similar companies.
four principal elements described below, of which only base salary is pensionable: Base salaries for executive directors and members of the Executive Base salary, Team are set on appointment with reference to market data.
The strong Annual performance bonus, performance culture within the Group means that it is essential that executive directors are of the highest calibre.
To enable the Group Share based long term incentive awards, to compete for the most talented executives, the Committee relates Pension provision and other benefits.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 37 base salary levels to the median level for equivalent roles in similar The targets used for determining the amount of bonus payable are a companies facing similar levels of complexity and challenge in the combination of stretching business performance targets and the results UK and internationally.
In the UK, the comparator group most frequently of a structured assessment of each executives performance against used is a sample of financial service companies within the FTSE 100. detailed and specific personal objectives.
Base salaries are reviewed on the basis of market movements and an Financial targets are measured against Combined Operating Ratio COR assessment of the performance of the executive.
The 2006 salary review targets which are the preferred measures for Royal & SunAlliance process resulted in the following increases, effective from 1 April 2006, businesses.
COR is the single indicator which most fully captures the for the continuing executive directors as at 31 December 2006 : underlying strength and performance of an insurance business.
Position Increase Base salary Personal targets are reviewed and approved by the Committee early in Andy Haste CEO 4.5% 805,000 the financial year.
The Group CEOs performance is assessed annually George Culmer CFO 5% 442,000 by the Chairman of the Board and members of the Committee.
The Group Bridget McIntyre UK CEO 5% 367,500 CEO carries out a similar assessment for each of his direct reports, subject to review and sign off by the Committee in the case of executive directors.
Recognising that base salaries are now generally competitive, as in 2006, Assessments also take account of appropriate leadership style and each increases in 2007 are expected to be broadly in line with movements in executive receives a performance rating against the standard scale used boardroom pay.
at all levels in the business.
The following table sets out the base salaries of UK based executives Bonuses paid to executive directors in respect of the performance year below Board level on a banded basis as at 31 December 2006.
No such 2006 are included in the table of directors emoluments on page 41.
The executive received a base salary in excess of 350,000.
Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the bonus payments made in respect of 2006 reflect the consistently strong COR results across the Base salary range Number of employees Group throughout 2006, and the contribution made by each executive 250,001 and over 6 director.
200,001 250,000 3 150,001 200,000 28 UK based executives who are members of the global Top 100 group the Top 100 participate in a bonus plan which is structured in the same In relation to the increase in number of employees in the band way and measured using the same metrics as the plan described above.
150,001 200,000, from 2005, there are 12 employees who For outstanding performance, a cash bonus of up to 65% of base salary received pay rises sufficient for them to be included in the above chart.
and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of the cash bonus are achievable.
There were also seven new employees throughout 2006 at this level Share based long term incentive awards bringing new capabilities to the Group.
Policy: To provide annual share awards to executives to ensure Annual performance bonus alignment with shareholder interests, solely through the Long Term Policy: Bonus payments are related to stretching performance Incentive Plan.
Except in exceptional circumstances, no other targets, and are capped at 133% of base salary.
For maximum discretionary share plan will be used to make awards.
bonuses to be achieved, outstanding performance must be demonstrated.
Prior to the approval of the Long Term Incentive Plan, two share incentive plans were operated: The executive directors and the Executive Team participate in an annual The 2004 Share Matching Plan, which was designed to operate for bonus plan.
If stretching targets are achieved, participants receive a cash two years.
The final awards under this plan were made in 2005, bonus of up to 50% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 16.5% of base salary.
For outstanding performance, a cash bonus of The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
Regular awards under the up to 100% of base salary and Deferred Shares worth up to 33% of ESOS were discontinued from 2006, but the ESOS remains available for base salary are achievable.
Deferred Shares are described in the section use in exceptional circumstances, such as executive recruitment.
headed Share based long term incentive awards below.
Following shareholder approval at the 2006 AGM, the primary long term Executives are also offered the opportunity to voluntarily invest up to 33% incentive is the Long Term Incentive Plan, the key features of which and of the cash element of their bonus into Deferred Shares.
In 2006 under associated policies are summarised in the sections below.
the Long Term Incentive Plan, an award of Matching Shares was made on Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan will be funded through a a pro rata basis to the Deferred Shares.
Matching Shares may vest subject combination of new issues and shares purchased in the market.
to the performance conditions described on page 38 of this report.
The Committee reserves the right to reduce the permissible investment below this level.
However, the Long Term Incentive Plan will continue to operate on the same terms in 2007.
Royal & SunAlliance 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Remuneration report continued Conditional awards of Performance Shares measured over a single period of three years with no provision to retest.
Participants may receive a conditional award of shares with the grant In 2007 as in 2006, grants of Performance Shares and Matching level and performance condition determined by the Committee prior to Shares related to non voluntarily Deferred Shares will be subject to a each grant.
Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the performance condition consisting of a combination of Return on Equity Top 100 will be eligible for awards of Performance Shares.
ROE and Total Shareholder Return TSR targets.
These are set out below: It is intended that, in 2007, awards of Performance Shares to executive 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to ROE directors will be limited to a maximum face value of 100% of base salary, performance.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years other than in exceptional circumstances.
Awards of Performance Shares commencing with the financial year of grant is below 10%, no part of the to members of the Executive Team in 2007 will be limited to a maximum award subject to the ROE performance condition will vest.
If underlying face value of 80% of base salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
average annual ROE over three years is 10%, 25% of the award will Account will be taken of personal performance in determining the scale of vest.
If underlying average annual ROE over three years is 16%, 100% the award to each executive.
For executives below this level, distribution of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis in between.
policy will normally be based on a formula which relates the size of award to Underlying ROE will exclude items of an exceptional nature which in the performance and potential, as measured through the annual performance view of the Committee do not reflect the underlying performance of appraisal process.
the business, In any year, the face value of Performance Shares granted to any individual 50% of the shares comprising the award will vest according to TSR will be limited to 150% of base salary in normal circumstances, subject to performance against a comparator group of UK and International an overriding cap of 250% of base salary in exceptional circumstances, Financial Services companies.
Below median performance, no part such as an executive recruitment.
of the award subject to the TSR performance condition will vest.
At median performance, 25% of the award will vest.
At upper quintile Performance Shares will vest after three years subject to the top 20%, 100% of the award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight performance condition see below and provided the individual remains line basis in between, in employment with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or retirement at normal retirement age.
Additionally, before any shares subject to the TSR condition vests, the Committee must be satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is Deferred Shares reflective of underlying financial performance.
As described in the annual performance bonus section on page 37, executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 The comparator group will consist of the following companies: may be granted Deferred Shares as part of the annual bonus.
These Comparator companies Deferred Shares may not be withdrawn and will normally vest three years Aegon AGF from the date of grant subject to continued employment with the Group.
Alleanza Allianz In addition, executives may invest an additional portion of bonus in Aviva Baloise Deferred Shares on a voluntary basis.
Voluntary Deferred Shares are Fortis Generali not at risk of forfeiture and may be withdrawn at any time but the right Legal & General Munich Re to Matching Shares would lapse on those Deferred Shares withdrawn.
QBE Swiss Re Zurich Financial Services Conditional awards of Matching Shares Executives may receive a conditional award of Matching Shares pro rata The Companys TSR will be independently calculated and verified by to the number of Deferred Shares held.
The maximum matching ratio for the Committee for the purposes of awards made under the Long Term Matching Shares:Deferred Shares will be 2.5:1, calculated on the gross Incentive Plan.
value of the bonus invested in Deferred Shares.
At threshold performance the matching ratio will be 0.625:1.
Details of the performance condition The vesting of Matching Shares related to voluntarily Deferred Shares used for the first grant are described below.
Following a review, the will be determined solely by the ROE performance condition.
Committee resolved to use the same performance conditions in relation ROE has been selected as the measure of financial performance as it is to awards proposed in 2007. one of the key measures of overall business performance and is visible Executive directors, members of the Executive Team and the Top 100 externally to shareholders.
will be eligible for awards of Matching Shares.
The TSR performance condition has been designed to provide alignment Matching Shares will vest after three years subject to the performance between executive remuneration and shareholder interests and to ensure condition see below and provided the individual remains in employment that an element of the package is linked directly to share price performance.
with the Group other than in exceptional circumstances such as death or The comparator group has been selected to ensure that performance retirement at normal retirement age.
is compared fairly against a group of similar companies operating in a similar competitive environment.
The use of ROE and TSR in combination, Performance conditions provides a balanced approach to the measurement of Company The Committee will determine the performance condition for each performance over the longer term.
grant of Performance Shares and Matching Shares, with performance Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 39 Dilution Until 31 December 2005, George Culmer participated in a contributory Dilution levels for all schemes are held strictly within limits set by the defined contribution occupational pension scheme the Royal & SunAlliance Association of British Insurers ABI 10% over 10 years for all schemes UK Pension Scheme 2002.
From 1 January 2006, this scheme was replaced and 5% for discretionary schemes.
The dilution levels compared to ABI by the Royal & SunAlliance Stakeholder Pension Plan the Stakeholder limits as at 31 December 2006 was: Plan, a contributory defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme.
George Culmer became a member of the Stakeholder Plan from 1 January ABI limit Royal & SunAlliance dilution 2006.
In 2007, he will receive employer contributions worth 15% of base 10% over 10 years for all share schemes 5.83% salary, subject to an employee contribution of 5% of base salary up to the 5% over 10 years for discretionary schemes 3.63% HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as applicable.
Additionally, following a review of the market competitiveness of his pension benefits, Share ownership guidelines the Committee decided to provide George Culmer with a taxable cash Strengthened share ownership guidelines were introduced in 2004 for allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring his overall pension executive directors and members of the Executive Team.
provision closer to the market median.
The Group CEO is required to build and maintain a minimum shareholding Bridget McIntyre was enrolled in the Stakeholder Plan as from 1 January in the Company equivalent to 150% of base salary.
As in 2006, in 2007 she will receive employer contributions worth directors have a target of 100% of base salary and other members of the 15% of base salary, subject to an employee contribution of 5% of base Executive Team have a target of 50% of base salary.
In order to ensure salary up to the HM Revenue and Customs annual allowance as applicable.
that progress is made towards this target, executives are required to Due to Bridget McIntyre not being able to join the Royal & SunAlliance UK retain shares to a value of 50% of the net of tax gain under all executive Pension Scheme 2002, further employer contributions of 15% of base schemes until the relevant guideline is attained.
This requirement will salary, and employee contributions of 5% of base salary were paid during apply to awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan, and will continue the year to cover the period from 1 November 2005 to 31 December to apply to awards under all existing long term incentive plans.
Additionally, Bridget McIntyre receives a taxable cash allowance of 15% of base salary, in order to bring her overall pension provision closer The following table shows the number of shares including voluntary to the market median.
Deferred Shares held under the Long Term Incentive Plan held by each continuing executive director at 31 December 2006 and the increase David Paige elected not to join a Royal & SunAlliance pension plan in shareholding over the year.
on appointment and received a taxable cash allowance of 17.5% of Shares held Increase % salary base salary.
Andy Haste 804,705 21% 152% In addition, the executive directors participate in a number of benefits George Culmer 160,565 59% 55% available to other senior managers, including life assurance at the rate Bridget McIntyre 31,337 n a 13% of four times base salary together with a spouse dependant annuity, Assuming share price of 152.50p the closing middle market price on the last dealing sickness and ill health early retirement benefits and private medical day of the year.
They also have a choice between a company car and a All of Bridget McIntyres shares were acquired during the year.
In common with other employees, the executive directors are eligible to participate in the Royal & SunAlliance Pension provision and other benefits International Sharesave Plan SAYE.
Policy: Reasonable provision, in line with arrangements made in Service contracts similar companies, will be made to allow executives to plan effectively The Committees policy on service contracts is that they should be for their retirement, but the Committee will not compensate subject to a maximum notice period of one year.
Generally, in the event executives affected by new tax limits effective 6 April 2006. of termination, and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, the Committees policy would be to seek and apply mitigation.
Andy Haste is a member of the SAL Pension Scheme SAL, a contributory Andy Hastes service contract commenced on 2 April 2003 and he defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
In common with all other was appointed as a director of the Group on the same date.
His contract members of the Royal & SunAlliance defined benefit occupational pension expires under normal circumstances in January 2024 unless terminated schemes, from 1 January 2006 Andy Hastes future benefits within SAL earlier by the Company or by Andy Haste on 12 months notice.
will accrue on a career average revalued earnings basis rather than on a final salary basis.
The Group has decided to retain a cap within its defined George Culmers service contract commenced on 1 May 2004 and benefits after A Day and, accordingly, Andy Hastes benefit accrual will he was appointed as a director of the Group on the same date.
Bridget continue to be calculated by reference to a capped salary which will be McIntyres service contract commenced on 1 November 2005 and measured each year in line with past practice.
In addition to his benefits she was appointed as a director of the Group on 2 November 2005. within SAL, Andy Haste receives an age related taxable cash allowance The service contracts for George Culmer and Bridget McIntyre terminate to enable him to make his own provision for retirement above the cap.
In under normal circumstances in October 2024 and July 2023 respectively 2007, he will be paid an allowance of 27% of base salary for this purpose.
unless terminated earlier by the Company or by the individual on 12 months notice.
Royal & SunAlliance 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Remuneration report continued David Paiges service contract commenced on 1 February 2005 and The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the he was appointed as a director of the Group on 16 February 2005.
The fee payable to John Napier in respect of his His service contract was due to expire in July 2013, and was subject to appointment as Chairman of the Board effective 17 March 2003 was a notice period of 12 months.
Following the reorganisation of the Group increased effective 1 January 2006 from 250,000 to 325,000pa in Risk function, David Paige stood down from the Board and left the Group order to reflect market movements and the complexity and challenge effective 31 December 2006.
He received his usual remuneration of the role.
John Napiers letter of appointment was effective 9 January including participation in the 2006 annual performance bonus up 2003 and the term of his appointment was initially three years: it has to 31 December 2006 and no compensation for loss of office.
David now been extended until 31 December 2008.
No further review of John Paige was not a member of any Group pension plan and there was no Napiers fees is anticipated during the current term of his appointment.
additional cost to the Group.
The appointment may be terminated by John Napier giving three months notice to the Company.
External directorships Where appropriate, the Group encourages directors and other senior Edward Lea and John Maxwell have letters of appointment effective managers to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman of the Board from 10 July 2003: Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May have letters of and the Group CEO, an invitation to join the Board of another company in appointment effective from 30 March 2004.
These letters of appointment a non-executive capacity, recognising the value of such wider experience.
all request one months notice should the non-executive director wish In these circumstances, they are permitted to retain the remuneration to resign.
All non-executive directors including the Chairman are subject from the non-executive appointment.
For executive directors and other to a three year rolling period of appointment in accordance with the members of the Executive Team, external appointments are limited to one Companys Articles of Association.
although at present none of the executive directors hold non-executive Historical TSR performance positions in other companies.
The main graph below is included in the report of the Committee as a Non-executive directors requirement of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
All non-executive directors of the Company have letters of appointment The graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the FTSE World which set out the terms and conditions of their appointment.
Non-executive Europe Insurance Index and the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE World Europe directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, Insurance Index comprises the range of European insurance businesses nor do they participate in the Groups long term incentive plans.
which most closely match our competitor group, and the TSR comparator Under the Companys Articles of Association, the remuneration paid to group selected for 2006 awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The non-executive directors is determined by the Board, within limits set by FTSE 100 Index comprises the 100 most highly capitalised companies, shareholders.
The basic fee for a non-executive director is 45,000pa.
representing approximately 80% of the UK market.
TSR performance The additional fee for chairing the Group Audit Committee is 20,000pa relative to the indices is shown over the five years from 31 December 2001 and the additional fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee and the to 31 December 2006.
Investment Committee is 12,500pa for each committee.
Additionally, The inset graph shows the TSR of the Group with reference to the same a fee of 5,000pa is paid to any non-executive director sitting on more index over the 24 month period ending 31 December 2006. than one committee but not acting as chair of any committee.
These fee rates will be unchanged for 2007.
TSR reflects the change in value of ordinary shares in a company over time, as represented by the evolution of a notional initial investment of 100 in the shares and including any distribution of dividends.
Total shareholder return for Royal & SunAlliance, FTSE World Europe Insurance Index and FTSE 100 Index 150 Performance over the 24 months to 31 December 2006 220 12 0 190 90 160 60 13 0 100 30 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2004 2005 2006 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Royal & SunAlliance FTSE World Europe Insurance Index FTSE 100
