SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate information Remuneration report 35 for the year ended 31 December 2006 Introduction This report deals with the remuneration paid to the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2006 including the Companys executive Director, Andrew Williams.
It also addresses the policy for future remuneration of the Directors.
This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 as inserted by the Directors Remuneration regulations 2002 and a resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees members during the year were Francis Finlay Chairman, Anthony Habgood and Denis Raeburn, all considered by the Board to be independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and invites selected executives and advisers to attend as appropriate.
Meetings held during the year were attended by all members of the Committee, none of which participated in any discussions or decisions regarding their own remuneration.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy for executives, including executive Directors of the SVG Group the Group and the operation of the Companys Executive Share Option Plan.
Its terms of reference take into account the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP and Towers Perrin, independent remuneration consultants, to advise it.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP also provides advice on the operation of the Companys share schemes.
The terms of reference of the Committee are set out on page 44 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Appointment, re-appointment and re-election of Directors All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter Directors retire by rotation at least every three years.
The Chairman meets with each Director before a Director is proposed for re-election, and, subject to the evaluation of performance carried out each year, the Board agrees whether it is appropriate for that Director to seek an additional term.
When recommending whether an individual Director should seek re-election, the Board will take into account the provisions of the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its committees.
Policy on the remuneration of non-executive Directors Remuneration paid to non-executive Directors is determined by the Board and reviewed each year.
When considering remuneration levels, the Board will consider, amongst other things, industry practice and contribution to various committees and time spent on the business of the Company.
Policy on the remuneration of executive Directors The Committees aim is to ensure that remuneration packages should attract, retain and motivate senior executives including executive directors but should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
Basic salaries are set on this basis and the Committee has due regard to competitive market data on similar positions in other private equity organisations and financial institutions this is provided by Towers Perrin.
The Committee is sensitive to wider issues including pay and employment conditions in the Group when setting pay levels.
No executive Director of the Company is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Andrew Williams is the only executive Director of the Company.
The Committees policy is that performance-related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package.
During the year the Committee reviewed the structure of remuneration for the Companys executives.
As a result, the Committee is proposing that future share option grants are replaced by grants of performance shares under a plan which will be presented to shareholders for approval at the 2007 AGM.
A UK HM Revenue & Customs approved all-employee Share Investment Plan will also be presented to shareholders for approval at the AGM.
Full details of both plans are set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying the Notice of AGM.
The basic salary of executive Directors is reviewed annually, having regard to individual performance and comparative market data.
In addition, they are eligible for a non-pensionable discretionary bonus, which is conditional on Group performance and the achievement of predetermined personal objectives based on the successful implementation of the business plan and strategies agreed by the Board.
The normal maximum annual bonus for an executive Director has been set at 300% of salary.
The bonus limit of 300% will also apply in respect of the current financial year.
Benets in kind which are not pensionable relate to the provision of health insurance and life assurance cover.
External appointments The Company permits executive Directors of the Company to accept limited non-executive directorships and other similar appointments, it being recognised that such appointments increase their commercial knowledge and business experience to the general benefit of the Company.
Fees earned from such directorships may be retained by the executive Directors.
Andrew Williams was, throughout the year, a non-executive Director of CDC Group plc.
Directors fees of 26,000 for this appointment are retained by Mr Williams.
Service contracts Andrew Williams, the only executive Director, does not have a service contract with the Company.
He is employed by Schroder Investment Management Limited SIM and is seconded to the Group.
His contract with SIM provides for three months notice and does not include liquidated damages provisions.
Mr Williams contract with SIM is dated 1 March 2004.
It is the Companys policy to have regard to the duty of a departing executive Director to mitigate his loss when determining the level of any termination payment.
SVG Capital plc Corporate information Annual Report and Accounts 2006 36 Remuneration report continued Performance graph The Companies Act 1985 requires this report to include a performance graph comparing the Companys total shareholder return performance against that of a broad equity market index.
For this purpose, the Committee has decided that the FTSE All-Share Index is the most appropriate available index for comparative purposes because it is the principal index in which the Companys shares are quoted.
Total shareholder return 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 30 June 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2002 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 SVG Capital FTSE All-Share Index Sour Source: Datastream ce: Datastream This graph looks at the value, by the end of 2006, of 100 invested in SVG Capital on 30 June 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intermediate financial year-ends.
Pension arrangements The following gures, prepared in accordance with UK legislation and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, applies to Andrew Williams who was a member of Schroders Retirement Benets Scheme in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006, during which he was an executive Director of the Company.
No pension contributions are payable by Mr Williams.
Executive Directors pensions Transfer value at 31 December 2006 in respect Increase in Increase of increase Accrued Increase in accrued Accrued Transfer in transfer Transfer in accrued benefit at accrued benefit due benefit at value at value net value at benefit 31 December benefit due to other 31 December 31 December of directors 31 December excluding 2005 to ination factors 2006 2005 contributions 2006 ination 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 A C Williams 102 4 2 108 1,547 311 1,858 43 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
Transfer values are liabilities of the relevant pension fund rather than amounts due to be paid to the executive Directors or liabilities of the Company.
Directors remuneration The emoluments of the Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 were as specified below: Total Total emoluments emoluments Year to Year to Salary Benets Annual 31 December 31 December & fees in kind bonus 2006 2005 000 000 000 000 000 N E H Ferguson 180 180 392 A C Williams 307 1 700 1,008 848 D Bufni 25 25 16 F Finlay 36 36 32 A J Habgood 36 36 36 E W Koning 23 23 24 J J McLachlan 46 D Raeburn 36 36 36 C Sinclair 36 36 35 Aggregate emoluments 679 1 700 1,380 1,465 This forms part of the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
Nicholas Ferguson retired as an executive director and became the Chairman of the Company at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting held on 25 April 2005.
His remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2005 includes Chairmans fees of 120,000.
Bonuses include provision for amounts accrued but not paid in each year.
Annual bonuses are awarded in respect of calendar years.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Corporate information 37 Share options So as to link a significant proportion of their remuneration to the long-term stock market performance of the Company and to the achievement of predetermined financial targets, it has been the policy of the Committee that the interests of the executive Directors and other executives of the Group are aligned with shareholders through the operation of the Companys Executive Share Option Plan, which was introduced at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 3 May 2001.
It is proposed that a new performance share plan will be introduced at the 2007 AGM to replace future grants of options.
If approved, the new plan will be utilised to make awards of performance shares regularly to qualifying employees and secondees of the Group and the Committee will determine grant levels, taking into account the development of the business and individual performance in the preceding financial year.
The policy on granting awards under the new plan is intended to be broadly the same as under the Executive Share Option Plan, with the same limit applying to the value of shares that may be awarded in any one year.
However, signicantly tougher targets for growth will be set for future grants of performance shares.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are not eligible to be granted share incentives.
Options granted to Nicholas Ferguson in earlier years relate to his previous role as an executive Director of the Company.
All options have been granted at the prevailing market price around the time of grant.
Options are exercisable subject to appropriate performance targets being met.
Performance conditions have been met.
For options granted in 2006, the target is for growth in the Companys net asset value per ordinary share to exceed the growth in the Retail Prices Index plus 4% per annum over the three years from the date of grant.
If the performance target is not satisfied on the third anniversary of the date of grant it will lapse i. e. there will be no retesting of this performance condition.
This change was introduced from 2005 to reect best practice.
For all options granted up to the end of March 2004, performance targets have been met.
The mid-market price of shares at 31 December 2006 was 834.5p and the range during the year was 695.0p to 839.0p.
All of the above options were granted for nil consideration.
The number of options in issue or exercised at 31 December 2006 in respect of current and former executive Directors represented 3.0% 2005: 3.1% of issued share capital.
It is not anticipated that the value of performance shares to be granted in any financial year will exceed two times an individuals remuneration, including bonuses.
The performance of the net asset value of the Company has been chosen as the target in order to align the interests of executive Directors and other executives of the Group with shareholders interests.
External advisers will confirm the performance criteria calculations for the Committee, which will be measured on a consistent basis.
The Company has established an employee benefit trust to enable it to purchase shares in the market to satisfy options exercised by employees of the Group.
New shares will be issued in respect of options exercised by seconded individuals.
The Board will regularly review the benefit of using the trust to make market purchases.
On behalf of the Board Francis Finlay Chairman, Remuneration Committee 5 April 2007
