Report on Directors Remuneration The Report on Directors Remuneration Professional advice The Companys policy is to pay high sets out Tullett Prebon plcs unaudited variable remuneration reflecting remuneration policy, the composition During the year the Remuneration superior corporate and individual and role of its Remuneration Committee received advice from performance and to minimise the Committee and details of directors Halliwell Consulting and Allen & Overy proportion of remuneration which is remuneration for the year ended LLP in relation to executive share fixed.
It has been incentive arrangements.
Both were represent a core component of the prepared in accordance with Schedule appointed by the Committee for this Companys approach to remuneration.
7A of the Companies Act 1985 and the purpose.
Allen & Overy LLP also provide Revised Combined Code, and will be put other forms of legal advice to the Group.
The policy takes account of general to shareholders for approval at the practices within the Companys sector.
Annual General Meeting on 7 June 2007.
Remuneration policy Bonuses are discretionary and are not unaudited formally capped and it is considered The Companies Act 1985 requires the The Companys remuneration policy is that both of these features are in the auditors to report to the Companys to provide packages which are designed best interests of shareholders.
members on certain parts of the to attract, motivate and retain directors remuneration report and to executive directors who have the The Remuneration Committee has state whether in their opinion those necessary skills and experience to normally followed certain guidelines in parts of the report have been properly achieve high levels of profit and returns.
determining the amounts available for prepared in accordance with the Act.
The policy takes account of general bonuses to be paid to executive The report has therefore been divided practice in the financial services sector directors.
This involves the application into separate sections for audited and and it is considered that failure to do of a formula based on the extent to unaudited information.
so would not be in the interests of which the performance in a period has shareholders.
As a general principle, generated returns in excess of the cost Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee favours of capital, relative shareholder returns unaudited highly variable remuneration that is and absolute share price performance.
During 2006, the Remuneration dependent on performance.
The total amount available is then Committee comprised Michael Fallon allocated to executive directors, Chairman, Richard Kilsby, Bernard The remuneration policy set out below depending on the Remuneration Leaver and John Spencer, all of whom is that which applied during the year Committees view of their contribution are independent Non-executive ended 31 December 2006 and is to the performance achieved, the Directors.
Rupert Robson, who is also an intended to remain the same for the achievement of objectives, sector independent Non-executive Director, next and subsequent financial years, comparables and other factors it joined the Committee on 1 February although it will be subject to review considers appropriate.
Following changes in the Revised by the Committee.
Combined Code, Keith Hamill, who was The Committee may increase or reduce independent at appointment, became Executive directors remuneration the total amount available for a member of the Committee in packages comprise fixed and variable distribution as discretionary bonuses November 2006.
Terry Smith attends elements, as shown below.
depending upon its views on meetings by invitation, but neither he performance compared with market nor Keith Hamill are present when their Base salary circumstances, previous periods, own remuneration is being discussed.
unaudited achievement of objectives, competitive Base salary is a fixed component levels of bonuses and other factors The Remuneration Committee is of executive directors remuneration.
which it considers appropriate to take responsible, on behalf of the Board, Executive directors base salaries are into account.
for developing policy on executive reviewed annually by the Remuneration remuneration and the framework on Committee.
The Remuneration Committee which that policy is applied.
The determined that total bonus levels for remuneration of the Chairman of the Terry Smiths basic annual salary for directors for 2006 should take into Company is also determined by the 2006 was 650,000.
Louis Scottos basic account, in particular, the return on Remuneration Committee.
annual salary for 2006 was 447,000. capital employed achieved by Collins Paul Mainwarings basic annual salary Stewart Tullett plc in excess of its cost The Committee meets at least three for 2006 was 275,000. of capital and total shareholder returns times a year, and more often if necessary.
compared to other companies in the Four meetings were held during 2006.
Following the demerger of Collins sector.
In 2006 Collins Stewart Tullett Stewart plc on 19 December 2006, Terry plcs total shareholder return of 54.6% The Committees terms of reference are Smith will also receive fees in respect of calculated using the Collins Stewart available on the Companys website or, his chairmanship of Collins Stewart plc.
Tullett plc share price at the start of on request, from the Company Secretary, 2006 and the combined Tullett who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Discretionary performance bonus Prebon plc and Collins Stewart plc share The Chairman of the Remuneration unaudited prices at the end of that year exceeded Committee attends Annual General No director has a contractual the return generated by the FTSE mid Meetings of the Company and is entitlement to a bonus.
250 index by 18.7% and the FTSE available to answer questions raised General Financials index by 9.5%.
18 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006 Awards granted under the Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan EIP, which were outstanding before the demerger, are subject to turnover and operating margin targets, which were considered to continue to provide an appropriate incentive and so were exchanged at the time of the demerger for equivalent awards over ordinary shares in the Company.
The turnover target was adjusted to reflect the transfer of part of the US equities business of the Company to Collins Stewart plc on the demerger.
The operating margin target continued to apply.
Details of the performance conditions, as applicable to the awards granted under the EIP to Louis Scotto, are shown on page 20.
A graph depicting Collins Stewart Long term incentives No share based incentives have been Tullett plcs total shareholder return in unaudited granted to Terry Smith other than comparison to other companies in the Equity incentivisation of staff, including those under the Companys Sharesave FTSE mid 250 index and the FTSE executive directors, continues to be an Scheme 2000, which he exercised in the General Financials index in the five years important part of the Companys course of the year.
This is because he prior to the demerger is shown above.
The Company has the benefit of substantial equity adopted a new discretionary Long Term holdings in the Company acquired The Board believes that the above Incentive Plan at the time of the pursuant to the management buy-out indices are most relevant to the demerger, which provides for of Collins Stewart Limited in May 2000.
Company as they comprise either performance-related options to be No share options have yet been granted businesses of similar size or engaged granted at an exercise price if any to Paul Mainwaring.
This policy may in the financial services industry.
determined by the Remuneration change in the future.
Future grants will take account of the prevailing market Details of the number of shares over practice and the views of institutional which share options were held by shareholders.
directors who held office at the end of the year are set out below: Directors share options audited Shares under Shares under Lapsed option at option at Granted Exercised unexercised Exercise Date from Date of Name of 1 January 31 December during during during price which first expiry of director Type of option 2006 2006 period period period per share exercisable option Terry Sharesave Scheme i Smith 2000 5,779 Nil 5,779 292p 1.1.
14 iii Scotto Equity Incentive Tranche 1 Plan iv Louis Tullett Liberty 10,106 13,703 Nil 8.1.
14 iii Scotto Equity Incentive Tranche 2 Plan iv Louis Tullett Liberty 366,263 496,623 1 in total 1.1.
08 12.10.14 iii Scotto Equity Incentive Tranche 3 Plan Notes: i The market price at the date of exercise was 605.5p.
ii The market price at the date of exercise of 18,018 shares was 806p.
The market price at the date of exercise of 101,982 shares was 700p.
iii Resigned from the Board of the Company 2 February 2007.
Louis Scotto was appointed Chief Executive, Americas on 2 February 2007. iv Following the demerger of Collins Stewart Tullett plc on 19 December 2006, Louis Scottos options over 424,089 Collins Stewart Tullett plc shares, held under the Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan, were converted into options over 575,030 Tullett Prebon plc shares.
Since the year end Louis Scotto has exercised his option under the Tullett Liberty Equity Incentive Plan over 78,407 shares.
The market price on the date the options became exercisable was 630p.
Tullett Prebon plc 19 Annual Report 2006 Report on Directors Remuneration continued No consideration was paid by any of demerger on 19 December 2006, the directors for the grant of any of shareholders received one share in the above share options.
Vesting of the Tullett Prebon plc and one share in share options granted to Louis Scotto Collins Stewart plc for each Collins under the EIP as at the year end was Stewart Tullett plc share previously subject to the performance conditions held.
Between 19 December and the summarised below: year end, the lowest price of Tullett Prebon plc ordinary shares was 642p Vesting conditions and the highest price was 660p.
At An option will only vest if the 31 December 2006 it was 650p.
Operating Margin Target is satisfied.
The maximum number of shares in Pensions respect of which the option may vest audited is calculated based on the highest No pension benefits were paid to either Operating Margin Target achieved in Terry Smith or Paul Mainwaring during any financial year during the 2006, although Paul Mainwaring is performance period, with full vesting eligible to join the Tullett Prebon Group only taking place at an Operating Personal Pension Plan, a defined Margin of 18%.
An option will only vest contribution scheme.
Pensions if Turnover is at least equal to 650m contributions of 6,600 were paid in during the financial year the Turnover respect of Stephen Jack in 2006 2005: Target, other than in the event that an 6,000.
No other pension benefits Acquisition is made.
Assuming all the were paid to directors during 2006. performance conditions are satisfied, the option shall vest and be capable of Other benefits exercise twenty-four months after the audited end of the financial year in which the In 2006, Terry Smith and Stephen Jack Operating Margin Target has been met, received private medical cover to the subject to the earliest exercise date value of 991 and 587 respectively.
This is shown under Benefits in the Total Emoluments table.
After the year end, the vesting conditions were amended such that the None of the executive directors has Operating Margin Target for Tranche 3 the exclusive benefit of a car financed was brought into line with that of by the Company.
Tranches 1 and 2, and the Turnover Target was reduced to 625m to reflect Directors service contracts the transfer of part of the US equities unaudited business to Collins Stewart plc.
In compliance with the Revised Combined Code, no directors notice The market price of Collins Stewart period exceeds twelve months.
Tullett plcs ordinary shares ranged from a low of 593p to a high of 910.5p Details of directors contracts are set during the year.
As a result of the out below: Director Date of contract Notice period Terry Smith 29 January 2007 Twelve months Paul Mainwaring 25 September 2006 Twelve months Keith Hamill 22 September 2000 Twelve months David Clark 10 March 2003 Twelve months Michael Fallon 24 August 2004 Twelve months Richard Kilsby 3 June 2005 Twelve months Bernard Leaver 9 July 2003 Twelve months John Spencer 22 September 2000 Twelve months Rupert Robson 4 January 2007 Twelve months The Executive Directors contracts provide for automatic retirement at age 65.
20 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2006 Non-executive directors fees Termination payments and payments unaudited to third parties Terms and conditions of non-executive audited directors are determined by the Board.
Stephen Jack resigned as a Director In reviewing levels of fees paid to the on 13 November 2006 and received non-executive directors, the Board 280,000 compensation for loss considers both the committee and of office.
other responsibilities of the relevant directors and the fees paid to No other termination payments or non-executive directors of other similar payments to third parties were made.
The Boards policy is to set a higher level of fees for those non-executive directors who act as Chairmen of Board committees.
With effect from 19 December 2006, the Chairmans fee was increased from 130,000 pa to 150,000 pa. Committee Chairmens fees were increased from 36,000 pa to 45,000 pa with effect from 1 November 2006.
Other non-executive directors fees were increased from 32,000 pa to 40,000 pa with effect from 1 November 2006.
As this is based upon the performance of the former Collins Stewart Tullett plc, Collins Stewart plc will contribute 1m, and Tullett Prebon plc 2.85m.
ii Stephen Jack resigned from Collins Stewart Tullett plcs board on 13 November 2006.
The above table does not include pension contributions in respect of Stephen Jack of 6,600 2005: 6,000. iii Payment relates to Terry Hitchcock who resigned from Collins Stewart Tullett plcs board on 31 March 2005.
On behalf of the Board Michael Fallon Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 March 2007 Tullett Prebon plc 21 Annual Report 2006
