Remuneration Report Unaudited information To accomplish British Lands performance goals and the shift in The Remuneration Committee consists of: Dr Christopher Gibsonbusiness model, the Company is engaged in a process of management Smith, Sir Derek Higgs, David Michels, Lord Turnbull and Kate Swann.
renewal and culture change, targeting a high performance, open and Sir Derek chaired the Committee until 30 September 2005, when meritocratic culture where its people are motivated individually and Dr Gibson-Smith replaced him as chairman.
Sir Derek will retire from as a team to outperform competitors, subject to maintenance of the Board at the 2006 AGM.
Lord Burns served on the Committee quality and security overall.
until his resignation from the Board on 30 September 2005.
Lord Turnbull and Kate Swann were appointed to the Committee following Pay philosophy their appointment to the Board on 1 April 2006.
It is important that pay policy reinforces the Companys goals, The Remuneration Committee took advice during the year providing strong incentives for exceptional Company, team and from Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited Hewitt, Sir John Ritblat, individual performance with significant upward and downward Stephen Hester and John Weston Smith.
Committee appointed Hewitt as adviser to the Committee.
Hewitt As well as motivation to perform, pay plays an important retention also acts as actuary to the British Land Group Final Salary Pension role and hence needs to be competitive with alternative employment.
Scheme and gives advice on share scheme and personnel policy This is particularly so as British Lands demands on staff are rising matters to the Company.
The Committee has considered the and the surge in interest in property from elsewhere has put potential conflict of interest, believes there is none and continues to increasing scarcity value on proven performers.
It is also important to have strong alignment of management incentives with goals that matter to British Lands shareholders and Statement of Companys policy on directors remuneration with shareholder returns via share ownership.
Directors remuneration packages comprise a fixed part of basic Failure to incentivise, retain and align management with salary and benefits: and an annual bonus and long-term incentive plan.
shareholders would make relative outperformance particularly Following Stephen Hesters appointment as Chief Executive and difficult to achieve.
Reflecting its goals, the policy is to set base pay the acquisition of Pillar Property PLC, the Committee has reviewed at norms consistent with the Companys FTSE position with the Companys Remuneration Policy.
This review has shown the need appropriate variance for specialist positions, but to provide bonus to update the policy to integrate the two companies and promote and LTIP incentive levels that would move overall pay above median the Companys revised business strategy and objectives.
As a result toward upper quartile if performance so merits.
the Committee is proposing, for shareholder approval, two new share-based plans and an update of the existing long-term incentive Effects of the Pillar acquisition plan rules.
Following the acquisition of Pillar and British Lands change of strategy and management approach set out at the 2004 5 Year End i Remuneration policy review and proposals Results, the Remuneration Policy and structures need to be British Land is an industry leader and a mid FTSE100 Company.
Its revised to unite the two employee groups.
An important part of the goal is to manage the Company to achieve sustained outperformance acquisition rationale was to speed management and cultural renewal.
Pillar also brought with it a major fund management business whose The business model is people light and asset heavy it leverages economics depend on outperformance and whose investor base is the work, skill and judgement of a relatively small staff over a large keenly interested in management motivation and alignment.
value of efficiently financed assets.
The strategy and business changes introduced in 2005 are designed to emphasise the human value Proposed pay structure added in order to lift performance at the property level, whilst a It is intended to operate a total remuneration approach, flexibly retaining efficient translation to profits and net asset value via interpreted.
In particular this means taking account of salary financial and fiscal structure.
differences and other benefits such as pension provision, when setting variable pay, bonus and long-term incentive awards.
b The setting of clear and stretching Targets and Goals for the Companys key people is being emphasised together with their linkage to pay and career progression.
This approach has been George Bernard Shaw 18561950 Photogravure, 1904, by Alvin Langdon Coburn extended to all the Companys senior management staff.
Shaw was the leading playwright of his generation: formidably intellectual, he c The current salary approach, targeting around market median was also a critic of art, music, drama and literature, a committed socialist and with exceptional performance to be rewarded via incentive pay is an influential member of the Fabian Society.
Active as a dramatist even into his 90s, his plays included Arms and the Man 1894, Candida 1897, Man and being maintained.
It should be noted however that individual Superman and Major Barbara both 1905 and Pygmalion 1913, which last salaries may vary from median, based on a combination of hiring was filmed, improbably, as My Fair Lady.
Shaw devoted much of his prodigious need and job specifics.
energy to the question of spelling reform though preferring to write his own plays in shorthand and funded the development of a new phonetic alphabet called Shavian.
Surprisingly, it failed to gain widespread adoption.
The British Land Company PLC 57 Remuneration Report d British Lands bonus structure was well below Pillars and has Impact on Director Compensation Structure become uncompetitive in the wider market place.
A key goal is The above policy involves: to encourage high performance and having greater scope to differentiate via bonus is an important tool for the Company.
Raising the executive director bonus target by 25% of salary to potential as a proportion of pay is therefore being increased with 65% and the ceiling to 110% but introducing payment of 33% of significant individual variability around seniority functional norms, future bonuses in fully vested shares subject to a three year and set with performance and market data in mind.
The Chief Executives target is similarly raised by 25% to 90% with a new ceiling of 135%.
e In order to increase shareholder alignment it is proposed to introduce a matched share arrangement targeted at executive 2.
Introduction of the minimum shareholding requirement set out committee members and, by invitation, other key senior above for directors of approximately 125% of salary 175% for the contributors to the Company.
To provide shares against which to match, part of the annual bonus for participants will be delivered in the form of shares in the 3.
Putting in place the CRISP replacement scheme available for fund Company which must be held for a three-year period, to reinforce management executives, subject to the Long-Term Incentive Plan the focus on long-term Company performance.
This may, from time to time, include one or more executive directors to the extent their responsibilities include Fund f The individual variability of Long-Term Incentive Plan awards to Management.
staff based on performance and potential is being increased, reducing Long-Term Incentive Plan awards overall, based on 4.
Introduction of a compulsory three year bonus deferral payable greater skewing toward key business contributors.
in shares on one third of directors annual bonuses, plus a share matching scheme for that one third in shares with three year g The cost to the Company of the British Land defined pension vesting and performance conditions.
scheme is some 35-40% of salary, though research the Company has undertaken revealed that few individuals value it as highly.
Details of items 3 and 4 are more fully described in the 2006 AGM It is not planned to admit new employees to the British Land Final Notice of Meeting.
Existing entitlements will be retained by the members, with freedom to transfer to a new Defined ii Basic salary and benefits Contribution Scheme.
Contributions to this scheme are at a flat Basic salary and benefits in kind for each executive director are rate of 15% of salary and paid by the Company.
In certain reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, taking account circumstances it may be necessary to pay higher contributions of the directors performance and responsibilities.
The Committee considers basic salary levels against two peer groups.
For roles where corporate size and scope characteristics h A new long-term incentive scheme is needed to replace CRISP, drive duties, basic pay levels and recruitment sources, a peer group the Pillar long-term scheme which lapsed on acquisition.
This of major UK companies across market sectors with a median market needs to align the interests of the fund management executives capitalisation comparable to British Land is used to establish basic running the Companys external unit trusts with the Funds salary levels.
investors, of which British Land is also the largest.
These For other posts, the Committee will look at pay levels at other executives will also be Long-Term Incentive Plan eligible but 80% organisations such as agents, fund managers or comparably sized of the value of any Long-Term Incentive Plan awards will be offset support functions to match with roles of comparable speciality, against the CRISP type incentives when paid.
scope and responsibility to those within British Land.
This reflects the people light and asset heavy business model, with the Company i A Minimum Shareholding Guideline is being introduced with leveraging the work, skill and judgement of a head office staff of approximately 175% of base salary to be held in vested shares by some 200 employees over a large asset base.
the Chief Executive and 125% for other executive directors.
There Basic salaries are targeted around the median of the relevant is no set timescale required to reach the target but this should be peer group in both cases.
The Remuneration Committee commissions achieved through the regular additions anticipated by bonus and pay surveys from time to time to ensure pay is correctly positioned Long-Term Incentive Plan awards.
Shares cannot be sold until against the market.
Appropriate increases are made to the base the target is reached other than for tail-swallowing to meet salary in order to reflect individual merit whilst remaining competitive exercise price foroptions and tax due foroptions and performance with the market.
shares but no purchases are required either to reach the level or to respond to share price falls.
The number value of shares required as the target will be fixed once a year.
58 The British Land Company PLC Remuneration Report The total pay position is analysed by looking across each of the Association of British Insurers, permits either market value options or different elements of pay: basic salary, annual bonus awards, performance shares, which are similar to restricted shares, to be pension and long-term incentives.
This provides the Committee with awarded, as may suit the Company from time to time.
The option a total remuneration view rather than just the competitiveness of the section of the Plan comprises an Inland Revenue approved part and individual pay elements and may vary widely to correspond to the an unapproved part.
The rules of the scheme require options to be need of the role and the performance delivered.
valued at one third of a share.
The Company has been advised that In using salary and other remuneration data the Committee is options have a present value equivalent to approximately onemindful against unnecessary ratcheting up the remuneration levels quarter of the value of performance shares.
A resolution will be put to whilst properly incentivising performance and being able to attract the 2006 AGM to allow the valuation of options to be varied by the and retain the best people.
The Committee also has regard to Remuneration Committee following changes to market conditions economic factors, remuneration trends and the level of pay and certified by external experts.
Under the Plan, the Company may increases throughout the Company when determining directors pay.
award a maximum notional value of 150% of base salary in performance shares each year or the equivalent value of base salary iii Annual incentive plan prior to changes outlined in i above in options each year the latter under current estimations being The annual incentive plan consists of a cash bonus payable to option grants over shares worth 600% of base salary.
The annual executive directors reflecting the individuals contribution to the limit will be set with both the options and performance shares Company during the preceding year and team performance.
components of the Plan taken together.
At least one-third of any The target award level for the Chief Executive was 65% of award made each year has consisted of each of performance shares salary for 2004 5 pro rata and 2005 6, increasing to 75% for 2006 7 and options, though this proportion may be varied between 0% and and thereafterwith a normal maximum award of 100% of salary.
Target 100% at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
award levels forthe otherexecutive directors were 40% of base salary Grants made under the Plan are subject to a prescribed forabove satisfactory performance and 75% of salary foroutstanding performance condition upon which the exercise of options and the performance.
The awards are not contractual and are not pensionable.
vesting of performance shares will be contingent except that grants The Remuneration Committees approach to setting bonuses is may be made without any performance condition if required to two-fold.
Each individuals performance is considered in relation to facilitate the recruitment of a new executive.
the goals agreed for their specific areas of responsibility, such as: The performance condition attaching to options and share awards the success of purchases and sales measures the growth in the Companys net asset value per share the value added from development activity against the capital growth component of the Investment Property lettings and rent reviews Databank Annual Index, over a performance period of three years financings obtained commencing the year in which the options and share awards are capital markets activities granted.
Growth in the Companys net asset value per share must control over the Groups finances and accounts exceed that of the Index for a minimum proportion of the options to be management of administrative services and human resources.
exercised and or performance shares to vest.
The Company is geared while the index is not and therefore stretching out-performance is The Committee also considers team contributions made by required for the entire award to vest.
The downward move in property each individual to overall corporate performance, using as yields relative to interest rates has in fact significantly increased the external indicators: performance stretch required by this measure looking forward.
Hewitt total return share price and NAV based relative to property undertakes the measurement of performance and submits a report to majors and relevant indices the Company showing the results for each specific award.
rental growth from reviews and new lettings relative to ERV and sector norms The performance hurdles are: operating costs as a percentage of rents and assets against Percentage by which the average annual growth of prior year and property majors British Lands Net Asset Value per share exceeds the average annual increase in the capital growth component EPS relative to prior year, to forecast and to other property of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index Percentage vesting majors adjusting for any distorting items.
5% or more 100% 4% or more but less than 5% 80% These factors are then aggregated by the Committee into 3% or more but less than 4% 60% 2% or more but less than 3% 40% individual bonus awards on a subjective basis, though supported 1% or more but less than 2% 20% by the objective individual data points.
The Committee believes More than 0% but less than 1% 10% that it is not desirable to apply more rigid mathematical formula to 0% or less 0% bonus determination.
The Committee reviews these performance conditions on a regular iv Long-term incentives basis to ensure they are both sufficiently stretching and remain The Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, approved by shareholders in relevant to the Companys strategic objectives.
2003, following consultation with shareholders facilitated by the The British Land Company PLC 59 Remuneration Report In light of the proposed introduction of Real Estate Investment Trusts Chief Executive into the UK, the 2006 AGM resolution will also give the Remuneration Distribution of total On Target Annual Remuneration Committee discretion to make consequential changes to the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan: this will include the discretion to exchange existing options outstanding for equivalent value performance shares 17.2% and adjust NAV data for Plan purposes to remove the effect of any 5.3% relevant one off financial or tax charges incurred on, or in anticipation 40.8% of, conversion should British Land propose to convert to REIT status.
Base salary Similarly the performance hurdles would be adjusted if justified to 36.7% Bonus reflect the revised dividend requirement of REITs.
It will also give the Share matching plan Remuneration Committee discretion to amend the performance Long-term incentive plan target for extant Long-Term Incentive Plan awards where there are circumstances which have made the existing target unfair or Executive Directors impracticable.
Any such changes would be reported in the next Distribution of total On Target Annual Remuneration Remuneration Report.
The long-term incentive plans that have been used in the past are an Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and a Restricted Share Plan 19.4% RSP.
No further awards have been made under the ESOS or the RSP, following the adoption of the Long-Term Incentive Plan by 4.3% 46.3% shareholders at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
Base salary Under the ESOS, market value options were granted at the 30.0% Bonus discretion of the Committee.
Options became exercisable after three Share matching plan years or five years in certain cases, dependent on the performance Long-term incentive plan target being met.
The performance target, agreed following consultation with the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, required growth in net asset value per share over a rolling three-year period equal to or exceeding the Performance graph growth in the capital growth component of the Investment Property The graph below is prepared in accordance with The Directors Databank Annual Index.
No options have been granted under this Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It shows the Companys scheme since 1996. total return and that of the FTSE Real Estate Sector Total Return Under the RSP, executives and directors were granted provisional Index for the five years from 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2006. interests in securities of the Company that vest according to The FTSE Real Estate Sector Index was chosen because that is performance against a target, agreed following consultation with the where the shares of the Company are classified.
Hewitt prepared the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension graph based on underlying data provided by Datastream.
This target requires growth in net asset value per share over a rolling three-year period equal to or exceeding the growth in the capital growth component of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index.
No awards have been made under this scheme since 2003.
There is a stepped incentive scale in bands of achievement as follows: Percentage by which the average annual growth of Relevant percentage British Lands Net Asset Value per share exceeds the to be applied to number average annual increase in the capital growth component of ordinary shares of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index provisionally granted 5% or more 150% 4% or more but less than 5% 125% 3% or more but less than 4% 100% 2% or more but less than 3% 75% 1% or more but less than 2% 50% 0% or more but less than 1% 25% Less than 0% 0% Fixed variable pay analysis The following summarisesthe annual package and relative importance of its components for each executive director.
The analysis uses methodology from Hewitt, common to their work with other major companies to derive the expected value of variable compensation.
This takes account of vesting periods and related performance conditions.
60 The British Land Company PLC Remuneration Report Directors contracts Nicholas Ritblat resigned from the Board on 31 August 2005.
The policy of the Company is to have service contracts with notice He has a consultancy agreement with the Company for twelve periods of one year.
It is sometimes necessary when recruiting a new months thereafter, paying a salary of 20,000 per month.
It also director to give a service contract with an initial term of longer than provided for a success payment equal to 0.1% of the consideration one year.
In such circumstances it is the policy of the Company that received for the disposal of the Residential portfolio.
Accordingly, the notice period should reduce to one year after an initial period Nicholas Ritblat received 299,730 on 9 March 2006. of service.
The Company applies the principle of mitigation in the event of Chairmans remuneration early termination of service contracts.
The divisions of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Stephen Hester has a service contract dated 26 July 2004 and Executive, prepared in accordance with the provisions and good Graham Roberts has a service contract dated 19 November 2001, practice guidelines of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, both of which provide for one years notice.
have been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
This Patrick Vaughan has a service contract with Pillar Property Group included the transitional arrangements.
Since this division of Limited dated 1 July 1994, as amended by a side letter dated responsibilities Sir John Ritblat no longer participates in any future 8 August 2005.
It provides for termination of employment to occur on grants under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
His salary for the year to 28 July 2006, or earlier on one months notice from either party.
31 March 2007 will reflect the transition to the Chairman role.
Sir John Ritblat, John Weston Smith and Robert Bowden do not have service contracts with the Company, as they have reached age Non-executive directors 60.
Mr Weston Smith will be retiring at the 2006 AGM.
There are no The remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the arrangements in place for compensation in respect of salary, annual executive members of the Board.
Their remuneration comprises a bonus and benefits in kind in the event of termination of these standard directors fee, a fee for additional responsibilities and an individuals employment.
attendance fee based on the number of meetings attended during There are no further provisions for compensation payable on the year.
The remuneration provided takes into account the level of termination of service contracts of directors.
There has been no responsibility, experience and abilities required and the marketplace compensation paid to departing directors during the year.
for similar positions in comparable companies.
2 To 30 September 2005, date of cessation of office.
3 From 28 July 2005, date of appointment.
Emoluments do not include distributions arising from share plan interests.
Robert Bowdens basic salary was adjusted to reflect his increased property responsibilities on the transition of the Chairman from an executive role and the Groups increased property activities.
Graham Roberts basic salary was adjusted to bring it in line with the market median and in recognition of the increasing responsibility and requirements within the finance function.
Benefits in kind include company car, car allowance, private medical insurance and permanent health insurance.
Bonus payments to executive directors for 2005 6 averaged 79% of salary compared to the on target and maximum levels described on page 59.
These bonus levels were individually set reflecting high levels of successful business activity during the year, leading to substantial outperformance for shareholders, very strong and above trend financial results, and the related strong performance of individuals against their specific responsibilities.
In each case both the Company results and individuals contributions were assessed to have beaten the targets agreed by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the year.
The measures used for bonus determination are set out on page 59 of the Remuneration Report.
The accomplishments relative to these measures are set out fully elsewhere in the Annual Report where the activities of the Company in 2005 6 are described.
Sir John Ritblat is non-executive Chairman of Colliers CRE PLC and retained earnings from that position of 61,471 for the year to 31 December 2005 2004: 66,398.
Pension related payments to Stephen Hester, Nicholas Ritblat, Graham Roberts and Patrick Vaughan are shown in the Directors pension benefits for the year ended 31 March 2006, below.
The British Land Company PLC 61 Remuneration Report Directors and their interests in share and loan capital Beneficial interests of the directors in the share and loan capital of the Company.
2 On 30 September 2005, date of cessation of office.
3 On 28 July 2005, date of appointment to office.
On 11 April 2006 Sir Derek Higgs was allotted 120 fully paid ordinary 25p shares, Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith was allotted 478 shares and David Michels was allotted 401 shares, all in satisfaction of directors fees for the quarter ended 31 March 2006.
The shares allotted were priced at the middle market quotation at close of business on 5 April 2006, which was 1249p per share.
On 18 April 2006 Sir John Ritblat, John Weston Smith, Robert Bowden and Graham Roberts each purchased 9 ordinary 25p shares in the Company at a price of 1274p per share under the Partnership element of the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Accordingly, they were each awarded 18 Matching ordinary shares of 25p in the Company, at a price of 1274p per share.
On 15 May 2006 Sir John Ritblat, John Weston Smith, Robert Bowden and Graham Roberts each purchased 10 ordinary 25p shares in the Company at a price of 1268p per share under the Partnership element of the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
Accordingly, they were each awarded 20 Matching ordinary shares of 25p in the Company, at a price of 1268p per share.
The aggregate amount of gains made by directors on the exercise of share options was 2,621,487 2005: 18,055.
The aggregate value of distributions to directors in relation to the Restricted Share Plan was 4,409,968 2005: 5,122,980.
The middle market quotation for the ordinary 25p shares of the Company at the close of business on 31 March 2006 was 1241p.
The highest and lowest middle market quotations during the year to 31 March 2006 were 1300p and 791p.
62 The British Land Company PLC Remuneration Report Directors options and share plan interests by date of grant and exercise price i 1984 Share Option Scheme Beneficial interests of the directors under the Companys 1984 Share Option Scheme in ordinary shares of the Company.
No options were granted to directors under the 1984 Share Option Scheme during the year.
On 25 July 2005 Sir John Ritblat exercised his option over 295,783 shares and John Weston Smith exercised his option over 75,000 shares, all at an option price of 394p per share.
The middle market quotation on 25 July 2005 was 856p per share.
Sir John Ritblat continues to hold these shares, realising a notional gain of 462p per share.
John Weston Smith sold these shares on the day of exercise, at a price of 860p per share, realising a gain of 466p per share.
On 2 September 2005 John Weston Smith exercised his option over 75,283 shares, at an option price of 394p per share.
The middle market quotation on the date of exercise was 900p per share.
The shares were sold on the day of exercise at a price of 898p per share, realising a gain of 504p per share.
On 5 September 2005 Nicholas Ritblat exercised his options over 30,000 shares, at an option price of 394p per share.
The middle market quotation on the date of exercise was 909.5p per share.
The shares were sold on the day of exercise at a price of 909.5p per share, realising a gain of 515.5p per share.
On 15 September 2005 Robert Bowden exercised his option over 103,450 shares, at an option price of 394p per share.
The middle market quotation on the date of exercise was 899.5p per share.
The shares were sold on the day of exercise at a price of 902.5p per share, realising a gain of 508.5p per share.
On 27 September 2005 Nicholas Ritblat exercised his option over 29,201 shares, at an option price of 394p per share.
The middle market quotation on the date of exercise was 905.5p per share.
The shares were sold on the day of exercise at a price of 908p per share, realising a gain of 514p per share.
The performance target required the Companys average annual Net Asset Value Growth over three years to equal the average annual increase over three years in the capital growth component of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index.
ii Sharesave Scheme Beneficial interests of the directors under the Companys Sharesave Scheme in ordinary shares of the Company.
The directors participation in the Companys Sharesave scheme, which is not subject to performance criteria, is considered appropriate because the scheme is open to all employees with over 18 months of service.
No options were granted to or were exercised by directors under the Sharesave Scheme during the year.
2,550 options granted to Nicholas Ritblat on 22 December 2004 lapsed on his cessation of office.
The British Land Company PLC 63 Remuneration Report iii Restricted Share Plan Beneficial interests of the directors under the Companys Restricted Share Plan in the ordinary shares of the Company.
The middle market quotation of the ordinary 25p shares of the Company on 23 July 2002 was 530p per share.
Except for Nicholas Ritblat, whose total is at 31 August 2005, date of cessation of office.
The amounts distributed in the year to 31 March 2006 represent the market value of the grant which vested on 25 July 2005 together with dividends arising on the beneficial interests for the year ended 31 March 2006.
On release John Weston Smith sold 59,904 shares, Robert Bowden sold 34,811 shares, Nicholas Ritblat sold 29,009 shares and Graham Roberts sold 29,009 shares, all at a price of 858.4072p per share.
The middle market quotation of the ordinary 25p shares of the Company on 25 July 2005 was 856p per share.
The performance target compares the Companys average annual Net Asset Value Growth over three years against the average annual increase over three years in the capital growth component of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index see page 20. iv Long-Term Incentive Plan Beneficial interests of the directors under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan in the ordinary shares of the Company.
On cessation of office the interests that Nicholas Ritblat held under the Long-Term Incentive Plan vested, subject to the attainment of the performance condition measured over the relevant shorter period and to a pro rata reduction in respect of the period from date of grant to date of cessation of office.
Accordingly, 28,055 performance shares and options over 84,166 shares granted on 25 September 2003 vested and 10,977 performance shares and options over 32,932 shares granted on 28 May 2004 vested, with the remainder lapsing.
On 31 May 2005 Nicholas Ritblat was awarded 35,559 performance shares and options over 106,676 shares, all of which lapsed.
On 4 November 2005 Nicholas Ritblat exercised his option over 32,932 shares, at an option price of 663p per share.
The middle market quotation on the date of exercise was 938.5p per share.
The shares were sold on the day of exercise at a price of 931p per share, realising a gain of 268p per share.
On 17 November 2005 Nicholas Ritblat exercised his option over 34,166 shares, at an option price of 502p per share.
The middle market quotation on the date of exercise was 1013.5p per share.
The shares were sold on the day of exercise at a price of 1001p per share, realising a gain of 499p per share.
On 14 February 2006 Nicholas Ritblat exercised his option over 50,000 shares at an option price of 502p per share.
The middle market quotation on the date of exercise was 1198p per share.
The shares were sold on the day of exercise at a price of 1191.5p per share, realising a gain of 689.5p per share.
The performance target compares British Lands average annual Net Asset Value Growth over three years against the average annual increase over three years in the capital growth component of the Investment Property Databank Annual Index see page 20.
Upon vesting, shares are transferred out of the British Land Share Ownership Plan the Trust, a discretionary trust established to facilitate the operation of the incentive schemes.
The trustees of the Trust purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the open market and rights to dividends on shares held by the Trust under the Restricted Share Plan are payable in accordance with their awards to employees.
Dividends under the Long-Term Incentive Plan are retained by the Trust and are payable to employees only on the vesting of the employees performance shares.
64 The British Land Company PLC Remuneration Report v Recruitment awards In connection with the recruitment of Stephen Hester and to compensate him for loss of previous benefits the Company has made one-off grants as follows: Co-Investment Share Plan On 29 November 2004, Stephen Hester was awarded 61,957 shares under the Co-Investment Share Plan.
These shares conditionally vest on their third anniversary of grant provided he remains in employment.
This award was conditional on the prior acquisition by Stephen Hester of a matching number of shares and requires those shares subsequent retention for a three year period.
Recruitment Award Agreement On 29 November 2004, Stephen Hester was awarded 36,671 shares which vested one year after joining the Company, provided that he remained in employment.
These shares were released on 14 November 2005 following completion of one years employment.
The middle market quotation of the ordinary 25p shares of the Company on 14 November 2005 was 970.5p per share.
vi Rollover options On 17 August 2005 Patrick Vaughan was granted options over 190,662 shares at an option price of 387.4p per share, exercisable between 28 July 2006 and 23 August 2008.
These options were granted in consideration for the surrender by Patrick Vaughan of options over 192,000 ordinary 10p shares of Pillar Property PLC, following the completion of the acquisition of Pillar by British Land on 28 July 2005.
The terms of the option exchange were established by reference to the respective market values of British Land and Pillar shares on 27 July 2005.
Directors pension benefits for the year ended 31 March 2006 Two executive directors, Nicholas Ritblat and Graham Roberts, earned pension benefits in schemes sponsored by the Company during the year.
Stephen Hester receives a sum equal to 35% of his basic salary in lieu of pension contributions, which for the year amounted to 210,000 2005: 80,649.
The Company contributes a sum equal to 15% of Patrick Vaughans basic salary to his individual money purchase pension scheme.
For the period from appointment to 31 March 2006 this amounted to 39,656.
Graham Roberts benefits from the tax-approved scheme are restricted and he is therefore entitled to benefit from the Companys Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme FURBS.
The benefits provided by the FURBS are defined lump sums.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any Company sponsored pension arrangement.
Since the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 came into force, company accounts are subject to two sets of disclosure requirements in relation to directors pensions rather than one.
The extended Companies Act 1985 requirements have to be observed in addition to, not in place of, the current UK Listing Authority requirements.
The requirements differ slightly and these Regulations are expected to remain in force for the time being.
The three tables shown below provide the details of directors pensions necessary to satisfy the two sets of requirements.
Companies Act 1985 Disclosure Requirements Increase in Accrued Transfer value Transfer value transfer value Additional pension pension of accrued of accrued less directors earned during entitlement pension at pension contributions paid The British Land Group of Companies Age at the year at year end start of year at year end during the year Pension Scheme year end pa pa N S J Ritblat 44 10,500 138,000 1,265,600 1,650,600 385,000 G C Roberts 47 3,900 15,000 126,900 204,100 77,200 Increase in Increase in accrued FURBS Total accrued Transfer value of Transfer value of transfer value lump sum FURBS lump sum accrued FURBS accrued FURBS less directors entitlement entitlement lump sum at lump sum contributions paid The British Land Unapproved Age at during the year at year end start of year at year end during the year Retirement Benefits Plan FURBS year end G C Roberts 47 163,000 531,000 235,800 382,300 146,500 See note 3b Nicholas Ritblat left pensionable service on 31 August 2005.
The increases in his accrued pension are for the period 1 April 2005 to 31 August 2005.
The transfer values of his accrued pension at his date of leaving have been valued as at 31 August 2005 using assumptions based on market conditions as at 31 March 2006.
The British Land Company PLC 65 Remuneration Report UK Listing Authority Disclosure Requirements Transfer value of Increase in Transfer value of Increase in accrued additional FURBS accrued pension Total accrued additional pension FURBS lump sum Total accrued lump sum earned during the year pension earned less directors entitlement during FURBS lump sum less directors Premiums paid in excess of entitlement contributions paid the year in excess entitlement contributions paid in respect of Age at inflation at year end during the year of inflation at year end during the year life cover year end pa pa N S J Ritblat 44 7,000 138,000 84,000 1,879 G C Roberts 47 3,600 15,000 49,300 163,000 531,000 117,400 5,076 See note 3b Nicholas Ritblat left pensionable service on 31 August 2005.
The increases in his pension are for the period 1 April 2005 to 31 August 2005.
They have been valued at 31 August 2005 using assumptions based on market conditions as at 31 March 2006.
Notes 1 The total accrued annual pension and FURBS lump sum entitlement shown are those that e Pensions are guaranteed to increase each year in line with the increase in the Retail Prices would be paid on retirement at age 60 based on service to the end of the year.
Index RPI subject to a maximum of 5%.
The Trustees may grant additional discretionary 2 Members of the Scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions.
Neither increases subject to the consent of the Company.
Statutory increases apply to pensions the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
3 The following is additional information relating to directors pensions for those included in f The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance the above table: with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
g Transfer value calculations allow for discretionary pension increases such that, in Tax-approved Scheme aggregate, pension increases in line with increases in the RPI are valued.
a Normal retirement age for pension arrangements is age 60. b Members of the Scheme were not required to pay contributions during the year.
FURBS c Retirement may take place at any age after 50 subject to the consent of both the Company a Normal retirement age for pension arrangements is age 60. and the Trustees of the Scheme.
Pensions are reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
b Retirement may take place at any age after 50 subject to the Companys consent.
Benefits d On death in service, the Scheme provides a capital sum equal to four times salary and a are reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension at age 60.
If a c On death in service, top up lump sums are provided so that, in aggregate, the beneficiary Member is entitled to a deferred pension, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members receives broadly the same value of benefits net of tax as if the earnings cap did not accrued pension is payable on death before or after retirement.
These pensions are paid apply.
On death in deferment, if a spouses or dependants pension is payable from the throughout the spouses lifetime or until the youngest child reaches age 18 or age 23 if in tax-approved scheme a lump sum of two-thirds of the members accrued lump sum is full time education, if later.
d In deferment accrued lump sums are increased in line with statutory increases on pensions in deferment.
This report was approved by the Board on 1 June 2006.
Dr C Gibson-Smith Chairman of the Remuneration Committee James Keir Hardie 18561915 Silver print, 1903, by John Furley Lewis Keir Hardie was one of the greatest orators Parliament has ever known, and until such things were abolished in the 1990s he was a role model for aspiring socialist politicians.
His credentials were impeccable the illegitimate son of a servant, born in a one-roomed cottage, no formal education, worked in the mines as soon as he was old enough seven.
In 1880 he led a strike of Lanarkshire miners that catapulted him into trade unionism and radical journalism.
By 1892, he was the countrys first socialist MP: the following year he became chairman of the Independent Labour Party: from 1906 to 1908 he led the newly formed Parliamentary Labour Party.
The road to Westminster and beyond was an awful lang hike for the laddie from Legbrannock.
66 The British Land Company PLC From his childhood onwards this boy will be surrounded by sycophants and flatterers....
In due course, following the precedent which has already been set, he will be sent on a tour of the world and probably rumours of a morganatic marriage alliance will follow, and the end of it will be the country will be called upon to pay the bill.
James Keir Hardie Opposing a motion congratulating Queen Victoria on the birth of the future Edward VIII
