Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements continued a Accounting policies continued xi Derivative financial instruments derivatives For 2004 05, amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate derivatives are recognised as adjustments to interest over the period of the contract.
Foreign currency borrowings, investments and foreign exchange gains or losses on derivatives held to hedge net assets are carried in the balance sheet at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses in respect of hedging of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings and investments denominated in foreign currencies are taken to reserves.
Gains or losses in respect of hedging of future transactions are deferred and recognised as appropriate when the hedged transaction occurs.
For 2005 06, derivatives are classified as current assets or liabilities when they are deemed to be held for trading.
Derivatives are classified as non-current assets or liabilities where a hedge relationship is identified and the remaining maturity of the hedged item is greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Fair values are derived from market values.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Hedge accounting The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks associated with changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge these risks.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Where hedge accounting is to be applied, the Company formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Company wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting.
The accounting treatment of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting is dependent on how they are designated.
The designations and accounting treatments applicable to the Company are explained below: Fair value hedges The Company uses interest rate swaps to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities.
For 2004 05, derivative financial instruments held to hedge these exposures were accounted for using hedge accounting and were not recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
For 2005 06, derivative financial instruments that meet the fair value hedging requirements are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value with corresponding fair value movements recognised within interest in the income statement.
For an effective fair value hedge, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
To the extent that the designated hedge relationship is fully effective, the amounts in the income statement offset each other.
As a result, only the ineffective element of any designated hedging relationship impacts the income statement.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item for which the effective interest method is used, is amortised to the income statement over the period to maturity.
xii Cash flow statement As permitted by FRS 1 Revised 1996 Cash flow statements, the Company has not prepared a cash flow statement because it has already produced a consolidated cash flow statement which is publicly available.
b Directors and auditors remuneration Details of directors' remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, are given in the parts of the directors Remuneration Report which are described as having been audited.
Fees paid to the auditors in respect of their audit of the Company were 0.1 million 2004 05 0.1 million.
118 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06
