Directors remuneration report to the shareholders of SCi Entertainment Group Plc 1.
Introduction and compliance In order to achieve these objectives the committees This report has been prepared in accordance with the approach is that a significant proportion of the overall Companies Act 1985, as amended by the Directors remuneration package should be linked to the performance Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, and has been of the Group, through participation in an annual performance approved by the Board.
It also satisfies the relevant related bonus scheme and long-term incentive arrangements.
requirements of the UK Listing Authority and explains how the The committee sets performance criteria based on the Board has applied the Principles of the Combined Code on financial targets set during the Groups budgeting process, Corporate Governance the Code in relation to directors taking into account the strategic aims of the Group as well remuneration.
A resolution to approve this report will be as the interests of shareholders.
The targets for each proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
performance criteria are designed to be challenging.
The committee determines whether these criteria have been met, 2.
The constitution and remit of the remuneration committee based on relevant financial information and measured on a The remuneration committee the committee currently consistent basis.
comprises the three non-executive directors and is chaired by The above policy is expected to continue to be applied in Nigel Wayne.
Following the Boards corporate governance respect of the forthcoming and subsequent years.
review, Jane Cavanagh stepped down from the committee at A review of executive directors current remuneration the end of the year in accordance with best practice.
The against the committees current policy was undertaken during committees terms of reference are available on request from the year.
The review was conducted for a number of reasons, the Company Secretary.
including: i responding to corporate governance best New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, an independent practice to reduce the Chief Executives notice period from external firm who have no other connection with the 36 to 12 months: and ii the need to ensure that a market Company, were appointed by the committee during the year competitive remuneration offering was being provided to the to provide advice on executive remuneration matters.
The Chief Executive vis--vis comparable companies in the media, committee was also provided with legal services from computer and software sectors.
The key conclusions of this Addleshaw Goddard one of the Companys legal advisers, review as they affect Jane Cavanagh have been introduced and referred to remuneration benchmarking reports from with effect from 1 April 2006 and are summarised below: Monks Partnership.
The Chief Executive attends meetings of 4 Service contract notice period reduced from 36 months the committee by invitation other than when matters to 12 months: concerning her own remuneration are under consideration.
4 Base salary increased to 400,000 per annum with The committees principal functions are to advise the Board effect from 1 April 2006: and on the broad framework for executive remuneration, to 4 Annual performance related bonus maximum bonus determine the remuneration packages of the executive potential increased to 100% of salary with effect from directors and Company Chairman, and to recommend and 1 July 2006. monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior The committee is also in the process of conducting a management.
It reviews the performance of the executive further evaluation of future long-term incentive provision directors and sets the scale and structure of their remuneration within the Group as a result of the expiration of the SCi and the basis of their service agreements with due regard to Share Option Scheme during 2006 and developments in market practice and the interests of shareholders.
participates in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
The committee is also responsible for overseeing the operation 4.
Remuneration policy and terms of engagement for of the Companys equity incentive schemes.
non-executive directors The Companys policy on non-executive director remuneration 3.
Remuneration policy for executive directors is to pay fees which are in line with market practice, based In determining remuneration packages the committee upon the experience and expertise of the director concerned has regard to the importance of retaining and motivating as well as the time commitment and responsibilities of the executive directors as well as linking reward to the Groups role.
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined performance.
Within this context, the committees policy on by the Board as a whole.
executive director remuneration is to: During the period under review, the annual fees of the 4 pay a competitive base salary designed to attract and non-executive directors were reviewed and increased from retain executive directors relevant to each directors role, 12,000 to 25,000, reflecting increased responsibilities experience and the external market: due to the expansion of the Group over the last 18 months.
4 provide incentive arrangements which are subject to The non-executive directors receive no other benefits, with challenging performance targets based on profitable the exception of a small number of legacy share options growth and share price performance, reflect the Groups granted in 2001 to Tim Ryan and Nigel Wayne as detailed on objectives and recognise the importance of providing page 32.
The Board has determined that no further share sustained motivation of management to focus on longeroptions will be granted to any non-executive director.
Existing term, as well as annual, performance: and, options held by Tim Ryan and Nigel Wayne will be exercised 4 align the interest of the executive directors with those of or will lapse in due course as appropriate.
The non-executive directors terms of engagement were 28 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Directors remuneration report continued also updated during the period under review to fully comply d Long-term incentive plans with best practice and all requirements of the Code.
Each The 2008 LTIP non-executive director is appointed for a specified term At the Companys AGM on 7 February 2006 shareholders subject to re-election and a rolling one month notice period.
approved the terms of a long-term incentive plan LTIP which applies to all executive directors and is based on 5.
Remuneration packages corporate performance in the three year period to 30 June a Basic salary and benefits in kind 2008 the 2008 LTIP.
Under the 2008 LTIP, corporate As referred to in last years remuneration report, the basic performance is measured in three ways as detailed below, salary and benefits of the executive directors were reviewed each selected by the committee as challenging and with effect from 1 June 2005 following the acquisition of appropriate criteria which link awards to the creation of longEidos to the following levels: Jane Cavanagh 275,000: term shareholder value.
The maximum payment to each executive director is 100% One result of the remuneration review undertaken during of aggregate basic salary over the three year period of the the year has been to further increase Jane Cavanaghs base 2008 LTIP, except that in the event that total EBITDA for the salary to 400,000 with effect from 1 April 2006.
This three years ending 30 June 2008 exceeds 80 million, the increase, in the opinion of the committee, reflects her very maximum payment is 125% of aggregate basic salary, considerable and industry specific expertise and the provided that all three performance criteria have been met.
competitive market place for executive talent.
The three performance measures used to determine the It is not intended that material increases to base salary amount payable to each director are: levels will take place prior to July 2008.
Salaries will, i 40% of the maximum payment will be determined by however, be adjusted to reflect changes in the cost of living.
This element will be Accordingly, the base salaries of both Bill Ennis and Rob calculated in accordance with the following scale on a Murphy were increased by 3.5% to 201,825 with effect pro-rata basis: from 1 July 2006.
Cumulative EBITDA Proportion of this element payable The next formal salary review is scheduled to take place during 2008.
If, exceptionally, there is a substantial change Less than 60 million 0% to the Group or its scope of operations before 2008 the 60 million 65 million 25% committee retains the flexibility to conduct an interim review.
65 million 70 million 50% At each formal review the committee considers the 70 million 75 million 75% individuals performance and responsibilities as well as 75 million 80 million 100% market trends.
Particular regard is paid to salary levels in companies of a comparable size, sector and performance.
In determining whether this condition has been met, the Benefits for the executive directors consist of a car committee will primarily have regard to profits generated allowance, private medical and dental insurance, life from the Group structure as at present.
Profits assurance and permanent health insurance.
The value of acquired as a result of merger or acquisition activity benefits is not pensionable.
may be disregarded and or result in an appropriate amendment to this target parameter.
b Pensions ii 40% of the maximum payment will be determined by Pension contributions are made on behalf of executive reference to growth in profits.
The Group must report directors based on 15% of basic salary.
growth in profit before tax in each of the three years ending 30 June 2008.
The committee selected this c Annual performance related bonus measure as an industry specific target for the period of The executive directors participate in an annual bonus transition from one generation of gaming platform to the scheme which is administered by the committee.
Payments next, which, for the games industry, has historically been under the scheme are based on exceeding the Groups target a volatile and challenging period in which to achieve profit level, with the actual targets set early in the financial consistent year on year growth.
In the view of the year for which the bonus is payable.
committee, positive year on year growth is sufficiently From 1 July 2005 to 30 June 2006 the maximum challenging and that, therefore, a particular target figure potential annual bonus award under the scheme was 67% of for growth is not appropriate.
As with performance basic salary per director.
All performance targets have been measure i, profit growth will primarily be measured in met or exceeded for the year under review and the maximum respect of the Group structure as at present, and growth award has therefore been recommended by the committee.
achieved by acquisition may be disregarded.
As a result of the remuneration review, the annual bonus iii 20% of the maximum payment will be determined by opportunity of Jane Cavanagh is being increased from 67% to reference to share price performance.
Over the period 100% of basic salary.
This increased bonus opportunity between 1 July 2005 and 30 June 2008 as a whole, reflects wider market practice and the committees wish to SCis share price must outperform the FTSE Media Index ensure that a significant proportion of her remuneration formerly the FTSE Media & Entertainment Index.
The package remains linked to performance.
committee considers that a comparison relative to the The annual bonus is not pensionable.
FTSE Media Index which contains similar businesses is SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 29 Directors remuneration report continued more appropriate than a comparison with a general FTSE e Share options Index.
As with performance measure ii, share price The Group has historically operated the SCi 1996 Share growth which outperforms the FTSE Media Index over the Option Plan under which options may be granted to eligible transition period between gaming platforms will be participants at the market price at the date of grant.
Given that not all other companies may be exercised at any time between the third and seventh within the Media Index will be facing that same anniversaries of date of grant, provided that specific challenge over the 2008 LTIP period, the committee performance conditions have been fulfilled.
considered that a specific target outperformance The performance conditions require the Companys share percentage was not appropriate.
price to have outperformed the FTSE Media Index over the Awards under the LTIP are not pensionable.
period from the date of grant to exercise.
The committee chose share price growth as the The 2007 LTIP performance condition for share options as it believed it to As referred to in last years report the committee be an appropriate measure of long-term shareholder return.
recommended payments of 75,000 to Jane Cavanagh and The requirement to exceed the performance of the FTSE 50,000 each to Bill Ennis and Rob Murphy as Media Index was considered to be challenging.
compensation for early termination of the 2007 LTIP, to be During the period under review Rob Murphy was awarded made upon approval of the 2008 LTIP.
75,000 share options, subject to the performance condition These amounts, which were paid in February 2006, were detailed above, in accordance with a long-term service calculated based on a discounted cash flow value of the agreement.
Under the agreement he is eligible for further future potential awards taking into account performance to annual awards for the next two years totalling 250,000 share date, pro-rated for actual time elapsed of the 2007 LTIP options in aggregate.
As with all the options previously performance period, and discounted by a further 50% in view granted, these options may not be exercised for three years of early payment.
and may then only be exercised subject to meeting the performance criteria mentioned above.
These options are considered by the committee to be an incentive to ensure key executives are retained within the company and to further align their interests with those of shareholders.
The SCi 1996 Share Option Plan expired in July 2006 and the Board is currently in the process of evaluating long-term incentive provision within the Group with a view to adopting an appropriate structure for future years.
The committee will put forward proposals to shareholders in due course.
Service contracts Details of the directors terms of appointment and notice periods are as follows: Date of appointment Expiry date of current term Notice period Jane Cavanagh 3 May 1996 Notice has been reduced from 36 months to 12 months rolling notice Bill Ennis 3 May 1996 Terminable on 12 months rolling notice Rob Murphy 21 April 1997 Terminable on 6 months rolling notice Tim Ryan 19 October 2001 26 September 2010 Terminable on 1 months rolling notice Nigel Wayne 20 July 2001 12 July 2010 Terminable on 1 months rolling notice Roger Ames 25 September 2006 25 September 2009 Terminable on 1 months rolling notice With regard to Jane Cavanaghs revised service contract, she would be eligible to receive payment in lieu of notice on termination which would include base salary, benefits and annual bonus calculated by reference to bonus opportunity accrued during the relevant year and any unexpired notice period based on average bonuses paid over the previous three years.
Jane Cavanagh would also be entitled to retain her existing share options pursuant to the rules of the SCi 1996 Share Option Plan, unless she is terminated for misconduct.
There is no enhancement to these terms if termination occurs following a change of control of the Company.
There are no provisions for compensation to be payable in the event of early termination in the service contracts of Rob Murphy and Bill Ennis other than for payment in lieu of notice.
30 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 Directors remuneration report continued 7.
Performance graph The following graphs show the Companys total shareholder return TSR since 30 June 2001 relative to the FTSE Media Index and the FTSE Software & Computer Services Index.
TSR represents share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
The two indices have been selected as they each provide a broad equity market index against which the Companys performance can be compared, recognising the uniqueness of the niche market in which the Company operates and the absence of any material UK comparator companies.
Total shareholder return Total shareholder return Relative to FTSE All-Share Media Index Relative to FTSE All-Share Software & Computer Services Index Pence Pence 1,400 1,400 SCi Entertainment Group SCi Entertainment Group 1,300 1,300 FTSE All-Share Media Index FTSE All-Share Software & Computer Services Index 1,200 1,200 1,100 1,100 1,000 1,000 900 900 800 800 700 700 600 600 500 500 400 400 300 300 200 200 100 100 0 0 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Source: Perfect Information Source: Perfect Information 8.
2 Represents bonuses recommended by the remuneration committee in respect of the 12 month period ending 30 June 2006 based on salaries as at 1 July 2005.
3 Represents compensation for early termination of the 2007 LTIP see note on page 30.
4 Pension represents contributions to money purchase schemes.
5 Information relating to directors remuneration in sections 8 and 9 in tabular form has been audited and an opinion in that regard forms part of the auditors report on page 33.
SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 31 Directors remuneration report continued 9.
Existing options granted in 2001 to Tim Ryan and Nigel Wayne will be exercised or will lapse in due course as appropriate.
2 During the period under review the committee amended the rules of the SCi Share Option Scheme to extend the exercise period of options granted on 11 December 1998 and 8 March 1999 where, immediately prior to the expiry of the exercise period, the Company was in a close period or otherwise subject to a prohibition on share dealing by directors.
In such circumstances the exercise period was extended until one month following the end of such period.
Share price The market price of the ordinary shares at 30 June 2006 was 517p and the range during the period was 333.5p to 615p.
AGM and documents available for inspection In accordance with statutory requirements, an ordinary resolution to approve this remuneration report will be proposed at the Companys AGM.
The directors service contracts and letters of appointment, together with the statutory register of directors interests containing full details of directors shareholdings and other interests, are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
On behalf of the Board, Nigel Wayne Chairman Remuneration committee 16 November 2006 32 SCi Entertainment Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006
