Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Incentive Arrangements Annual bonus plan Role and membership For the year ending 31 March 2006 the maximum bonus opportunity for Executive The long-established Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending Directors was 60% of salary.
On-target performance would yield a bonus of 20% overall remuneration policy in respect of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and of salary for each Director.
Performance targets focussed on sales, profits and senior managers.
The Committee was chaired during the year by Dr Leslie Atkinson.
The other members of the Committee over the year were Mr Kevin Abbott, Mr Keith Hamill, Dr Dieter Lennertz and Mr Nick Temple.
A new annual bonus plan has been implemented for the year ending 31 March 2007 with the aim of ensuring that the incentives for senior managers and Executive The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Directors are competitive and more closely aligned to financial performance.
For During the year ended 31 March 2006 the Committee adhered to the principles and Executive Directors, the plan links remuneration to financial performance, primarily provisions of the Combined Code as it applied during that year.
In preparing this profit Before Tax PBT but also growth in Group sales.
The performance targets are Report, the Board has followed the provisions of Section B of the Combined Code.
established by the Board and adopted by the Remuneration Committee on an annual basis and reect market conditions as well as strategic and operational factors.
In Advisers the light of market developments the Committee decided to cap annual bonuses for For the year under review, Kepler Associates have provided advice and data to the Executive Directors at 100% of salary.
On-target performance could earn a bonus of Remuneration Committee for salary reviews for the Executive Directors.
Kepler 50% of salary for each Executive Director.
Associates have also provided independent market information on the design of the new long-term incentive plans and annual bonuses.
Kepler Associates were appointed The Remuneration Committee has discretion to vary bonus payments for participants by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive officer but only in exceptional circumstances.
attended parts of meetings by invitation to respond to specic questions raised by For other members of the Group Executive Committee the annual bonus plan will also the Committee and on matters relating to the performance and remuneration of link remuneration to financial performance and will be based on PBT but also growth senior managers.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to this Committee.
in Group sales and individual performance.
The maximum bonus opportunity will be Remuneration Policy capped at 80% of salary.
On-target performance will earn a bonus of 30% of salary.
Executive Directors Annual bonus payments are not pensionable.
The objectives of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors are to provide a remuneration package which is competitive and performance-linked, to ensure Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan LTIOP that the Group can attract and retain executives who have the experience, skills and Awards were made under the LTIOP in the year ending 31 March 2006.
Under the LTIOP, talents to operate and develop its businesses to their maximum potential, thereby participants were awarded options with a ten year life subject to a performance delivering the highest level of return for shareholders.
condition based on Total Shareholder Return TSR, with no options vesting unless performance is above the median for the selected comparator group, and full vesting The components of the remuneration package for Executive Directors are: only occurring if Electrocomponents is first out of the 14 in that group in terms of TSR.
Performance Related Non-Performance Related The Committee chose TSR because it felt it was the measure most aligned to shareholders interests.
Annual bonus Basic salary Options over a total of 5,264,667 ordinary shares in the Company were granted on Long Term Incentive Plan Pension 13 June 2005.
These options were granted at an exercise price of 251p per share.
Executive Incentive Plan Other benets such as health insurance.
TSR performance is measured over a minimum period of three years from the date of The Committee strives to ensure that shareholders interests are best served by grant but, if the target is not met at all, the period is extended to four, and then five creating an appropriate balance between performance and non-performance related years from a xed base.
Once the target has been met in part, however, performance components of the remuneration package.
In order to full its objectives, the Committee is not subsequently retested and the unvested part of the option lapses.
If the target believes that it must retain a certain amount of exibility in structuring appropriate has not been met at all at the end of five years, the option lapses.
remuneration, for instance to facilitate the recruitment of suitably qualied candidates For performance at or below median, no part of the option will vest.
25% of the option in a very competitive environment.
will vest for performance of one position above the median with full vesting if the The Committee conducted a comprehensive review of executive remuneration during Company is ranked first in the comparator group selected.
Between those two levels, the year and proposed the introduction of new long-term incentive plans to replace the option will vest on a sliding scale.
TSR is calculated in common currency.
the previous Long-Term Incentive Share Option Plan LTIOP.
These new plans are The comparator group for the grants made in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005 comprised: designed to reect the Companys needs, shareholders views and developments in market practice.
They were approved by shareholders at the Extraordinary General Arrow Electronic Industries Inc Manutan International SA Meeting of the Company held on 1 February 2006.
Avnet Inc Misumi Corporation Brambles Industries plc Premier Farnell plc The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Buhrmann NV Rexel SA Remuneration comprises an annual salary for acting as Chairman or an annual fee for Daetwyler Holdings AG Takkt AG the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
An additional fee is paid to the Chairman Grainger WW Inc Wolseley plc of a Board Committee.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate Hagemeyer NV in the Companys incentive or bonus schemes, nor do they accrue any pension entitlement, although the Chairman has pension arrangements which relate to his Rexel ceased to be part of the comparator group during the year.
previous service as an Executive Director.
No further awards will be made under the LTIOP.
No Non-Executive Director has a service contract with the Company.
Details of the new incentive arrangements approved by shareholders are as follows: The Chairman has the use of a company car and mobile phone and receives life Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP insurance cover.
Details of his service contract are set out on page 22 of this report.
The LTIP which has replaced all other discretionary incentive schemes for 2006 07 Remuneration Components for Executive Directors is designed to align long-term incentives with the interests of shareholders, whilst Basic salary reecting current best practice.
Participation in the plan extends to Executive In determining salary levels, the Committee takes into account comparable Directors and the most senior executives.
information for similar job functions in industrial service companies and other Under the LTIP participants will be awarded shares annually, which vest dependent companies of a similar size.
Allowance is made for the international spread and upon Electrocomponents three year TSR percentage outperformance of the FTSE 250 competitive nature of the Groups businesses and for the individuals experience, Index the comparator index.
For the award to vest in full, the Companys TSR must performance and contribution in the areas for which responsibility is held.
Regard outperform the TSR of the FTSE 250 Index by at least 20%.
If the Companys TSR is is also taken of salary levels throughout the Group.
equal to or below the TSR of the FTSE 250 Index, the award will not vest, with straight line vesting in between.
Dividends will accrue but only on shares that vest.
For any award to vest, the Committee must additionally be satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 20 The Committee selected TSR as the performance measure because it felt it was the Normal retirement age for Executive Directors is 60.
The Scheme is a funded pension measure most aligned to shareholders interests and the FTSE 250 Index as the arrangement providing a pension on retirement of up to two-thirds of pensionable benchmark because Electrocomponents is a constituent of the Index and the Index earnings, or the earnings cap if lower.
No actuarial reduction will be applied to pension is objective and transparent.
benets accrued prior to 1 April 2003 if retirement is from age 55 or later.
In the event of death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times basic salary is payable Executive Incentive Plan EIP together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension The EIP, which is limited to Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive at age 60 and childrens pensions if appropriate.
In the event of death in retirement, a Committee, is a one-off incentive plan rewarding achievement of the PBT targets spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
set for the 2008 09 financial year.
PBT was selected as an appropriate measure of Pensions in payment or in deferment are guaranteed to increase annually in February underlying performance and the threshold performance level was based on the by the lesser of 5% or the increase in the RPI.
Additional increases are payable at the Companys long-term strategy as previously announced to shareholders.
The award discretion of the Company and the trustee of the Scheme.
of shares the award was made in February 2006.
Mr Lawson is a deferred member of the Scheme and continues to receive life For the award to vest, the performance conditions must be satisfied.
The premium for life insurance benefit for Mr Lawson is included condition is based on the PBT in the 2008 09 financial year.
If PBT in the 2008 09 in the amount shown on page 23. financial year is less than 130m the award will not vest.
For full vesting of the award PBT must be 155m in the 2008 09 financial year and 20% of the award will vest if All Scheme benets are subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits.
Where such limitation PBT is 130m, with straight-line vesting in between.
Dividends will accrue but only is due to the earnings cap, arrangements may be agreed with individuals to on shares that vest.
compensate them for the reduction in benets, either by salary supplement or through a funded unapproved retirement benets scheme.
Mr Hewitt elected to receive part of For any award to vest the Committee must additionally be satisfied that the his additional entitlement as contributions to a funded unapproved retirement benefit Companys Return on Capital Employed ROCE is at least 25% in the 2008 09 scheme together with a salary supplement in lieu of part of his unapproved pension financial year.
ROCE is return on capital employed excluding any pension liability.
Mr Mason elected to receive a salary supplement in lieu of all of his All awards under the LTIP and EIP are normally pro rated for time and performance unapproved pension entitlement.
Salary supplements for both Messrs Hewitt and in circumstances where they vest for good leavers and on a change-of-control.
Mason are included in the table shown on page 23.
Mr Butlers pension entitlement will be met from the Scheme in full as he is not subject to the earnings cap.
Executive shareholding guidelines Executive shareholding guidelines have been introduced whereby Executive Mr Boddie was invited to participate in the dened benefit section of the scheme Directors will be required to build up their personal holdings of Electrocomponents when he joined the Company on 1 July 2005.
Mr Boddie also receives a salary shares, to a value of 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for supplement in lieu of all his unapproved pension entitlement, details of which are the Finance Director.
included in a table shown on page 23.
1988 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The Committee has reviewed the implications of the new pension tax regime from Mr Butler, Mr Lawson and Mr Mason previously held options under the ESOS.
The 6 April 2006 on the Companys pension arrangements and will not be assuming last ESOS award was made to the Executive Directors and Chairman in 1995.
These any additional costs or liabilities as a result of the legislation.
options were not subject to performance conditions, in keeping with market practice The following table gives details for each Director of: at the time the scheme was established, but were subject to minimum holding periods of three, five or seven years before they could be exercised.
However, all such options the annual accrued pension payable from normal retirement age, calculated as if lapsed in July 2005 with no vesting in the year.
No further awards will be granted he had left service at the year end i. e. 31 March 2006: under this scheme.
the increase in accrued pension attributable to service as a Director during the year: Savings Related Share Option Scheme the transfer value of the accrued benefit at the year end: Executive Directors can participate in the Savings Related Share Option Scheme which is open to all UK employees or, if appropriate, the International Savings Related Share the transfer value of the accrued benefit at the previous year end: and Option Scheme.
Performance conditions have not been imposed as they are not the increase in the transfer value over the period.
permissible under UK HM Revenue & Customs rules for this type of scheme.
These amounts exclude any i benets attributable to additional voluntary Electrocomponents Group Pension Scheme the Scheme contributions: and ii actual members contributions.
Executive Directors participate in the Scheme, which provides dened benets on retirement.
Pensionable salary is limited to basic salary, excluding all bonuses and other benets.
The pension accrual rate for Executive Directors is one-thirtieth for each year of service, subject to HM Revenue & Customs restrictions.
Disclosure of Directors Pension Benets for the Year Ended 31 March 2006 audited Increase in Age at Accrued pension Increase in Transfer value Transfer value transfer value 31 March as at 31 March accrued as at 31 March as at 31 March less Directors e e f 2006 2006 pension benefits 2006 2005 contributions Years b RB Butler 46 130,587 9,665 1,492,000 1,379,000 101,803 c d g JL Hewitt 58 15,528 1,361 342,000 245,000 93,304 a d RA Lawson 61 82,266 6,932 1,700,000 1,516,000 184,000 I Mason 44 26,968 3,475 282,000 208,000 65,552 S Boddie 46 2,640 2,640 30,000 22,872 Notes: a Mr Lawson left the scheme on 20 July 2001, and did not accrue any benefit in the year.
This reects the benets retained in the approved Scheme only and includes credit for transfers received and service to his date of leaving.
b Mr Butler left the Scheme on 31 August 2005.
The reduction in accrued pension benets shown above is a result of the restriction to early leaver benets applied under HMRC rules at the time he left the Scheme.
This restriction was not reected in the disclosure at 31 March 2005, as he was an active member at that time.
c Mr Hewitt ceased to be employed on 30 September 2005. d Generally, the accrued pension benets shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement at Normal Retirement Age based on service to the end of the year or earlier leaving the Scheme.
However, for Mr Hewitt it reects the pension actually in payment at the end of the year, and for Mr Lawson it reects the pension that would be payable had it come into payment at the year end.
e Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Guidance Note 11 Version 9.2 issued by the actuarial profession.
f The Increase in transfer value less directors contributions includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as stock market movements.
It is calculated after deducting the directors contributions.
g Additional contributions of 51,333 were paid into a funded unapproved arrangement for Mr Hewitt 2005: 103,750.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 21 Remuneration Report continued Other benets Pursuant to the terms of a compromise agreement entered into between Mr Butler All Executive Directors are provided with a company mobile phone, a company car and the Company, dated 3 October 2005, Mr Butlers service contract will expire or a cash allowance and medical insurance.
The taxable value of these benets upon the earlier of him securing alternative employment or 31 July 2006. is included in the Directors emoluments table on page 23.
Mr Lawson entered into a service agreement as Chairman of the Company on Service contracts not subject to audit 20 July 2001.
This agreement replaced all prior arrangements.
The term of the All current Executive Directors have service contracts that are on a 12 month rolling contract has now been reviewed by the Company and as a result the contract basis.
These contracts provide for 12 months notice by the Company and by the now provides for six months notice by the Company and by Mr Lawson.
External appointments not subject to audit Termination payments are limited to the Directors normal compensation, including Executive Directors are encouraged to take up one non-executive position basic salary, annual incentives and benets for the unexpired portion of the notice on the boards of other companies on the condition that any fees are remitted period subject to performance and Remuneration Committee discretion.
the Committee will aim to minimise the level of payments to that Director having Performance review not subject to audit regard to all circumstances, including the Companys contractual obligations to the The following graph shows the five year TSR performance of the Company relative to Director, the reason for the departure, and the Companys policy to apply mitigation the FTSE All Share and the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE All Share is a broad equity market in the case of severance.
index of which Electrocomponents is a member and in the future the Company will be The Company entered into the service agreements with Mr Butler and Mr Mason on measuring its TSR performance versus the FTSE 250 for the purposes of the LITP and 1 March 2001 with Mr Hewitt on 14 March 2001 and with Mr Boddie on 25 May 2005. has therefore included this as a relevant index.
These agreements replaced all prior arrangements.
During the year ended 31 March 2006, Mr Hewitt and Mr Mason have elected to receive salary supplements of 34,802 and 60,102 respectively 2005: 70,338 and 55,690 in lieu of the balance of their pension entitlements.
In addition, Mr Hewitt also elected to receive payments to a FURB of 51,334 during the year 2005: 103,750.
Mr Boddie was invited to participate in the scheme from 1 July 2005, and has also elected to receive a salary supplement of 46,275 in lieu of the balance of his pension entitlement.
b In light of the strong competition at the time of recruiting Mr Boddie to full the role of Finance Director, the Company agreed that he would receive a guaranteed bonus of 150,000, with such amount to be paid to him in June 2006. c 74,417 is the salary paid to Mr Butler from 1 April 2005 until 30 June 2005, the date he ceased to be a Director.
d 188,000 is the salary paid to Mr Hewitt from 1 April 2005 until 1 September 2005, the date he ceased to be a Director.
e 186,667 is the salary paid to Mr Boddie from 1 September 2005, the date he was appointed as a Director.
f Dr Atkinson as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Mr Barker as Chairman of the Audit Committee each receive an additional fee of 10,000 per annum.
g No compensation for loss of ofce was paid during the year ending 31 March 2005.
At the date of his appointment he already held 400,000 options, shown above, which were granted to him on 13 June 2005, conditional on his commencing employment with the Company on 1 July 2005. b The options held by Mr Butler at the date he ceased to be a Director, being 30 June 2005, included the options shown as lapsed during the year.
Mr Butler remains an employee of the Company.
c The options held by Mr Hewitt at the date he ceased to be a Director, being 1 September 2005, included only the Savings Related options.
All Long Term Incentive Option Plan options lapsed at that date.
d Awards made under the Long Term Incentive Option Plan are subject to performance conditions set out on page 20.
Executive Incentive Plan audited Shares Shares awarded Shares awarded at Date of at 1 April awarded Vested in Lapsed in 31 March Scheme Award 2005 in FY06 FY06 FY06 2006 a S Boddie Executive Incentive Plan 1-Feb-06 400,000 400,000 Total 400,000 400,000 a I Mason Executive Incentive Plan 1-Feb-06 800,000 800,000 Total 800,000 800,000 a Awards made under the Executive Incentive Option Plan are subject to performance conditions and a vesting period set out on page 21.
The closing mid-market price of the shares on 31 March 2006 was 280p.
During the year, the price of shares varied between 220.25p and 302.25p.
The mid market price of shares on 1 February 2006, being the date the Executive Incentive Plan awards were made, was 301p.
No other awards have been made during the year.
By Order of the Board Dr Leslie Atkinson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 June 2006 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 24
