Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2006 Remuneration Committee The Committee schedules three meetings during each year but also holds The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the approval additional meetings as and when material matters arise for discussion.
of the remuneration and employment terms of the Executive Directors During the last financial year, the Committee met on seven occasions.
and certain other senior executives.
Only Committee members are entitled to attend meetings of the The Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors, all of whom are Committee as of right, although the Executive Chairman the Chairman, considered to be independent, and its membership during the year was the Director of Human Resources Joe McCollum, the Human Resources as follows: executive charged with supporting the Committee Carol Separovich as Vice President, Rewards Management, together with the Company Committee Chairman Secretary & Group General Counsel in his capacity as Committee John Gildersleeve Non-executive Deputy Chairman and senior Secretary and the Committees adviser from New Bridge Street independent Non-executive Director Consultants LLP are generally invited to attend so as to assist and advise the Committee on matters under consideration.
Other executives may be Committee Members invited to attend in respect of specific issues where their guidance may Sly Bailey Non-executive Director be of assistance to the Committee.
In this regard, during the last financial Kevin Carton Non-executive Director since his appointment year the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of EMI Music CEO EMI on 1 February 2006 Music and the Vice Chairman, EMI Music attended three meetings and Peter Georgescu Non-executive Director one meeting, respectively, to provide material assistance and advice with David Londoner Non-executive Director regard to their division.
None of these attendees participated in any Kathleen ODonovan Non-executive Director discussion relating to his or her own remuneration.
Terms of reference In monitoring the level and mix of remuneration packages, the Committee The key terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: has access to a number of music and general industry remuneration surveys, covering both local and international data.
The Committee takes to provide the policy framework for the remuneration of Executive into account factors such as the nature, size, complexity and international Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior executive and profile of the surveyed companies relative to EMI: it also seeks such operational management currently approximately 100 individuals specific advice from external consultants as it considers appropriate.
in total : Policy statement on Directors remuneration subject to the policy framework and the Code, to review in detail and approve all aspects of the terms and conditions of employment of each Background Executive Director and the Company Secretary, including their incentive The Committee recognises that, as a major UK-listed company, arrangements, pension rights and any compensation payments: EMI should comply with the highest standards of corporate governance and, wherever it is appropriate to do so having regard to the wider to review and approve the base salaries of the most senior direct-line interests of shareholders, UK remuneration best practices.
Accordingly, reports to the Executive Directors, together with their remuneration the Committee periodically reviews the Groups remuneration practices packages, incentive arrangements, pension rights and any against such standards and practices while recognising that the compensation payments: achievement of success in the highly competitive worldwide music market depends critically upon the Group's ability to compete for the to determine targets for any performance-related incentive management talent necessary to secure, develop and promote arrangements operated by the Company: successful recording artists, composers and songwriters.
The Groups remuneration policies, therefore, will continue to reflect the need to attract, to ensure the effective administration of any other long-term or retain and motivate top-calibre international management in the context share-based remuneration arrangements for employees: of remuneration levels and practices in the international music and entertainment industry, many of which are set in the US, the indigenous to ensure that regulations and codes on the disclosure of remuneration repertoire of which, in the year ended 31 March 2006, amounted to 43.5% are adhered to by the Group: and, of worldwide record sales.
to review major changes in Group employee benefit structures.
The Groups remuneration policies also recognise that the music publishing and recorded music businesses operate in distinct market places.
The The Committee is also authorised, where necessary, to obtain external level and form of remuneration will continue to be tailored to the different independent professional advice.
market places in which the Group competes and to recognise the importance of creative talent to the overall success of the Group.
The full terms of reference of the Committee can be obtained on request from the Company Secretary and are set out on the Companys website The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors have been at www.
designed to help them attain, and encourage them to retain, long-term interests in EMI's shares, and thereby align their interests with those of Attendance at meetings and advisers shareholders.
Performance-related elements, in the form of annual During the year, the Committee continued to use New Bridge Street bonuses and share-based long-term incentives, represent a significant Consultants LLP which it has appointed as its adviser.
This firm has proportion of the total annual remuneration opportunity, typically provided material advice to the Committee to assist it in developing and providing at least two thirds of potential remuneration for the achievement monitoring policies for remunerating senior employees throughout the of stretching performance targets.
The major areas for advice were Executive Directors remuneration, determining competitive levels and forms of pay for Executive Directors and senior executives, reviewing incentive arrangements for that group, reviewing all share-based and long-term incentive plans and advising the Committee of developments and best practices for remuneration and applicable corporate governance requirements.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has not, during the year, provided any other services to the Group.
The letter of appointment in respect of New Bridge Street Consultants LLP can be viewed on the Groups website, www.
com, or obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
44 Overview The performance criteria are tailored to individual positions and to ensure During the year, the Committee reviewed the policy under the Groups that bonuses are appropriate in all the circumstances.
Subject to the Executive Share Incentive Plan ESIP and annual bonus plan.
No Committees discretion and within the limits described above, bonuses changes to the general policy reported in the Annual Reports for the last for the year ended 31 March 2007 will be determined as follows: three years have been made but, as described below, some changes to the detail of performance targets have been made, to ensure that they for the Chairman and the CFO, 65% of the bonus opportunity will remain appropriate in the context of the Groups key business objectives.
be determined by reference to Profit After Tax targets, with the balance The Group believes pay should be closely linked to performance.
by reference to pre-set strategic objectives.
These targets reflect a prime focus, at a Group level, on profit growth, whilst maintaining an optimum Base salary cash flow: Base salary levels are determined by the Committee having regard to the experience and performance of the individual executive, the performance for the joint CEO EMI Music Publishing, the annual bonus will be based of the Group as a whole over the preceding year, data regarding external on pre-set targets relating to the divisions economic profit i. e. taking salary levels for comparable positions, internal relativities and wage inflation into account the value of the investment in the business from year to elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee seeks to ensure that, in respect year, reflecting EMI Music Publishings objective of achieving sustained of industry-specific roles, base salaries are generally set no higher than profit growth while providing an adequate return on invested assets: and, the median for the music industry and, in the case of non-operational roles, appropriate regard is given to general industry data while also targeting for the CEO EMI Music, two thirds of the bonus opportunity will be the median level.
measured by reference to pre-set operating profit margins, with the other third determined by the divisions sales performance relative Recognising the requirements of good corporate governance and a to the recorded music market.
These targets reflect the objectives for desire to constrain fixed costs to the advantage of all shareholders, base EMI Music of growing its market share while maintaining or improving salaries for certain operational executives, most notably for the CEO EMI profit margins.
Music, have been kept below industry market levels.
In these instances, in order to deliver competitive overall levels of pay, the balance of the Details of the bonuses achieved during the year by individual Executive overall remuneration is weighted more significantly towards long-term Directors are set out on page 51. incentives than is the case with EMIs major competitors.
Long-term incentive arrangements On 1 April 2006, Roger Faxon became joint Chief Executive Officer, Under the terms of the ESIP approved by shareholders in 2003, regular EMI Music Publishing with Martin Bandier and was reappointed as an annual awards of both share options and performance shares have been Executive Director of EMI Group plc, coincident with Martin Bandier made each year.
As from 1 April 2007, Mr Faxon will become sole Chief Executive Officer of EMI Music Publishing and, as from 1 April 2008, Following a review of the policy under the ESIP, the Committee proposes he will also become Chairman of the division.
In connection with his to change the mix between share options and performance shares for appointment to these roles and to his previous position as President and 2006 grants and to make some changes to the performance conditions.
Chief Operating Officer, EMI Music Publishing, Mr Faxons employment The proposed policy takes account of the following: agreement was revised as of 1 February 2005. the objective of the review was further to improve the link between The base salary rates for each Executive Director on 1 April 2006 were reward and performance, whilst still maintaining a strong alignment as follows: between the interests of executives and shareholders: E L Nicoli 750,400 pa the need to address the impact of International Financial Reporting R C Faxon US$1,500,000 pa Standard 2 - Share-based Payment on the Income statement: and, A M J I Levy 1,057,000 pa M D Stewart 525,000 pa the objective of reducing share usage and dilution since the current policy, weighted in favour of share options, has resulted in relatively Salaries are revised annually with any increases generally taking effect on heavy share usage.
1 April, for Mr Levy and Mr Faxon, and 1 July for Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart.
Other than Mr Stewart, the Executive Directors received an increase in the range of 3% to 4.4% in 2005 which was consistent with the overall increase for other executives and staff.
Mr Stewart's first review will take effect from 1July 2006.
Annual bonus For the Chairman, CFO and the joint CEO EMI Music Publishing i. e. Roger Faxon, the maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of base salary and 50% of bonus is payable at target performance with straight-line interpolation between the target and maximum points.
For the CEO EMI Music, the maximum bonus is 300% of base salary.
These bonus opportunities are paid in cash following the approval of the accounts for the relevant year.
45 Remuneration report continued Therefore, for 2006, ESIP awards will be made on the following basis: The EPS measure is diluted EPS adjusted to take account of items which are reported as Exceptional Items and Amortisation in the published Eric Nicoli and Martin Stewart will be granted performance share awards accounts of the Group.
over shares worth 167% of salary.
Awards will vest as to two thirds by reference to Group earnings per share EPS growth and as to the TSR is a measure of the return to a shareholder in terms of share price remaining one third by reference to Group total shareholder return appreciation, assuming reinvestment of any dividends over a fixed TSR performance.
25% of the shares subject to an award will vest if the Companys TSR, relative to the companies in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment In the case of Alain Levy and Roger Faxon, reflecting their roles as trusts as at the date of award, is at least at the median of that group.
This divisional CEOs, the performance conditions for awards made in 2006 will increase, on a straight-line basis, to full vesting if the Companys TSR will be a mix of Group and divisional performance.
Over a three-year is at least at the upper quintile i. e. within the highest 20% of that group.
grant programme, the split between Group-level, as opposed to The share price used for calculating both the opening and closing TSR divisional-level, targets will be approximately 70:30.
The Committee of the Company and each company in the comparator group for the believes this split provides an appropriate focus on the overall Group three-year period will be assessed using three-month average figures.
results, thus ensuring alignment with shareholders interests whilst also In addition to satisfying the TSR performance condition, awards will only providing a focus on long-term divisional performance and an alignment vest to the extent that the Committee considers that the Companys TSR with their key divisional executives.
performance reflects the underlying performance of the Company over the period.
For Roger Faxon, the 70:30 split will be achieved as follows.
He will receive a performance share award over shares worth 200% of base The EPS growth targets were chosen because profit growth as measured salary in 2006 and 150% of base salary in 2007 and 2008.
His through EPS is currently considered to be the most appropriate measure performance share award for 2006 will vest as to three quarters by of financial performance.
The EPS growth condition aligns with the first of reference to a range of economic profit targets relating to EMI Music the Groups key performance indicators KPIs described in the Operating Publishing i. e. taking into account the value of the investment in the and Financial Review.
The TSR condition is included to align the interests business.
For awards in 2006, vesting will be by reference to growth of Group executives with the interests of the shareholders.
in the divisions economic profit over the three years to 31 March 2009.
No part of the award will vest until a threshold of 5% pa compound The FTSE 250 Index was chosen as the TSR comparator group as there growth in economic profit has been achieved.
Thereafter, the award will have been no, or insufficient, similarly sized independently quoted music vest on a straight-line basis from 0% to 100% at a maximum of 10% pa companies to provide a more bespoke comparator group and, therefore, compound growth in economic profit over the three years.
Vesting of the it was felt appropriate to compare the performance of EMI with the remaining one quarter of the award will be by reference to Group TSR constituents of the FTSE 250 Index on the basis that, from an investor performance.
The awards for 2007 and 2008 will vest as to two thirds perspective, shareholders have the choice of investing in EMI as compared by reference to Group EPS growth and as to one third by reference to with other UK-quoted companies of a similar size.
If the Company becomes Group TSR performance.
a constituent of the FTSE 100, the constituents of that Index would be used for subsequent grants.
Alain Levy will be granted options over shares worth 300% of base salary and he will receive a performance share award over shares worth In all the circumstances, the Committee considers these two Group 150% of base salary.
Three quarters of a grant of share options will vest measures, taken together, to be the most appropriate method of assessing by reference to a range of targets relating to earnings growth before the success of EMI over the medium term and, accordingly, views them interest and tax for EMI Music with the balance vesting by reference as appropriate performance conditions.
The Committee reviews these to Group EPS.
Performance share awards will vest as to two thirds targets each year, prior to awards being made, to determine whether they by reference to Group EPS growth and as to the remaining one third remain appropriate.
by reference to Group TSR performance.
For the CEO EMI Music, measuring an element of long-term performance Performance conditions will be measured over a fixed three-year period by reference to the earnings growth of EMI Music is felt to provide a clear with no retesting opportunity.
focus on long-term divisional performance which would be expected to flow through strongly to the Groups results as EMI Music revenue Since the ESIP was introduced in 2003, the Group EPS performance accounts for approximately 80% of that of the Group.
Market share and condition has been based on adjusted i. e. normalised EPS growth, over operating margin are the Groups KPIs for EMI Music, as described in the the three years following grant with no retesting opportunities.
In order Operating and Financial Review, because their achievement is considered for one third of an award to vest, normalised EPS growth must exceed an to be the principal driver in the overall performance of the division.
These average of the increase in the Retail Prices Index RPI plus 3% pa: two KPIs are key to the achievement of the earnings growth targets included thirds of an award will vest if normalised EPS growth exceeds an average in the long-term incentive performance conditions for Alain Levy.
of RPI plus 5% pa: and all of an award will vest if normalised EPS growth exceeds an average of RPI plus 7% pa with straight-line interpolation For the joint CEO Music Publishing, the economic profit approach has between the points.
been a key performance measure in the division and the target range has been designed to stretch growth significantly ahead of historic norms.
For the current year, the Group EPS growth test has been amended Revenue growth and operating margin are shown as the KPIs for EMI slightly so as to measure EPS growth performance on an aggregate basis Music in the Operating and Financial Review because their achievement over the three-year performance period i. e. the Companys actual EPS for is considered to be the principal driver in the overall performance of that each year of the three-year performance period will be added together to division.
The economic profit approach adopted in setting the long-term arrive at an aggregate EPS performance.
For the threshold vesting performance target takes both of those KPIs into account.
It also gives a condition to be achieved, aggregate EPS must exceed a target calculated weighting to balance sheet management which, while being important at by taking the EPS of the financial year immediately prior to grant the base the divisional level, is covered by the Operating Free Cash Conversion KPI EPS and adding together the three years EPS that would be achieved at the Group level, as described in the Operating and Financial Review.
on a cumulative aggregate growth of RPI plus 3%.
For full vesting to apply, aggregate EPS growth must exceed a target calculated by taking the In the case of both of these executives, the fact that the majority of the base EPS and adding together the three years EPS that would be incentive programme will be based on Group targets and the fact that all achieved on a cumulative aggregate growth of RPI plus 7%.
This awards will be share based means that the package still provides a very approach has been adopted so that all financial years in the performance strong alignment with the interests of shareholders.
period will be taken into account, reducing the volatility and rewarding sustained EPS performance.
For those of Alain Levys share options where the performance condition relates to the growth in the earnings before interest and tax of EMI Music, the same growth targets and vesting schedule will apply.
46 The performance targets both Group and divisional are considered to Response to Finance Act 2004 New Pension Regime be both demanding and stretching over the medium term in light of the In response to the new pension regime which came into effect on prevailing business climate.
6 April 2006, the Company has revised its pension arrangements to ensure that UK executives can effectively manage the level of their EMIs performance against the EPS and TSR targets will be monitored pension benefits within the new Lifetime Allowance.
The new arrangements by the Committee, which will assess the extent to which the targets have do not involve additional costs for the Company.
In particular, the tax been achieved.
The EPS calculations will be confirmed by the Companys effect of the new regime is borne by executives rather than by the external auditor while the TSR calculations will be undertaken by New Company.
Specific details of the pension arrangements for Executive Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
The basis for calculating EPS has been Directors after 6 April 2006 are provided on page 50. affected by the move from UK GAAP to International Accounting Standards.
The Committee has, therefore, taken steps to ensure that any Directors service contracts EPS performance conditions are measured on a consistent basis and as The Code recommends that notice or contract periods should be set at originally intended.
Specifically, in order to calculate EPS in relation to one year or less.
It is the Groups policy to achieve that, where possible.
awards made prior to 31 March 2004, the Groups results will be restated so as to reflect UK GAAP prior to the adoption of International Accounting The Committee endorses the principle of mitigation of loss on early Standards.
For awards made on or after 1 April 2004, EPS will be termination of a service contract and recognises the advantage of calculated by reference to International Accounting Standards.
service contracts including an explicit calculation, subject to mitigation, of compensation payable upon early termination, other than for The Committee also confirms that the Company has at all times complied misconduct or in other circumstances justifying summary termination.
with the share dilution limits as previously agreed with shareholders.
The Committees policy is that such compensation should generally be calculated by reference to base salary, annual bonus at target level and All UK-based Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the other benefits, including pension contributions, for the notice period or Group-wide ShareSave scheme on the same terms as other UK-based unexpired term of the service contract.
The contract should also include Group employees.
Shareholder consent was obtained at the 2004 AGM an explicit obligation to mitigate and to offset earnings from alternative for the renewal of the ShareSave scheme and also to introduce another employment undertaken during the notice period or unexpired term of tax-sponsored all-employee plan, the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The the contract against all or part of the compensation payment.
operation of these plans will be at the discretion of the Committee, although Executive Directors will be eligible to participate on the same However, the Committee is conscious that fixed-term contracts of three or basis as other staff.
No grants under the SIP were made during the year.
more years are common for senior executives in the global entertainment industry and such agreements often include no or only a limited obligation Details of the awards granted to Executive Directors under the ESIP and to mitigate.
The Committee, therefore, considers that it is in the best ShareSave scheme are contained in the section on Current long-term interests of EMI and its shareholders to retain the flexibility to compete for incentive schemes on page 53.
Details of share options and other share top executive talent, where necessary, through the ability to offer contract awards granted in previous years in accordance with the schemes then terms in excess of one year.
However, as an alternative, the Committee applying and the performance criteria attaching to those grants are may agree compensation payments calculated without mitigation in order contained in the section on Closed long-term incentive schemes on to limit contract terms or notice periods to one year.
As disclosed in last years annual report, Martin Bandiers service Benefits in kind contract provided two years severance on termination without cause.
Benefits and perquisites are based on general industry practice and It was considered that these terms were appropriate in view of competitive typically include a car or car allowance together with life assurance, practice in the US, where he remains resident and where EMI Music retirement, disability and healthcare plans.
Further details are set out Publishing continues to be headquartered, and the fact that the service on page 51. contract was intended to secure his services until age 69.
Mr Bandier ceased to be a Director on 31 March 2006.
Following his retirement, Pension arrangements all Executive Directors service contracts are based on one years For the current UK-based Executive Directors, the policy is to provide severance.
pension benefits through a final salary arrangement with an accrual rate of 1 30th.
All the current UK-based Executive Directors are subject to the Chairman and CFO Eric Nicoli and Martin Stewart earnings cap 105,600 in 2005 06 within the final salary scheme and The service contracts of Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart, dated 11 April 2003 separate arrangements have been in place in relation to pension benefits and 5 January 2005, respectively, are terminable by the Company on relating to base salary in excess of the earnings cap.
Except in the case one years notice.
of the CFO, an unapproved defined contribution scheme has been utilised to provide benefits with the level of contribution being set by reference In the case of gross misconduct or other circumstances justifying to an actuarial assessment of the value of a 1 30th arrangement.
For the summary dismissal, the Company may terminate their service contracts CFO, a pension allowance is provided, initially at the rate of 40% of annual without payment of compensation.
Termination by the Company in other earnings above the earnings cap but increasing by 1 % per year until it circumstances, without the required notice being given, entitles the reaches 50% of annual earnings above the cap.
Benefits are based on departing executive to compensation, calculated on: base salaries only and specifically exclude bonuses.
From 1November 2005, the final salary scheme has been closed to new entrants, including his then base annual salary currently 750,400 pa for Mr Nicoli Executive Directors, and a new defined contribution plan has been and 525,000 pa for Mr Stewart for one year: plus, established for future pension benefits.
Under the new policy, any new Executive Directors joining the defined contribution plan will, in normal the value of retirement benefits and either the continued enjoyment of, circumstances, receive annual Company contributions to the plan of 40% or the value of, benefits in kind provided to him for one year the accrued of their base salary and the Executive Directors will be required to make value of such retirement contributions and the benefits in kind would annual contributions of 5% of their base salary as a member contribution.
have been 443,028 for Mr Nicoli and 217,161 for Mr Stewart had either one of them been dismissed on 31 March 2006 : plus, For the US-based joint CEO EMI Music Publishing, pension contributions are also made with respect to base salary only.
a sum in respect of lost annual bonus opportunity, being 50% of his maximum bonus for the period from the date of his departure to the end of the contractual notice period.
Their entitlement to such compensation is subject to both a duty to mitigate and, also, offset for any earnings which they derive from other employment during the unworked part of the notice period for which they have been compensated.
47 Remuneration report continued CEO EMI Music Alain Levy In view of the greater responsibilities of Non-executive Directors under Mr Levys service contract, which commenced on 15 October 2001 the Combined Code and more recent legislation together with their and was amended as of 1 April 2004, allows the Company to terminate strategic contribution and increased time commitment, annual fees, his employment at any time without notice.
If termination is for cause which were last reviewed on 1January 2004, were increased on 1January as defined in the contract, no compensation is payable.
These fees will next be reviewed on is without cause, or Mr Levy terminates the agreement for good reason 1 January 2008.
John Gildersleeve, the Deputy Chairman and senior for example, breach by EMI, he is entitled to a lump-sum severance independent Non-executive Director, received an additional 40,000 pa, payment based on one years pay, calculated using: which was increased to 45,000 pa on 1 January 2006, reflecting his larger role and his chairmanship of the Remuneration and Nomination his then base annual salary currently 1,057,000 pa : plus, Committees.
Kathleen ODonovan received an additional 10,000 pa, which increased to 15,000 pa on 1 January 2006, for chairing the Audit the value of retirement benefits and either the continued enjoyment of, Committee.
No other additional fees are payable for membership of or the value of, benefits in kind provided to him the accrued value of Committees or otherwise.
such retirement contributions and the benefits in kind would have been 558,243 had he been dismissed on 31 March 2006 : plus, The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment from the Company which are available for inspection at the Companys registered the average annual bonus earned by him over the last three financial office or on request and are also provided on the Companys website years 1,428,981 in respect of years ended on or before 31 March at www.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed for a 2006. specified term of an initial period to the next AGM after appointment and, subject to election at that Meeting, for a further period ending at the third Mr Levy accepted a basic contract term of one year, which is significantly AGM held thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to endorsement less than competitive music industry practice, as well as a base salary and by the Board and to re-election by the shareholders.
Each Non-executive potential cash bonus at levels lower than those for equivalent positions in Directors date of appointment as a Director and his or her most recent other major record companies.
In recognition of this, there is no obligation date of re-election at an AGM is shown below: on Mr Levy to mitigate or to offset against the compensation payment any earnings from alternative employment following termination.
Date of appointment as a Date of Date of Joint CEO EMI Music Publishing Roger Faxon Non-executive letter of last election or Director appointment re-election at AGM Roger Faxon was reappointed as a Director on 1 April 2006.
04 employment agreement, which is effective as of 1 February 2005, allows S Bailey 2.4.
04 EMI to terminate the contract at any time on 30 days notice.
06 n a is for cause as defined in the contract, no compensation is payable.
05 termination is without cause or Mr Faxon terminates the agreement for D J Londoner 13.5.
03 good reason for example, breach by EMI, he is entitled to compensation K A ODonovan 21.11.97 25.4.
04 based on one years pay, as follows: Their appointments may be terminated at any time or in the event that continued payment of his base annual salary US$1,500,000 pa as from they are not elected or re-elected by shareholders in accordance with 1 April 2006 for one year: plus, the Companys Articles of Association.
On termination, a Non-executive Director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees, but not continued provision of retirement benefits and the continued enjoyment to any other compensation.
The Articles, which were adopted by of benefits in kind provided to him for one year the annual value of such shareholders at the Companys 2005 AGM, provide that a Director will retirement contributions and the benefits in kind would have been retire, if so agreed, earlier than three years from the date of last US$622,580 had he been dismissed on 1 April 2006 : plus, reappointment and also, if agreed, will not stand for re-election.
This ensures that the Company can, where appropriate, reappoint Nona lump sum equal to his target annual bonus opportunity for the next executive Directors for periods which reflect corporate governance following financial year, being not less than 50% of his base salary in guidelines and that there will be consistency between the terms of effect immediately prior to termination.
appointment and the relevant provisions of the Articles.
In the light of competitive music industry practice, and in recognition of Mr Faxons agreement, when he was promoted to Group CFO on 2 February 2002, to reduce his basic contract term from two years to one year, there is no obligation on him to mitigate, or to offset against the compensation payment any earnings from alternative employment during the year following termination.
However, the Companys obligation to continue to provide insurance benefits will cease to the extent that similar benefits are provided by another employer during the 12 months following termination.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Groups bonus scheme or long-term incentive plans and are not eligible for membership of any of the Groups pension plans.
Their fees are payable wholly in cash.
48 Total shareholder return performance graphs Policy on outside appointments Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, UK-listed Executive Directors are permitted to take external appointments as companies are required to include a graph indicating their TSR i. e. share non-executive directors but usually only one such appointment may price growth assuming reinvestment of any dividends performance over be with another publicly quoted company.
The remuneration from such the last five years relative to a recognised equity index.
Consistent with the appointments is retained by the Director and the table below sets out approach adopted last year, in the absence of suitable comparators, the such amounts for the year ended 31 March 2006.
All appointments must Committee has again elected to show EMIs performance relative to the be approved by the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to any FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts was conflicts of interest.
the comparator group for the TSR performance condition for last years awards under the ESIP and will continue to be so for this and subsequent Name Fees received years unless the Company re-enters the FTSE 100. of Company Executive Directors: E L Nicoli The Tussauds Group Ltd 75,575 Total shareholder return a Source: Thompson Financial M N Bandier National Music Publishers Association 1,348 A M J I Levy Schroder Venture Partners LLP 14,045 Value a Retired as a Director on 31 March 2006.
200 Share ownership guidelines 180 The Committee has adopted a formal policy that requires Executive 160 Directors to hold shares in EMI worth at least two times their respective 140 base salaries.
Executive Directors are required to build up this shareholding 120 by retaining shares with a value of at least 25% of the after-tax gain arising on the maturity of any long-term incentive awards.
100 80 Pensions 60 During the year, all the UK-based Executive Directors were executive 40 members of the EMI Group Pension Fund the Fund which provides them, on normal retirement at age 60, with a pension of between 1 60th 20 and 1 30th of the earnings cap for each year of membership, depending 0 upon benefits built up prior to joining the Company.
On death, there is a spouses pension of two thirds of the EMI Group plc FTSE 250 Index member's pension ignoring the impact of any exchange of pension for a lump sum on retirement, plus child allowances if applicable.
An early retirement pension may be paid on leaving but the pension is reduced Additionally, the Committee is including the equivalent graph as against 1 by 3% for each month that pension starts earlier than age 60.
Subject to the FTSE All-Share Media & Entertainment Sector Index.
This illustrates the Companys or, in the case of Executive Directors, the Committees the volatility of the various indices particularly as, at the beginning of the consent, the reduction applied may be less.
five-year period, UK media stocks were at a relative peak as compared to other sectors.
Transfer values for all members of the Fund are calculated on a basis that assumes the pension would be drawn at the earliest date where no reduction would apply and with allowance for future pension increases Total shareholder return Source: Thompson Financial both before and after pension commences to reflect the past practice of granting discretionary increases, when appropriate, taking account Value of the financial position of the Fund.
100 Pensions in payment are subject to annual increases at the lower of the 90 increase in the RPI in the previous year and 5%.
As all of the UK-based 80 Executive Directors joined the Company after 5 April 1997, there is no Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element included in their pensions.
70 The GMP is that part of the pension which replaces State Earnings- 60 Related Pension.
50 40 The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 March 2006 of each Executive Directors accrued deferred pension at that date as well as the 30 movement in that transfer value over the period.
The transfer values are 20 liabilities of the EMI Group Pension Fund and reflect both the age of the 10 Executive Director and his length of service and membership of the Fund.
0 31-Mar-01 31-Mar-02 31-Mar-03 31-Mar-04 31-Mar-05 31-Mar-06 EMI Group plc FTSE All-Share Media Sector Index The graphs above look at the value, at the end of March 2006, of 100 invested in EMI Group plc on 31 March 2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and FTSE All-Share Media & Entertainment Sector Indices.
The other points plotted in the graphs are the values at intervening financial year ends.
49 Remuneration report continued Increase in Increase in accrued Directors transfer value pension during contributions over the year a b Age at Accrued pension the year net of Transfer value of accrued pension during net of Directors a 31.3.
b The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
Following the introduction by the Finance Act 2004 of the Lifetime Allowance, The Finance Act 2004 removed the earnings cap.
However, in common from April 2006 Executive Directors were given the choice of continuing with many pension schemes, a scheme-specific cap was introduced to as executive members of the Fund or of receiving a supplement to their the Fund from April 2006 equal to what the earnings cap would have been salary.
Both Mr Nicoli and Mr Levy have chosen not to continue as members but for its removal.
At April 2006, the scheme-specific cap was 108,600. of the Fund and, in lieu, receive a cash allowance equal to 35% of the pension cap.
Reacting to other changes introduced by the Finance Act 2004, from April 2006 no further contributions are being made to the defined contribution Up to 31 March 2006, Fund members joining the Fund after 1989, had arrangement referred to above.
Instead, an equivalent salary supplement their pensionable salary for Fund purposes restricted to an earnings cap is being paid.
The after-tax value of contributions, expressed as a percentage as defined in the Finance Act 1989.
In respect of earnings in excess of the of base salary in excess of the cap, which the Company paid to the defined earnings cap 105,600 in the year, for executive members affected by the contribution plan in respect of Executive Directors during the year to earnings cap, other than the CFO, the Company was contributing to a 31 March 2006, was: separate defined contribution arrangement linked to salary in excess of the earnings cap.
E L Nicoli 33.42% A M J I Levy 30.00% The CFO receives a pension allowance, as described on page 47 and, therefore, does not participate in the defined contribution plan.
This allowance amounted to 168,808 for the year to 31 March 2006 and is included in Benefits in the table on page 51.
Money purchase contributions in the year to 31 March 2006 a FURBS Tax compensation Total Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 213,384 140,017 353,401 A M J I Levy 277,920 188,420 466,340 M D Stewart a Funded unapproved retirement benefits scheme.
These contributions are set at levels which, based on actuarial advice, The table below sets out the contributions made to US money purchase are likely to deliver comparable benefits to the capped final salary element.
pension arrangements in respect of the US-based Executive Director who served during the year.
Contributions by Group Contributions by Director Total % US$ % US$ US$ Executive Director: a b b M N Bandier 38.6% of base salary 2,314,578 6.9% of pay 411,514 3,094,181 a Retired as a Director on 31 March 2006. b Consistent with US practice, pay for this purpose includes the value of annual cash bonuses.
There were no retirement benefits paid to former Directors in excess of Payments to third parties for making the Directors services available those to which they became entitled when such benefits first became No payments have been made to third parties for making any Directors payable to such former Directors.
services available to the Company.
Compensation to former Directors not previously reported As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, those There were no compensation payments or other awards made to former items from the Pensions heading on page 49 to page 55 inclusive have Directors.
As referred to above, Martin Bandier continues as an employee been subject to audit.
of EMI Music Publishing following his retirement as a Director and has received no compensation for loss of office.
By Order of the Board John Gildersleeve Deputy Chairman 19 May 2006 50 Remuneration details a Annual remuneration Base Compensation 2006 2005 c salary for loss Incentive Total Total b or fees of employment Expenses Benefits remuneration in year in year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: d E L Nicoli 743.2 67.4 725.4 1,536.0 1,135.6 M N Bandier retired 31.3.
06 832.3 Former Non-executive Director: H Einsmann retired 13.7.
04 14.2 Total 2006 4,489.8 400.3 5,165.8 10,055.9 Total 2005 4,218.6 461.0 2,970.9 7,650.5 a Excludes retirement contributions and tax compensation see table on page 50 and the value of share awards ceasing to be contingent, as reported in the table shown below.
b The nature of the non-cash benefits provided to Executive Directors who held office during the year was as follows: E L Nicoli: -provision of a car allowance plus use of a Company pool car and driver: -private healthcare: and, -personal accident insurance.
M N Bandier: -a car allowance of US$36,000 pa: and, -participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance.
A M J I Levy: -use of a Company pool car and driver: -private healthcare: and, -personal accident insurance.
M D Stewart: -a car allowance plus use of a Company pool car and driver: -private healthcare: and, -personal accident insurance.
c Bonuses paid to the Executive Directors reflect achievement against the performance targets referred to in last years Annual Report.
Bonuses for Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart reflect partial achievement of the profit target, full achievement of the cashflow target and the Committee's assessment of their performance against strategic objectives.
In Mr Levys case, EMI Musics operating profit margin was at approximately two thirds of the scale set in his employment contract and its sales performance relative to the overall music market was strong.
The economic profit achieved by EMI Music Publishing resulted in Mr Bandier achieving his maximum bonus opportunity of 80% of base salary.
d The 2006 benefits figure for Mr Nicoli is higher than that for the equivalent period in 2005 as the payments in respect of Mr Nicolis private healthcare and personal accident insurance for both 2004 and 2005 were accounted for in the period ended 31 March 2004. e For Martin Stewart, this includes the pension allowance which is more fully described on page 47 in the Remuneration Report.
Remuneration from prior-year share awards ceasing to be contingent 2006 2005 a a Awards Total value Awards Total value No.
of shares 000 Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 112,870 285,561 b b M N Bandier retired 31.3.
b This figure includes 165,625 shares in respect of a restricted share award totalling 662,500 shares.
Whilst in certain circumstances the restricted share award might have lapsed or been released before the vesting date, a proportion of its value was included in reported remuneration each year to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which these shares were earned.
The full restricted share award vested on 31 March 2006.
51 Remuneration report continued Directors interests abc Directors interests all beneficial in the Companys Ordinary Shares of 14p each As at 1.4.
05 or date of appointment Non-contingent Directly held As at 31.3.
06 if later d share awards shares Total shares held Total shares held Executive Directors: e E L Nicoli 66,260 68,732 134,992 203,408 e M N Bandier retired 31.3.
06 5,000 5,000 P A Georgescu 102,323 102,323 100,000 D J Londoner 10,000 10,000 10,000 K A ODonovan 2,000 2,000 2,000 a The Companys Register of Directors Interests is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. b No Director had any interest in either shares or debentures of any subsidiary of the Company.
c As potential beneficiaries under the EMI Group General Employee Benefit Trust EBT, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the entire shareholding of the EBT which at 31 March 2006 amounted to 3,391,922 shares.
d Non-contingent share awards shown in this column are also included as incentive awards in the table on page 54.
Such awards, made under the now-closed Senior Executive Incentive Plan, arise from the deferral of annual cash bonuses into shares.
The awards are subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if deferred for three years from the date of the award, or an additional 2:3 award if deferred for six years from the date of the award.
e The total of shares held does not include incentive, performance or restricted share awards of 112,870 shares and 1,912,500 shares, respectively, that vested during the year on 31March 2006 as the shares could not be transferred to Mr Nicoli and Mr Bandier until after the end of the close period for Directors' share dealings on 23 May 2006.
52 Current long-term incentive schemes ab Directors outstanding performance share awards under the Executive Share Incentive Plan Date of Earliest normal Lapse As at Vested Awarded Lapsed As at award vesting date date 1.4.
08 259,558 259,558 Total 259,558 259,558 a Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of performance share awards for Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart, namely based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR, compared to FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, over a fixed three-year period.
b The rules of the ESIP originally provided that a participant was required to pay a nominal sum of 1 on the exercise of a share award, unless such sum was waived by the Remuneration Committee.
Since 31 March 2005, the Remuneration Committee has determined that, so as to ease the administration of such awards if and when they vest, the payment of this nominal amount should be waived or removed.
c The closing mid-market share price on the date of the award was 254.25p.
d The share awards option grants made during the year ended 31 March 2006 and set out above, were in accordance with the policies set out in the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2005. a Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the Executive Share Incentive Plan Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at granted exercise date date price 1.4.
15 252.833p 519,116 519,116 Total 519,116 519,116 a Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of grants of share options, namely the Company's Earnings Per Share EPS growth over a fixed three-year period.
b The share awards option grants made during the year ended 31 March 2006 and set out above, were in accordance with the policies set out in the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the ShareSave scheme Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at granted exercise date date price 1.4.
09 96p 16,588 16,588 Total 16,588 16,588 ShareSave options are normally exercisable for a six-month period following completion of savings to either a three-year or a five-year ShareSave contract and are not subject to additional performance conditions.
53 Remuneration report continued Closed long-term incentive schemes Directors outstanding share awards under long-term incentive plans As at 1.4.
05 During year Date of Matching As at a b c award Incentive Performance Restricted awards Vested Lapsed 31.3.
01 662,500 662,500 Total 1,250,000 662,500 1,912,500 a Incentive share awards are not contingent on future performance and or are no longer subject to forfeiture.
The total of the eventual award depends on the achievement of Group or business unit performance against profit targets set by the Remuneration Committee in respect of a performance period that terminates on 31 March in the third year after the date of the award.
The eventual award is subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if vesting is deferred for a further three years from the vesting date.
In certain circumstances, for example upon a change of control of EMI, awards could be released before the normal vesting date.
In 2001, in place of overlapping annual share awards based on three-year performance cycles, Mr Bandier was granted a one-time performance share award which requires 2% pa growth in the music publishing divisions economic profit for the entire performance period to 31 March 2006, at which level one sixth of the shares accrue, with maximum payout at 7% pa growth with straight-line vesting between these two points.
c Mr Bandiers restricted share award vested on 31 March 2006 but could not be transferred to him until after the end of the close period for Directors share dealings on 23 May 2006.
The award was in lieu of additional base salary and was not, therefore, subject to performance requirements.
The aim of the award was to bring Mr Bandiers basic annual remuneration into line with competitive practice in the US, where he is based, whilst aligning his interests more closely with those of the shareholders and providing him with a strong incentive to remain with the Group.
No further awards of this nature are envisaged.
A proportion of this award was included in remuneration each year so as to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which the shares are earned.
d The closing mid-market share prices on the dates of the award 31 May 2000 and vesting 31 March 2006 were 569p and 253p per share, respectively.
e Retired as a Director on 31 March 2006. f As reported in previous years and referred to in Note b above, Martin Bandier had a one-off long-term incentive arrangement covering the period from April 2001 to 31 March 2006.
This performance share award vested in full on 31 March 2006, the maximum performance target having been achieved.
The award could not be transferred to Mr Bandier until after the end of the close period for Directors share dealings on 23 May 2006.
With the exception of Mr Bandiers awards, on termination of employment in certain circumstances, for example, as a result of death, disability, sale of the relevant business unit, normal retirement, or termination without cause, and if the performance criteria are on target for achievement, a proportion of the awards may become exercisable prior to normal vesting.
If the performance criteria are not on target for achievement, the whole award lapses if it has not reached its normal vesting date.
Upon a change of control, all awards vest, or can be exchanged for an equivalent value of awards in the acquiring entity, with identical terms to the original awards.
Mr Bandiers outstanding share awards would have vested, in whole or in part, if he was dismissed other than for cause or following a change of control of EMI.
Both his performance share and restricted share awards would have lapsed if, prior to the vesting date of 31 March 2006, Mr Bandier had resigned voluntarily or his employment agreement had been terminated by EMI for cause.
However, if Mr Bandiers employment had been terminated without cause by EMI, he would have received the proportion of his restricted share award which he would have earned had he remained in employment for a further two years.
Under these same circumstances, he would also have received a proportion of his performance share award pro-rated to the date of termination, subject to the achievement of the relevant performance criteria.
In the event of a change of control of EMI, all the restricted share award would have vested together with a proportion of the performance share award pro-rated to the date of the change of control as well as an additional 625,000 shares up to the maximum award of 1.25m shares.
Vesting would have taken place on the earlier of one year after the date of the change of control or the termination of his employment without cause.
54 ab Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each Earliest normal Date exercise Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at cd granted date date price 1.4.
Therefore, the total gain made on the exercise of share options was nil 2005: nil.
The closing mid-market share price on 31 March 2006 was 253p.
The range of closing mid-market share prices during the year was 207p and 266p.
b All of the options were granted for nil consideration.
c Executive Directors share options are normally exercisable during the period commencing no earlier than three years and ending no later than ten years from the date granted.
d Share options were granted to Executive Directors in previous years in accordance with the relevant Executive Share Option Scheme rules and market practice at the time.
The table above sets out information on the current Executive Directors grants of such share options.
The performance criteria relating to these grants are as follows: For the period from 25 August 1995 to 9 December 1999, the criterion was that the Companys TSR over the relevant calculation period compared to the TSR of the companies in the FTSE 100 at 1 April prior to the date of grant is at least equal to the median of that group.
TSR is the percentage growth of the share price, assuming reinvestment of any dividends paid, over the calculation period.
The initial calculation period commences on 1 April immediately preceding the date of grant and ends on 31 March three years later and, thereafter, calculations are made at each quarter end for the preceding three-year period until the performance criterion is met or the option lapses.
For the period from 10 December 1999 to 8 July 2003 excluding Mr Levys grants see footnote f below, the criterion was that the increase in the Groups adjusted, fully diluted EPS over a three-year period following the date of grant should exceed an average of the UK retail prices index RPI plus a rate ranging between 2% and 3% pa.
The Committee chose the relevant performance criteria as they were considered to be challenging and in accordance with the then existing market practice, while aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
e Retired as a Director on 31 March 2006. f As reported in previous years and summarised in this note below, Alain Levy had a one-off long-term incentive arrangement covering the period from October 2001 to 31 March 2006.
As part of the amendment to his service agreement, Mr Levy will participate in the ESIP from 1 April 2006.
On appointment, Mr Levy was granted options over 10m shares at prices between 300p and 700p.
On 2 January and 19 December 2002, Mr Levy was granted additional options over 10m shares which represent his entitlement to options in respect of the five financial years up to and including, but ending on, 31 March 2006.
The exercise prices for these options were determined after the announcement of the interim results for the respective financial years, using a five-day average share price.
Exercise of all the options is generally conditional on the Companys adjusted diluted EPS growing by at least an average of RPI plus 2.5% pa over the period from 31 March 2002 to the 31 March following the relevant vesting date with retesting throughout the options life.
The terms of Mr Levys contract prescribe the impact of a cessation of employment or a change of control of EMI on the share options granted under his contract.
If Mr Levys appointment were terminated by EMI without cause or by Mr Levy with good reason as defined in the contract, the options over 10m shares granted on 15 October 2001 would vest and could be exercised without regard to the performance conditions.
If Mr Levys appointment is terminated in the circumstances described in the preceding paragraph, the options granted on 2 January and 19 December 2002 will vest and may be exercised without regard to the performance conditions.
The exercise of options vested under the preceding paragraph must be undertaken within 12 months of the date of termination.
On a change of control of EMI, Mr Levys options will be treated as if his employment had been terminated by EMI without cause with the result that they may be exercised without regard to performance conditions, but the exercise period will be limited to six months.
A termination resulting from Mr Levys death or disability will be treated in the same manner as a termination by the Company without cause.
55 Financial contents Group financial statements 57 Group auditors report 58 Group consolidated income statement 60 Group consolidated balance sheet 61 Group consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 62 Group consolidated cash flow statement and note 63 Group accounting policies 66 Notes to the Group financial statements Company financial statements 91 Company auditors report 92 Company accounting policies 93 Company balance sheet and Notes to the Company financial statements Additional information 99 Group five year summary 10 10 0 0 Investor information 56
