Directors are available on request.
There are no provisions for Directors remuneration report notice periods or compensation in the event of termination of the appointment of the non-executive Directors and no element of their remuneration is performance related.
INTRODUCTION Remuneration policy for executive Directors and the This remuneration report sets out the Companys policy on determination of individual Directors remuneration has been the remuneration of executive and non-executive Directors delegated to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee together with details of Directors remuneration, employment consists of Michael Cronk Chairman, Waldemar Schmidt agreements and letters of appointment.
The report was and Peter Brooks.
Each is a non-executive Director and was approved by the Board on 20 November 2006 and signed a member of the Committee throughout the period.
on its behalf by order of the Board.
Meetings and function At the Annual General Meeting of the Company, to be held on 8 February 2007, an ordinary resolution will be proposed The Committee met five times during the period, with to approve this report.
all members present at each meeting.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference which are available for All information disclosed in this Directors remuneration inspection on the Companys website include reviewing report is unaudited save where it is stated that the and setting the remuneration and benefits packages of the information is audited.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, to 2.
REMUNERATION POLICY ensure an appropriate relativity between the remuneration For executive Directors and senior executives packages of the executive Directors and senior management.
Hewitt Associates were appointed by the Remuneration The policy underlying the remuneration arrangements for Committee as its consultants on 22 May 2003 and have executive Directors and senior executives is designed to since then provided the Remuneration Committee with enable the Company to recruit and retain executives of the advice and guidance.
Save for developing a new long-term calibre needed to maintain and develop Enodis position as incentive plan for the Company, which is being submitted for one of the worlds leading manufacturers and distributors of shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be food equipment.
The policy established by the Remuneration held on 8 February 2007, they provide no other services and Committee is governed by seven principles.
These are that have no other connection with the Group.
The Remuneration executive remuneration should be: Committee is also supported by Robert Eimers, the Executive 4 locally competitive, by reference to external markets in the Vice President, Global Human Resources and David Hooper, various countries particularly the US where it operates: the Company Secretary.
4 seen throughout the business to be fair and equitable: 4.
POLICY ON OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS 4 based on total remuneration: Executive Directors are permitted, with Board approval, to 4 supportive of key strategies: hold one non-executive directorship with outside companies.
Such appointment will only be approved where the Board is 4 affordable: satisfied that it will not interfere with the carrying out of the 4 aligned with shareholder value: and executive Directors role with the Company.
At present none of the executive Directors has any outside appointments.
4 understandable, both internally and externally.
They may retain any fees payable to them, with the consent The Remuneration Committee keeps this policy under of the Remuneration Committee, except in cases where the review and intends to ensure that the Companys reward directorship is as a representative of the Company.
programmes remain competitive and provide appropriate incentives for performance.
ELEMENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION In forming its remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee has given full consideration to the principles Certain details of Directors contracts, remuneration and set out in Section A of the Code as defined on page 35. interests in the Companys securities, including share options, are set out on pages 40 to 44.
At present, the Remuneration For non-executive Directors Committee regards the current year short-term elements The fees for the non-executive Directors are determined by of the executive Directors remuneration as of primary the Board.
They are reviewed annually to ensure they are importance in supporting the Groups remuneration policy competitive and properly reflect the Directors workload and and strategy.
With a view to further enhancing alignment responsibilities at that time.
with shareholder value, the Remuneration Committee has developed a new Performance Share Plan which shareholders Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the are being asked to approve at the Annual General Meeting in Groups incentive or benefit schemes.
Further details of the new Plan are contained Since 2003, the appointment policy for non-executive Directors in the Chairmans letter which accompanies the Annual is that they should be appointed for an initial period of three Report.
It is expected that, following introduction of the new years.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive Plan, the long-term element will assume greater importance.
39 Enodis plc The remuneration arrangements for the executive Directors the median ranked company, and exercisable in full if Enodis consist of: TSR is at least as great as that of the company ranked at the upper quartile, with pro rata exercisability between these two I.
TSR performance was selected by the Remuneration Base salaries are not performance-related.
They are Committee as the measure which it considers most closely aligns with shareholder value.
In addition, no options determined having regard to local competitiveness and to salaries for similar positions in international businesses of may be exercised unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the broadly comparable size and structure, taking account of revenue, market value, number of employees, business Groups underlying financial performance.
Options granted to Directors in earlier years have been subject to different sector and international involvement.
External consultants are used to provide comparative information for the performance conditions as follows: Remuneration Committee.
In determining salary increases 4 options granted under the 1995 Executive Share Option the Remuneration Committee is also made aware of salary Scheme will be exercisable in normal circumstances inflation throughout the Group and takes such information only if the increase in the Groups adjusted earnings into consideration, together with internal relativities and per share has exceeded the growth in the Retail Price external survey data.
Base salaries were reviewed at the end Index by an average of at least 3% per annum over a of the last financial period and, with effect from 1 October three year period: 2006, a 3.5% increase was applied for the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Executive Vice 4 options granted under the 2001 Executive Share Option President, Global Human Resources.
Scheme in the year ended 29 September 2001 and at 147p in the year ended 28 September 2002 will be II.
Annual bonus exercisable in full only if the Companys TSR is ranked in the upper quartile relative both to other FTSE Mid-250 Annual cash bonuses are based on Group financial targets.
The measures for executive Directors and senior corporate companies excluding Investment Trusts and to a group of about 20 comparable quoted companies.
Options will executives for the period were Group revenue growth FY06 only, Group operating profit before exceptional items be exercisable on a sliding-scale basis if the Companys TSR falls between the median and upper quartile levels, and net debt reduction.
If the relevant targets are met, awards range from 50% minimum, 100% target, to 167% as compared with the two comparator groups.
In addition, no options may be exercised unless the Companys maximum of base salary for the Chief Executive and from 42% minimum, 84% target, to 140% maximum of base earnings per share growth has exceeded inflation over the relevant performance period: salary for the other executive Directors.
The higher range for the Chief Executive Officer more closely aligns his annual 4 options granted under the 2001 Executive Share Option bonus plan with the Groups compensation strategy of being Scheme at 85.5p in the year ended 28 September 2002 locally competitive, being comparable to that of CEOs of and subsequently are subject to the same performance similar sized US businesses.
The Remuneration Committee conditions as applied to the options granted in the period may add other corporate or job-related measures as it ended 30 September 2006 and described above: and considers appropriate.
4 performance conditions for options granted under the III.
Long-term incentives: executive share 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme after December option schemes 2005 shall not be capable of being retested after the end Executives hold options under the Enodis 2001 and 1995 of the first performance measurement period.
Executive Share Option Schemes, which uses new shares, The calculation of whether the performance criteria have and the Enodis 1993 Executive Share Option Scheme, been met will initially be prepared for the Chairman of the which use shares purchased by an employee share trust.
Remuneration Committee, as advised by the Companys remuneration consultants.
The figures will be reviewed In the period ended 30 September 2006, options have been granted under the Enodis 2001 Executive Share Option and then submitted for the approval of the Remuneration Committee as advised by its consultants.
In normal circumstances, the face value of options which an executive may be granted in any financial year may was selected by the Remuneration Committee as providing shareholders with comfort that all appropriate external not exceed twice base salary.
Performance conditions The Remuneration Committee has taken full note of a The performance conditions attached to the grants in the number of comments raised on the report last year.
With its period are based on the Companys total shareholder return consultants, it has reviewed the performance conditions TSR compared against the companies comprising the applicable to future grants under the 2001 Executive Share FTSE Mid-250 excluding investments trusts at the date of Option Scheme.
It determined that they remain appropriate grant, excluding companies that have ceased to be listed.
for the Group in line with the policy of being locally Options granted over shares with a value of up to one times competitive in remuneration matters.
For grants under the base salary in any financial year will be exercisable in full scheme in the current year therefore the conditions will if Enodis TSR is greater than that of the median ranked remain unaltered.
Options contained in an award with a value above one times base salary, or in an award which, when aggregated with another award granted in the same financial year, brings the value above one times base salary, will be exercisable as to 35% if Enodis TSR is greater than that of 40 Enodis plc Directors remuneration report IV.
Long-term incentives: share matching scheme At the Annual General Meeting in February 2006, the resolution to approve last years Remuneration Report No awards have been made under the share matching was passed but by only a small majority.
The Remuneration scheme under which executives may be awarded matching Committee has taken full account of the increased level of free shares linked to the deferral of their annual cash bonus concern regarding the change of control provision, as well and the Remuneration Committee has decided not to as the established standards of corporate governance in operate it.
the UK market, and reviewed the position very carefully.
V. Pension In doing so, it has borne in mind all relevant factors, including The Company makes payments equivalent to 25% of that the change of control provision was originally included base salary to the pension arrangements of the executive in Mr McCullochs employment contract at a time when Directors including contributions to Group pension schemes.
he was not a Director of the Company and that the very circumstances that the provision was designed to address VI.
Other benefits not performance-related applied for a material part of the year.
Its advisors have again Executive Directors are provided with medical insurance, noted that the provision is not out of line with US practice disability insurance, an allowance in lieu of a company and indeed is for a lesser period than applies in the car and other benefits in line with practice in other listed employment agreements of the Chief Executive Officers companies of similar size.
of many US-based competitors of the Company who commonly have the benefit of up to three years protection.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION These factors confirm that the provision is a balance between UK and US practice and in line with the Companys The fees of the Chairman and non-executive Directors remuneration policy of being locally competitive.
were reviewed on 1 November 2005 and in October 2006.
On each occasion it was determined that they should not After careful consideration, the Remuneration Committee, be changed.
conscious of the views of a number of shareholders, In September 2006 additional fees of 12,000 were paid to concluded that it would not be in the Companys interests each of the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman to seek to change the provision at this time.
The Committee to reflect the significant increase in the time they were concluded that the priority for the Company at this time required to devote to the affairs of the Company during was that its leader should remain highly committed to the the abortive bid activity in May to August.
This resulted business and motivated to achieve the successful execution in ten additional Board meetings together with review of of its strategy.
It was strengthened in this conclusion by the associated papers.
An additional fee of 36,000 was paid fact that Mr McCulloch has successfully led the Company to the Chairman to reflect the increase in time he spent, to exceptional results over the tenure of his office and that, together with a considerably greater degree of involvement on the basis of those results, it would not be possible to with the bid approach process.
characterise the provision as a reward for failure.
It also noted that the protection afforded by the provision should 7.
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS AND COMPENSATION substantially reduce any concerns that management response to an offer would be influenced by future The Companys policy with regard to employment employment considerations.
agreements for executive Directors is that they be rolling contracts and will normally contain a provision entitling the The Remuneration Committee intends to keep the position Director to a 12 month notice period, or the financial effects under careful review.
The Committee confirms that, subject thereof, but with the ability to give consideration to a longer to the requirements of any future recruitment process, it period in exceptional circumstances.
In order to be locally does not intend to agree to a change of control provision of competitive, with regard to termination payments under greater than 12 months in the future: should such a provision such employment agreements with our US based executive be agreed to, the Committees intention would be that the Directors, and in order to achieve certainty, liquidated period of protection should reduce over time to a maximum damages have been agreed at their commencement.
The employment agreements with each of David McCulloch, The effective dates of these agreements were 1 June 2003 David Wrench and Robert Eimers, are for an indefinite for Mr McCulloch and 21 July 2003 for Messrs Wrench and period and are terminable at will.
The agreements reflect US employment practice, provisions that, in the event of termination without cause, given that the Directors are US-based.
payment will be made of an amount equivalent to 12 months salary, 12 months target annual bonus, 12 months pension As far as the unexpired terms of employment agreements contribution and bonus for the current year prorated to date of Directors offering themselves for reappointment at the of termination.
In addition, the employment agreement of Annual General Meeting are concerned, Messrs Arrowsmith David McCulloch contains provisions change of control and Brooks have no employment agreements, their provision, which were in place before his appointment responsibilities being set out in letters of appointment.
to the Board, whereby if the contract is terminated by a Mr McCulloch has an employment agreement of an Group company without cause in the event of a change indefinite period terminable at will, as stated above.
of control or by Mr McCulloch in the event of a change of control, a payment will be made of 24 months base salary, No Director has a material interest in any contract with Group 24 months pension contribution and 24 months target companies other than employment agreements.
41 Enodis plc Directors remuneration report 8.
Bonuses and benefits are not included in pensionable salary.
Includes car allowance and contributions to unapproved defined contribution pension arrangements as detailed in Directors pension information below.
Salaries of North American Directors have been translated at the relevant monthly exchange rate, the average for the year being 1 $1.806.
No compensation for loss of office or other payments have been paid to or are due for payment to any person who has served as a Director during the financial year.
Pension information The Group paid the following sums to defined contribution pension arrangements for the benefit of the Directors.
These sums are included in the Directors remuneration table above: 2006 2005 Name R C Eimers 24,775 22,257 D S McCulloch 73,582 58,943 W D Wrench 32,303 28,695 130,660 109,895 The Group maintains a provision of 1.4m 2005: 0.8m in respect of a pension including tax payable to a former Director.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The beneficial interests of the Directors in office at 30 September 2006 in the ordinary shares of the Company were as follows: Ordinary shares 2 October 30 September 2005 Purchases of 2006 ordinary ordinary ordinary Director shares shares shares M R Arrowsmith 50,000 50,000 P M Brooks 73,500 13,000 86,500 G M Cronk 1,691,600 100,000 1,791,600 R C Eimers 15,000 15,000 D S McCulloch 130,000 60,000 190,000 J J Ross 30,000 30,000 W Schmidt 200,000 200,000 W D Wrench 10,000 10,000 The above interests are in the ordinary share capital of the Company.
No Director had any beneficial interest in any share capital of other Group companies or in any debenture of any Group company.
As at 20 November 2006 there were no changes to the interests of the Directors in office at the period end as stated above and in the table on page 43.
42 Enodis plc Directors remuneration report Share options audited Options to subscribe for or acquire shares of the Company were held during the period by the Directors as disclosed below, each of which was granted for nil consideration.
The aggregate emoluments in the remuneration table on page 42 do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors.
i The Berisford 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme Executive Scheme 1995 and the Enodis 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme Executive Scheme 2001.
Subject to performance conditions being achieved as described earlier in this report.
When these options are exercised pursuant to the rules of the Scheme, D S McCulloch is entitled to a payment of 404,203.
The employment agreement of Mr McCulloch entered into following his appointment as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2003 included a commitment by the Company to grant him share options at the market price prevailing at that time or an alternative benefit payable in cash.
For regulatory reasons the options could not be granted at that time and when they were granted the market price had risen.
As the rules of the share option scheme require options to be granted at the market price on date of grant, the sum of 404,203 was agreed to be paid.
If these options are not exercised, this sum will not be paid.
During the prior year it transpired that at the time of the grant of these options the date for measurement of performance conditions was stated as the date of grant whereas the date should have been the date from which they were to take economic effect, 1 June 2003.
Having consulted with its independent consultants, the Remuneration Committee determined the appropriate correction should be made.
No options were exercised during the period.
Under the Companies Act, each of the executive Directors is deemed to have an interest in 1,269,341 shares held by the trustee of the Companys employee share trust.
No Director has an actual interest in any of such shares.
During the year the closing prices of the Companys shares have been in the range 122.75p to 217.75p.
On 29 September 2006, the closing mid market share price was 174p.
In the period no share options expired unexercised save as disclosed above and none of the conditions or terms of the options have been varied.
ii The Berisford 1992 Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme 1992.
No Director holds options under the Sharesave Scheme 1992.
43 Enodis plc Directors remuneration report 10.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR Set out below is a graph showing the Companys TSR for each of the last five years compared to the companies comprising the FTSE Mid-250 index.
The TSR was calculated using a fair method in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, Schedule 7A Pt 2 Paragraphs 4 4 to 8.
Enodis plc FTSE Mid-250 index Source: Datastream 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Sep 2001 Sep 2002 Sep 2003 Sep 2004 Sep 2005 Sep 2006 This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2006, of 100 invested in Enodis on 29 September 2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Mid-250 index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The Company is a member of the FTSE Mid-250 index and has been for some time, including when its current executive share option scheme was adopted.
The FTSE Mid-250 excluding investment trusts was therefore selected as the comparator group for measuring performance conditions in the Companys executive share option scheme.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee considers that to be the most appropriate broad market index for identifying the Companys relative performance for the purpose of this report.
In order to provide a more recent relative performance review, set out below is a chart showing relative Company TSR for each of the last three years.
Enodis plc FTSE Mid-250 index Source: Datastream 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Sep 2003 Sep 2004 Sep 2005 Sep 2006 This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2006, of 100 invested in Enodis on 27 September 2003 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Mid-250 index.
By order of the Board D R Hooper Secretary 20 November 2006 44 Enodis plc Directors remuneration report
