THIRTY The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in a format which complies with the requirements introduced by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 covering all executive and non-executive directors.
The regulations require the auditors to report to the companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and non-audited information.
As noted in the Directors Report, the group now reports in accordance with the requirements of the 2003 FRC Code.
Where necessary, steps have been taken, or will be taken, to ensure that the company remains compliant with the Codes provisions.
Overall tasks The overall tasks of the Committee are: to determine, on behalf of the Board, the policy for the terms of engagement and remuneration of the Chief Executive and the executive directors and to report on those to the shareholders to implement the remuneration policy and determine specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors to monitor the polices being applied by the Chief Executive in remunerating senior executives other than executive directors to ensure a constructive dialogue with major institutional investors is maintained and that remuneration arrangements are aligned with business strategy and shareholders requirements During the year, the Committee reviewed their current approach and agreed that it continues to provide independent thought to the development process of executive incentive schemes.
The review concluded that, with the depth of knowledge of the members of the Committee together with that of those invited to attend the Committee, their understanding of the business is sufficiently robust to ensure incentive arrangements add shareholder value.
The Committee keeps all aspects of the share based incentive schemes under review and confirms that their operation is satisfactory.
The Committee states that no specific discretion has been requested or exercised during the year and grant levels, performance criteria and vesting schedules remain within limits previously approved by shareholders.
Finally, the Committee considers that the remuneration policy expressed in this report remains appropriate to the companys current prospects.
Constitution and operation The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the Committee during the year was T J C Eggar and during the year R F Boyes and T M Lazenby were Committee members.
All current Committee members are independent non-executive directors and have no personal interest in the Committees decisions.
The Committee confirms that it reviewed the outcome of the vote on the remuneration report at the AGM in July 2005.
If, in future, any major shareholders vote against the adoption of the remuneration report the views of these investors will be sought and communicated to the Committee to assist in determining future policy.
During the year, the Committee met four times with all Committee members being present and two further meetings were held with T M Lazenby and R F Boyes being absent on one occasion each.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the groups website: they follow the ICSA best practice model and were reviewed, with no changes, by the committee during the year.
A copy of the terms of reference are available on request from the Group Company Secretary.
Advice The Committee has access to advice from external professional advisers that provide specialist advice and services on remuneration matters.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC, previously appointed by the Remuneration Committee, continue to advise on broader remuneration issues.
No other services were provided to the company and they have no other connection with the company.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group THIRTY-ONE Directors Remuneration Report continued Throughout the year to 31 March 2006, the Chief Executive G F Coutts, the Group Company Secretary A M Dand and the Group HR Director L Rodger provided advice to the Committee that materially assisted the Committee in its consideration of remuneration matters, except in relation to their own remuneration.
The Committee refers to external comparisons provided by NBSC and also from other publicly available information when making decisions.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson, the groups pension advisers, have been available to provide advice on directors retirement benefits during the year.
Policy The Committees policy on remuneration seeks to attract capable executives whilst creating a flexible and performance orientated reward structure ensuring their retention.
The policy includes senior management team members who are not on the Board.
The Committee also ensures that remuneration is aligned with shareholders interests as well as the groups performance, taking account of the markets in which the group operates and pay and conditions elsewhere within the group.
Total remuneration for executive directors consists of salary, annual bonus, long term equity incentives, pensions and limited benefits in kind.
The Committee, to ensure it is achieving its objectives, has reviewed the balance of the elements of the overall reward package.
This led to the decision of imposing more demanding targets on the short term incentives and increasing the variable pay potential attributable to it.
Awards were granted during the year with an earnings per share EPS performance target, under the Performance Share Plan rules approved by shareholders in June 2003.
The Plan was designed to align the interests of participants with the longer-term interests of shareholders by rewarding them for delivering increased shareholder value.
The Committee can confirm that during the year there were no exceptional circumstances, either recruitment or retention, which required remuneration outside this remuneration policy.
Elements of remuneration 5.1 Base salaries Base salaries payable to executive directors are reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and are the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Guidance, where appropriate, is provided by independent consultants using external market data.
The Committee sets pay scales by reference to UK based listed companies and not its US based international competitors.
As there is no direct UK peer group, the Remuneration Committee has considered the pay practices of similar market cap companies across all sectors.
As detailed elsewhere, a new Group Legal Counsel has been appointed and his basic salary on commencement will be 200,000, with other benefits in line with the existing remuneration policy.
5.2 Short term incentive Payment of all incentives is subject to the approval of the Committee and no executive director has a contractual right to an incentive.
Each executive director is eligible to participate in an annual performance based bonus scheme non-pensionable, which also applies to other senior executives in the group.
Annual bonuses paid require the achievement of a specific financial objective prior to determining success in achieving personal goals and are capped at a predetermined level.
The financial objective requires the group to achieve a level of EPS based upon the achievement of a business budget EPS target, and a sliding performance scale determines the level of payment.
Common personal objectives for all directors include the active implementation of the published strategy, together with specific items relevant to the individual directors role.
As all members of the Board are behind the drive to maintain safe working practices, the achievement of safety performance, assessed against the groups safety plan, is included in each executive directors personal goals.
In order that the interests of the directors are as closely aligned as possible with those of the shareholders, the Committee has maintained the policy that executive directors should invest a minimum of 25% of bonuses received in the shares of the company, up to the point where a directors shareholding reaches a minimum of 100% of his annual salary.
THIRTY-TWO The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Remuneration Report continued 5.3 Long term incentives Performance Share Plan the Plan Policy The Remuneration Committee annually reviews its policy with regards to share incentive schemes for the Executive Directors and the senior management team.
In line with the Association of British Insurers ABI guidelines, it aims to provide an annual grant policy of share incentive awards.
From the most recent review, the Remuneration Committee concluded that grant levels should not be increased this year and that the revised performance condition provide a stretching and realistic target.
Plan details Under the Plan, selected individuals may receive a conditional award of shares, these conditions would normally be released after three years upon the achievement of market based performance conditions considered over the same period and subject to continued employment.
Annual awards are limited to 100% of an executives salary per annum, although this may, if required, be exceeded within the first 12 months of an executive joining the company, subject to an overriding limit of 200% of base salary.
Awards during the year In the year to 31 March 2006, awards were made to directors over shares worth 80% of their salary.
Performance criteria The companys EPS in the last year of the normal three year performance period determines the extent to which an award will vest.
At a minimum EPS must increase by an average of RPI 6% per annum 25% vesting, and full vesting requires average annual EPS growth of RPI plus 15%.
No other changes will be made to the Plan in 2006 07, which remains compliant with ABI guidelines.
Awards made under the Plan remain within the dilution limits to ensure ABI compliance, 5% in 10 years for all executive schemes and 10% in 10 years for all share plans, and this will continue in 2006 07.
In the event of a change of control or good leaver except on retirement situation, awards will vest on a time apportioned basis from the date of award and only to the extent that the performance condition has been met.
In accordance with the ABI guidelines, retirees will be required to wait until the normal vesting period of three years has been completed, with performance being assessed at that later time.
IFRS The Remuneration Committee asked its independent consultant NBSC to undertake a performance monitoring review of awards made in both 2003 and 2004.
When these awards vest in 2006 and 2007 the Committee will independently verify the extent to which the performance conditions are satisfied.
The Committee considered the changes arising from IFRS and concluded that, at present, on the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition, no immediate adjustments are necessary.
If adjustments are required, the Remuneration Committee will agree them with the Audit Committee when evaluating the achievement of the performance conditions.
Summary The Plan ensures that an increased, but not excessive, proportion of an executives variable remuneration is linked to the requirement to generate superior returns for shareholders, underpinned by financial stability and growth.
Employee Trust shareholding Prior to the current year, the Employee Share Trust held 180,234 shares which would be used to satisfy shares vesting from existing option schemes.
The Trust has transferred 24,514 shares to satisfy options vesting during the year and thus at the year end the total number of shares held by the Trust is now 155,720.
The Trust will continue to satisfy the vesting of future options and the Company does not intend that the Trust acquire any further shares.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that shares held in the Trust have not in the past, and will not in the future, be voted at any shareholder meetings.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group THIRTY-THREE Directors Remuneration Report continued 7.
Employee Sharesave scheme The company also operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme the Sharesave Scheme, which is open to all eligible employees, including executive directors.
Options were granted to employees under the Sharesave Scheme in the UK, Holland and Australia on 8 August 2005.
US Stock Purchase Plan The company also operates a US Stock Purchase Plan, which is open to all US based eligible employees, including executive directors.
Options were granted to employees under the Stock Purchase Plan in the US on 1 October 2005.
It is anticipated that further grants under the Sharesave Scheme and Stock Purchase Plan will be made in future on an annual basis.
TSR performance The following table shows the graph of the groups TSR performance using a hypothetical 100 holding in Expro International Group PLC ordinary shares and that of the FTSE Mid 250 index.
The Committee considered this index to be the most suitable comparator group.
Service contracts 9.1 Policy The Remuneration Committee policy on executive service contracts is for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year.
The Committee retains the flexibility in offering an initial notice period in excess of one year in line with market practice, provided that after the first such period the notice period reduces to one year.
All other executive directors service contracts can be terminated on one years notice.
Each service contract expires at the respective normal retirement age of the director, but is subject to earlier termination for cause or if notice is given under the contract.
The policy also requires no express compensation payments upon termination.
No contract contains a liquidated damages clause on termination of employment, and in all cases, both parties are required to mitigate their losses as required by law.
Value THIRTY-FOUR The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee have previously reviewed all service contracts against current best practice and concluded that they are wholly compliant.
As required by the duty to mitigate losses, the Committee will consider the imposition of phased payments in any common law compensation.
9.2 Details of executive directors contracts G F Coutts, C P Aingers, M J Martindales and M J Speakmans whose term of office commenced 1 March 2004 and J M McAlisters service contracts with the company are dated 28 August 2003, 1 December 2004, 27 September 2002, 27 November 2003 and 28 February 2006 respectively.
Each can be terminated by giving one years notice.
Bonus entitlement and long term incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.
9.3 External Appointments of Executive directors Executive directors are not permitted to accept external directorships or other significant appointments without the Boards prior consent and no executive director has any such external appointments at the date of this report.
Non-executive directors NED 10.1 Policy on non-executives remuneration The Board sets remuneration at a level to attract and retain experienced NEDs.
Their remuneration will be proportional to the time spent in, and their contribution to, the company as well as being consistent with standards for NEDs remuneration in comparable companies.
Remuneration will continue to be paid monthly, in cash.
Remuneration is regularly reviewed with the last increases being implemented with effect from 1 October 2004 for both the Chairman and NEDs.
No NED is in receipt of any incentive award whether linked to share price or performance.
The full board, generally, meets monthly, and a total of 10 meetings were held in 2005 06 with other meetings as required by commercial matters.
Generally NEDs are encouraged to hold shares in the company in a manner which satisfies legal and regulatory authorities.
NEDs have contracts of appointment which recognise that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the discretion of the shareholders.
They submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three years.
10.2 Details of non executive directors contracts Dr. C E Fays service agreement with the company is dated 6 July 2005, expiring 6 July 2008 and can be terminated by the company at any time except in the event of a change of control where 12 months notice has to be given.
In the event of termination, Dr C E Fay is not entitled to any damages for loss of office and no fee will be paid in respect of any unexpired portion of the term of appointment.
R F Boyes agreement with the company is dated 27 September 2002, expiring 27 September 2008 and can be terminated by the company or R F Boyes upon 6 months written notice.
In the event of termination, R F Boyes is not entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
T M Lazenbys agreement with the company is dated 30 May 2003 whose term of office commenced 3 June 2003, expiring 3 June 2006 and can be terminated by the company or T M Lazenby upon 6 months written notice.
In the event of termination, T M Lazenby is not entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
The Nomination Committee have recommended to the Board that this appointment continues for a further 3 year term and this has recently been approved by the Board.
T J C Eggars agreement with the company is dated 19 March 2004 whose term of office commenced on 1 March 2004, expiring 1 March 2007 and can be terminated upon 6 months written notice by the company at any time.
In the event of termination following notice, T J C Eggar is not entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group THIRTY-FIVE Directors Remuneration Report continued AUDITED INFORMATION 11 Remuneration of Directors Remuneration of Directors Year ended 31 March 2006 2005 Fees & other Benefits Aggregate Aggregate remuneration Bonus in kind emoluments emoluments 000 000 000 000 000 Dr C E Fay CBE 100 100 94 C P Ainger 159 120 1 280 210 1 G F Coutts 334 220 2 556 415 R F Boyes 32 32 31 M J Martindale 182 136 4 322 251 T M Lazenby 30 30 28 M J Speakman 240 166 1 407 320 T J C Eggar 30 30 28 1,107 642 8 1,757 1,377 1,2 Money Purchase Pension Contributions 56 20 Gains on exercise of share options 34 Total 1,107 642 8 1,813 1,431 1 G F Coutts received a payment of 205,001 in 2004 05 arising from the cessation of the FURBS scheme and receives a cash allowance in 2005 06 34,000 following its cessation.
2 On behalf of M J Speakman a contribution of 22,000 was made to the defined contribution pension scheme.
The benefits shown above include the use of a company car, car allowance, telephone calls and private medical cover as appropriate.
Pensions Executive directors excluding M J Speakman and when appointed, J W McAlister are entitled to membership of the groups UK defined benefit pension scheme and pay standard members contributions at the rate of 7% of pensionable earnings, up to the earnings cap if applicable.
This entitles them to the following benefits: 1.
Life assurance cover of four times basic salary and a retirement pension of up to two thirds of final pensionable salary on reaching their retirement age of 60, subject to any Inland Revenue restriction.
If a director dies in pensionable service, the surviving spouse or dependants are entitled to a pension of two thirds of the pension that would have been received at normal retirement date based on the final pensionable salary at the date of death.
Directors may take early retirement and receive an immediate pension from the age of 50.
There would be an actuarial reduction in the accrued pension in such circumstances.
Retirement pensions relating to service post 6 April 1997 will increase annually at the lower of RPI or 5%, however there will be no increases to pensions for service prior to 6 April 1997 except to comply with contracting out requirements for post April 1988 Guaranteed Minimum Pensions.
Following changes to the pensions legislation, the group has decided to have a notional earnings cap from April 2006.
G F Coutts will continue to accrue pension benefits as a member of the defined benefit pension scheme, up to the level of the notional earnings cap and the company will continue to contribute 20% of his salary above the notional earnings cap.
As M J Speakman joined after the defined benefit pension scheme was closed to new entrants, the Company contributes 20% of salary to the defined contribution pension scheme.
When appointed, J W McAlister will also have the same contribution 20% made to the defined contribution scheme.
THIRTY-SIX The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Remuneration Report continued The following directors had accrued entitlements under defined benefit schemes as follows: Transfer value of real increase Real in accrued Increase in Accrued Transfer increase in Increase pension transfer value Accrued Transfer pension at value at accrued in accrued less directors less directors pension at value at 31 March 2005 31 March 2005 pension pension contributions contributions 31 March 2006 31 March 2006 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 C P Ainger 73 864 5 7 71 204 80 1,078 M J Martindale 21 350 3 4 71 121 25 478 G F Coutts 19 143 3 4 28 43 23 193 14.
Directors and their interests The directors who held office at the end of the year had the beneficial interests, shown below in the ordinary shares of 10p each of the company.
These charges were based on normal commercial terms.
At 31 March 2006, the amount outstanding to the company was nil 2005: nil.
The company ceased to provide services to the group on 22 February 2006.
Between 1 April 2004 and 31 December 2004, Tuscan Energy Scotland Limited TES was a related party of the group due to Dr C E Fays position as Chairman of Tuscan Energy Group Limited, the controlling holding company of TES.
During this period, the group provided TES with 3.3m of services which were contracted under normal commercial terms.
At 31 December 2004 TES ceased to be a related party of the group.
Re-election of Directors Dr C E Fay, G F Coutts and T M Lazenby retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Following his appointment on 12 June 2006, J W McAlister retires in accordance with the Articles of Association at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 The Expro Group THIRTY-SEVEN Directors Remuneration Report continued 16.
Directors equity interests According to the register of directors interests maintained under the Companies Act 1985, other than as stated below, no directors or members of their immediate families have any options to subscribe for shares in any group company.
ESOS means the Executive Share Option Scheme.
ii The market price of the ordinary shares at 31st March 2006 was 741p and the range during the year was 395p to 774p.
iii No options were exercised by any director during the year.
THIRTY-EIGHT The Expro Group Annual Report and Accounts for year ended 31 March 2006 Directors Remuneration Report continued iv The performance condition that applies to options granted in 1998 shown in the table above requires growth in the companys adjusted earnings per share over any 3 year period after the date of grant of the option to equal or exceed the growth in the Retail Price Index plus 2% p. a. for the same period.
All other share options granted after that year require growth in the Retail Price Index plus 3% p. a.
The performance condition attached to the Performance Share Plan in both 2003 and 2004 measures the companys TSR against a defined comparator group comprising the constituents of the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
The performance condition attached to the Performance Share Plan in 2005 measures the companys EPS against the growth in RPI.
vi Details of the share option schemes are given in note 30 to the accounts.
vii The directors do not have any other interests that require to be disclosed under Schedule 7, Section 2 of the Companies Act 1985.
Approval This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
This report is subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Signed on behalf of the board of directors, T J C Eggar Chairman, Remuneration Committee 30 May 2006
