33 Report of the Directors For the year ended 31 December 2006 The directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report together with the audited financial statements of Group 4 Securicor plc and the consolidated financial statements of that company and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures the group for the year ended 31 December 2006.
Group 4 Securicor plc has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange.
1 Principal activities of the group Group 4 Securicor plc is a parent company with subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The principal activities of the group comprise the provision of security services including the provision of manned security services, justice services and security systems and the management and transportation of cash and valuables.
2 Group results The consolidated result for the year and the appropriation thereof are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 50.
Details of major business activities during the year, future developments, principal risks and uncertainties and prospects of the group are contained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 10 to 27.
3 Dividends The directors propose the following net dividend for the year: Interim dividend of 1.69p DKK 0.1863 per share paid on 15 December 2006.
Final dividend of 2.52p DKK 0.2766 per share payable on 8 June 2007.
Shareholders on the Danish VP register will receive their dividends in Danish Kroner.
Shareholders who hold their shares through CREST or in certificated form will receive their dividends in sterling unless they prefer to receive Danish Kroner, in which case they should apply in writing to the Registrars by no later than 9 May 2007.
4 Significant business acquisitions, disposals and developments In January 2006 an option to acquire 49% of Group 4 Nesma For Security and Safety Ltd in Saudi Arabia was purchased.
In April 2006 a further 26% of Group 4 Securitas Emirates LLC in the United Arab Emirates was acquired.
In July 2006 a further 10% of AS Falck Baltics in Estonia was acquired.
In August 2006 50% of Alfa-Segurana in Mozambique was acquired.
In September 2006 the cash management assets and contracts of PT Transnational Solutions in Indonesia were acquired.
In November 2006 75% of G4S Chile Holding, SA was acquired.
In November 2006 Defence Systems Africa was acquired in D R Congo.
In November 2006 Security Systems Far East Ltd was acquired in Hong Kong.
In December 2006 the transportation business and related assets of Cognisa Security, Inc. in the USA were disposed of.
In December 2006 agreement was reached for the disposal of G4S Geld-und Wertdienste GmbH, the German cash services business.
In March 2007 50.1% of Fidelity Cash Management Services Pty Ltd in South Africa was acquired.
34 Report of the Directors continued For the year ended 31 December 2006 5 Capital The authorised and issued share capital of Group 4 Securicor plc at 31 December 2006 is set out on page 91 note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
Resolution 8 set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 107 is an ordinary resolution granting the directors power to enable them to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 105,500,000, representing approximately 33% of the issued share capital.
The company does not hold any treasury shares as such.
However, the 6,022,967 shares held within the employee benefit trust and referred to on page 91 note 35 to the consolidated financial statements are accounted for as treasury shares.
The intention of the directors is to allot shares upon the exercise of options granted over Securicor plc shares and rolled over into options over the companys shares.
The directors do not have any other present intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 9 is a special resolution granting the directors power to enable them to allot shares for cash a in connection with a rights or similar issue or b other than to existing shareholders, in the latter case such allotment being limited to an aggregate nominal value of 15,995,000, representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital.
Resolution 10 is a special resolution seeking authority to make market purchases of the companys shares.
The maximum number of shares which could be purchased under this authority is 128,000,000, being a little less than 10% of the number of shares currently in issue.
The directors have no present intention of utilising this authority but believe it appropriate to obtain this flexibility in accordance with common business practice.
Information concerning the companys shares held under option is set out on page 91 note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
6 Research and development expenditure Research in connection with the development of new services and products and the improvement of those currently provided by the group is carried out continuously.
Research and development written off to profit and loss during the year amounted to 1.4m 2005: 1.4m.
7 Payment of suppliers It is the companys and the groups policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the payment terms negotiated with them.
Thus, prompt payment is normally made to those suppliers meeting their obligations.
The company and the group do not follow any formal code or standard on payment practice.
At 31 December 2006 the trade creditors of the company represented 13 days 2005: 30 days of annual purchases.
At 31 December 2006 the consolidated trade creditors of the group represented 40 days 2005: 46 days of annual purchases.
8 Employee involvement Employee involvement and consultation is managed in a variety of ways.
These include keeping employees informed about current activities, progress and general matters of interest through the group intranet, staff meetings, newsletters, bulletins and similar items produced by various individual companies as well as seeking their views through questionnaires and consultation with union representatives when appropriate.
The groups policy and practice is to encourage the recruitment and subsequent training, career development and promotion of disabled persons according to their aptitudes and abilities, and the retention and retraining of employees who become disabled.
9 Political and charitable contributions Charitable contributions by the group during the year amounted to 94,000 2005: 300,000.
There were no political contributions requiring disclosure under the Companies Act.
10 Substantial holdings The directors have been notified of the following substantial shareholdings at 30 March 2007 in the ordinary capital of Group 4 Securicor plc: Skagen Alpha Limited 171,939,961 13.43% Deutsche Bank AG 52,939,386 4.14% Legal and General Group Plc 44,633,547 3.48% Jrgen Philip-Srensen is interested in these shares for the purposes of section 324 of the Companies Act.
35 Report of the Directors continued For the year ended 31 December 2006 11 Auditor A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc, chartered accountants, as auditor to the company and for their remuneration to be fixed by the directors will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
12 Directors The directors, biographical details of whom are contained on pages 30 and 31, held office throughout the year, with the exception of Mark Elliott who was appointed on 1 September 2006.
Jrgen Philip-Srensen and Waldemar Schmidt retired from the board on 30 June 2006.
The directors retiring by rotation are Nick Buckles, Lord Condon and Alf Duch-Pedersen who, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The board believes that they possess experience and expertise relevant to the companys operations, that they continue to be effective, that they are committed to the success of the company and that they should be re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Elliott retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers himself for election.
The board believes that Mr Elliotts considerable knowledge and experience of running an international services business employing large numbers of people is a most valuable addition and therefore recommends that he be elected at the Annual General Meeting.
Of those directors proposed for election or re-election, Lord Condon and Messrs Duch-Pedersen and Elliott do not have contracts of service and Mr Buckles contract of service has no unexpired term since it is not for a fixed term.
The contracts of service of the executive directors are terminable at 12 months notice.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service.
The company has executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each of the directors whose biographical details appear on pages 30 and 31 in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the company.
These deeds are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309 B of the Companies Act 1985 and have been in effect since 3 November 2006.
A copy of the form of indemnity is available on the companys website.
Details of directors interests in the share capital of Group 4 Securicor plc and of the directors remuneration are set out on pages 39 to 47.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
None of the directors had a material interest in any contract significant to the business of the group during the financial year.
By order of the board Peter David The Manor Secretary Manor Royal 30 March 2007 Crawley West Sussex RH10 9UN 36 Corporate Governance Statement The boards statement on the companys corporate governance performance is based on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The Combined Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the codes principles and to confirm that they comply with the codes provisions or, where they do not comply, to provide an explanation.
a Application of Combined Code principles The board comprises the non-executive chairman Alf Duch-Pedersen, a non-executive deputy chairman Lord Condon, five other non-executive directors, the chief executive Nick Buckles, the chief financial officer Trevor Dighton and the chief operating officer Grahame Gibson.
The board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
The senior independent director is Malcolm Williamson.
All continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows: Audit Committee Thorleif Krarup chairman Bo Lerenius joined March 2006 Mark Seligman Malcolm Williamson Remuneration Committee Lord Condon chairman Mark Elliott joined March 2007 Bo Lerenius Mark Seligman joined March 2006 Nomination Committee Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman Lord Condon Malcolm Williamson joined June 2006 Lord Condon became chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2006 when Mr Duch-Pedersen left the committee upon becoming chairman of the board.
Waldemar Schmidt left the Remuneration Committee on his retirement from the board on 30 June 2006.
Mr Duch-Pedersen became chairman of the Nomination Committee following the retirement of Jrgen Philip-Srensen, also on 30 June 2006.
Mr Seligman is the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available on the companys website.
It is intended that the chairmen of the three committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors met on ten occasions during the year ended 31 December 2006.
There were ten board meetings, one of which was an extended, two-day, board and strategy session, at which presentations on some of the groups key businesses were made to the board by senior executives and at which the groups business plan, legal, financial and HR strategies were discussed.
Waldemar Schmidt, Malcolm Williamson, Mark Elliott and Bo Lerenius were each absent for one board meeting.
At each meeting, the board receives reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company secretary, an HR report and an investor relations report which include summaries of developments on HR matters and comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
In addition, the board receives monthly management accounts.
There are ten board meetings scheduled for the current year, together with a two-day strategy session.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which are set out under five separate categories: 1 Board and management: 2 Operations: 3 Finance: 4 Business control: and 5 Secretarial.
By way of example, board approval is required for a acquisitions, disposals, investments and capital projects exceeding 4m: b any changes to the groups business strategy: and c the annual trading, capital expenditure and cash flow budgets.
37 Corporate Governance Statement continued a Application of Combined Code principles continued In the year under review, the Audit Committee met four times, the Remuneration Committee six times and the Nomination Committee twice.
All members attended each of the meetings except for Malcolm Williamson who was absent from two meetings of the Audit Committee, Waldemar Schmidt and Bo Lerenius who were each absent from one meeting of the Remuneration Committee and Alf Duch-Pedersen did not attend the meeting of the Remuneration Committee at which his fees as future chairman of the board were discussed and Jrgen Philip-Srensen was absent from one meeting of the Nomination Committee.
The performance of the board and its committees has been evaluated in a number of ways.
Having conducted a questionnaire-based selfassessment of the performance of the board as a whole in the previous year, the findings have been considered during the year under review and, based on this feedback, steps have been taken during the year to increase the interaction between non-executive directors and the senior executives of the groups businesses.
In addition, the chairman has conducted individual evaluations of the performance of each of the directors and his findings have been discussed by the board.
Both the Audit and Remuneration Committees have evaluated their performance by questionnaire-based self-assessment, completed, in the case of the Audit Committee, by both the committees members and by the other regular attendees of its meetings.
The results of the assessments were reviewed by the committees concerned and some areas for improvement were identified.
As a result, additional meetings have been scheduled to give the committees more time to both carry out their duties and address some of their development and assessment needs.
The chief executive and the chief financial officer hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings.
It is intended that all the directors will attend the Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions from shareholders other than Mr Seligman, whose unavailability at this time was made known at the time of his appointment.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for making recommendations on board appointments and on maintaining a balance of skills and experience on the board.
Alf Duch-Pedersen succeeded Jrgen Philip-Srensen as chairman of the board when the latter retired in June 2006.
The Nomination Committee had considered a number of possible candidates but concluded that Mr Duch-Pedersens knowledge of the security industry and his retirement from executive duties with Danisco made him an ideal candidate.
The committee did not therefore believe that external advertising or the use of an external search consultancy would be beneficial.
The intended succession of Mr Duch-Pedersen was reported in the companys annual report for 2005.
Mark Elliott was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 September 2006 on the advice of the Nomination Committee which had received recommendations on a number of potential candidates from an external search consultancy.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by representatives of the group auditor, the chief financial officer, the head of internal audit and the company secretary.
The committee considers the groups annual and interim financial statements and any questions raised by the auditor on the financial statements and financial systems.
It also reviews, amongst other matters, whistle blowing arrangements, risk management procedures and internal controls.
The Audit Committee has established a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services, so as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
Besides the formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultation and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies, general advice on financial reporting standards and corporate tax services.
The auditor is prohibited from providing other services without specific permission from the Audit Committee.
The value of non-audit services provided by the auditor must not exceed the fees charged for the statutory audit, save in the event of a major transformation deal.
The auditor has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
b Compliance with provisions of Combined Code Save as set out below, the company complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Non-compliance with Combined Code Provisions A.
6.1 of the Combined Code provide that the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, should meet without the chairman present at least annually to appraise the chairmans performance.
In view of the retirement of Jrgen Philip-Srensen at the end of June 2006, it was thought to be unnecessary to review the out-going chairmans performance and too soon to conduct a meaningful review of the performance of his successor, Alf Duch-Pedersen, before the year-end.
Such an appraisal will be carried out during the current year.
38 Corporate Governance Statement continued c Risk management and internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the groups activities are reviewed regularly by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group.
Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the head of internal audit, are in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board to present significant exposure.
The key features of the groups risk management process are: A common risk management framework is used to provide a profile of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of business objectives.
Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
The risk profiles ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
Risk management committees have been established at regional, divisional and group level.
The regional committees meet twice a year and the divisional and group committees meet quarterly.
A standard agenda covering risk and control issues is considered at each meeting and risk profiles are reviewed and updated at each meeting.
Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for each operating company at least twice a year and updated risk profiles are prepared.
Similar exercises are undertaken as part of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The results of the company risk evaluations are assessed by the regional and divisional risk management committees.
The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board in accordance with the internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code, is carried out under the overall supervision of the group risk management committee.
This committee, which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control.
Both the divisional risk management committees and the group risk management committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance from other sources including security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistle blowing activity, and risk and control self-evaluations.
The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal control system for the year to 31 December 2006 by considering reports from the Audit Committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2006.
Peter David Secretary 30 March 2007 39 Directors Remuneration Report At 31 December 2006 This report provides details of the remuneration of each of the directors and sets out the companys remuneration policies for the current financial year and, subject to ongoing review, for subsequent financial years.
The report will be put to the Annual General Meeting for approval by the shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during the period under review.
The members of the committee, all of whom are considered to be independent, are Lord Condon chairman, Mark Elliott, Bo Lerenius and Mark Seligman.
Alf Duch-Pedersen left the committee when he became chairman of the board on 1 July 2006, at which time Lord Condon became chairman of the committee.
Waldemar Schmidt also left the committee when he retired from the board on 30 June 2006.
Mark Elliott joined the committee on 1 March 2007.
The committee is responsible for setting all aspects of the remuneration of the chairman, the executive directors, the three other members of the group executive committee and the company secretary.
It is also responsible for the operation of the companys share plans.
Its terms of reference are available on the companys website.
Advice was provided to the committee by New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, compensation consultants, who were appointed by the committee 1 until 6 October 2006 when Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc.
Towers Perrin were appointed by the committee in place of New Bridge Street Consultants.
The terms of appointment of both firms are available on the companys website.
New Bridge Street Consultants did not provide any other services to the company during the period under review, but Towers Perrin also provided benchmarking services in respect of a small number of the companys senior executives.
Nick Buckles, chief executive, provided guidance to the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives within the group.
Further guidance was received from the groups HR director, Irene Cowden.
Neither Mr Buckles nor Mrs Cowden participated in discussions regarding their own pay.
Remuneration policy The policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the executive management team aims to achieve: the ability to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives: a strong link between executive reward and the groups performance: alignment of the interests of the executives and the shareholders: and provision of incentive arrangements which focus on both annual and longer-term performance.
A significant proportion of total remuneration is related to performance through participation in both short-term and long-term incentive schemes.
For base target performance, the performance-related element amounts to around 40% of the total package.
For stretch target performance, the performance-related element amounts to around 60% of the total package.
The committee believes that the current balance is appropriate, although it is kept under review.
Bonus payments do not form part of salary for pension purposes.
Elements of remuneration a Base salary and benefits The salaries of the executive directors are reviewed with effect from 1 January each year.
Interim salary reviews may be carried out following significant changes in responsibility.
The salaries take account of a benchmarking exercise based on similarly sized companies with a significant part of their business overseas and also reflect responsibility, individual performance, internal relativities and salary and other market information supplied by the compensation consultants appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
The overall objective is to achieve salary levels which provide a market competitive base salary, with the opportunity to earn above market norms, on the delivery of superior performance, through the companys incentive schemes.
Benefits include pension arrangements and the provision of a company car or a cash allowance in lieu of a car, health insurance and life assurance.
1 Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc. has given, and not withdrawn, its written consent to the issue of this document with the inclusion of the reference to its name in the form and content in which it appears.
A copy of the consent letter is available for inspection at the companys registered office.
40 Directors Remuneration Report continued At 31 December 2006 Elements of remuneration continued b Performance-related bonus scheme For the year under review, the executive directors participated in an annual performance-related bonus scheme, payments under which were dependent on the attainment of defined PBTA profit before tax and amortisation targets of the group, adjusted for the effect of any exceptional items and discontinued operations and using constant exchange rates.
The committee believes that PBTA best reflects the various key drivers of business success within the group.
For achievement of the budgeted target, a bonus payment of 50% of base salary was due, increasing on a straight-line basis up to a bonus payment of 100% of salary for achievement of a stretch profit target.
Any such bonus up to the value of 50% of the executive directors salary was payable in cash with any excess balance being awarded in the form of deferred shares.
Any deferred shares will normally only be transferred to the executive director if he remains in employment otherwise than where he leaves in certain specified circumstances for a period of three years from the date of the award of the shares.
The PBTA budgeted targets used for the above scheme are the same as the companys budgeted PBTA for the corresponding period assuming constant exchange rates.
2006 was a strong year for the company with PBTA performance exceeding the budgeted target.
The Remuneration Committee agreed that the bonus payment for such performance should be at the 76% level.
This was above the 50% level which would have been payable for achievement of budgeted PBTA, but below the 100% level which was the maximum payable under the scheme for achievement of the full stretch profit target.
c Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan The Performance Share Plan was introduced in July 2004.
Under the plan, the executive directors and certain other senior executives receive conditional allocations of the companys shares which are released to them only on the achievement of demanding performance targets.
The maximum annual award of shares under the plan is currently one times base salary, save that, in exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may determine that an award of up to one and a half times salary may be made.
The extent to which allocations of shares under the plan vest have been determined, as to half of the award, by the companys normalised earnings per share growth relative to the RPI over a single three-year period and, as to the second half of the award, by the companys ranking by reference to TSR total shareholder return, being share price growth plus dividends paid using the FTSE-100 constituent companies as at the date of the award as a comparator group, again over a single three-year period.
There is no provision for retesting.
The following targets apply to the first half of awards granted in the year under review, with the three-year EPS earnings per share period ending on 31 December 2008: Average annual growth in EPS Proportion of allocation vesting Less than RPI 6% per annum Nil RPI 6% per annum 18% over three years 25% RPI 6-11% per annum Pro rata between 25% and 100% RPI 11% per annum 33% over three years 100% The following targets apply to the second half of each such award: Ranking of the company against the FTSE-100 constituent companies by reference to TSR Proportion of allocation vesting Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100% Upper quartile 100% In addition, there will only be a transfer of shares under the second half if a the growth in EPS of the company has exceeded the growth in RPI by 10% over a performance period of three financial years, and b the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the companys TSR performance is reflective of the companys underlying performance.
41 Directors Remuneration Report continued At 31 December 2006 Elements of remuneration continued c Performance Share Plan long-term incentive plan continued The Remuneration Committee believes that a combination of earnings per share growth and total shareholder return targets is the most appropriate performance measure for the performance share plan, as it provides a transparent method of assessing the companys performance, both in terms of underlying financial performance and returns to shareholders.
The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved by reference to the companys audited accounts which provide an accessible and objective measure of the companys earnings per share, whilst TSR comparative data will be supplied by Towers Perrin.
The committee will also ensure that the EPS targets are measured on a consistent basis and are not artificially impacted, either to the benefit or to the detriment of participants, by the change in accounting standards to International Financial Reporting Standards.
Awards will not normally vest where an employee ceases to be employed within the group unless cessation of employment is due to death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or following a change of control of, or sale outside the group of, his or her employing company.
In these situations, vesting will occur in the normal course and the performance targets will need to be satisfied pro rata to the time the allocation has been held.
However, only a proportion of the award, based on the time which has elapsed from the award date to the end of the last complete month in which the employee was employed, may vest in these circumstances.
The companys current policy is to use market purchased shares to satisfy performance share plan awards.
The Remuneration Committee believes that continued shareholding by executive directors will strengthen the alignment of their interests with shareholders interests.
Accordingly, executive directors of the company will be expected to retain shares to the value of 30% of the after-tax gains made on the vesting of performance share plan awards until they have built up a shareholding equivalent to one times base salary.
Remuneration strategy review The companys executive remuneration strategy aims to provide market competitive levels of total remuneration in return for achievement of stretching short and long-term performance targets.
In particular, the companys short-term incentive plan is focused on rewarding the achievement of tough annual profit growth targets while the Performance Share Plan the PSP is intended to reward the achievement of sustained earnings growth and superior returns to shareholders over time.
During 2006, assisted by Towers Perrin independent executive remuneration adviser to the Remuneration Committee and the company, the Remuneration Committee conducted a review of the companys executive incentive arrangements to ensure that they provide a strong alignment with the delivery of value to shareholders while enabling the company to continue to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre executives.
The results of this review were that: Base salary levels are close to mid-market competitive norms against a basket of similarly sized and international companies and so the Remuneration Committee proposes not to make any changes to their approach in setting salaries.
Maximum annual bonus levels are behind market norms.
The Remuneration Committee is comfortable with the level of bonus opportunity but has made certain structural changes as described below in order that bonuses are also linked to the successful delivery of key business objectives and milestones other than profit.
Overall total compensation levels in respect of the three Executive Directors have fallen behind mid-market norms, largely as a result of below market long-term incentive levels.
Furthermore, the Remuneration Committee feels that the current TSR peer group in the PSP is no longer appropriate and, instead, wishes to move to a group of more directly comparable companies in the companys sector.
Finally, the Remuneration Committee feels that the additional EPS underpin applying to the TSR portion of the PSP was unnecessary.
As a result of this review, changes have been made to the annual performance-related bonus scheme so that in the event of achievement of a threshold level of profits which is slightly below the budgeted profit target, a bonus payment of 25% of base salary would be due and the amount of bonus payable is linked to achievement of key business objectives as well as PBTA.
Thus, in the current year, 40% of base salary will be payable on achievement of budgeted PBTA, increasing on a straight-line basis up to a bonus of 80% of salary for achievement of a stretch profit target, with a further 20% on achievement of pre-defined key business objectives approved by the Remuneration Committee.
These objectives will vary for each individual according to their responsibilities and will support longer-term business development.
42 Directors Remuneration Report continued At 31 December 2006 Remuneration strategy review continued In addition, the Remuneration Committee also proposes the following changes to the PSP, for which the company is seeking shareholder approval at the 2007 Annual General Meeting: The FTSE-100 comparator group will be replaced with the following bespoke global group of 16 support services companies.
The current vesting schedule will be retained.
Relative TSR will be measured on a common currency basis.
Atkins WS Capita Group Hays Rexam Brambles Industries Compass Group MITIE Group Securitas AB Brinks Garda Prosegur Serco Group Bunzl Group 4 Securicor Rentokil Initial Sodexho Alliance The annual limit within the PSP will be raised to 250% of salary.
However, it is the Remuneration Committees intention that awards will initially be no higher than 150% of salary per year or 100% of salary for senior executives below board level.
If in the future the committee wished to grant at levels greater than 150%, either in exceptional circumstances or because, for example, the market had risen, major shareholders would be consulted prior to any change in this policy.
Going forward the Remuneration Committee also wishes to place greater emphasis on the EPS portion of the PSP, therefore two thirds of future awards will be linked to existing EPS performance targets and the remaining one third will be linked to TSR performance relative to the new comparator group.
The current explicit EPS underpin to the TSR target will be replaced with a commitment by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that the underlying financial performance of the company is satisfactory prior to permitting the vesting of any award in respect of the TSR portion of the plan.
Given the emphasis on EPS growth within the PSP, the committee feels that the current underpin is unnecessary.
The Remuneration Committee believes that EPS has a greater motivational impact for executives as it comes under their accountability and control.
However, it is acknowledged that TSR aligns the interests of shareholders and executives over the longer term and the revised TSR peer group provides a more relevant market perspective.
In line with current best practice, participants in the PSP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of future PSP awards vesting at the end of the performance period.
The PSP rules will be amended to comply with age discrimination legislation by removing the provision relating to ineligibility within 2 years of retirement.
Where a participant leaves employment, or there is a corporate transaction affecting the company, awards under the PSP currently vest subject to having achieved performance conditions and subject to prorating of the award for the time since award.
The Remuneration Committee considers this approach to be consistent with best practice, but wishes to retain the ability to allow for a greater proportion of the award to vest if it considers it to be appropriate in exceptional circumstances, and so an amendment allowing such discretion is proposed in this respect.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these proposals are important in providing a more performance-related remuneration package that will more effectively attract, retain and motivate executives, bring total pay packages closer to mid-market norms and introduce greater alignment with business objectives.
Shareholders are asked to confirm their approval of the above changes at the companys Annual General Meeting.
Fees, service contracts and letters of appointment The chairmans annual fee is 225,000.
The annual fee for the non-executive directors, which is set by the chairman and the executive directors, is 48,600, with a further 40,000 for the role of deputy chairman, 15,000 for the chairmanship of each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and 15,000 for the role of senior independent director.
No other fees are paid for membership of the board committees.
These fees are subject to periodic review which takes into account comparative fee levels in other groups of a similar size and the anticipated time commitment for the non-executive directors.
The service contracts of those who served as executive directors during the period are dated as follows: Nick Buckles 2 June 2004 Trevor Dighton 2 June 2004 Grahame Gibson 6 December 2006
