Annual Report and Accounts 2006 27 Hays plc Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Provide a balanced mix of remuneration base salary, Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and will be submitted benets, pensions, short term cash incentives and longer to shareholders for their approval at the Annual General term equity incentives: Meeting of the Company to be held on 15 November 2006.
Set base salaries at either somewhere below or around In preparing this report, the Board has followed the provisions market median of Schedule A to the July 2003 FRC Combined Code.
Provide an annual bonus opportunity against stretching Composition and terms of reference business targets.
On-target performance will be rewarded of the Remuneration Committee at or around median level The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, Superior performance and business returns will result in a under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the total reward in excess of median and towards upper quartile remuneration policy and for determining specic packages for individual executive Directors including the Chairman.
Provide a total reward package with a high percentage The terms of reference for the Committee are available based on variable performance elements.
Around 50% on the Companys website and from the Company Secretary of the total cash incentive package will be variable and at the Registered Ofce.
based on performance elements The Remuneration Committee was chaired by Mrs L M S Knox Long term incentives primarily comprise the Long throughout the year.
All the members of the Remuneration Term Co-Investment Plan.
The existing Share Option and Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Messrs Performance Share Schemes are now closed, and no C W Eccleshare, P H Stoneham and B G Wallace were further awards under these schemes will be made.
committee members throughout the year.
The Committee Approximately 50% of the fair value of total remuneration receives assistance from the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group is performance-related based on current salaries and other Human Resources Director and Company Secretary who emoluments, target annual bonuses and expected values attend meetings by invitation.
The Remuneration Committee used Kepler Associates as The executive Directors packages consist of the following: independent remuneration advisers during the year.
Kepler Associates advised the Committee on levels of Directors Base salary remuneration and the design of suitable incentive arrangements Base salaries are reviewed annually by the Remuneration for both the executive Directors and the Groups senior Committee taking into account the performance of the individual, management.
Kepler Associates do not provide other services changes in their responsibilities, information from independent to the Group.
remuneration consultants on levels of salary for similar jobs and the Groups performance against financial objectives.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the position of external adviser and following a formal evaluation in Other benets September 2006 appointed KPMG LLP as independent Other benets provided for Directors are car benefit, medical remuneration advisers.
KPMG LLP also provide advice on expenses insurance and permanent health cover.
certain ad hoc corporate tax matters to the Company.
Annual bonus The Remuneration Committee also appointed Lane Clark Annual bonus arrangements have been put in place for each & Peacock as pension consultants to advise on executive executive Director based on profit targets and individual Director pension arrangements.
Lane Clark & Peacock also measures relevant to their responsibilities.
For 2006 the targets provide advice to the Company on pension issues.
for bonus achievement were based on financial measures and personal objectives.
For 2006, the bonus opportunity was up to Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer provide legal advice to the 80% of base salary, on terms that any amount of bonus exceeding Remuneration Committee.
They also advise the Company on 60% of base salary must be invested on an after-tax basis in legal issues.
shares which the Director will be required to commit under the Long Term Co-Investment Plan.
Bonus payments are not Remuneration policy for executive Directors pensionable.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, The Committee determines the remuneration policy for current further cash bonuses may be paid in exceptional circumstances.
and future years which is reviewed on an annual basis.
No such discretionary payments were made in respect of 2006.
The remuneration policy is designed to allow the business Long Term Co-Investment Plan to attract, retain and motivate the quality of senior The Long Term Co-Investment Plan, approved at the Annual management needed to shape and execute strategy and General Meeting in 2003, is the primary long term incentive deliver shareholder value.
Its principal objectives are to encourage executive Directors and key employees to make The following are the principles around which specic reward committed investments in the Companys shares and to schemes will be designed : reward superior performance with superior earnings potential.
Link reward to individual Directors performance and This arrangement and the overall remuneration structure is Company performance to align the interests of senior currently under review by the Remuneration Committee using executives with those of shareholders its newly appointed advisers KPMG LLP.
Base reward on both individual achievement and The key features of the Plan are: Group results to encourage a team approach Participants have an annual opportunity to commit shares Maintain a competitive package against businesses of in the Company Committed Shares to the Plan, and will a comparable size in the FTSE and comparable peer become entitled to receive matching shares if the Company group businesses in the recruitment sector outperforms its peers.
Mirror the incentive and performance philosophy in Executive Directors can invest as Committed Shares an the business amount up to 30% of annual remuneration.
For Executive Committee members the limit is 25% of annual remuneration Encourage a personal stake in the business and focus on and for other invitees, 20% of annual remuneration.
longer term business objectives via a long term incentive plan 28 Hays plc www.
com Remuneration Report continued The number of matching shares available will depend on the Service contracts Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The Companys policy on service contracts is that Directors relative to a peer group of 14 recruitment companies based contracts should be terminable on not more than one years in the United Kingdom and elsewhere.
In the event of early termination of a Directors service comparator companies include: Adecco SA: Robert Half contract, the Company would be required to pay compensation International Inc: Manpower Inc: Monster Worldwide Inc: reecting the salary and benets to which the Director would Vedior NV: Kelly Services Inc: Michael Page International Plc: have become entitled under the contract during the notice Spring Group Plc: Robert Walters Plc: Randstad Holdings period.
Alternatively, the Company may, at its discretion, pay NV: OPD Group Plc: Whitehead Mann Group Plc: Corporate a predetermined termination sum in lieu of notice.
In the event Services Group Plc and Harvey Nash Group Plc.
This of early termination, the Remuneration Committee will give performance measure has been selected because the careful consideration to what compensation should be paid Remuneration Committee considers that a direct TSR taking into account the circumstances and the responsibility comparison against competitors is the most appropriate of the individual to mitigate.
means of assessing performance and aligning participants The contract details of currently serving Directors are: interests with those of shareholders.
Current contract The maximum matching opportunity is five matching shares start date Unexpired term Notice period pre-tax for every Committed Share.
Matching at this level R A Lawson July 2001 indefinite One year will only occur in the event of the Company ranking first in the peer group.
No matching shares will vest for D R Waxman March 1998 Five months One year sub-median performance.
P Venables May 2006 indefinite One year Matching shares are forfeited if a participant resigns or withdraws their Committed Shares within three years of Non-executive Directors the start of the performance period.
The payment policy for non-executive Directors is to pay the In order to encourage wider participation in the Plan market rate to secure persons of a suitable calibre for a Group amongst managers who are neither executive Directors of this size.
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors nor Executive Committee members, such managers will be is determined by the Board.
The responsibility of the role and permitted to treat restricted shares as Committed Shares international nature of the Group is fully considered when under the Plan.
Restricted shares, which involve a conditional setting the fee level along with external benchmarking market award of free shares, are designed to encourage retention data on non-executive Director fees.
An additional fee is paid and have been introduced following a review of remuneration to non-executive Directors who chair Board Committees.
arrangements for managers below Executive Committee The non-executive Directors fees are non-pensionable.
They are satisfied by a transfer of existing shares from non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any an employee trust.
Matching shares vest three years after participants have The non-executive Directors do not have service contracts been invited to participate, subject to achievement of the with the Company.
They have letters of appointment which performance measure, retention of the Committed Shares appoint them to the Board for an initial three year period.
throughout the relevant period and the individual participants These are available from the Company for review.
They are continued employment with the Group.
subject to retirement and re-appointment by shareholders To the extent that matching shares vest, participants will after that initial period and appointments can be terminated be entitled to receive an additional number of shares that immediately by the Company.
represents the value of the dividends that would have been The Company permits its executive Directors to hold one paid on those matching shares during the performance non-executive directorship.
At present no executive Directors period.
The number of additional shares will be determined hold any external directorships.
by reference to the share price on each relevant dividend payment date.
Participants will not be required to invest the dividends paid on their Committed Shares.
Share options The Company continues to operate the Hays UK Sharesave Scheme which is open to all eligible staff in the United Kingdom and the Hays International Sharesave Scheme which is open to staff in certain other countries where the Group has operations.
A resolution to renew the International Sharesave Scheme is being proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Pensions Pension contributions are made into the Hays Pension Scheme, which is an approved dened benefit scheme providing benets up to HM Revenue & Customs HMRC limits.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Directors who have joined since the closure of the Hays Pension Scheme to new entrants, in 2002, have a salary supplement paid to them in lieu of pension contributions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 29 Hays plc Performance graph The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares compared to the FTSE 350 index over a five year period.
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the FTSE 350 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this index throughout the period.
com Remuneration Report continued Information subject to audit Emoluments The emoluments of the Directors excluding dened benefit pension costs are shown below: 2006 2006 Payment in 2006 2006 2006 2006 2005 Salary lieu of pension Car Benets Performance Total Total in thousands fees contributions allowance in kind payments emoluments emoluments 1 R A Lawson 265 18 283 388 2 D R Waxman 520 18 5 312 855 502 C W Eccleshare 42 42 24 L M S Knox 50 50 50 J W Martin resigned 16 March 2006 2918414 2 391 679 P H Stoneham 42 42 24 P Venables appointed 2 May 2006 69 21 3 53 146 3 B G Wallace 55 55 42 Former Directors 20 1,334 105 35 25 365 1,864 1,729 Notes: 1 The Remuneration Committee approved the payment to the Chairman of a one-off bonus for exceptional services during the 2005 financial year in connection with the successful demerger of DX Services, which was the concluding transaction in the restructuring of the Group.
2 Mr D R Waxman waived any entitlement to a discretionary bonus for the year ended 30 June 2005.
The Remuneration Committee would otherwise have been minded to pay him a discretionary bonus of 288,000 for the year, and paid an equivalent amount as a money purchase pension contribution in respect of him.
3 This payment includes an adjustment of 4,778 for the prior year for remuneration as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The remuneration of the highest paid Director, Mr D R Waxman, was 855,000.
The highest paid Director in the previous year was Mr J W Martin.
The non-cash element of the emoluments are disclosed as benets in kind in the table and comprise car benets and health insurance.
Mr G J Williams, who retired as a Director on 30 April 2003, received emoluments of 21,346 from his work as a trustee of the Hays Pension Scheme.
Mr N A McLachlan, who resigned as a Director due to ill health on 8 September 2003, continues to be paid in line with the sickness provision contained in his contract.
His total emoluments for the period to 30 June 2006 were 334,080.
Directors pension entitlement The following Directors were members of dened benefit schemes provided by the Company during part of the year.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values changed during the year as follows: Annual Annual Value of Value of pension Gross pension Increase Value of net accrued accrued entitlement increase entitlement in accrued increase pension at Total change in pension at at 30 June in accrued at 30 June pension net in accrual 30 June transfer value 30 June 1 2 3 4 In 2005 pension 2006 of ination over period 2005 during period 2006 D R Waxman 117,333 37,223 154,556 34,055 611,223 2,036,628 737,362 2,773,990 J W Martin 20,517 3,668 24,185 3,144 24,477 152,255 37,843 190,098 Notes: 1 Pension accruals shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
2 The value of net increase represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase after deducting any contribution made by the Director.
3 The change in the transfer value includes the effect of uctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as stock market movements.
It is calculated after deducting Directors contributions.
Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benets are not shown.
4 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 9.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
Mr D R Waxman ceased to be an active member of the Hays Pension Scheme on 4 April 2006.
The Remuneration Committee decided on the basis of actuarial advice and with the agreement of the Trustee of the Hays Pension Scheme to pay a one-off contribution of 67,454 to the scheme to augment Mr Waxmans pension benets as if he had continued membership of the scheme to 17 February 2007, his normal retirement date under the scheme.
Mr J W Martin ceased to be an active member of the Hays Pension Scheme on leaving the Company on 16 March 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2006 31 Hays plc Long Term Co-Investment Plan In December 2005 an invitation to participate in the plan was issued to employees who committed a total of 2,351,533 shares.
The mid-market price on 30 March 2006 the grant date for the 2005 invitation was 161 pence.
The maximum matching permitted under the plan rules is five matching shares pre-tax for every Committed Share.
Maximum matching will only arise should the Companys TSR exceed that of all of the peer group of 14 recruitment businesses based in the United Kingdom and overseas over the measurement period.
The peer group is detailed on page 28.
The executive Directors have committed the following numbers of shares to the plan representing, in each case, the maximum that they were invited to commit and as a consequence they could become entitled to the maximum number of matching shares shown below without payment and prior to income tax on those shares : Matching Shares Matching Shares Matching Shares lapsed awarded Date of invitation Committed Shares maximum during year during year Earliest Vesting Date D R Waxman 10 December 2003 87,836 439,180 10 December 2006 21 December 2004 118,000 590,000 21 December 2007 14 December 2005 183,501 917,505 14 December 2008 J W Martin 10 December 2003 75,441 377,205 377,205 resigned 16 March 2006 21 December 2004 100,000 500,000 500,000 P Venables appointed 2 May 2006 2 May 2006 71,005 355,025 14 December 2008 Mr Venables Committed Shares and Matching Shares stated above formed part of special arrangements implemented in connection with his recruitment as Finance Director.
Under these arrangements: a On 2 May 2006, Mr Venables was granted a conditional right to receive 41,420 Ordinary shares the Restricted Share Award.
The Restricted Share Award was granted on terms equivalent to those of the Companys Deferred Equity Share Plan save as modied to enable an award to be made to an executive Director.
The Restricted Share Award will vest on 14 December 2008 provided that Mr Venables remains in employment with the Company until that date.
He will not be required to pay for these shares on vesting: and b Mr Venables was invited to commit up to 71,005 Ordinary shares on terms broadly equivalent to the Companys Long Term Co-Investment Plan.
Mr Venables complied with the requirement that these shares be committed by 30 June 2006.
Mr Venables is therefore potentially entitled without payment to the Matching Shares stated above subject to satisfaction of the same performance conditions as applied to the December 2005 invitations to other executives.
The shares under the Restricted Share Award to Mr Venables count towards the maximum number of shares he has committed, even though he is not the beneficial owner of such shares prior to their vesting.
The mid-market price on 30 June 2006 the grant date for the Venables invitation was 134 pence.
Any Restricted Shares or Matching Shares to which Mr Venables becomes entitled will be satisfied out of existing Ordinary shares only.
The Remuneration Committee considered the grant of the Restricted Share Award and the invitation to commit Ordinary shares essential to secure Mr Venables services, and was satisfied that the awards were appropriate and would align Mr Venables interests with those of shareholders.
As this was a special arrangement to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, Mr Venables recruitment as Finance Director, shareholder approval was not required by virtue of 9.4.
com Remuneration Report continued Options The Company operates two executive share option plans, although grants have ceased to be made under both of these plans: the Hays plc 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS which is unapproved for HMRC purposes and the Hays plc 1996 Company Share Option Plan CSOP which is an HMRC approved scheme.
Options cannot be exercised under the 1995 ESOS and 1996 CSOP unless performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria require growth in Earnings Per Share EPS to have exceeded the growth rate in the Retail Price Index by 2% per annum in a three year period prior to exercise.
The performance measures were selected so as to align participants and shareholders interests.
The EPS criteria were selected as EPS is a widely recognised, transparent measure of underlying performance.
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire Ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Director.
During the year the shares traded in the range 112 pence to 180.75 pence prices at mid market close.
Notes: 1 Upon exercise, participants will be entitled to free shares equal to 12.48% of the stated number of shares under option under the arrangements implemented following the demerger of DX Services.
2 As part of the exercise Mr J W Martin received a further 2,841 free shares on 13 March 2006 at a value of 156.50 pence per share under the arrangements implemented following the demerger of DX Services.
Performance Share Scheme The Company operates a Performance Share Scheme which was available to certain Directors, and a limited number of senior executives, who did not hold shares at the time of the management buy-out in 1987 or at the time of the Companys otation in 1989.
The key attributes of the scheme are that participants have to make a significant financial investment at the outset and that in normal circumstances participants can only realise any gain after five years.
The last awards made under this scheme were in 2000.
On 21 April 2002, Mr D R Waxman became entitled to 223,718 shares arising from a grant made on 21 April 1997.
This grant remains exercisable until 21 April 2007.
There are no other awards under the scheme that are exercisable.
No awards were made during the year and no awards were exercised by Directors.
The number of options has been adjusted under the arrangements implemented following the demerger of DX Services.
By order of the Board L M S Knox Remuneration Committee Chairman 4 September 2006
