Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A Advisers to the Companies Act 1985 and has been approved by the Board During the year until February 2006, Kepler Associates, a rm and the Remuneration Committee.
The report also meets the of independent remuneration consultants, served as advisers to relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services the Committee.
The Company also instructed Kepler Associates Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles to advise it on certain remuneration matters during the year, of Good Governance relating to directors remuneration.
A for example in relation to the implementation of the new Key resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual Executive Incentive Plan.
Other than in relation to advice General Meeting.
on remuneration, Kepler has no other connections with the Company.
The Act requires the auditors to report on certain parts of the report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the In February 2006, following a review of its advisers, the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Committee appointed New Bridge Street Consultants LLP Companies Act 1985.
The report has therefore been divided NBSC, independent remuneration consultants, to advise on all into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
aspects of senior executive remuneration and to undertake a comprehensive review of the remuneration payable to members Unaudited information of the Executive Board.
NBSC has no other connection with the Company other than the provision of advice on executive Remuneration Committee remuneration.
The terms of engagement for NBSC are available on the Companys website.
Role The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining The Committee has also received assistance from Brian Whitty, and agreeing with the Board the pay, bene ts and contractual the Groups Executive Chairman, Richard Harpin, the Chief arrangements for the executive directors of the Company Executive, Emma Thomas, the Group Company Secretary and, including the Chairman and other members of the Executive from the date of her appointment, Claire Tiney, the Group HR Board.
It aims to develop and recommend remuneration Director, all of whom attended meetings of the Committee as strategies that drive performance and reward it appropriately.
None took part in discussions in respect of matters In determining its policy, the Committee has paid regard to the relating directly to their own remuneration.
principles and provisions of good governance contained in the Combined Code published in July 2003 by the UK Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board and its Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
Membership During the year, the Committee comprised each of the Boards three independent non-executive directors, all of whom served throughout the year.
Meetings Attendance at Committee meetings held during the year and the number of meetings held is set out on page 47.
Report & Accounts 50 Remuneration Report On-target remuneration Remuneration policy The Committees remuneration policy for the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives is based on the following principles: 19% to provide a remuneration package that is suf cient, but no more than necessary to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives: 51% to align rewards with the Groups performance: 30% to reward good performance with remuneration that is in line with that payable by broadly comparable businesses i. e. high-growth companies of similar size and those with similar operating characteristics: Long-term variable pay Short-term variable pay to reward exceptional performance in such a way as to Fixed pay align the executives interests with those of the Companys shareholders, delivering upper quartile rewards for upper quartile performance.
Maximum remuneration To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in two distinct parts: xed remuneration of basic salary, pension and bene ts and variable performance-related remuneration in the form of a cash bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
19% 24% Remuneration for executive directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a signi cant portion of each directors package.
The charts opposite demonstrate the balance between xed and variable pay at on target and maximum performance levels, in the case of the long term incentive arrangements assuming certain levels of share price growth.
Maximum performance assumes the 57% achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of shares under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements.
Long-term variable pay They demonstrate the signi cant weighting of the package Short-term variable pay towards variable performance-related pay.
In particular, the Fixed pay majority of executive directors total remuneration at the maximum performance level will derive from the Companys long term incentive arrangements, which are strongly aligned to shareholder value creation.
Homeserve plc 51 Remuneration Report Remuneration for executive directors Summary of components of executive directors remuneration Type Objective Performance Period Policy Basic Salary To re ect the particular skills Annual reviewed on 1 April Individual pay is determined by and experience of an individual reference to the median pay and to provide a competitive for FTSE-250 companies for roles base salary compared with of a similar type similar roles in similar companies Performance-related bonus To incentivise the delivery of Annual determined after the Bonuses are determined by Group and individual year-end reference to the median for performance-related objectives FTSE-250 companies, according to the Groups financial 80% and individual 20% performance Pension To provide bene ts comparable N A Pension bene ts are determined with similar roles in similar by reference to the median for companies FTSE-250 companies.
Only basic salary is pensionable Other Benefits To provide bene ts comparable N A Other bene ts comprise a fullywith similar roles in similar expensed car or cash alternative, companies private health and for Messrs Belk and Whitty long-term sickness cover Long-term incentives To drive long-term delivery of 3-5 years Awards under the ESOP deliver the Groups objectives, to align rewards for EPS growth: awards directors interests with those of under the LTIP and DBP deliver the Companys shareholders and rewards for TSR growth subject to encourage exceptional to satisfactory underlying performance with the opportunity performance to receive upper quartile rewards Report & Accounts 52 Remuneration Report The main components of the remuneration package for executive Following NBSCs review of the remuneration payable to directors are: executive directors, the Committee has agreed to increase the maximum bonus potential in 2006 7 to 100% of basic salary.
Basic salary This increase has been agreed on the basis that very demanding Basic salary for each executive director is determined by performance conditions will continue to apply, which will ensure the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, that signi cant bonuses will only be payable where performance responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
is well ahead of the budget as determined at the start of the This is normally reviewed annually with any increase usually being year.
In agreeing the increase, the Committee recognises that effective from 1 April unless responsibilities change.
Salary this level of bonus is in line with the median maximum bonus levels are determined taking into account market data on salary payable in companies in the FTSE-250 and that the comparable levels for similar positions at comparable companies.
level of improvement in pro t growth required is signi cantly ahead of bonus plans in the majority of FTSE-250 companies.
As Following the comprehensive review undertaken by NBSC in demonstrated by the disclosure above relating to annual bonus March 2006, the Committee has determined that the most payments for 2005 6, pro t-based targets have been set so as to appropriate comparator group against which to benchmark require substantial improvements in pro tability and the targets executive directors basic salaries is the FTSE-250 Index, taking for 2006 7 are similarly challenging.
into account the roles, responsibilities and experience of each director.
Accordingly, for the 2006 7 financial year, it agreed to Any bonus earned in excess of 75% of basic salary must be increase executive directors basic salary by an average of 10.1%, invested in the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan.
This share-based to re ect the continued excellent performance of the business deferral element is designed to align further the interests of and in order to ensure that salaries are broadly comparable with the executive directors with shareholders and, as the deferred the median of those payable in FTSE-250 companies.
shares are at risk of forfeiture if the executive leaves, will be highly retentive.
Annual bonus The annual bonus is designed to drive and reward excellent short The weighting between business and personal objectives will term operating performance of the Company and encourage remain 80% financial : 20% personal.
Provided their personal real year-on-year growth in pro tability.
No annual bonus is paid objectives are met in full, the normal on-target bonus payable to unless a very high level of pro t performance is achieved.
The executive directors in any year is expected to be in the region of maximum annual bonus during the year was 75% of basic salary.
During the year, executive directors were able to earn up to 80% Long term incentives of bonus potential for Group financial performance, measured For the 2006 7 financial year, the Committees policy for the by pro t before tax, amortisation and exceptional items.
No provision of long-term incentives to executive directors will be bonus was payable unless the Companys pro ts exceeded the to grant share options under the Executive Share Option Plan Companys budget, equating to a growth in pro ts of over 20% in ESOP and to provide them with the opportunity to voluntarily comparison with the previous year: the remaining 20% of bonus invest their bonus into the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
The potential was based on measurable personal targets, relating to policy in respect of levels of grants under both schemes and the the part of the business or function for which the director was performance conditions pertaining to them has been reviewed by responsible.
the Committee, which considers them to remain appropriate.
Homeserve plc 53 Remuneration Report The ESOP was approved by shareholders in 2001 and is designed The table below demonstrates the vesting of matching shares to encourage and reward continuing improvement in the under the DBP according to TSR growth: Companys performance over the longer term.
Its participants are the executive directors and other senior executives who are TSR Performance Matching ratio best placed to in uence the Companys performance.
Options Below median Nil are granted on an annual basis and become exercisable between Median 0.5:1 three and ten years from the date of grant subject to the Median - upper decile 0.5:1 3:1 achievement of stretching performance criteria.
The option price on a straight line basis is the market price on the last dealing day prior to the date of Upper decile 3:1 grant.
Following the introduction of the DBP during 2005, the maximum annual grant normally awarded to executive directors TSR is averaged over the three months prior to the beginning under the ESOP is now 150% of salary, save in exceptional cases, and end of the performance period.
for example on the appointment of a new executive director from outside of the Group.
The Committee retains the discretion to decline to permit matching shares to vest if it is not satis ed that there has been a Options will become exercisable based on the following sliding sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of scale: the Company at the time of vesting.
Average normalised Shares invested in the DBP by executive directors may be EPS growth Vesting level as withdrawn from the Plan at any time during their appointment per annum over percentage of but any entitlement to matching shares will be forfeit in such 3 financial years overall award % circumstances.
RPI 4% 25 RPI 6% 50 Details of awards granted under the DBP in the year are shown RPI 8% 75 on page 61.
RPI 10% 100 The Committee considers that the mix of the different types EPS is fide ned as the normalised earnings per share of the of target offered under the ESOP and the DBP provide a good Company as fide ned in FRS14.
Share options require the share price to increase in order to provide any bene t and the DBP requires Details of awards granted under the ESOP in the year are shown investment by executives at the outset, providing strong alignment on page 60. of interests between executives and shareholders.
Similarly, the performance conditions EPS growth for share options and In order to encourage executive directors to build up a personal relative TSR for the DBP provide a good balance between shareholding in the Company, the DBP was introduced during long-term increases to pro tability and relative stock market the year following approval by the Companys shareholders at outperformance.
The Committee has ensured that a consistent the Annual General Meeting held in July 2005.
Under the terms approach is taken to measuring EPS-based performance of the DBP, executive directors are able to invest some or all conditions through the transition from UK GAAP to international of their annual bonus into shares and to defer receipt for three accounting standards.
Matching shares can be earned if the Total Shareholder Return TSR of the Company over a three year period exceeds The shares required for share options and awards under the the median of the FTSE-350 index of companies excluding DBP may be ful lled by the purchase of shares in the market by investment trusts.
the Companys employee bene t trust, or through newly issued shares, subject to the dilution limits within each scheme.
Report & Accounts 54 Remuneration Report The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2004.
One-off Benefits awards of 200% of salary were made in that year to executive Non-pension bene ts comprise company car and fuel allowance directors under the LTIP to incentivise them towards speci c and medical insurance.
The range of bene ts and their value are goals re ecting the Companys aim to deliver exceptional considered to be broadly in line with those provided to executive shareholder value over the five years from 2004.
Awards were directors in similar companies in the FTSE-250.
granted as nil cost share options.
Shareholding guidelines The table below demonstrates the vesting of awards under the It is the Boards policy that executive directors and certain LTIP according to absolute TSR growth: members of the Companys senior management build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each executive TSR Performance Vesting of award % director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to his Below 130% Nil annual basic salary.
130% 35 Between 130% and 180% 35-100 Accordingly, if the holding guideline has not been ful lled at the on a straight line basis point of exercise of any option or the vesting of any other long 180% or more 100 term incentive award, the director must retain 50% of the net proceeds in the Companys shares until the holding requirement Details of awards under this plan are shown on page 61. is achieved.
Executive directors may also participate in the Groups Save As Service contracts You Earn Scheme where share options are exercisable after three The Committees policy is to offer service contracts with or five years at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the notice periods of one year or less other than, in exceptional shares at the time of grant and in the Share Incentive Plan on the circumstances, where longer initial notice periods may be offered same basis as all other employees.
No performance criteria are on appointment, and then reduced to one year over time.
All executive directors contracts of service are terminable on In 2005, the Key Executive Incentive Plan KEIP was introduced twelve months notice by either party.
Further details of the in order to incentivise Homeserves senior executives other than executive directors contracts are summarised in the table below: executive directors to deliver its stretching growth plans for the three-year period to March 2008.
The KEIP is a share option Name of director Date of contract plan, under which options are only exercisable in full in the event B H Whitty 28 March 1996 that stretching pro t targets signi cantly in excess of budget R D Harpin 18 January 2002 are achieved in 2007 8 and the Companys share price reaches A J Belk 20 December 2002 an average of at least 17.50 for a three-month period during I Carlisle 1 April 2005 the 2008 9 financial year.
Once the performance targets have been met, executives may only exercise 50% of the total amount Liquidated damages are limited to the payment of one years exercisable: the remaining 50% are not exercisable until two years remuneration, including bene ts.
Notice periods and payments later.
are not extendable in takeover situations.
Most grants under the KEIP were made in June 2005, when the Companys share price was 9.61.
Executive directors were not eligible to participate in the KEIP.
Homeserve plc 55 Remuneration Report Pensions Where the bene ts provided to executive directors under the Executive directors currently participate in one of two pension scheme were restricted as a result of the Inland Revenue earnings schemes, the Water Companies Pension Scheme WCPS or the cap further provision was made by making a cash payment of Homeserve Money Plan HMP.
The normal date of retirement 20% of the amount by which their basic salary exceeded the cap.
for executive directors is at age 60.
Both arrangements are noncontributory for executive directors.
In anticipation of the changes brought about by the Pensions Simpli cation regime from April 2006, the Board undertook a The WCPS is a funded, Inland Revenue approved occupational review of the pension bene ts available to all employees of the fide ned bene t scheme.
Brian Whitty, Richard Harpin and Company, including executive directors in October 2005.
As a Ian Carlisle are members of the WCPS.
In respect of these result of that review, the Board has agreed that pension bene ts directors, its main features were: to executive directors provided under the WCPS and HMP will continue to be provided, up to a notional earnings cap equivalent pension at normal retirement age of one-half of final to the existing Inland Revenue cap, to be indexed in line with pensionable salary and a tax free lump sum of one and earnings.
It also agreed that bene ts in respect of earnings in a half times final pensionable salary on completion of 40 excess of this cap continue to be provided by a cash payment of years service at an accrual rate of 80ths plus 3 80ths cash: 20% of the amount by which an executive directors basic pay life assurance of five times pensionable salary for Mr Whitty exceeds the cap.
or five times basic salary for Messrs Harpin and Carlisle: pension payable in the event of ill health: and The Board has also agreed that, with effect from April 2006, no spouses pension on death.
further contributions will be made to the funded unapproved retirement bene t scheme in respect of Mr Whitty.
With effect Where the bene ts provided to executive directors under from 6 April 2006, all Mr Whittys retirement bene ts will be the WCPS were restricted as a result of the Inland Revenue provided through the WCPS, on the basis of a pension accrual earnings cap further provision was made either through a funded rate of 45ths of actual basic salary for future service without any unapproved retirement bene t scheme for Mr Whitty or additional lump sum.
unapproved money purchase arrangements for Messrs Harpin and Carlisle by making a cash payment of 20% of the amount by which the executive directors basic salary exceeded the cap.
The HMP is a funded, Inland Revenue approved occupational fide ned contribution pension scheme.
Andrew Belk is a member of the HMP.
In respect of Mr Belk, its main features were: employer contributions of 20%: life assurance of five times basic salary: permanent health insurance: and spouses pension on death.
Report & Accounts 56 Remuneration Report Non-executive directors Performance graph Non-executive directors serve under letters of appointment The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured for periods of three years which include provisions in respect by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE-350 Index of liquidated damages limited to the payment of one years fee.
also measured by TSR for the five years ended 31 March 2006.
Their fees are determined by the Board within the limits set by This comparator has been chosen as it is used in respect of the the Articles of Association and based on information on fees Deferred Bonus Plan.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they 350 participate in the Companys long term incentive plans.
300 During the year, following a review of market practice for similar roles in FTSE-250 companies, the fee structure for non-executive 250 directors was revised to re ect the time commitment and responsibility for carrying out non-executive duties.
The basic fee 200 for serving as a non-executive director was set at 30,000 per annum, the fee for chairing a committee of the Board was set 150 at 10,000 and the fee payable to members of each committee who are not the Chair agreed at 2,500.
An additional fee of 100 5,000 is payable to the senior independent non-executive director.
50 0 Details of their current three year appointments are as follows: 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Name of director Date of appointment Homeserve J M B Gibson 6 April 2004 FTSE 350 J A S Jewitt 1 September 2003 J H Maxwell 6 April 2004 Executive Board The following table sets out the base salaries of executive members of the Executive Board other than executive directors on a banded basis at 31 March 2006.
Robert Harley resigned on 24 March 2005 and his emoluments for 2005 included 174,000 in respect of compensation for loss of of ce Messrs Maxwell and Gibson were appointed on 6 April 2004 Messrs Bury and Harris resigned on 6 April 2004 Taxable bene ts comprise company car and fuel allowance, medical insurance and life assurance Directors pension Three directors were members of the Companys fide ned bene t pension scheme 2005: 3.
The following directors had accrued entitlements under the scheme as follows: Accrued Increase in Accrued pension accrued pension Transfer 31 March pension 31 March value of 2006 in the year 2005 increase 000 000 000 000 B H Whitty 14 2 12 25 R D Harpin 14 6 8 61 I Carlisle 4 2 2 16 Report & Accounts 58 Remuneration Report The following table sets out the transfer value of the directors accrued bene ts under the scheme calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Bene t Scheme Transfer Values GN 11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
Increase Transfer Contributions in transfer Transfer value made value in the value 31 March by the year net of 31 March 2006 director contributions 2005 000 000 000 000 B H Whitty 250 78 172 R D Harpin 145 81 64 I Carlisle 42 22 20 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Four directors were members of money purchase schemes 2005: 5.
Contributions paid by the Company in respect of such directors were as follows: 2006 2005 000 000 B H Whitty 313 283 R D Harpin 44 35 A J Belk 46 39 I Carlisle 33 8 R I Harley 14 Directors shareholdings The bene cial interests of directors who served at the end of the year, together with those of their families, in the shares of the Company are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2006 2005 B H Whitty 82,480 58,938 R D Harpin 10,852,459 10,827,697 A J Belk 15,576 4,037 I Carlisle 9,699 2,090 J H Maxwell 20,000 10,000 J A S Jewitt 3,021 3,021 J M B Gibson 6,675 3,675 There were no changes in the directors interests in shares between 31 March and 22 May 2006.
Directors options and long term incentives Details of the share options held by directors under SAYE Schemes are as follows: Granted Exercised Date 31 March during during 31 March Option Date exercisable 2006 year year 2005 price granted from B H Whitty 3,524 - - 3,524 466.0p 10.12.02 1.2.
08 SAYE options are exercisable for a six month period from the date shown.
The price of an ordinary share on 1 February 2006 when Messrs Belk and Harpin exercised their options was 14.35.
Homeserve plc 59 Remuneration Report Details of the share options held by directors under the Executive Share Option Plan are as follows: Granted Exercised 31 March during during 31 March Option Date 2006 year year 2005 price granted B H Whitty 150,000 150,000 366.5p 3.6.
05 Executive Share Options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant subject to the satisfaction of the performance targets disclosed in the policy section.
For options granted after 2004 retesting is not permitted but for options granted before this date retesting of the performance criteria is permitted in years four and five with performance measured from a xed date.
The price of an ordinary share on 2 August 2005 when Mr Whitty exercised his options was 10.48.
In previous years, awards equivalent to up to 200% of salary were granted to executive directors.
Following the introduction of the DBP during 2005, the normal maximum annual grant under the ESOP is now 150% of salary, save in exceptional cases, for example on the appointment of a new executive director from outside of the Group.
Awards granted under the ESOP will lapse on the date that an executive leaves the Companys employment, except in the case of retirement, illness, redundancy or death, where the Committee has a discretion to allow options to be retained by the executive subject to such performance conditions if any as it wishes to impose.
There were no changes in the options held between 31 March and 22 May 2006.
EPS growth is calculated by the Company and independently veri ed by NBSC.
As at March 2006, the Companys year-on-year EPS growth during the period since the date of options granted in 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively is in each case in excess of 10%.
If this level of performance were to continue until the date on which each grant becomes exercisable, all options would be exercisable in full.
Report & Accounts 60 Remuneration Report Details of the maximum number of shares receivable from conditional awards made under the LTIP are as follows: Awarded Lapsed Vested 31 March during during during 31 March 2006 year year year 2005 B H Whitty 99,500 99,500 R D Harpin 83,000 83,000 A J Belk 59,000 59,000 I Carlisle 65,000 65,000 Awards will only vest in full if the Companys absolute TSR exceeds 180% by the fifth anniversary of the date of grant and the annual average EPS growth in the five year period exceeds RPI by at least 10% pa. No part of the award will vest if absolute TSR growth is less than 130% over the 5 year performance period.
TSR is independently calculated by NBSC and veri ed by the Committee.
At March 2006, NBSC has estimated that the Companys absolute TSR growth in the period since the date of award is 139%.
Accordingly, if no further increase in the Companys TSR occurs in the remainder of the performance period, 46.8% of the maximum number of options would be exercisable.
Details of the maximum number of shares receivable from conditional awards made under the DBP are as follows: Awarded Lapsed Vested 31 March during during during 31 March 2006 year year year 2005 B H Whitty 70,626 70,626 R D Harpin 58,854 58,854 A J Belk 28,536 28,536 I Carlisle 22,827 22,827 The performance conditions attached to the conditional awards are the same as those set out in the policy section of the report on page 54.
The price of an ordinary share on 2 August 2005, when the awards were made, was 10.48.
At March 2006, the Companys TSR performance in the period from the date of grant of awards under the DBP to executive directors is slightly below the upper decile in comparison with the comparator Group.
If this performance were unchanged at the end of the performance period, the number of matching shares available to each participant would be 2.95.
The market price of the Companys shares at 31 March 2006 was 14.50 2004: 8.92.
During the year the price ranged from 8.58 to 16.35.
Any ordinary shares required to ful l entitlements under the current schemes are provided by the Employee Bene t Trust EBT.
As bene ciaries under the EBT, the directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the EBT which at 31 March 2006, amounted to 1,994,544 ordinary shares.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Registered Of ce, contains full details of directors shareholdings and share options.
By Order of the Board Justin Jewitt Chairman of Remuneration Committee 22 May 2006 Homeserve plc 61
