Board of Directors and Executive Management Team 1 3 5 7 9 11 2 4 6 8 10 12 1.
Peter B Ellwood, CBE In 1974 he joined Unilever as a In 1994 he moved to Unilever Food & 5.
Charles F Knott Chairman management trainee and held a variety Beverages, Europe, as Senior Vice Director Appointed Deputy Chairman on 27 June of managerial positions within Birds Eye President, Finance and Information Appointed a Director on 1 September 2003 and Chairman with effect from Foods before joining the Board of Technology.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive 1 January 2004.
Unilevers flavours and fragrance business, Executive Chairman, Unilever Taiwan and of Quest International and has regional PPF International, as Technical Director.
then, in 2001, assumed the role of oversight responsibilities for Group Peter Ellwood joined Barclays Bank in In 1987, he joined the Board of Quest Executive Chairman, Unilever China and, activities in Europe, the Middle East and 1961 where he held a number of senior International as Senior Vice President in more recently, of Unilever Hong Kong as Africa.
Charles Knott also has Board roles including Chief Executive of charge of Manufacturing, Logistics and well.
Alan Brown has had a distinguished responsibility for Sustainability throughout Barclaycard from 1985 to 1989.
Procurement before returning to Birds career as a senior finance professional and the Group.
In 1989 he joined TSB Bank as Chief Eye Walls, where he assumed Board general manager within Unilever and Charles Knott graduated from Newcastle Executive, Retail Banking, was appointed responsibility for Manufacturing, Research possesses a considerable breadth of University in 1976 with an honours degree a Director of TSB Group in 1990 and and Development.
commercial and international experience, in Mathematics and Statistics.
He joined became Group Chief Executive in 1992. having worked extensively in Asia and In 1993 he was appointed Chairman of National Starch and Chemical Company Following the merger with Lloyds Bank Continental Europe.
Unichema International and, following in 1984 as Commercial Director of Laingin 1995, he became Deputy Group Chief ICIs acquisition of the Unilever Speciality National in Manchester and subsequently Executive of Lloyds TSB Group plc, 4.
David C M Hamill Chemical businesses in 1997, became served in Germany and the Netherlands subsequently becoming Group Chief Director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of before returning to the UK in 1990 as Executive in 1997 until his retirement Appointed a Director on 8 December Quest and a member of the ICI Executive Managing Director of National Starchs in 2003.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive Management Team.
In January 1998 he UK Adhesives operations.
International from 1994 to 1999. of ICI Paints.
was appointed Chairman and Chief Charles Knott was appointed Divisional Peter Ellwood was made a Commander of Executive of ICI Paints and the following David Hamill joined the Company from Vice President, Performance Adhesives, the Order of the British Empire for services year he was elected to the Board of ICI Royal Philips Electronics where he was in the USA and in 1994 became Senior to banking in 2001 and is a Fellow of the with additional responsibility for Research, a member of the Group Management Divisional Vice President and General Chartered Institute of Bankers.
He has Development and Technology and ICIs Committee.
A graduate in Production Manager for the US Adhesives business.
received Honorary Doctorates from both activities in Asia.
Engineering and Management from Leicester University and the University of Strathclyde University, David Hamill In 1995 he relocated to Singapore to lead John McAdam is a business leader with Central England.
He is Chairman of the UK worked for Honeywell and General National Starchs Asia-Pacific operations a strong focus on results and extensive Royal Parks Advisory Board, The Royal Instruments before joining Philips as Corporate Vice President.
He was knowledge of ICIs operations around the Parks Charitable Foundation and The Semiconductors as product manager appointed National Starch Chief Operating world.
The Board believes that the Work Foundation of Great Britain.
He held a number of senior Officer in January 2001.
In March 2003 he combination of knowledge, drive and positions within Philips Power became Chairman and Chief Executive of He is also a Director of the Royal leadership he is bringing to bear on the Semiconductors and Lighting businesses, Quest International, and Executive Vice Philharmonic Orchestra and a Nonissues facing ICI is serving both the becoming President of Philips Lighting President and member of the Executive Executive Director of First Data Company and its shareholders well.
Asia Pacific in 1996 and Executive Vice Management Team of ICI.
In his business career He is Senior Independent Director of President of Philips Lighting and Chief Peter Ellwood has been a leader in driving In April 2006, Charles Knott was J Sainsbury plc and is a member of the Executive Officer of the Lamps business strategic and structural change and appointed a Non-Executive Director of University of Cambridge Chemistry group two years later.
efficiency improvement and he brings to Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Aged 58. his role as Chairman extensive business In May 2001 he became President and experience, energy and determination.
Chief Executive Officer of Philips Lighting.
Non-Executive Director Chief Financial Officer David Hamill has held senior management Appointed a Non-Executive Director on Appointed a Director and Chief Financial roles in Europe and Asia where he has 2.
He has a Masters degree in Officer on 14 November 2005. gained considerable production, Chief Executive Physics from the University of Amsterdam commercial, marketing and finance Appointed a Director on 1 March 1999 Alan Brown read law at Liverpool University and joined Philips as a project manager experience.
Whilst his experience with and Chief Executive on 9 April 2003.
He and was called to the Bar in 1981.
He is in 1969. large retail customers has specific joined the Company in 1997 following the also a member of the Chartered Institute relevance for ICI Paints, his broader He has held a series of senior positions acquisition of the Speciality Chemicals of Management Accountants.
business expertise, and in particular his with Philips in Europe and North America.
He joined Unilever in 1980 and during the understanding of Asian markets, is of From 1984 to 1986 he was Vice Chairman John McAdam graduated from first seven years of his career worked in value to the Group as a whole.
of Philips Industrial Electronics in Manchester University with a first class Birds Eye Walls in the UK.
After four years Eindhoven and two years later was Until December 2005, David Hamill was honours degree in Chemical Physics and, in Mergers & Acquisitions, Treasury and appointed Executive Vice President, a Non-Executive Director of BPB plc.
after completing his doctorate, was Investor Relations at Unilever Head Office, North American Philips.
He was Managing Aged 49. awarded a research fellowship.
Alan Brown returned to Birds Eye Walls as Director of Philips Business Electronics Finance and Commercial Director in 1991. from 1993 to 1996 and Chief Executive Officer and a Member of the Group Management Committee from 1996 to 1998.
In 1998 he was appointed Executive Vice President, Royal Philips Electronics and Member of the Management Board, a position which he held until 2001.
36 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2006 www.
com Board of Directors, governance and remuneration
