Statutory Reports Directors Remuneration Report This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, it describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The 52 Auditors opinion is set out on page 67 and those aspects of this Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked.
The Remuneration Committee, which met three times during the year and operates under clear written terms of reference available on the Companys website www.
com, confirms formally that it has been in compliance with the governance rules and best practice provisions relating to remuneration as set out in section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The members of the Committee during the year were: Mr I J G Napier chairman : Mr D C Bonham who stepped down from the Committee following the Annual General Meeting the AGM on 31 January 2006 : Mr S Huismans who retired from the Board at the AGM : Dr P H Jungels: Mr C F Knott appointed 6 September 2006 : Ms S E Murray appointed 31 January 2006 : and Mr D W Thursfield resigned 28 October 2005.
Mr G Davis Chief Executive and, since stepping down from the Committee, Mr D C Bonham Board Chairman are invited to attend to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
Mr M R Phillips Company Secretary also attends meetings as secretary to the Committee.
However, they are all specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of their own remuneration.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee sets the remuneration package for each Executive Director and member of the Chief Executives Committee after taking advice principally from external sources, including remuneration consultants Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited and Towers Perrin, both of whom are engaged by the Committee as required.
Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited also review the Groups remuneration principles and practices against corporate governance best practice.
Neither provide any other services for the Group.
Executive remuneration data provided by KPMG engaged by the Committee as required and having provided tax and other consultancy services to the Group and Towers Perrin have also been used to assist in benchmarking processes ensuring the consistent application of the executive remuneration policy.
Ms K A Brown Group Human Resources Director and Mr D P Cuthbert Group Compensation and Benefits Manager also provide internal support and advice to the Committee.
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP have been retained by the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the Groups share plans and to provide services to the Committee as and when required.
The firm also provides other legal services to the Group as a whole.
The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake Total Shareholder Return TSR calculations and provide advice on all TSR related matters.
Alithos Limited provides no other services for the Group.
 LLP, the Groups Auditors, certify Earnings Per Share EPS calculations used in the Groups share plans prior to awards vesting.
Responsibilities The Board is ultimately responsible for the framework and cost of executive remuneration but has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, within its terms of reference, responsibility for the following activities: determination of the remuneration levels and conditions of service for Executive Directors, Chairman and members of the Chief Executives Committee: oversight of the overall policy for senior management remuneration: oversight of the Groups employee share or cash-based incentive plans including approval of minor rule amendments, invitations and awards and the allocation or issue of shares or payments under any such plans: and approval of the form and content of the Directors Remuneration Report, prior to submission to the shareholders at the AGM.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Statutory Reports During the year the most significant issues addressed by the Committee were: amendments to the share plan rules to take account of the Age Discrimination Act: review of executive pension arrangements following the recent pension reforms in the UK: annual review of the operation, performance conditions, vesting schedules, comparator groups and grant levels of awards under the Groups share plans, to ensure that they remain appropriate in light of the Groups current performance and prospects and aligned 53 with the strategy and objectives of the Group: determination of bonus performance criteria and review of performance against the selected criteria prior to bonus payment: and oversight of the negotiations administration of the agreed settlement with Mr B C Davidson.
The Committees approach is fully consistent with the Groups overall remuneration strategy and philosophy that all employees should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly aligning executive management reward with the Groups strategic business goals.
Remuneration strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in a highly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees at all levels across the Group.
The Group therefore sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in the countries in which it operates.
The Remuneration Committee maintains an overview of the remuneration policy for all employees, including arrangements for progression and succession planning.
The Groups remuneration arrangements not only align with the Groups fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity but also support the Groups corporate strategy, a significant contributor to its competitive advantage.
The Group continues to relocate employees internationally to facilitate their development, and thus the Companys pool of talent, and to achieve the optimum balance of experience within each of the Groups subsidiaries.
A cohesive reward structure across the Group is critical in ensuring that all employees can associate with, and strive for, the Groups strategic goals.
During the year this structure was consistently applied to all employees and communicated to ensure each element of the package is understood and the links to corporate performance recognised.
To assist in this communication senior employees were issued with total reward statements.
The Group strives to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees the opportunity and encouragement to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Through a series of employee share plans the majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans with in excess of 42 per cent of the eligible population participating in one or more of those plans.
Executive remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee.
The package is designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
The executive remuneration policy is set to provide base salary at around the median level of the comparator group, as set out below, while providing the Executive Directors and Chief Executives Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
The executive remuneration policy combines short term and long term rewards focusing on, and significantly weighted towards, performance-related elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme SMS, long term incentive plan LTIP and pension benefits.
In the financial year to 30 September 2006, base salary typically represented around 28 per cent of total remuneration for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and around 37 per cent of total remuneration for the other Executive Directors with annual bonus and awards vesting under SMS and LTIP making up the balance.
com Statutory Reports Directors Remuneration Report continued Percentage of Total Remuneration for the financial year to 30 September 2006 Mr G Davis 54 Mr R Dyrbus Mr G Blashill Mr D Cresswell Dr F A Rogerson 0 102030405060708090 100 Salary Bonus Pension Salary Supplement Benets SMS LTIP From the financial year ended September 2004, following a comprehensive remuneration review carried out during that year, more stringent performance criteria have been and continue to be applied to the performance-related elements, as detailed in the annual cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on page 57 both of which form part of this policy statement.
In September 2006 the Remuneration Committee reviewed the executive remuneration policy, including award policies, performance criteria, relevant comparator groups and vesting schedules.
The Committee is satisfied that these remain appropriate and support the strategy and objectives of the Group, including the creation of shareholder value.
Key Elements of Directors Remuneration Package in the financial year to 30 September 2006 Element Objective Award level Performance criteria Performance period Base salary.
Reward high performing Median of FTSE 50 excluding N A. N A. employees reflecting market value companies in the Financial and of role and individuals skills and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Annual cash Incentivise delivery of Maximum percentage of Group adjusted profit 1 year.
base salary: before tax and incremental financial Chief Executive and Finance performance Group Director 100%, other Executive adjusted profit before Directors 75%.
tax, sales volume growth and gross margins.
Share matching Incentivise delivery of improved May elect to invest some or all of Adjusted EPS growth.
Group adjusted EPS and align with gross bonus in shares.
These can interests of shareholders.
Long term Incentivise long term delivery of Percentage of base salary: 3 elements 3 years.
TSR and adjusted EPS and align Chief Executive 200%, Finance 50% adjusted EPS with interests of shareholders.
Director 150%, other Executive growth Directors 100%.
25% TSR vs. FTSE 100 25% TSR vs. comparator group.
Base salary Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by the Remuneration Committee following detailed consideration of a number of factors including individual responsibilities, performance and external market data.
It is set within a range around the market median of the comparator group to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the relevant executive.
The comparator group of companies chosen remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
Annual cash bonus For the financial year ended 30 September 2006 the potential maximum bonus was 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
For all Executive Directors potential bonus, to a level representing 2 66 3 per cent of base salary, related to achievement of performance criteria based on Group adjusted profit before tax, set at the beginning of the financial year.
The attainment of bonus in excess of this level was subject to achievement of additional stretching and incremental performance criteria relating to Group adjusted profit before tax, sales volume growth and gross margins.
The specific targets are not, however, disclosed as they are considered to be commercially confidential.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Statutory Reports Performance in the financial year has resulted in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 56, being awarded to Executive Directors.
These payments represented 58.0 per cent of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 58.0 per cent in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior management for achieving relevant performance targets for the financial year to 30 September 2006.
For the financial year ending 30 September 2007 the Remuneration Committee has determined that the potential maximum bonus 55 remains 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
The performance criterion will, however, be changed to being based on adjusted Earnings Per Share growth as, given the Groups current share buyback programme, adjusted Earnings Per Share reflects both the cost and benefit of the buyback programme, encouraging share buyback efficiency and further aligning Executives interests with those of shareholders.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed.
The Executive Directors may elect to invest up to the maximum of their gross bonus in the SMS as detailed on page 61.
Directors Emoluments for the Year Ended 30 September 2006 audited 2006 2005 000 000 Executive Directors Salary 2,313 1,964 Benefits 85 76 Pension Salary Supplement 116 Bonus 1,341 1,367 1 LTIP annual vesting 1,788 1,823 2 SMS vesting 1,669 1,650 7,312 6,880 Non-Executive Directors Fees 700 601 Benefits 5 7 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 7 22 712 630 Former Executive Directors Consultancy fees to former Executive Director 106 100 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 22 Contractual settlement of former Executive Director 702 305 1 LTIP vesting 360 2 SMS vesting 330 Benefits 16 1,520 443 Fees of former Non-Executive Directors Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 15 15 Total remuneration 9,559 7,953 Chief Executives Committee Salary 735 877 Benefits 28 37 Bonus 448 609 1 LTIP annual vesting 322 273 2 SMS annual vesting 197 307 1,730 2,103 1.
Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year, based on the closing share price on the day of exercise.
Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the closing share price on the day of vesting.
The IFRS 2 charge to the Income Statement in respect of the share-based payments of the Executive Directors and the Chief Executives Committee members is 3.0m 2005 2.6m.
Further details are contained in the Executive Directors pension section on page 64.
Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a company car and health insurance.
LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year both on annual vesting and under early leaver provisions.
Includes payment in respect of chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 10,000.
Mr G L Blashill was appointed to the Board on 28 October 2005.
Dr K M Burnett and Mr C F Knott were appointed to the Board on 19 April 2006.
Mr M A Hussler resigned from the Board on 9 July 2003 but remained an employee receiving his full contractual remuneration until his resignation from employment on 30 April 2005.
Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans retired from the Board on 31 January 2006.
However, Mr S Huismans continues to receive fees in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board on 9 February 2005 and subsequently left the Company on 30 April 2005.
Under the terms of his agreed settlement Mr B C Davidson received a payment of 702,000.
This payment, which comprised base salary in lieu of notice plus other contractual payments, was subject to his duty to mitigate his loss and was paid in instalments, monthly in arrears.
It was subject to Mr Davidson confirming to the Company, in writing, that he had not received emoluments from any other employment.
In addition Mr B C Davidsons company car was transferred to him and his rights under the LTIP and SMS vested on a time pro-rata basis to his date of leaving employment.
This represented his contractual entitlement.
Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board on 28 October 2005.
No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances.
Or date of appointment if later.
Or date of resignation if earlier.
There have been no changes in these holdings since 30 September 2006.
Executive share retention To ensure the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior management are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines.
Over a period of five years from appointment they are required to build a holding in the Groups shares to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to three times base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and twice base salary in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Other senior management are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding is taken into account when determining eligibility for future LTIP awards.
All Executive Directors currently exceed their required shareholding.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Annual awards are made under the LTIP to Executive Directors and other senior management.
These awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria over a three year performance period.
All grants are at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and no employee has a right to receive any such grant.
Awards granted prior to November 2005 were equivalent to 75 per cent of basic salary for all Executive Directors and at a lower level for other senior management.
Following a comprehensive remuneration review in 2004 and subsequent shareholder approval at the 2005 AGM, awards made in November 2005 were equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive, 150 per cent for the Finance Director and 100 per cent for the other Executive Directors with awards at a lower level for other senior management.
Current structure The performance criteria for the November 2005 and proposed future awards are split into three elements as follows: First element 50 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on average growth in basic Earnings Per Share adjusted for certain items based on an agreed protocol, such as significant costs of restructuring EPS.
The adjustments are confirmed by the Auditors after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
12.5 per cent of this element i. e. 6.25 per cent of the total award vests if average annual EPS growth, after adjusting for UK inflation Real Annual EPS Growth, equals three per cent and 100 per cent of this element i. e. 50 per cent of the total award vests if Real Annual EPS Growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points this element vests on a straight-line basis.
Second element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index as described below.
com Statutory Reports Directors Remuneration Report continued The performance criterion for this element is based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top 25 of the Index, this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
Between these thresholds this element vests on a straight-line basis.
58 Third element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group as described below.
The performance criterion for this element is also based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element occurs unless the Companys TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting the comparator group comprising 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed below.
At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of this element i. e. 7.5 per cent of the total award vests.
If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element i. e. 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
Altadis S A Altria Group Inc British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Gallaher Group PLC Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Interbrew SA Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American Inc SABMiller PLC Scottish & Newcastle PLC If one of the comparator group companies is acquired prior to the granting of an award a suitable replacement will be made.
For any corporate actions affecting a comparator group company during an award period the intention would be to mirror the actions of a passive investor, e. g. for an equity bid the new shares offered in exchange for the original company would be held for the remainder of the award period.
The TSR calculations use share prices averaged over a period of three months to determine the initial and closing prices rather than those ruling on a single day.
It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared ex dividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
All share prices and dividend flows are converted to sterling on the applicable date to ensure that the calculations reflect the return achievable by a UK based investor.
The TSR calculations themselves are performed independently by Alithos Limited.
Each element operates independently and is capable of vesting regardless of the Companys performance in respect of the other elements.
During the year the Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance criteria, award policy, comparator groups and vesting schedules for LTIP awards and decided that the three elements remain the most important measures that drive and measure sustainable improvement in shareholder value.
The TSR criteria reflect comparative performance against the appropriate FTSE sector and the bespoke comparator group of companies.
The EPS criterion reflects a key part of the Groups strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
Awards outstanding under the historic structure For awards granted between December 2000 and November 2004, EPS growth was the sole performance criterion.
This was seen as focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and senior management could exercise influence.
These awards vest on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic Earnings Per Share adjusted under the terms of the protocol described above.
The EPS calculations are confirmed by the Auditors.
No vesting occurs unless the Companys Real Annual EPS Growth exceeds three per cent.
Full vesting occurs if Real Annual EPS Growth is equal to or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points the award vests on a straight-line basis.
In respect of the award which vested in November 2005, no vesting occurred unless Real Annual EPS Growth was positive and full vesting occurred if Real Annual EPS Growth was equal to or exceeded 10 per cent.
Vesting of awards On vesting a participant is granted a nil cost option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
There is no opportunity to re-test if any of the performance criteria are not achieved.
The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to vary, but not increase, the extent to which any awards vest to ensure they only vest, and at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, including the maintenance of long term return on capital employed.
Under the LTIP Rules, in the event that Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is acquired, the relevant performance period would come to an end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
There have been no changes in any Directors awards since 30 September 2006.
During the year, the November 2002 November 2005 award vested in full.
Real Annual EPS Growth over the period averaged 19.20 per cent, exceeding the average 10 per cent threshold at which the award maximised.
com Statutory Reports Directors Remuneration Report continued In respect of the November 2003 November 2006 award, based on EPS to the end of the financial year, 100 per cent of the award will vest on 18 November 2006.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 27 October 2006, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 18.54 valuing the awards as follows: Award vesting Award vesting Award lapsing No.
of shares over Illustrative value No.
of shares which option granted 000 60 Mr G Davis 47,872 888 Mr R Dyrbus 30,464 565 Mr G L Blashill 9,912 184 Mr D Cresswell 21,760 403 Dr F A Rogerson 21,760 403 The value of any awards vesting could vary significantly from that shown due to share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2004 November 2007 and the November 2005 November 2008 awards to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.
However, in respect of the 2004 2007 award, the adjusted Real Average EPS Growth was 8.7 per cent in the performance period to the end of September 2006 and, therefore, if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period, there would be partial vesting of 77.1 per cent of the award.
In respect of the 2005 2008 award, the first with the three part performance criteria, based upon interim measurement calculations prepared as at 30 September 2006 partial vesting of 38.6 per cent of the first element would occur if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance period.
The second and third elements will lapse if the current performance is maintained over the relevant performance period.
The illustrative values based on the above share price and performance criteria are as follows: Potential awards vesting November 2007 November 2008 Illustrative value Illustrative value 000 000 No.
of shares Mr G Davis 32,795 608 18,629 345 Mr R Dyrbus 20,808 386 8,867 164 Mr G L Blashill 6,634 123 4,239 79 Mr D Cresswell 14,927 277 4,239 79 Dr F A Rogerson 14,927 277 4,239 79 Evidence of the Groups sustained performance on a TSR basis when compared with the FTSE 100 Index is set out below.
Total return indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 400 300 200 100 0 28 Sep 01 30 Sep 02 30 Sep 03 30 Sep 04 30 Sep 05 29 Sep 06 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 Return Index The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate performance of the Company, which is a constituent of that index and reflects the benchmark index used as an LTIP performance criterion.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Statutory Reports Share Matching Scheme SMS Annual scheme Under the SMS the Remuneration Committee at its absolute discretion invites Executive Directors and the majority of the Groups management to invest any proportion of their gross bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares to be held by a nominee managed by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided that the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years and the participant remains an employee in the Group, they will be matched on a one for one basis.
61 However, in respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS from their bonus paid in December 2003 and for future years, a performance criterion will be applied to the matched shares such that matching will only occur if the Group has achieved Real Average EPS Growth in excess of three per cent after adjusting for UK inflation over the three year retention period, being an indicator of sustained ongoing profit delivery.
Achievement measurement is based on the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP.
There is no opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met.
In setting the performance criterion for SMS awards, the Remuneration Committee decided that EPS reflects a key part of the Groups strategy to create sustainable shareholder value.
Under the scheme Rules, should Imperial Tobacco Group PLC be acquired, the performance period would come to an end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis, subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criterion.
Centenary scheme To encourage employees to acquire and retain a shareholding, and to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco Company of Great Britain and Ireland Limited, all employees of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries employed on 10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase up to 3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares and lodge them with the Employee Benefit Trust or its nominee.
Provided these shares are left with the Trust and the participant remains an employee in the Group, the shares will be matched on a sliding scale from 20 per cent for one years retention to a maximum of 100 per cent if they are retained for the full five years to 12 August 2007. www.
There have been no changes in any Directors contingent rights since 30 September 2006.
During January 2006, annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2002 and lodged under the SMS for a three-year period matured, providing matched shares for participants on a 1:1 basis.
In respect of annual bonuses earned in the financial year to 30 September 2005 and paid in December 2005, the Executive Directors elected, in February 2006, to invest their entire bonus in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares under the SMS.
These will be matched on a 1:1 basis provided they are left in the SMS for three years, the participant remains an employee in the Group and the Company has achieved in excess of 3 per cent Real Annual EPS Growth over the retention period.
This performance criterion and the award policy and vesting schedules were reviewed by the Committee during the year and deemed to remain appropriate.
These matching shares are shown within Contingent rights arising above.
It is anticipated that, in February 2007, the Executive Directors will again invest their entire bonus earned in the financial year to 30 September 2006 in the form of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares under the SMS.
Impact of IFRS on LTIP and SMS The financial year ending 30 September 2006 is the first where the Company is required to account under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
All performance criteria have been adjusted to ensure consistent measurement during the transition to IFRS.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Statutory Reports Share options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
However, Executive Directors are eligible along with all employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries of the Group where possible to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs savingsrelated Sharesave Plan.
Under this Plan options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price of an Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Share on the London Stock Exchange on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years.
Or date of appointment to the Board if later.
Any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
Gains made on exercise, calculated as the difference between the exercise price and the market price on the date of exercise.
Aggregate gains during the year were 6,203 2005: nil.
There have been no changes in any Directors share options since 30 September 2006.
The Companys middle market share price at the close of business on 29 September 2006, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 17.80 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 15.47 to 18.43.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at the Companys registered office.
Award Dates It is the Groups policy to grant awards under all its employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
Employee Benefit Trusts The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust have been established to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.
As potential beneficiaries of the Executive Trust, each of the Executive Directors is deemed to have a contingent interest in the 905,542 Ordinary Shares of the Company held by that Trust at 30 September 2006.
Details of the shareholdings by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Shares under Balance at Purchased Distributed Balance at Award at Surplus 1 10 2005 during year during year 30 9 2006 30 9 2006 Shortfall Executive Trust 929,837 259,735 284,030 905,542 886,994 18,548 2001 Trust 2,096,700 3,102,009 1,857,908 3,340,801 4,711,099 1,370,298 As at 30 September 2006, the Company also held 46,004,000 shares in Treasury which may be used to satisfy awards under the share plans.
com Statutory Reports Directors Remuneration Report continued Share plan flow rates The Companys policy has always been to satisfy all awards under its share plans from market purchased shares through the Trusts.
The Trust Deeds and the Rules of all plans contain provisions limiting awards to five per cent in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans with an additional restriction to five per cent in 10 years for executive plans.
Currently an aggregate total of only 0.8 per cent of the Companys issued share capital is subject to awards under all the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
In future the Trust may also be provided with shares held by the Company in Treasury in order to satisfy vesting awards.
64 Since demerger in 1996 the cumulative awards under all of the Companys share plans totals under 3 per cent of its issued share capital.
Following initial grants on demerger, subsequent annual grants have averaged 0.3 per cent of issued share capital.
Summary of current awards outstanding: Limit on awards Current awards % Increase in awards during year % 10% in 10 years 2.9 0.3 5% in 5 years 1.4 0.3 5% in 10 years executive schemes 1.4 0.1 Executive Directors pensions Post 6 April 2006 A day the Groups UK pension policy, which applies to all current Executive Directors, provides the option to maintain membership of or join new employees the UK Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund or receive a salary supplement in lieu of membership of the Fund.
The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the fund is non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
The fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age after 32 years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted.
For death before retirement a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependent children will also receive allowances.
Pensions increase annually by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in the Retail Prices Index, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension in order for the annual increase to be in line with the increase in the Retail Prices Index to 15 per cent.
From 6 April 2006 a new tax regime was introduced by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC which abolished most of the detailed limits previously imposed on pension schemes and replaced them with a more simplified approach.
Each member now has a Lifetime Allowance LTA initially set at 1.5 million and a new tax, called the recovery charge, is levied at retirement if the value of their pension benefit from all sources exceeds this amount.
For any member whose total benefit value on 6 April 2006 exceeded the LTA, transitional arrangements allowed them to register the higher value so that they would not be subject to a large retrospective recovery charge.
To qualify for this enhanced protection the member was required to opt out of fund membership as regards future service accrual in order to retain a final salary linked pension entitlement in respect of past service.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60.
However, each of the current Executive Directors has opted out of fund membership as regards future service accrual as a result of registering for enhanced protection with HMRC.
The detailed HMRC rules governing enhanced protection mean that it may not be permissible in some rare circumstances for the full final salary linked pension based on service up to 6 April 2006 to be paid from the fund.
In this event an additional pension will be paid by the Company through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS so that the full accrued benefit may be provided.
Mr R Dyrbus and Dr F A Rogerson are in receipt of a salary supplement.
The supplement is paid in lieu of future pension service and accrual.
Each salary supplement was calculated by independent actuaries to provide an accumulation of benefit no greater than a total pension promise of two-thirds of final salary.
These supplements were discounted for early payment and employers National Insurance contributions and are non-compensatory.
The supplement for Mr R Dyrbus is 35 per cent of salary and for Dr F A Rogerson is 16.4 per cent of salary.
These amounts are non pensionable payments.
The following table provides the information required by both the Listing Rules and schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and gives details for each Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he had left service at the year end any potential UURBS entitlement is included : the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under the Listing Rules: and the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11.
None of the Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006 Statutory Reports Executive Directors Pension Disclosures audited Disclosures required under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules Accrued pension 000 Transfer value of accrued pension 000 Increase in accrued Transfer Increase pension net Pensionable during the of inflation value of increase net Age at service at Increase year net of during the 30 9 06 30 9 06 At during the At At Directors Directors year of inflation 65 000 Years Years 1 10 05 year 30 9 06 1 10 05 contributions contribution At 30 9 06 000 Mr G Davis 56 34 483 37 520 7,225 1,699 8,924 26 446 Mr R Dyrbus 53 24 228 22 250 2,808 838 3,646 18 257 Mr D Cresswell 61 43 220 17 237 4,669 160 4,829 12 241 Dr F A Rogerson 53 29 197 18 215 2,404 708 3,112 14 209 Mr G L Blashill 59 38 183 53 236 3,498 1,398 4,896 45 941 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Benefits The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of company cars and health insurance.
Remuneration from other Non-Executive Directorships The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Mr G Davis serves on the Board of Wolseley PLC and currently receives fees of 65,000 per annum.
Executive Directors service agreements The Group appoints Executive Directors under service agreements terminable by either party giving 52 weeks notice, as shown in the table below.
There are no predetermined provisions for compensation on termination including following a change of control within Executive Directors service agreements.
However, the Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
The circumstances of the termination and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss are taken into account in every case.
The Groups policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and that any such payments should be paid monthly in arrears.
Under the Rules of the LTIP and SMS, outstanding awards vest on termination for certain reasons, such as death, retirement, redundancy or on a change of control, on a time-related pro-rata basis subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
If, however, the termination of employment is for a reason other than one of those specified in the Rules an individuals full award lapses.
Executive Directors Service Agreements Date of contract Expiry date Executive Directors Mr G Davis 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Mr R Dyrbus 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice 1 Mr G L Blashill 28 October 2005 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Mr D Cresswell 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Dr F A Rogerson 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice 1.
Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice and within the restrictions contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board following recommendation from the Remuneration Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
They receive no other material pay or benefits with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company and provision of administrative support including the use of Company offices by the Chairman Mr D C Bonham and Joint Vice Chairman Mr A G L Alexander, do not participate in the Companys share plans, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
To align further the interests of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, it was agreed that a proportion of their fees be applied, after tax, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
These shares are to be held by a nominee during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship.
Exceptionally, in respect of Mr D C Bonham and Mr A G L Alexander, this requirement has been waived due to their continued level of investment, as detailed above.
com Statutory Reports Directors Remuneration Report continued Following his retirement from the Board in January 2006, Mr S Huismans remains a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which he received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
The terms of their appointments are reviewed annually.
These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed on 66 30 January 2006.
The letters of appointment are available for viewing at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and prior to and at the AGM.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors stand for election at the first AGM following appointment and are subject to triennial re-election by shareholders and retire subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 at the AGM following their reaching 70 years of age.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Director will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and therefore no compensation is payable on termination.
The letters of appointment detail the time commitment expected of each Non-Executive Director.
Although there is no current maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is supportive of the best practice provisions contained in the Code.
Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans retired from the Board at the AGM in January 2006, having both been on the Board since demerger in 1996.
However, where the Board considers a Non-Executive Director is making a particularly valuable contribution, they may be invited to remain on the Board in excess of nine years.
In such instances the length of tenure of the Non-Executive Director would be relevant to the Companys deliberations as to the independence of the Non-Executive Director and he she would also be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
It is proposed that Mr A G L Alexander, who has also been on the Board since demerger in 1996, will continue to serve on the Board and will therefore offer himself for re-election at the 2007 AGM.
Remuneration arrangements for former Executive Directors Mr S T Painter Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, runs to March 2007.
Under the terms of the agreement he provides consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of 1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each 12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007.
He is also entitled to reimbursement for the use of his car.
Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which he receives additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Mr M A Hussler Mr M A Hussler is currently in receipt of a retirement pension that has been reduced because it has been taken before he reached his normal retirement age.
His service agreement with the Group provided that he would receive similar overall pension benefits to those that he would have received had he remained in the Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH pension arrangement.
This was a pension for life equivalent to 42 per cent of his fixed annual salary at age 63.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension for life of 60 per cent of that amount would be payable.
The pension is made up of three parts: one part of the pension is payable from the unfunded pension arrangement of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, another part is payable from the separately funded Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund and the difference, which is not separately pre-funded, is paid by the Company.
The pension payable under the Reemtsma arrangement and from the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund may be increased annually in accordance with the Rules of those arrangements or as is required by law.
In accordance with Mr M A Husslers pension agreement the unfunded UK company portion was increased in line with the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund 2006 increase of 2.21 per cent, from 11,811.37 to 12,072.48 per annum.
For the Board I J G Napier Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 31 October 2006 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2006
