33 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Board report on remuneration Remuneration Committee In addition to Towers Perrin, the Committee has been advised The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration internally during the year by the Group Chief Executive, the Committee for determining and agreeing with the Board the Group Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Companys policy and framework for executive remuneration.
These external and internal sources of advice and It is also responsible for setting remuneration packages and data available to the Committee, together with consideration terms of employment, including pension rights, for Executive of the levels of pay increases for other employees and the Directors and certain senior executives.
This includes agreeing remuneration policy outlined below, provide a framework performance incentive arrangements and approving for the decision making process.
allocations under any long term incentive arrangements, Remuneration policy including executive share options.
It is also responsible for In establishing its remuneration policy and practice, determining the remuneration of the Chairman.
the Committee had regard to the need to continue The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the to align with and support the Companys business strategy, Companys website.
to allow the Company to motivate and retain its executive The members of the Committee are shown on page 25. management whilst having regard to pay and conditions During the year, the Committee comprised wholly throughout the Group, and recruit executives of high quality.
Independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do The Committee was also guided by the following principles: so.
The Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Group the package should be competitive i. e. at or around median Human Resources Director attended meetings by invitation when compared with those in organisations of similar size, of the Committee.
complexity and type: Throughout 2006 the Company complied with the there should be a clear link between the level of remuneration remuneration provisions of the Combined Code the Code and the performance of the Group and the individual, to the in respect of Directors.
The contents of this report also comply extent that performance related elements should form a with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 significant part of executives total remuneration package: contained in Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the relevant requirements of the FSA Listing Rules.
the interests of the shareholders should be safeguarded by aligning the remuneration package of the executives with Committee operation shareholders interests: The Committee holds at least two meetings a year.
In 2006 it also held a number of ad hoc meetings.
These were mainly the package as a whole should be easy to understand to discuss issues relating to the remuneration strategy review.
and motivating for the individual: and It has an annual meeting to review the compensation the composition of the package should reflect best practice arrangements for each Executive Director and certain senior among comparable companies.
executives in advance of the annual salary review on 1 April.
It also meets to consider the remuneration of the Chairman The remuneration packages for the Executive Directors are and to consider policy issues and developments in market made up of both fixed and variable elements as described best practice, including the monitoring of award levels and below.
In broad terms, if the Group meets its target levels of consequent Company liabilities.
Ad hoc meetings are also performance, the expected value of the variable elements held as required.
The number of meetings held and details of will account for approximately 59% to 62% of the Executive members attendance are shown in the table on page 29.
Directors total remuneration and, if the Group achieves Neither the Chairman, nor any executive, is involved in outstanding results, approximately 71% to 74%.
As communicated in last years report, the Committee has The Committee has authority from the Board to obtain the conducted a comprehensive review of remuneration strategy services of external independent advisors, as it may require.
to ensure alignment with the Companys future strategic goals.
Towers Perrin provided advice to the Committee throughout The key proposals are covered in the appropriate section of 2006.
In addition, Towers Perrin provided advice to the Board this report.
on Non-executive Directors fees and the Companys Total remuneration for these purposes comprises base salary, remuneration strategy review, and to the Group in connection annual bonus and long term incentives.
with International Financial Reporting Standard 2, Share-based Payments.
Towers Perrin does not have any other connection The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors are with the Company other than as Remuneration Consultants.
explained in detail below as they apply to 2006 and, as far as Each year, the Chairman of the Committee reviews the use possible and as explained in this report, for subsequent years.
of advisors and he considers the continued appointment Any changes in policy for subsequent years will be described of Towers Perrin as appropriate.
in future reports on Directors remuneration.
34 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Board report on remuneration continued Base salary automotive retailer.
For Andr Lacroix and Barbara Richmond, Base salaries are set by the Committee, taking into account their bonus plans will yield a bonus of 50.0% of base salary if the individuals level of responsibility, experience, and target performance is achieved and higher payments for performance.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration performance above target to a maximum of 120.0% of base which is pensionable.
In setting base salary, the Committee also takes account Deferred bonus plan of salary levels in comparable companies.
For 2006, The Deferred Bonus Plan The Plan is a voluntary plan the comparator group was made up of twenty five general and is available to Executive Directors and certain other industry companies, almost all being companies in the FTSE mid senior executives.
The purpose of the Plan is to give participants 250 index.
Those companies were chosen because they were a share-linked reward that is related to the participants of a similar size and complexity measured in terms of revenues, commitment to maintaining a shareholding in the Company.
market capitalisation, employee numbers and international Details of awards made to Executive Directors in 2006 under scope as the Company.
Executive Directors salary increases the Plan are shown in note 4 on page 39. in 2006 took into account the relevant median data from Participants may invest a minimum of 10.0% and a maximum of this comparator group and the individuals performance, 75.0% of any net of tax bonus award to acquire ordinary shares and having regard to levels of pay increases for other in the Company.
These shares will then be matched with a one Group employees.
for one matching share at the end of a three year period.
For 2007, the Committee has reviewed the comparator group, In addition, to comply with current best practice and to align to ensure its continuing relevance to Inchcape, and has made Executive Directors rewards under the Plan to shareholders a number of revisions.
In particular, the revised comparator interests, there is a performance condition attached to the group has a greater retail focus and includes companies with vesting of their matching shares.
That test is EPS growth of strong consumer emphasis, in line with the Groups strategic RPI 3.0% per annum, with no retesting.
EPS is measured aims and its desire to attract retail talent.
in the same manner as for the Executive Share Option Plan.
Subject to that performance condition being met, the Annual bonus Directors shares being held in trust for three years and the During 2006 the Executive Directors participated in a bonus Director remaining an employee of the Group, they will plan based 70.0% on profit before tax PBT, 20.0% on working become entitled to be awarded shares to an amount equal capital, and 10.0% on the achievement of personal objectives.
to the gross amount of the bonus used to acquire ordinary In respect of 2006, the bonus plan for Andr Lacroix was shares in the Company.
structured to yield a bonus of 50.0% of base salary if target performance was achieved and higher payments for For 2007, the Company is proposing to amend the Deferred performance above target to a maximum of 110.0% of base Bonus Plan and redesignate it as the Co-Investment plan, salary.
Barbara Richmonds bonus plan was structured to yield where Executive Directors can invest up to 50.0% of their post a bonus of 40.0% of base salary if target performance was tax annual salary to acquire ordinary shares in the Company achieved and higher payments for performance above target in future years the Committee may determine that to a maximum of 90.0% of base salary.
In 2006, the Company circumstances justify that up to 100% of post tax annual salary met its performance targets set at the start of the year may be invested.
These shares will then be matched at the for PBT and working capital.
Both Andr Lacroix and Barbara end of a three year period.
The match will be determined by Richmond had different individual personal objectives related performance against a cumulative Economic Profit target.
to the development of the Group in relation to the new If the target level of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved, then strategy.
The goals related to relevant quantitive non-financial a one for one share match will occur.
A maximum two for metrics, the achievement of strategic milestones and the one match will occur if cumulative Economic Profit achieves demonstration of appropriate leadership behaviours.
They both a target level of RPI 12.0% per annum or greater.
At points fully achieved their personal objectives in 2006.
The resultant between these two levels, matching will take place on a bonuses for Andr Lacroix, and Barbara Richmond are shown straight line basis.
Economic profit has been chosen because in the remuneration table on page 37.
Graeme Potts bonus is the Committee believes this is a key driver of the Companys also shown on the table.
He stepped down from the Board new business strategy.
Economic Profit is underlying operating and left the Company in September 2006 and the bonus paid profit after tax less the weighted average cost of capital reflects his length of service in the year and performance mutiplied by the capital employed.
The Committee intends against relevant targets.
that the figure for Economic Profit will be disclosed.
It is intended that the Co-Investment plan will also be extended Adjustments to Executive Directors bonus plans have been on a broadly similar basis to certain other senior executives made for 2007 to reflect market best practice and to provide below the Board.
further alignment with the Companys new business strategy.
Bonus will be based 70.0% on Economic Profit, 20.0% on Net Executive share option plan Promoter Score and 10.0% on achievement of personal Under the Plan, share options are granted to Executive objectives.
Economic Profit was chosen as the Committee Directors and certain other senior executives throughout the believes that this is the measure most aligned with shareholder Group.
The option price is calculated by rounding up the value as it is intended to place a greater emphasis on capital arithmetic average of the market quotations of a share for the efficiency and cash generation.
Net Promoter Score was three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
chosen as it is a measure being used to measure customer The 2006 option grant covered over 250 participants across the satisfaction across the Group and is in line with the Groups world.
Details of share options granted to Executive Directors in business strategy of being the most customer centric 2006 are shown in note 3 on pages 38 and 39.
35 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Options now granted vest according to a sliding scale: At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that 25.0% of the award will vest if earnings per share EPS growth date, Executive Directors share ownership levels were as follows: of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved over the initial three year Share period, with all of the award vesting if EPS growth is RPI 8.0% ownership expressed as per annum or greater.
Options will vest on a straight line basis percentage between these two points.
No options will vest if EPS growth against Name of Director base salary is less than RPI 3.0% per annum.
There will be no retesting.
Andr Lacroix 166% The Committee has retained EPS as the performance measure Barbara Richmond appointed 3 April 2006 72% for the Executive share option plan.
The Committee believes the retention of EPS as the measure used under the executive Retirement benefits share option plan, operating alongside Economic Profit used The Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme provides benefits under the Co-Investment plan, will provide an important for Executive Directors and certain other senior executives at balance between the Groups desire for both sustained growth the normal retirement age of sixty five, equal to a maximum and the need for emphasis on capital efficiency and cash of two-thirds of final base salary where salary has a scheme generation.
EPS will continue to be the headline earnings per specific ceiling of 108,600 in the 06 07 tax year, subject to ordinary share, which excludes volatile one-off matters such completion of between twenty years and forty years service.
In exceptional circumstances, the Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with Committee has the right to adjust the published EPS, as it the lesser of 5.0% and the increase in the RPI considers appropriate.
In respect of outstanding awards with attaching EPS performance measures, under all of the The Scheme requires members who join after March 2005 Companys share-based plans, the Committee has decided to contribute 7.0% of base pay up to the scheme specific in its discretion to adjust the EPS figure for 2006 to remove the ceiling of 108,600 in the 06 07 tax year.
effect of a one-off non-replicable, low effective tax rate.
The Executives whose base salary is capped are paid a monthly adjustment reduces the EPS figure used in the incentive plans cash supplement to enable them to make their own pension for 2006 by around 3.0% but will not impact the actual vesting arrangements.
The Executive Directors who received such of any awards with performance periods ending in 2006. supplements in the year are Barbara Richmond and Graeme The Committee believes this will ensure a more accurate Potts until he left the Company.
Details of the amounts paid reflection of the Companys underlying performance within are shown in note 1 on page 37.
Andr Lacroix, who joined the the context of the Companys share plans.
Finally, in light Company on 1 September 2005, received a cash supplement of changes to accounting standards, the Remuneration of 40.0% of his base salary in lieu of formal pension provision.
He Committee has continued to make necessary adjustments is not a member of the Inchcape Group UK Management to ensure a consistent basis in respect of the EPS measure Pension Scheme except in respect of the life assurance benefit used to evaluate performance.
During the year, except for Barbara Richmond who received A lump sum life assurance benefit of four times full base salary a grant of four times base salary following her recruitment.
is provided on death in service, along with for pension scheme the Committee made annual grants of two times base members a spouses pension of either half or two-thirds of the salary taking into account the Executive Directors and the prospective members pension.
Childrens pensions may also Companys performance.
This grant level is necessary to keep be payable, up to one-third of the members pension.
the Companys long term incentive provision in line with the market.
Grants in excess of the two times limit may be required in the future in the event of new hires or developments in market practice.
In this regard, the Committee has the flexibility under the Plan rules to increase the maximum allowable annual grant level to four times base salary if required.
SAYE share option scheme The Inchcape SAYE share option scheme is open to employees in the UK with at least three months service.
Participants make monthly savings for a three year period.
At the end of the savings period share options become exercisable for a six month period.
Executive share ownership To emphasise the importance the Committee places on executive share ownership, Executive Directors are currently expected to hold a fixed number of shares equivalent to 100.0% of base salary.
They have up to five years from 2004, or date of appointment as an Executive Director if later, to reach this shareholding target.
For 2007 onwards, this will increase to 200.0% of base salary.
The Executive Directors will have five years from 2007 to reach this shareholding target.
36 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Board report on remuneration continued Taxable and other benefits Service contracts These include such items as company car and medical and The Companys policy is for Executive Directors service life assurance premiums.
They are in line with the remuneration contract notice periods to be no longer than 12 months, policy framework outlined above.
These benefits are except in exceptional circumstances.
contain notice periods of 12 months.
In the event of termination, the Company will seek fair mitigation of Performance graph contractual rights.
Within legal constraints, the Remuneration The following graph illustrates the Groups Total Shareholder Committee tailors its approach, in cases of early termination, Return TSR over a five year period, relative to the to the circumstances of each individual case.
performance of the total return index of the FTSE mid 250 group of companies.
TSR is essentially share price growth plus Graeme Potts stepped down from the Board and left reinvested dividends.
The FTSE mid 250 has been chosen as the the Company by agreement on 17 September 2006. most suitable comparator as it is the general market index in The payments made to him are reflected in note 1 on which Inchcape plc appears.
page 37 and the notes thereto.
Historical TSR performance 100 holding Normal retirement age is sixty-five for Andr Lacroix and 700 Barbara Richmond.
600 Name of Director Date of contract Unexpired term 500 Andr Lacroix 1 September 2005 To normal 400 retirement age 300 Barbara Richmond 3 April 2006 To normal retirement age 200 100 As explained in the Corporate Governance Report, 0 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, which may be extended by agreement with Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 over five years FTSE 250 excluding investment companies.
Comparison based on 30 trading day the Board.
None of them are engaged on a service contract average values.
Inchcape FTSE mid 250 excluding Investment Trusts Policy on external appointments Inchcape recognises that its Executive Directors may well Chairmans remuneration be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other During the year the Chairmans remuneration was companies and that this additional experience is likely to determined by the Committee, taking advice from Towers benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are, therefore, Perrin on best practice and competitive levels, taking into allowed to accept one Non-executive appointment two in account responsibilities and time commitment.
Life assurance the case of the Group Chief Executive as long as these are is provided under the Group UK pension scheme but the not likely to lead to conflicts of interest or undue time appointment is not pensionable, nor is the Chairman eligible commitments.
The policy in respect of the Executive Directors for participation in any of the Companys bonus, share option other commitments is kept under review by the Nomination or other incentive schemes.
Any fees received for these duties may be Non-executive Directors remuneration retained by the Executive Director.
The Group Finance Director is a Non-executive Director of the Scarborough The remuneration of Non-executive Directors consists of fees for their services in connection with Board and Committee Building Society for which she received fees of 25,417. meetings.
Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the Board, within the restrictions contained in the Articles of Association.
Fees are reviewed annually, with the Board taking advice from Towers Perrin on best practice and competitive levels, taking into account the individuals responsibilities and time commitment.
The Non-executive Directors are not involved in deciding their fees.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership or participation in any of the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
37 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Notes to the Board report on remuneration The following are auditable disclosures in accordance with Schedule 7A Part III of the Companies Act 1985.
1 Individual emoluments for the year The table below shows a breakdown of remuneration, including taxable and other benefits of each Director.
Details of pension entitlements, share options, deferred bonus plan and other awards held are shown in notes 2, 3 and 4 on pages 38 to 40.
Such payment was subject to tax.
b The payment of 62,190 2005 none was paid to Barbara Richmond to allow her to make her own pension arrangements outside the Companys plan.
c Graeme Potts left the Group on 17 September 2006.
In accordance with the Companys legal obligations he was paid the sum of 532,667 subject to deduction of tax, as compensation for loss of office together with a payment of 67,333 which was paid to the Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme in respect of his pension arrangements.
d Will Samuel was paid a fee as Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
He received no additional fees for his membership of Board Committees.
Otherwise, the details shown include fees at the rate of 10,000 per annum for Committee Chairmanship and at the rate of 4,000 for Committee membership.
e The emoluments shown for Raymond Chien include those in respect of services provided in Asia Pacific.
f Taxable and other benefits comprise items such as company car, medical care, life assurance premiums and petrol allowance.
All Executive Directors are entitled to such benefits.
In the case of new recruitment, taxable benefits include relocation expenses.
g No Directors waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006 2005 none.
38 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Board report on remuneration continued 2 Directors pension entitlements Accrued annual pension under defined benefit schemes Transfer value less director's contributions Difference Increase Accumulated Accumulated of the increase in transfer Increase in accrued total of total of in accrued Transfer value Transfer value value less any in accrued pension during accrued accrued benefit net of accrued of accrued contributions pension during the year pension at pension at of inflation benefits at benefits at made in the year net of inflation 31.12.05 31.12.06 a 31.12.06 31.12.06 b 01.01.06 b the year '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 '000 Barbara Richmond 2.4 2 2.4 11 16.4 10.7 Graeme Potts 6 6 11 18 52 187.2 117.2 70 Graeme Potts resigned on 17 September 2006.
The transfer value of his pension was accrued to his date of leaving Notes on pension entitlements: a The transfer value has been calculated in accordance with Retirement Benefits Schemes Transfer Values GN 11, 6 April 2002. b The transfer values of the accrued benefits represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits.
The transfer values do not represent sums payable or due to the individual Directors and therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
c No Directors made any contribution to their pension in respect of the above during the year.
Notes on share options: a Under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan.
b Under the Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme.
c Peter Johnson exercised options over 1,191,750 ordinary shares on 14 August 2006.
At the close of business on the date of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 465.25p.
He sold 851,443 shares upon exercise to cover tax and NI liabilities.
A gain of 2,634,635.62 was made upon the exercise of this option.
He retained the remaining shares after exercise.
d Graeme Potts exercised an option over 26,862 ordinary shares on 22 May 2006.
The mid market price on the date of exercise was 419.25p.
He retained all shares upon exercise.
A gain of 82,623.04 was made upon the exercise of this option.
e Under the terms of Graeme Pottss agreement when he left the Company on 17 September 2006, he retained rights to exercise all vested Options granted to him on the date of leaving employment.
He also retained rights to exercise unvested Options granted to him on a pro-rated basis with the amount being determined by the extent to which the performance target measured over the period ended on 17 September 2006 was met.
All Options must be exercised within twelve months from the date of leaving.
39 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 f Exercise prices are determined in accordance with the rules of the relevant share option scheme.
g All options were granted for nil consideration.
h The table shows Directors options over ordinary shares of 25.0p adjusted for share sub-division at 1 January 2006 or date of appointment if later and 31 December 2006.
The mid market price for shares at the close of business on 31 December 2006 was 506.0p.
The price range during 2006 was 358.3p to 541.0p.
i Options under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan are granted on a discretionary basis to certain full time senior executives based within and outside the UK including Executive Directors of the Company.
Such options are normally exercisable between three and ten years of grant.
j Options may normally only be exercised if the performance target has been met.
For all options granted between 1999 and 2003 under the Inchcape 1999 Share Option Plan, growth in the Companys earnings per share over a three year period must exceed the increase in the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by 3.0% per annum.
Options granted after the 2004 AGM vest according to a sliding scale: 25.0% of the shares will vest if EPS growth of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved over the initial three year period, with all of the shares vesting if EPS growth is RPI 8.0% per annum.
Shares will vest on a straight line basis between these points and there is no opportunity to retest.
k The Inchcape SAYE Share Option Scheme is open to employees in the UK with at least three months service.
At the end of the savings period options become exercisable within a six month period.
Notes on deferred bonus plan: a Peter Johnson exercised the Award granted to him on 10 April 2003, in respect of 102,948 ordinary shares on 3 January 2006.
At the close of business on the date of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 386.0p.
A gain of 397,379.28 was made upon the exercise of this Award.
He exercised the Awards granted to him on 4 October 2004 in respect of 62,910 ordinary shares and 1 January 2005 in respect of 39,708 ordinary shares on 13 June 2006.
At the close of business on the date of exercise the mid market price of the ordinary shares was 415.0p.
A gain of 425,864.70 was made upon the exercise of these Awards.
b Under the terms of Graeme Potts agreement when he left the Company on 17 September 2006, he retained rights to Awards granted to him on a pro-rated basis, exercisable within three months, with the number of exercisable Awards being determined by the extent to which the performance target, measured over the period ended on 17 September 2006 was met.
c Directors will become entitled to the Awarded shares if they remain employed by the Inchcape Group for three years and retain the shares purchased with their bonus throughout that period.
The awards made will normally vest within three years of award.
Special rules apply on termination of employment and change of control.
For awards made after the 2004 AGM to vest, growth in the Companys earnings per shares over a three year period must exceed the increase on the UK Retail Price Index over the same period by 3.0% per annum with no opportunity to retest.
d Executive Directors may elect to invest up to 75% of their annual bonus in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
The invested monies are grossed up by the Company to remove the effect of tax on that portion of the executives bonus and the grossed up amount is used by the Company to purchase ordinary shares Awarded shares which are held in trust for the executive.
Provided certain conditions are met, the Awarded shares will vest and the executive may exercise his rights under the Plan at any time during the six month exercise period.
40 Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Board report on remuneration continued Incentive Plans Awarded Awarded ordinary Market Awarded ordinary shares value of ordinary shares at 01.01.06 shares shares exercised or date of on date 31.12.06 during the year appointment awarded Vesting period AL Incentive Plan 117,000 117,000 357.5p 2006 2008 BR Incentive Plan 103,604 103,604 428.7p 2006 2008 Notes on incentive plans: a As reported last year Andr Lacroix is the sole participant in the AL Incentive Plan, subject to his continuing employment and the percentage growth in the Companys earnings per share over the relevant performance period exceeding the rate of inflation over the same period by at least 3.0% per year.
He will be eligible to receive a further two tranches of 39,000 Inchcape plc shares each, which are due to vest at the end of 2007 and 2008 respectively.
b Barbara Richmond is the sole participant in the BR Incentive Plan.
Under the terms of her plan, subject to her continuing employment and the percentage growth in the Companys earnings per share over the relevant performance period exceeding the rate of inflation over the same period by at least 3.0% per year, she will be eligible to receive a further tranche of 21,996 Inchcape plc shares which are due to vest at the end of 2007 and a final tranche of 59,612 Inchcape plc shares, which are due to vest at the end of 2008.
By order of the Board Michael Wemms Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 March 2007
