Board Committees and Advisers Executive Management Board Remuneration Committee Michael Butler Stephen Davidson Chairman President and Chief Operating Officer Sir Bryan Carsberg Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Richard Denny Kathleen Flaherty Vice President Satellite and Network Operations Nominations Committee Alison Horrocks Andrew Sukawaty Chairman Company Secretary Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd John Rennocks Gene Jilg Chief Technical Officer Audit Committee Vice President Product Evolution John Rennocks Chairman Sir Bryan Carsberg Debbie Jones Stephen Davidson Vice President Business and Customer Operations Company Secretary Rick Medlock Alison Horrocks Chief Financial Officer Registered Office Perry Melton 99 City Road Vice President Sales and Marketing London EC1Y 1AX Tel: 44 0 20 7728 1000 Leo Mondale Fax: 44 0 20 7728 1044 Vice President Business Development and Strategy www.
com Rupert Pearce Registered Number Group General Counsel 4886072 England and Wales Andrew Sukawaty Auditors Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Deloitte & Touche LLP Hill House 1 Little New Street London EC4A 3TR Solicitors Clifford Chance LLP 10 Upper Bank Street London E14 5JJ Brokers JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 20 Moorgate London EC2R 6DA Lehman Brothers International 25 Bank Street London E14 5LE Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 20 Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2006 The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report The Company also provides satellite telecommunication and the audited financial statements for the year ended services and equipment in conjunction with support offered by 31 December 2006. its distribution partners and manufacturers to service providers in support of disaster relief management in affected areas of Principal activities and business review the world.
The Group provides a comprehensive portfolio of global mobile satellite communications services for use on land, at sea No political donations were made during the year.
These include voice and broadband data services, which support safety communications as well as standard office Financial instruments applications such as email, internet, secure VPN access and Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies videoconferencing.
of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are The Group has several branch and regional offices throughout given in notes 3 and 30 to the consolidated financial statements.
Post balance sheet events The Directors are also required to present an extended business In a letter dated 24 January 2007, under its contract for launch review, reporting on the development and performance of the services with Lockheed Martin Commercial Launch Services Inc. Group and the Company during the year and their positions at Inmarsat exercised its option to launch the Inmarsat-4 F3 on the end of the year.
That requirement is met by the Business an Atlas V launch vehicle.
The exact launch date is yet to Review on pages 2 to 11 and the Financial Review on pages be finalised.
The arbitration proceedings between the Company and three of Results and dividends its distribution partners, concerning the correct implementation The results for the period are shown in the Consolidated Income of new distribution partner appointment processes set out in the Statement on page 42.
Companys distribution agreements, have now been concluded.
As a consequence of the arbitration award, the appointment of The Directors propose the payment of a final dividend per one BGAN Inmarsat distribution partner has been regularised by ordinary share of 16 cents US$ making a total for the year of means of the new appointment of a member of the same group 26.66 cents US$ dividend payments are made in Pounds of companies.
The arbitration award is not expected to have any Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London material financial or commercial impact on the Group.
market four business days prior to payment.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on Further details of material post balance sheet events are 25 May 2007 to shareholders on the register of members at the included in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors and their interests No dividend is payable in respect of the deferred shares of A list of the Directors who served during the year is shown ?0.01 each.
below: Research and development Michael Butler, President and Chief Operating Officer The Group continues to invest in new services and technology Sir Bryan Carsberg through its research and development programmes.
These Stephen Davidson include pure research into new products as well as developing Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd those services which have been demonstrated to have a Kathleen Flaherty profitable business case.
Rick Medlock, Chief Financial Officer John Rennocks, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Charitable and political donations Director During the year, the Company paid US$110,000 2005: Andrew Sukawaty, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer US$200,000 to the telecommunications relief aid organisation, Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF.
All Directors were in office on 1 January 2006, except for Kathleen Flaherty who was appointed on 9 May 2006.
The Company has pledged to pay the following amounts to TSF: US$130,000 in 2007 and US$150,000 in 2008.
Biographical information on each of the Directors is contained on page 19 of the Annual Report.
Their biographies illustrate the The Company contributed US$10,000 to an appeal to rebuild a Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Board school in Indonesia affected by the earthquake in 2006. to lead and control the Group.
The Company made a payment to the World Maritime University of US$100,000 in 2006 as part of its support for the education of maritime specialists.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 21 Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2006 continued The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Equal opportunities Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Group gives full consideration to applications from disabled None of the Directors at any time during the year ended persons and to the continuing employment of staff that become 31 December 2006 or subsequently have had any interests disabled, including making reasonable adjustments where in any shares of the Companys subsidiaries.
appropriate or considering them for alternative positions.
Reappointment of directors Health and safety The Companys Articles of Association require that one-third of The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, contractors and of the Company.
Therefore, the following Directors, neither of anyone affected by its business activities.
Michael Butler is the whom has been in office for more than three years, will retire and Executive Director identified for health and safety matters.
put themselves forward for reappointment at the Annual General Meeting 2007.
They have each confirmed that they will stand for Policy and practice on payment of creditors reappointment: The Groups policy and practice on payment of creditors is: Rick Medlock to pay all suppliers within the time limit agreed with each at John Rennocks the start of business with that supplier: to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and The following Director, having been appointed by the Board to pay in accordance with the contractual and other legal since the last Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, obligations whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has offers herself for appointment by shareholders: provided goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Kathleen Flaherty At 31 December 2006, the Companys trade creditors Employees represented 30 days equivalent of aggregate amounts invoiced The Group has ensured that employees are fully informed by suppliers during the year 2005: 30 days.
and involved in the business, through the use of various communications methods including regular briefing sessions and Share capital and substantial shareholdings discussions with groups of employees, circulation of newsletters, The Companys ordinary shares of ?0.0005 each are listed on the Company announcements, information releases and London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
Details of the issued share dissemination of information through normal management capital of the Company are given in note 24 to the consolidated channels.
The Company has a Staff Forum to extend two-way financial statements.
communications between employees and management and to allow the views of employees to be taken into account in making At 21 March 2007, the Company had received notifications of the decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
The Staff following major shareholding interests in the Companys issued Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with share capital: prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation Number of voting rights over the ordinary on contractual related matters, as and when required.
Employees shares of ?0.0005 each are actively encouraged to attend internal training courses to Direct Indirect learn about the Companys business, its products and services.
BlackRock, Inc. 42,576,471 9.31% Lansdowne Partners The Company encourages, through its share and share option schemes, employee involvement in the Companys performance.
Limited Partnership 41,660,368 9.11% Details of the outstanding options granted to employees are Legal & General shown in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
An Investment award of shares was made to employees in April 2006, capped at Management Limited 36,602,558 8.01% 5,753,570 1.26% 10% of salary, and a second award of shares, capped at 5% of F&C Asset salary, will be made in April 2007.
The Executive Directors and Management plc 28,100,055 6.14% the Executive Management Board did not participate in the 2006 Prudential plc group award and will not participate in the 2007 award.
Details of the award made in April 2006 are provided on page 37. of companies 24,598,828 5.38% KDDI Corporation 21,739,149 4.76% The Group has a positive attitude towards the development of all its employees and does not discriminate between employees or Significant contracts potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic or national origin, The majority of the space segment revenue of the Group is sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
The Inmarsat workforce derived from sales to Land Earth Station Operators LESOs and is diverse in that it has more than 45 different nationalities.
LESOs operate in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Land Earth Station Operator Agreement.
The existing five year agreement commenced in April 2004.
DPs operate under a five year agreement with separate arrangements for the distribution of some services.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 22 None of the current Directors had a material interest in any safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
undertakings was a party during the financial year.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Directors and Officers liability insurance of the inmarsat.
Uncertainty regarding legal The Group maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors requirements is compounded as information published on the and Officers liability.
At the date upon which this report was internet is accessible in many countries with different legal approved and for the year to 31 December 2006, the Company requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination provided an indemnity in respect of all of the Companys of financial statements.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that: i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Auditors information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and  LLP resigned as Auditors of the ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Company on 7 July 2006 and confirmed that there were no taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any matters connected with their ceasing to hold office which relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys should be brought to the attention of members or creditors.
Auditors are aware of that information.
As recommended to the Board by the Audit Committee, Deloitte & Touche LLP accepted appointment as Auditors This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in of the Company on 28 July 2006. accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Board to determine their By order of the Board remuneration will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Alison Horrocks FCIS Company Secretary 2007 Annual General Meeting 21 March 2007 Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors statement of Auditors responsibilities set out on page 40, is made with a view to distinguishing between the respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable the Directors to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for maintaining sufficient internal controls to Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 23 Statement on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the highest standards of The Board still believes that it is appropriate to consider Admiral corporate governance.
The Board has reviewed and is reporting James Ellis Jr Rtd as an independent, Non-Executive Director, on the Companys compliance with the requirements of the notwithstanding that he is an independent, non-executive Combined Code the Code published by the Financial director of the Lockheed Martin Corporation which is a major Reporting Council in July 2003 and reissued in June 2006 for supplier to the Company.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
The Board is The Company has been in compliance with the provisions set satisfied that the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive out in Section 1 of the Code save as provided below: Directors commit sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties as Directors of the Company.
The Board delegates management Andrew Sukawaty acts in the dual role of Chairman and Chief of the business to the Executive Management Board listed on Executive Officer.
Mr Sukawaty was appointed Chairman in page 20, who meet on a regular basis.
December 2003 and was asked by the Board to take on the additional responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer in March The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of Executive 2004.
The Board believes that Mr Sukawatys wide experience Directors accepting non-executive directorships of other of the telecommunications industry in an executive capacity companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the means that he is extremely well qualified to lead the Company benefit of the Company.
All such appointments require the in the joint role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
As prior approval of the Board.
Executive Directors may not take the Company has previously stated, it is the Boards intention on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will be company or any chairmanship of such a company.
Mr Sukawaty separated in due course and it will consider this at the and Mr Medlock have external directorships and they are appropriate time: and permitted to retain any directors fees from these appointments.
In his capacity as Executive Chairman of the Company, Details of these directorships can be found in their biographies Andrew Sukawaty currently acts as the Chairman of the on page 19 and details of the fees retained can be found on Nominations Committee.
To avoid potential conflicts of interest, Non-Executive Directors are expected to inform the Chairman before taking The Board up any additional external appointments.
The composition of the Board and its various committees is regularly reviewed and evaluated so as to reflect the Boards and The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the the Committees balance of skills, expected time commitment, running of the Board and for implementing Group strategy.
The Board currently has eight The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for Directors, comprising three Executive Directors and five decision but can also delegate specific responsibilities to the independent, Non-Executive Directors, which is considered Board Committees listed below or to committees convened an effective size and balance for the Company.
A list of the for special purposes.
Among the key matters on which the Board individual Directors, their biographies and details of their alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, Committee membership are provided on pages 19 and 20. its annual budget, dividends, financial reporting and major John Rennocks, the Deputy Chairman, is identified as the Senior corporate activities.
The Board holds a strategy meeting once Independent Director.
Following the Companys listing on the a year at which it considers the future direction of the Group.
London Stock Exchange in June 2005 the IPO, Andrew Sukawaty remained Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, both Non-Executive Directors have been appointed initially for executive roles.
There was a commitment that whilst this did not three years and all Non-Executive Directors may not, unless meet the requirements of the Code, there would be a separation exceptionally agreed by the Board, remain in office for a of the roles.
The Board continues to believe that Mr Sukawatys period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever involvement in both roles provides a balanced and stable is the shorter.
The diverse experience and backgrounds of the platform for the Company as it matures as a public company and Non-Executive Directors ensures that they can debate with, is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The and constructively challenge, management both in relation to Board also believes that it continues to be appropriate, with the the development of strategy and in relation to operational Chairman and Chief Executive Officer roles being combined, to and financial performance.
The Non-Executive Directors maintain John Rennocks as Deputy Chairman, in addition to his meet annually, without the Chairman and Chief Executive role as Senior Independent Director.
Concerns can be conveyed Officer in attendance, to assess Board balance and to Mr Rennocks independently of the Chairman and Chief independence and to monitor whether any one individual Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer or the President and has unfettered powers over decisions.
The Senior Independent Chief Operating Officer, by other Directors or shareholders.
Collectively, the Board believes that it possesses all of the necessary range of qualities and experience to lead the Company effectively.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 24 On joining the Board, new Directors are given a comprehensive, Board Committees formal and tailored induction programme including the provision The main Board Committees are the Audit Committee, the of background material on the Company and briefings with Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee.
When considered necessary, further formal terms of reference explaining the role of these Committees and training is provided post appointment.
The Company Secretary the authority delegated to them by the Board are published on supplies all Directors with information on relevant legal and best the Groups website at www.
The Secretary to practice developments.
these Board Committees is the Company Secretary.
All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Audit Committee Association to be elected by shareholders at the first general All members of the Audit Committee are independent, Nonmeeting after their appointment.
Appointments to the Board are Executive Directors and have significant, recent and relevant made on merit and against objective criteria.
At least one-third financial experience.
The Board is confident that the collective of the Directors must retire and, as appropriate, seek re-election experience of the Audit Committee members enables them, as a by the shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
group, to act as an effective Audit Committee.
Their details are disclosed on page 20.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Directors receive Board and Committee papers in advance of the Committee may be attended by the Chairman and Chief relevant meetings.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the internal and Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, advising external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets the Board, through the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, on regularly with the internal and external auditors.
all corporate governance matters and minuting any unresolved concerns expressed by any Director.
Were a Director to resign The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring over an unresolved issue, the Chairman and Chief Executive the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal Officer would bring the issue to the attention of the Board.
controls and risk management and ensuring that the Groups financial statements present a true and fair view of the Groups The Directors have access to the advice and services of financial position.
Its duties include keeping under review the the Company Secretary and all Directors are able to take scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness, independent advice in the furtherance of their duties consideration of managements response to any major external if necessary.
or internal audit recommendation and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
During 2006, the Board and each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees undertook performance evaluations.
During the year to 31 December 2006, the Audit Committee The main elements in the evaluation process were: reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, half-year and full-year financial statements and results individual Directors and the Committee members completed announcements and the quarterly financial reports for two US separate evaluation questionnaires: reporting subsidiaries.
It considered internal audit reports and each of the Non-Executive Directors had a formal one-on-one risk management updates, agreed external and internal audit discussion with the Company Secretary: plans and received updates on management responses to audit the results were compiled and analysed by the Company recommendations.
The Audit Committee considered the Secretary and circulated to the full Board: and appointment of new Auditors of the Company and made a the Board considered the results of the evaluation process recommendation to the Board in this regard.
It also approved as a specific item of business at a subsequent Board meeting.
recommendations on the review of accounting policies and monitored progress on the Groups preparedness for complying The evalution process concluded that the Board and its main with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Committees had functioned efficiently and effectively during the 2002 for its US reporting subsidiaries which will be required for year and that the individual Directors had also met the standards reporting periods commencing 1 January 2007. expected of them, with each making a significant contribution to the Company.
The issues identified during the evalution, such as The Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure modifications to Board documentation and videoconference Committee the role of which is explained on page 28, reported attendance for overseas Directors, have been discussed and on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure of changes to Board practice implemented.
financial and other material information to the Board, to the public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Audit A performance evaluation of the Board will continue to be Committee to review and clarify the completeness of financial conducted annually and the process for such evaluation will be reporting disclosures prior to their release by the Board.
The Nominations Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for reappointment at the 2007 Annual General Meeting continued to benefit the Board and the Company should support their reappointment.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 25 Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has and long-term variable components of remuneration.
The an objective and professional relationship with the Auditors.
In Companys remuneration policy is intended to reward successful addition to their statutory duties, the Companys Auditors may delivery against good returns for shareholders and to support also be employed where, as a result of their position as Auditors, the achievement of the Groups strategy.
they either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in question.
A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision All of the decisions of the Remuneration Committee on of non-audit services by the Auditors to ensure that there is remuneration matters in 2006 were reported to and endorsed adequate protection of their independence and objectivity.
The Auditors regularly confirm their independence to the Committee.
The policy identifies three categories of accounting Nominations Committee services: audit-related services, which the Companys Auditors The composition of the Nominations Committee is disclosed provide such as interim and full year reporting : prohibited on page 20 and comprises a majority of independent, services, which the Companys Auditors may never provide Non-Executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee meets as such as corporate finance consulting or advisory services : and when necessary but at least twice a year.
The Nominations and potential services, which the Companys Auditors may in Committee has responsibility for nominating to the Board, certain circumstances provide, subject to Group procurement candidates for appointment as Directors, bearing in mind the procedures and fee constraints such as tax advisory services need for a broad representation of skills across the Board.
procedure was followed in 2006, in conjunction with an external search firm, leading to the appointment of Kathleen Flaherty as During the year, specific approval had been given by the Audit a Non-Executive Director.
Committee for the Companys Auditors to perform non-audit services.
Auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded The Nominations Committee will also make recommendations through a variety of mechanisms.
Fees charged by the to the Board concerning the reappointment of any independent, Companys Auditors in respect of non-audit services require the Non-Executive Director by the Board at the conclusion of his prior approval of the Audit Committee, except where the fee or her specified term: the re-election of any Director by does not exceed more than 5% of the total revenues paid to the shareholders under the retirement provisions of the Companys Auditors in that financial year.
The Audit Committee has agreed Articles of Association: and changes to senior management.
that the Company could commit to fees in relation to tax advisory and tax compliance work from the Auditors of up to As previously stated, it is the Boards intention that the roles of 20% in aggregate of the total audit fee each year, with up to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will be separated in due 50,000 for any one project, without the need to seek approval course and the Nominations Committee will make a for individual projects.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the recommendation to the Board at the appropriate time.
Companys Auditors during the year is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
2006 Board and Committee meetings During the year to 31 December 2006, the Board met eight Remuneration Committee times, excluding ad hoc meetings solely to deal with procedural The composition of the Remuneration Committee is disclosed matters.
The following table shows the attendance of Directors on page 20 and comprises solely independent, Non-Executive at meetings of the Board and its main Committees: Directors.
The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Audit Remuneration Nominations Board, meets as and when necessary to review and approve Board Committee Committee Committee as appropriate the remuneration of the Executive Directors maximum: 8 maximum: 4 maximum: 4 maximum: 3 and senior management and major remuneration plans for Michael Butler 7 the Group as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee appraises Sir Bryan Carsberg 8 4 4 1 the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer against his written Stephen Davidson 84 42 objectives.
Similarly, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Admiral JamesEllis Jr Rtd 7 4 3 appraises the other Executive Directors and makes recommendations to the Remuneration Committee relating Kathleen Flaherty to bonus achievement.
The Remuneration Committee approves appointed 9 May 2006 5 3 the setting of objectives for all of the Executive Directors Rick Medlock 8 4 1 and authorises their annual bonus payments for achievement John Rennocks 8 4 2 3 of objectives.
The Remuneration Committee provides Andrew Sukawaty 8 2 3 3 remuneration packages sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors required to run the Company successfully Attendance by invitation only.
and based on the remuneration data provided to it and Note: The Company Secretary attended all Board and Committee meetings.
discussions with its advisers but does not pay more than is necessary for this service.
The Remuneration Committee Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business or is empowered to recommend the grant of share options under personal commitments.
In an instance where a Director is unable the existing share option plans and to make awards under to attend Board or Committee meetings, any comments which the short and long-term incentive plans.
The Remuneration he or she may have arising out of the papers to be considered at Committee considers there to be an appropriate balance the meeting are relayed in advance to the relevant Chairman or between fixed and variable remuneration and between short the Company Secretary.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 26 Directors remuneration Internal Controls Details of the Companys remuneration policy and Directors The Board confirms that the procedures necessary to remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration implement the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Report on pages 30 to 39.
Directors on the Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005 have been established.
Relations with shareholders The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing The Company recognises the importance of communicating with and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is it receives regular reports from management identifying, understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The evaluating and managing the risks within the business.
The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than dialogue with shareholders takes place, whilst the Chairman and eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Chief Executive Officer ensures that the views of shareholders can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board ensures material misstatement or loss.
that the Companys strategic plans have been carefully reviewed in terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
A The Board and the Audit Committee have carried out a review general interim statement and a fully audited Annual Report are of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls sent to shareholders and posted on the Companys website, as during the year ended 31 December 2006 and for the period are presentations made to institutional investors.
up to the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements.
Any necessary action resulting from discussions The Company has given regular investor road shows in the by the Board and Audit Committee has been or is being taken UK and overseas and presentations were also made after to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from publication of the Annual Report and the interim results.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer meets shareholders regularly with the Chief Financial Officer, and the Senior The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, Independent Director, John Rennocks, is available to which have been in place throughout the year under review and shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be resolved up to the date of this report, include: through the normal channels or such concerns have not been resolved.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders may Risk management: the Groups management operates a risk be in more regular contact with the Company than other management process to identify, evaluate and report significant shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any pricerisks within the business and to report to the Board on how sensitive information is released to all shareholders, institutional those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, Services Authority requirements.
monitored by the Group Risk Committee, which identifies the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it Shareholders are welcome at the Companys Annual General does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to Meeting AGM where they will have an opportunity to meet the desired level.
The risk register is provided monthly to the the Board.
The notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders at Executive Management Board and quarterly to the Board and least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairmen of the to the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, together with as many Directors as possible, will attend the AGM and be Management structure: there is a clearly defined available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting may be by organisational structure throughout the Group with form of proxy, by poll, by show of hands or a combination of all established lines of reporting and delegation of authority three.
The voting results will be notified to the UK Listing based on job responsibilities and experience.
A process of Authority through a Regulatory Information Service immediately self-certification is used in the Group where Directors and senior after the meeting and will be published on the Companys managers are required to detail and certify controls in operation website.
to mitigate risk in key process areas.
They also confirm annually, in writing, that risk management processes are in place and are The Group obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, operating effectively.
JPMorgan Cazenove Limited and Lehman Brothers International, on the views of institutional investors on a non-attributed and Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide attributed basis and any concerns of major shareholders would relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and non-financial be communicated to the Board by the Chief Financial Officer.
As information to management and the Board.
Annual plans, a matter of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues forecasts and performance targets allow management to relating to share price, trading activity and details of movements monitor the key business and financial activities and the progress in institutional investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided towards achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget with an overview of shareholder sentiment and current analyst is approved by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly to opinions and forecasts.
shareholders based on a standardised reporting process.
Quarterly reports for US reporting purposes are issued for two of the Companys subsidiaries.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 27 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself that the internal control environment of the Group is operating effectively.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and to safeguard the Groups assets.
Significant capital projects and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
The Company has in place a formal procedure by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters, including pensions administration often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
Arrangements are in place for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action and the results would be reported to the Audit Committee.
Inmarsat plc Board Audit Committee Executive Management Board defines risk governance framework, reviews risk management framework reviews risk management framework risk culture and principles and the effectiveness of internal and the effectiveness of internal controls, risk management systems controls, risk management systems sets overall risk strategy and policy and major risk initiatives and major risk initiatives approves risk levels reviews Internal Audit programme responsible for an effective and reports system of internal controls Group Risk Committee reviews Group risk profile against risk appetite and determines actions in relation to risk profile, strategy and key controls reviews suitability of risk methodologies, metrics and policies approves risk decisions that are beyond delegated authorities assesses and guides major risk-related projects Business Operations implements mitigation strategies The Board recognises its obligations as a result of two of the Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries being foreign registrants under the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including the requirement to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
The Company has established a Disclosure Committee with responsibility for reviewing and approving controls and procedures over the public disclosure of financial and related information and other procedures necessary to enable the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer to provide their certifications in relation to Forms 20-F filed with the SEC.
The Company has also established processes to assess the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting procedures as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 for the year ending 31 December 2007.
Going concern After due consideration, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 28 Corporate Social Responsibility The Board recognises the growing awareness of social, The Group has adopted the highest industry standards in terms environmental and ethical matters and it endeavours to take of space debris mitigation, including end-of-life graveyard into account the interests of the Groups stakeholders, manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when they reach including its investors, employees, suppliers and business the end of their commercial life.
The first disposal of one of the partners, when operating the business.
Through the embedded satellites was completed during 2006.
Controls are in place to risk management process within the Group, significant social, ensure that antennae do not radiate any power at low environmental and ethical matters are brought to the attention elevation angles.
The mobile handheld voice services handset, the R-190, uses Code of Conduct a GSM-based design which follows strict health and safety The Group maintains and requires the highest ethical standards regulations imposed by EU standards and complies fully with the in carrying out its business activities and has specific guidelines ETSI European Telecommunication Standard Institute regarding for dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud, the use of the radiation limit.
Community The Company has complied with the requirements of the Safety at sea remains a primary commitment for the Group.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 to adopt a Code of Ethics which states Using the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System GMDSS that the Group expects its Directors, officers and employees to service gives maritime users complete confidence that if they conduct business in accordance with the highest standards of send a distress call, it will be received by a rescue authority.
The Code of Ethics is published on the Companys website.
The Group continues its commitment to the support of Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the telecommunications relief Employment aid organisation.
It has supported the charity for more than five The Group has established policies which address key years through direct funding and the provision of free satellite corporate objectives in the management of employee relations, terminals.
TSF is able to reach disaster areas quickly and helps communications and employee involvement, training and other aid charities with their communications needs whilst also personal development and equal opportunities.
providing the opportunity for those affected to call relatives.
The Company operates a Staff Forum made up of the Executive In addition, the Companys Universal Service Obligations USO Management Board and elected employee representatives.
It seek to support the use of Inmarsat services in rural and remote meets frequently during the year, and as required, to brief regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor staff on business performance and to discuss the corporate or non-existent.
These services take the form generally of environment.
It also meets when the input of the staff is required payphones in rural villages, for example in India and Australia.
on business issues, which includes statutory consultation under In China, we are actively involved in a number of land and prevailing legislation when appropriate.
maritime USO projects which will result in implementations in 2007.
In collaboration with ACeS the company with whom The President and Chief Operating Officer has been identified we signed a collaboration agreement in September 2006 to as the Board Director having responsibility for health and safety provide handheld voice services, Inmarsat will be supporting issues.
The Group recognises its legal responsibilities to ensure land-based USO requirements throughout SE Asia.
the well-being, safety and welfare of its employees and to maintain a safe and healthy working environment for them and The Company continues to fund the Inmarsat Chair of for its visitors and sub-contractors.
Regular health and safety Maritime Education and Training at the World Maritime audits are undertaken at the Groups main operating sites.
University to support the education of maritime specialists.
Inmarsat encourages internships with universities to provide Environment students with the opportunity to experience first hand the By their nature, the Groups activities are judged to have a engineering and technical aspects of our satellite operations.
low environmental impact and are not expected to give rise During the year, Inmarsat supported the International Space to any significant, inherent environmental risks over the next University by funding two half scholarships in its Masters twelve months.
As a wholesaler of airtime, the Company does not manufacture The Group encourages its UK based staff to support satellite user terminals: however the terminals are developed by individual charities of their choice through the HM Revenue manufacturers who provide health and safety guidance as to & Customs approved Give As You Earn scheme.
The how terminals should be utilised.
payroll-based scheme enables employees to gain tax relief on their charitable donations.
The Company operates two Satellite Access Stations where there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
Access to these sites is restricted and there are regular health and safety checks to ensure that they are in protected areas away from access by the general public.
Personnel who work at these sites are provided with relevant training as to the health and safety issues.
Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2006 29
