Remuneration report This report sets out the Groups policy and disclosures in relation The international nature and complexity of the Group are re ected to Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2006. in salary policy, requiring alignment with the relevant median in As required by schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and the order to retain and attract the right people.
Exceptional performance Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations, on the part of both the Group and individual can deliver upper this report will be subject to shareholder vote at the forthcoming quartile remuneration.
This direct alignment with performance Annual General Meeting AGM.
The report complies fully with the is considered by the Committee to be clearly in the interests of requirements of the Regulations and the Combined Code the Code shareholders and provides the senior executives with unambiguous and has been audited by KPMG Audit Plc to the extent required by signals about the importance of delivering success to the Companys the Regulations.
shareholders in both the short and long-term.
The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate Governance In February 2007, the Committee reviewed the Groups remuneration relating to the remuneration of its Directors and this report outlines policy for its Executive Directors and senior executives, taking into how the Group has complied with the provisions of the Code as well account external developments in executive pay, to ensure that the as some of the guidelines issued by institutional bodies.
policy remained appropriate in the light of the Groups business needs and future strategy and is competitive.
Following the review, the Remuneration Committee the Committee Committee has made changes to increase the performance related The Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the Companys element of remuneration for the Executive Directors and senior policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior executives within the context of the existing remuneration strategy.
The Committee determines their total remuneration From 2007, the maximum cash bonus potential will increase in the packages, including any compensation on termination of of ce and case of the Chief Executive Of cer to 75% of base salary, and in the also provides advice to, and consults with, the Chief Executive Of cer cases of the Chief Financial Of cer and Executive Vice Presidents, to on major policy issues affecting the remuneration of senior executives.
The 2007 bonus targets have also been reviewed It keeps the remuneration policy continually under review in light of to ensure that they are suf ciently stretching to align the interests of regulatory and best practice developments and shareholder the Executive Directors and senior executives with those of the expectations.
Due regard is given to the interests of shareholders Companys shareholders.
and the requirements of the Listing Rules and associated guidance.
Executive Directors To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices are market The total remuneration package for Executive Directors comprises competitive and to help achieve its objectives, the Committee the following principal elements: requests information from various independent sources.
The base salary: Committee has appointed and taken independent advice from New annual bonus plan: Bridge Street Consultants LLP New Bridge Street, in relation to subsisting rights under the Intertek Share Schemes and individual remuneration matters and share incentive arrangements and from arrangements: Premier Pensions Management Limited PPM in relation to UK pension: and pension matters.
Neither PPM nor New Bridge Street have any other other bene ts which may include travel, school fees, car connection with the Company.
allowances, permanent health, life and private medical insurance.
The Committee met five times during 2006.
Base salary The base salary is set by the Committee and annual increases are The Remuneration Committee comprised the following Non-Executive linked to: Directors of the Company: annual market movement: the size and complexity of the business: and DP Allvey Chairman demonstrable efforts and results of an individual in contributing five Treves to the building of Intertek Group ef ciency, synergy and strategy.
CJ Knight appointed 30 March 2006 When the Committee takes into account any benchmarking, it The Committee members have no personal financial interest, other reviews the performance of the individual concerned against the than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
No Director plays parameters outlined above, to ensure that there is no upward a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
ratchet in remuneration without a corresponding requirement for improvement in those parameters given above.
Where a decision is Remuneration policy made to increase base salary over the amount suggested by annual The Committee considers that the Companys long-term success market movements, the Committee will expect the individuals is dependant on its ability to attract, retain, motivate and reward performance, taking into account levels of experience, to have high calibre individuals to deliver superior performance both in the demonstrably shown good and solid leadership within the business short and long-term.
Its aim is to promote a performance-driven and a results-orientated approach, as well as considering the culture by maintaining a competitive package of pay and bene ts, requirement to retain senior executives.
Also, when determining salary commensurate with comparable packages of pay and bene ts increases for Executive Directors, the Committee is sensitive to pay provided by other companies of comparable size and complexity in and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The salary the FTSE 250 index.
For overseas executives, the objective is to provide increases granted to the Executive Directors during the year re ect a competitive package that is commensurate with packages paid to recognition of achievement ahead of expectations and retention employees of other overseas organisations doing a similar sized job requirements.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the balance between base The Group is an international service business deriving signi cant and performance-related bene ts when agreeing each individuals amounts of its revenue from Asia 34% and the Americas 37%.
performance-related arrangements and aims to achieve alignment of rewards with shareholder interests.
22 Intertek Group plc Annual Report Performance bonuses The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible for annual incentive payments for the achievement of annual financial and strategic goals of the Group and its businesses.
The financial targets are derived from the stretch goals determined by the annual planning process for the Group and its businesses which are the cornerstone of the Groups results culture.
Executive Directors and senior executives bonus criteria contain two or more of the following: i Group performance elements: ii divisional performance elements: and iii discretionary elements.
The table below shows the relevant proportions for different groups of executive.
Executive Directors Senior executives Chief Executive Chief Financial Executive Vice Divisional Vice Group Vice Of cer Of cer Presidents Presidents Presidents Group performance 90% 90% 25% 15% 50% Divisional performance 65% 75% 40% Discretionary 10% 10% 10% 10% 10% speci ed personal objectives.
During 2006 the Group Performance bonus targets focused on increasing earnings per share EPS, operating pro t, operating cash ow as a percentage of operating pro t and return on business assets, compared to the previous year.
Each year, the Committee reviews the bonus targets used to ensure that they remain relevant and appropriate for the Group.
The following table shows the weighting of the Group Performance element of bonus for all Executive Directors and senior executives for 2006: Maximum percentage of Group Growth measure Notes bonus EPS 1 50% Operating pro t 2 25% Operating cash ow operating pro t 2 15% Return on business assets 10% Total 100% 1.
Operating pro t excluding amortisation of business combination intangibles, and goodwill impairment, translated at constant currency.
For each growth measure, three targets are set and a xed proportion of the maximum percentage of bonus available is applicable at each target level.
Pro-rata awards will be made for achievement between the targets.
Awards are applied to current base salary.
The divisional elements of bonus are based upon similar financial performance indicators for each division but with targets appropriate to that division.
All targets are established and approved by the Committee.
Based on the above measures for 2006, cash bonuses of 47.4% and 37.1% of salary will be paid to WG Hauser and W Spencer respectively.
The sum to be paid under the discretionary element, of up to 10% of total bonus, is determined by taking into account the overall personal contribution of the executive to the goals and results of the Group for the year, the development of the medium-term strategy of the Group, the achievement over the year of strategic objectives and demonstrable efforts and results in team building and leadership.
The Committee recognises its responsibility to shareholders to use its discretion in a reasonable and informed manner and in the Groups interests, and to be accountable and transparent in the exercise of that discretion.
The Committee can additionally award a discretionary payment where circumstances have occurred which were beyond the direct control of the executive and the executive has managed and mitigated the impact of any loss, or where circumstances have arisen outside the Groups control and the Committee feels that payment is necessary to retain and motivate the executive concerned.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce bonus payments if it believes that short-term performance has been achieved at the expense of the Groups long-term future or vice versa.
In future, the Committee will also retain discretion to reduce or reclaim payments if the performance achievements are subsequently found to have been signi cantly misstated.
The maximum annual cash bonus potential for the year under review was: Chief Executive Of cer 50% of salary Executive Director 40% of salary Executive Vice Presidents 40% of salary Regional and Group Vice Presidents 30%50% of salary Intertek Group plc Annual Report 23 Remuneration report Non-Executive Directors R Kong is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director under The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors the terms of a letter of appointment commencing 1 July 2006.
On the of the Company, for their work as Directors and as Committee same date, R Kong entered into an agreement to provide independent members.
Their remuneration is assessed relative to the Groups peer professional consultancy services to Intertek Testing Services Paci c groups and following a review, fees increased during the year, as Limited, as and when required by the Chief Executive Of cer of that disclosed in the notes to the Directors remuneration summary on company.
The agreement is terminable at one months notice without page 27.
Remuneration is neither pensionable nor eligible for annual compensation for loss of of ce and R Kongs remuneration thereunder incentive payments.
The Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to is 1,000 per working day.
participate in the Companys share incentive plans.
Other than five Treves, who has the bene t of a company car, and RC Nelson, for The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are outlined in the whom the Group maintains a life insurance policy in accordance with table on page 27.
Following the review of fees in 2006, the Chairman the terms of his previous employment contract with the Company, is paid 110,000 per annum, the Deputy Chairman is paid 50,000 no other bene ts-in-kind are provided.
per annum and each NonExecutive Director is paid fees of 40,000 per annum.
Additional fees of 10,000 per annum in aggregate are Service contracts payable to Non-Executive Directors who serve on the Audit and Details of the service contracts currently in place for Directors who Risk Committee, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
An have served during the year are as follows: additional fee of 20,000 per annum in aggregate is payable to the Chairman of the Remuneration and Audit and Risk Committees.
Executive Directors WG Hauser has a service contract dated 1 March 2005: W Spencer Policy on external appointments has a service contract dated 24 May 2002.
Both have 12-month rolling The Company recognises that, during their employment with the contracts terminable by either party on 12 months notice and contain Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become Nonprovisions by way of compensation for loss of of ce, limited to Executive Directors of other companies and that such duties can payment of salary and bonus over a 12-month period, and bene ts in broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive Directors may, lieu of notice.
WG Hausers contract permits payments in lieu of notice with written consent of the Company, accept such appointments to be made, at the Companys election, either a in full on termination outside the Company, and the policy is that any fees may be retained.
or b on a monthly basis, but only for so long as he receives no WG Hauser was Chairman of an advisory consultancy board of remuneration from any other business.
If WG Hauser does receive Dragenopharm GmbH & Co KG in 2006.
On 1 January 2007 he any such remuneration, the monthly amount payable will be reduced joined the Board of LogicaCMG plc as a Non-Executive Director.
by that remuneration, determined on a monthly basis.
Neither service contract contains provisions regarding a change of control.
R Kong Share incentives ceased to be an Executive Director on 30 June 2006 and became a The Company believes that share ownership by employees is an integral Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2006. part of its programme to incentivise, reward and retain employees as it strengthens the link between employees personal interests and Non-Executive Directors those of shareholders and enables them to bene t from the growth The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the of the Company.
In order to encourage share ownership, the Company Company.
The letter of engagement for each Non-Executive Director established a share option scheme for executives in March 1997.
This states that they are appointed for an initial period of three years and scheme was discontinued and replaced by the Intertek Group plc all appointments are terminable by either one or three months notice 2002 Share Option Plan the 2002 Plan and the Intertek Group plc on either side.
At the end of the initial period the appointment may be 2002 Approved Share Option Plan the Approved Plan on 9 May renewed for a further period if the Company and the Director agree.
2002, under which options were granted by either the Company or The Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve two the Employee Share Ownership Trust on the recommendation of the of these three-year terms.
Each letter of engagement states that Remuneration Committee.
should the Group terminate the appointment, on such termination the Non-Executive Director will not be entitled to any compensation The Intertek Deferred Bonus Plan the Plan was approved in 2005 and for loss of of ce.
supersedes all previous executive share option plans, creating more effectively rewarded management throughout the Groups global five Treves and DJ Allvey are each engaged by the Group as Nonoperations by linking rewards to the achievement of targets which are Executive Directors under the terms of a letter of appointment directly relevant to them.
During 2006 the first awards were made commencing 24 May 2002.
Both appointments were renewed under the Plan, based on bonuses payable in respect of the financial for three years at the end of their three-year initial periods.
RC Nelson is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director The Committee regularly reviews the appropriateness of the under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of Companys share incentive arrangements and targets to ensure that three years commencing 8 April 2005.
Under the terms of the same they remain stretching.
It considers that the existing performance letter of appointment RC Nelson is entitled to remuneration of conditions and vesting schedules remain appropriate and in line with 1,000 per working day for any special project work agreed in the Companys current circumstances, business outlook and strategy.
Share retention D Rade is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director under A shareholding retention requirement for the Executive Management the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of three years Board the EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and Executive commencing 1 January 2006.
Vice Presidents, and Intertek Council the IC, which comprises the Groups most senior executives has been set by the Committee.
CJ Knight is engaged by the Group as a Non-Executive Director under the terms of a letter of appointment for an initial period of three years commencing 30 March 2006.
24 Intertek Group plc Annual Report The members of the EMB are now expected, within five years, to build Vesting of Awards up a shareholding in the Company worth at least 100% of base salary Deferred Awards and members of the IC are expected to build up a shareholding worth Deferred Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant at least 35% of base salary.
To assist in the building of this holding, it is provided the participant is still employed in the Group.
expected that, after allowing for tax and similar liabilities, 100% of the shares subject to each vested award under the Plan will be retained by Matching Awards the executive until the ownership target is attained.
Matching Awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant once the Committee has determined the extent to which the The Company does not operate any long-term share incentive plans applicable performance conditions have been satis ed and provided other than those described below.
Other than as stated above, no the participant is still employed in the Group.
signi cant amendments are proposed to be made to the terms and conditions of any entitlement of a Director to share incentives.
Leaving employment If a participant leaves employment because of death, disability, The 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan the Plan retirement, redundancy, disposal of the employing company or, at the The purpose of the Plan is to assist in the retention of senior discretion of the Committee, for any other reason, then the awards executives and to align their interests with shareholders by their vest thus: i Deferred Awards will vest on a pro-rata basis on the participation in share price performance.
date of cessation, although the Committee may decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the Grant of Awards particular circumstances: ii Matching Awards will vest at the end The Plan has two elements: of the period over which the performance conditions are measured, Deferred Shares are awarded to executives based on their annual or the Committee may decide that the Matching Award will vest on bonus achievements.
They will therefore be rewarded for the cessation of employment.
The extent to which a Matching Award will achievement of performance which is directly within their sphere vest will depend upon the extent to which the performance conditions of in uence.
The Committee believes that this provides a simple have been satis ed over the full performance period or up to the date and well-targeted form of reward.
Matching Shares, at the discretion of the Committee, are awarded to the senior executives.
Awards of Matching Shares are linked to Performance Conditions awards of Deferred Shares and vest after three years depending on Deferred Awards the Companys relative Total Shareholder Return TSR measured These are not subject to any performance conditions.
against the FTSE Mid 250, in conjunction with an underlying increase in Earnings Per Share EPS.
This measure of performance Matching Awards is considered relevant to the most senior executives in the Group All Matching Awards will be subject to performance conditions set by and contributes to the alignment of interests between executives the Committee on each grant.
The initial grant of Matching Awards and shareholders.
was subject to a TSR condition which compares the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period with the TSR of the Awards are not pensionable.
FTSE Mid 250 excluding investment trusts as at the date of grant.
The extent to which such Matching Awards will vest is as follows: Scheme Limit Companys TSR ranking The Company has undertaken to limit the number of awards granted against the FTSE Mid 250 Percentage of under the Plan in a ten-year period to 5% of the Companys issued excluding investment trusts Matching Award share capital.
In 2006 the awards granted amounted to 0.24% of the over the performance period that vests Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2006.
Below median None Individual Limits Median 25% Deferred Awards Between median and Pro-rata on a straight The annual maximum value of Deferred Awards will be the amount upper quartile line between 25% of the annual cash bonus to which it is linked or 50% of basic salary, and 100% whichever is the lower.
In certain exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment or retention, the Committee has the discretion to make Upper quartile 100% an award of Deferred Shares which is not linked to the achievement of the annual bonus but the same maximum salary limit will apply.
The performance period will be the three consecutive financial years starting with the financial year in which the grant is made.
The Matching Awards relevant TSR gures will be averaged over the three months prior to The maximum number of Matching Shares which may be awarded the start and end of the performance period.
In addition, irrespective to an individual is twice the number of their corresponding Deferred of the Companys TSR performance, no part of a Matching Award Award i. e. a 2:1 match.
It is currently intended that this level of will vest unless the Groups normalised EPS growth over the Matching Shares will be awarded only to members of the EMB and performance period is, on average, at least 2% per annum above the level will be 1:1 for the IC.
the UK Retail Price Index RPI.
The first awards of Deferred Shares made on 7 April 2006 were The Committee can set different performance conditions from those conditional awards and were based on bonuses for the year ended described above for future awards.
Any such new targets will not, 31 December 2005.
The next awards of Deferred Shares will be made in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, be materially less in or around March 2007 and will be based on bonuses for the year challenging in the circumstances than those described above.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 25 Remuneration report The Committee may also vary the performance conditions applying to exercisable if the Companys growth in EPS outperformed the growth existing awards to take account of events that the Committee considers in the RPI by 11% per annum over a three-year period.
For growth rates to be exceptional, provided the Committee considers the varied between 5% and 8%, and 8% and 11%, the percentage of options condition is fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than exercisable is calculated on a sliding scale.
In respect of options granted the original condition would have been but for the event in question.
prior to 2005, if the performance targets are not met in full for the initial performance period of three years, the performance period may The 2002 Share Option Plan 2002 Plan be extended by one further period of 12 months, to ascertain whether The 2002 Plan was introduced following the Companys listing in the balance of the unvested options can be exercised.
No options have been granted since 2005.
Only Executive options under the Plan in 2005 did not have a re-testing provision.
The Directors or employees of the Group were eligible to participate in above performance criteria were selected to closely link improvement in the 2002 Plan.
The exercise price was determined by the average of performance with increase in shareholder value.
the closing middle market quotations of an ordinary share in the Company on the five dealing days immediately prior to the date of Other than in the case of hardship, senior executives are required to grant and the options granted exercisable between three and ten retain 25% of their shares acquired upon the exercise of their options years after the date of grant, provided the performance condition has ignoring shares sold to meet any tax liability and the nancing cost been satis ed.
The Committee decides whether the performance on exercise, for a period of up to two years following exercise, in condition has been met at the appropriate time.
order to demonstrate their commitment to the Group.
No options were granted in 2006, but prior to that there were annual The Approved Plan grants with each tranche equating to approximately 1% of the The key features of the Approved Plan which has been approved by Companys issued share capital.
No individual was granted options with the Inland Revenue are broadly the same as for the 2002 Plan, except a value of more than their annual base salary in each year.
The options that options were granted subject to the requirement that the are subject to performance criteria unless there are regulatory or legal aggregate exercise price of all the subsisting options granted to an dif culties in jurisdictions where the employee is based.
The employee under the Approved Plan must not exceed 30,000. performance condition requires that the growth in the Companys EPS No further awards are to be made under the 2002 Plan or the outperforms the growth in the RPI by a minimum of 5% per annum Approved Plan.
If the condition is met, 25% of the options become exercisable.
If the growth rate is 8% over RPI then 66.6% of options become exercisable.
100% of the options would only become Performance graph TSR, comprising the changes in value of a share and dividends distributed, can be represented by the value of a notional 100 invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period.
The graph below shows TSR in respect of the Company since otation on 24 May 2002.
The TSR for the Company is compared with the TSR for the FTSE Mid 250 index.
The FTSE Mid 250 index was selected, as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a member.
In addition, the Group uses that group of companies, amongst others, for comparison of pay and bene t levels.
Intertek Group vs FTSE 250 TSR 250 200 150 100 50 0 May 02 Dec 02 Jun 03 Dec 03 Jun 04 Dec 04 Jun 05 Dec 05 Jun 06 Dec 06 Intertek Group FTSE 250 26 Intertek Group plc Annual Report The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following section of the Remuneration Report.
The table below summarises Directors remuneration and pension contributions for 2006 and the prior year for comparison.
No payments for loss of of ce were made during the year and no other awards were made to any Director.
Other bene ts for WG Hauser of 60,917 2005: 112,400 include long-term disability insurance, school fees, company car allowances and healthcare.
50,000 is paid as a xed sum per annum.
In 2005, other bene ts included relocation costs.
Other bene ts for W Spencer comprise long-term disability insurance, healthcare and company car allowances.
Remuneration reported for 2005 and until Mr Kongs date of retirement from executive service, being 30 June 2006, is in respect of his service as an Executive Director.
During that period, other bene ts included a housing allowance, club membership and certain travel costs.
From 1 July 2006 fees as a Non-Executive Director are reported.
In addition to his Directors fees, R Kong received 29,000 2005: nil under a consultancy agreement.
A gain of 291,865 was made through the exercise of options during the year.
Remuneration reported from date of appointment, 30 March 2006.
In addition to his Directors fees, RC Nelson received 5,000 2005: nil for special project work undertaken during the year.
The other bene ts for RC Nelson of 50,880 2005: 50,880 is for a life assurance policy, in accordance with the terms of his previous employment contract with the Company, for 1.0m to be maintained for the whole of his life and payable to his bene ciaries on his death.
Remuneration reported until date of death on 25 November 2005.
Other bene ts for five Treves comprise a company car.
Under the 2005 Deferred Bonus Plan, awards were made in 2006 to Executive Directors based on their 2005 bonuses.
Deferred Awards were made in shares based on a share price of 827.6p.
Deferred Awards vest in three years time, subject to continued employment.
Matching Awards, which are subject to additional performance conditions, were also made.
Similar awards will be made in 2007 based on 2006 bonuses.
Pensions In order to ensure that there is no adverse impact on liabilities, the Group has made certain modi cations to its UK pension schemes as a result of changes in UK pension legislation, which took effect from April 2006.
The Committee continues to review the current liabilities under the fide ned bene t section of the UK pension scheme and to monitor the effect of changes to future mortality rates and investment returns and how to limit the potential liability created by pension commitments.
The majority of the Groups employees are non-UK based and are therefore unaffected.
Further details of the Groups pension schemes, including the funding position, are disclosed in note 22 to the financial statements.
Details of the pension arrangements for those who have served as Executive Directors during the financial year are shown below.
WG Hauser WG Hauser is not a member of a Group company pension scheme.
Instead, the Group contributes an amount equal to 20% of his base salary in respect of a personal pension arrangement.
WG Hauser is entitled to a death-inservice bene t comprising a lump sum payment equivalent to four times his base salary.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 27 Remuneration report W Spencer W Spencer is a member of the fide ned bene t section of the Intertek UK Company Pension Scheme.
This is a fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution occupational pension scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
The main features of the fide ned bene t section of the scheme are: Normal retirement age 65 Annual pension at normal retirement age 1 60 of final pensionable salary highest base salary in any 12-month period during the five years immediately preceding retirement date for each year of service.
Members may exchange part of their pension for a tax-free cash sum.
This will reduce their pension but not that of their spouse.
Spouses or dependants pension payable on death of member H alf of members pension.
Early retirement From age 50 onwards with the consent of the Company and the Trustees, based on accrued entitlement reduced by 4% for each year of retirement prior to age 65.
With effect from 6 April 2010, the minimum retirement age will increase to age 55.
Pension increases in payment or deferment I ncreases in deferment revaluation is in two parts: i The part that represents the Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP will be increased at the rate of 4.5% for each complete tax year between date of leaving and State Pension Age.
ii The balance of the pension will increase at the rate of 2.5% per annum or in line with the Retail Price Index if lower for each completed year between the date of leaving and the Normal Retirement Date.
Increases in retirement or payment : i Pre 1997 excess pension bene ts will increase at the rate of 3% per annum.
ii 1997 to 2005, excess pension bene ts will increase at the rate of the lower of 5% per annum or the increases in Retail Price Index.
iii Post 2005 excess pension bene ts will increase at the rate of the lower of 2.5% per annum or the increases in Retail Price Index.
v Post 1988 GMP 3% per annum or increase in the Retail Price Index, if lower.
Employee contributions A s determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 8.5% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the earnings cap.
Employer contributions A s determined by the Company and the Trustees: currently 16% of base salary excluding incentive payments up to the earnings cap.
Ill health or incapacity In the case of ill health, the pension is calculated as for early retirement but without the 4% reduction.
In the case of incapacity the pension is calculated as if pensionable service had continued to normal retirement date.
Death in service A member is entitled to either: i a lump sum of four times pensionable salary plus spouses pension which is 50% of the members prospective pension at normal retirement date: or ii lump sum of eight times pensionable salary, but with no spouses pension except for the contracting-out requirements.
28 Intertek Group plc Annual Report Details of the accrued pension to which W Spencer is entitled on leaving service and the changes during the year are shown in the table below: Increase in Contributions Increase transfer value made by in accrued in year less the Director entitlement Accrued Transfer Transfer contributions 1 2 2,3 Age at 31 during the during entitlement value value made by 1 3 December year the year 2006 2005 2006 Director Name 2006 W Spencer 47 9,212 1,560 27,695 191,455 272,511 71,844 1.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 65 based on service to 31 December 2006, excluding the effect of in ation.
Including in ation, the increase was 2,468 during the year.
Transfer values have been calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Bene t Schemes Transfer Values GN11 last revised by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries on 30 December 2005.
The transfer value disclosed above does not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director, instead it represents a potential liability of the Pension Scheme.
The value represents the full transfer value without reduction for any shortfall in scheme funding.
The assumptions used to calculate transfer values were revised in May 2006, resulting in higher transfer values.
R Kong R Kong was a member of the Intertek Hong Kong Retirement Scheme the ORSO Scheme until his retirement on 30 June 2006.
This is a hybrid scheme combination of fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution bene t structure registered under the Occupational Retirement Schemes Ordinance ORSO in Hong Kong.
Following R Kongs retirement on 30 June 2006, his membership in the ORSO ceased.
No further contribution was made to the scheme and all his vested bene t was paid as a lump sum of 1,270,143 in July 2006.
No other pension scheme arrangement was made for him after this date.
Details of the changes during the year and the lump sum bene t to which R Kong was entitled on leaving service are shown in the table below.
The gures are translated from Hong Kong dollars into sterling using the exchange rates applicable to each period.
Contributions Decrease Increase made by the in accrued in transfer Group entitlement value during the during the Accrued Transfer Transfer during the 4 period until period to entitlement value value at period to 1 3 2 Age at retirement retirement at retirement 2005 retirement retirement Name retirement R Kong 58 13,928 25,929 1,270,143 1,231,247 1,270,143 38,896 1.
Includes foreign exchange currency translation difference of 81,571.
Includes foreign exchange currency translation difference of 77,491.
For the year to 31 December 2005 the accrued entitlement referred to the lump sum payable to R Kong if he retired at age 60, based on his service to 31 December 2005.
Since R Kong was covered by a retirement scheme in Hong Kong, the above calculation took into account the economic conditions in Hong Kong.
For the year to 31 December 2006 the accrued entitlement represents the actual lump sum to which R Kong was entitled on retirement.
For the year to 31 December 2005 the transfer value disclosed was calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Bene t Schemes Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries dated 6 April 2001.
To be consistent with the GN11, the transfer value was determined to be the past service liability based on the ORSO funding method and assumptions.
For the year to 31 December 2006 the transfer value represents the actual lump sum to which R Kong was entitled on retirement.
Transactions with Directors These are disclosed in note 28 to the financial statements.
Directors interests in share options and long-term incentive plans Non-Executive Directors are not allowed to participate in the Companys share incentive plans.
Following his retirement from executive service R Kong retained his interest under the Deferred Bonus Scheme.
No options were granted to the Executive Directors under the 1997 Plan.
The LTIP awards were made based on a share price of 827.6p, obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant.
At date of grant the share price was 831.0p.
On becoming a Non-Executive Director, under the terms of his letter of engagement, Mr Kong was entitled to exercise up to 100%, subject to performance criteria, of the share options granted under the share plans, within three months from 30 June 2006.
R Kong exercised share options totalling 118,734 on 5 July 2006 when the market price was 689p, and retained all the resultant 118,734 ordinary 1p shares.
Of the April 2003 grant, the performance condition was only met as to 95.55%, so that only 35,608 options were exercisable and 1,658 options lapsed.
Of the April 2005 grant, all of the options lapsed after three months, the exercise price not having been attained.
Mr Kongs entitlement under the LTIP remains.
Grants have been phased, so far as possible, over the ten-year life of each of the plans.
Directors were eligible to exercise share options during 2006.
On 29 December 2006, the closing market price of Intertek ordinary shares was 833.5p.
The highest and lowest prices of the shares during the year were 861.5p and 614.5p respectively.
Directors interests in ordinary shares The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set out below: 31 December 2005 or date 31 December Number of ordinary shares of 1p of appointment Acquired Sold 2006 DP Allvey 5,270 5,270 R Kong 200,000 118,734 318,734 CJ Knight 5,000 5,000 RC Nelson 500,000 500,000 W Spencer 258,000 48,000 210,000 five Treves 50,000 50,000 Save as stated above, during the course of the year, no Director, nor any member of his immediate family, had any other interest in the ordinary share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
No changes in the above Directors interests have taken place between 31 December 2006 and the date of this Report.
Approved by the Board on 5 March 2007.
DP Allvey Chairman, Remuneration Committee 30 30 Intertek Group plc Annual Report
