Remuneration report Dear Shareholder to consider and approve the design of specific incentive schemes I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report on to ensure that eligibility and remuneration criteria under such directors remuneration for the year to 31 March 2006.
This year, we schemes are specific, measurable, achievable and consistent with have made a number of additions to the report, which we consider the Groups performance goals and objectives: will add transparency to Invensys remuneration policy and to consider and approve the basis and level of remuneration and objectives.
For example, we have added new disclosures relating to benefits of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and other executive the performance targets applied to annual bonuses for the executive directors, including the terms of any service contract s that may directors.
be entered into: to consider and approve the remuneration and benefits of other It is the Committees view that we have made clear progress in many designated senior executives, who report to the executive areas during the course of the year and that this progress has been directors and any others that the Committee considers supported by our remuneration policy.
Significant progress has been appropriate: made in securing increased orders, delivering an improvement on to consider and approve the allocation of share-based incentives return on sales and improved cash flows: in addition, we have under the Groups share plans: reduced the uncertainty and scale of our longer-term legacy to consider and approve the form and content of disclosure liabilities.
To retain a strong focus in 2006 07 on delivering the of emoluments of directors for inclusion in the Remuneration turnaround objectives, the Turnaround Bonus Overlay will be report included in the Annual report and accounts: and operated again in 2006 07, a summary of which is set out below.
to consider and approve on behalf of the Board, subject to shareholders approval where required, the Rules of the Groups A resolution to vote on the Remuneration report will be put to the share and incentive plans and any amendments thereto and to Annual General Meeting.
I hope that you will support this resolution.
exercise the powers and discretion granted and delegated by such Rules to the Board or the Committee.
Jean-Claude Guez The Committee chairman attends the AGM and is available to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee answer questions from shareholders.
Remuneration Committee the Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups Membership website or from the Company Secretary.
The members of the Committee are Jean-Claude Guez chairman of the Committee, Larry Farmer and Andrew Macfarlane, each of Committee performance evaluation whom has served throughout the year.
They are all considered to As detailed in the Corporate governance report on page 35, be independent non-executive directors.
Committee performance is reviewed annually both by the Board as a whole and by the Committee itself, with the emphasis on continued On Mr Farmers retirement from the Board at the AGM, Michael improvement and effectiveness.
Parker will be appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Macfarlane also retires at the AGM and a search is underway Advice for his replacement.
The Committee takes advice, as appropriate, from independent remuneration advisers.
During the year such advice was received No non-Committee member may attend other than by invitation of from the following: the Committee chairman.
At the request of the Committee chairman New Bridge Street Consultants LLP who provided the principal the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director of the source of external advice to the Committee on issues relating to Company, SVP Human Resources, Head of Executive Programmes the remuneration of the executive directors and provided no and General Counsel & Company Secretary are also invited to attend other services to the Company: and speak at meetings, except when their own remuneration is Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in their capacity as lawyers to the being considered.
Company: Punter Southall & Co Limited who provided advice in relation Meetings to executive directors pensions: and The Committee meets at least four times each year and met on Mercers who provided advice in relation to executive directors 12 occasions during the year under review.
No directors are pensions, executive incentive policy and executive remuneration involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The adoption of this benchmarking surveys.
Remuneration report is subject to a separate shareholder resolution at the Annual General Meeting and, to ensure that investors continue to support the remuneration policy, there is appropriate dialogue with major institutional shareholders and representative bodies such as the Association of British Insurers ABI and Research, Recommendations and Electronic Voting RREV.
Role The Committee is a committee of the Board and its duties are: to consider and approve remuneration and benefit strategies including pensions to ensure that they are consistent with and supportive of the Groups goal of attracting, motivating, retaining and rewarding high calibre executive directors and senior executives: 38 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 In addition, the Committee took advice internally from the Governance in relation to remuneration for the current and Chairman, the Chief Executive, the SVP Human Resources, the VP forthcoming financial years.
Compensation and Benefits until the end of May 2005 and the Head of Executive Programmes.
The information in the report subject to audit pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 is that included The terms of New Bridge Street Consultants LLPs appointment are in the tables and related notes in the sections relating to directors available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
remuneration, directors interests over shares, share options, long term incentive awards and restricted share awards and directors Compliance pension entitlements.
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration policy for executive directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It also describes the The table below summarises the key elements of the executive Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate directors remuneration as they applied during the year under review and their likely application for 2006 07: Element of Purpose Policy Summary of operation remuneration package Base salary Help recruit and retain key To pay competitively in relation to Paid monthly in cash employees international market comparators Normally reviewed annually and fixed for the 12 months Reflect the individuals role within Regard given to individual skills and commencing 1 April the Group and experience experience The Chief Executives base salary will rise to 668,000 from 1 June 2006 The Chief Financial Officers base salary will rise to 416,000 from 1 April 2006 The new Chief Financial Officers base salary will be 400,000 Annual bonus Incentivise executives to achieve Bonus determined by reference to P aid in cash specific, pre-determined goals over financial targets and personal The Committee sets a threshold performance level at which a short-term period objectives point 5% of salary is paid, a target level where 50% of salary is Reward ongoing contribution to Maximum bonus potential set by paid increasing on a straight-line basis to a stretch level core values reference to international market where 100% of salary is paid Focus executives on targets comparators currently 100% of base Bonus payments are determined by the Committee after year relevant to the Groups current salary end, based on targets which were set for the year.
The strategic goals numbers for the preceding year are included in the main section of this report Payouts were 100% of salary for executive directors Turnaround Bonus To provide, on a transitional basis, No payment for delivery of on-target Paid in shares with delivery generally contingent on continued Overlay additional focus on the above target performance employment part of the bonus and thereby Sliding scale from there with 100% of 50% paid on 1st anniversary of award and 50% on 2nd increase the focus on achievement salary for achievement of the stretch anniversary of the stretch target target The plan will not be operated in respect of years after 2007 08 Aligns executives with shareholders through a delivery in shares Long Term Incentivise executives to achieve Maximum annual grant of 200% Awards of shares made annually, conditional on performance Incentive Plan superior returns to shareholders salary, actual award levels determined measured over the three subsequent years Align interests of executives and by individual performance Performance condition measures Invensys total shareholder shareholders through building a However, on a one-off basis, return versus a basket of 12 global comparators shareholding shareholders approved a grant of 25% of the shares transferred if performance is at median Retain key executives over three 300% of salary in 2005 06 performance, with 100% vesting if Invensys is ranked at the year performance period Expected award level to executive tenth percentile.
No awards vest below median.
In addition, directors in 2006 07 is 200% awards only vest to the extent that the Committee certifies that internal free cash flow per share targets have been met and that there has been efficient management of legacy liabilities Pension Reward sustained contribution Provide competitive post-retirement Accrue benefits according to length of service up to following a full career benefits retirement age The Chief Executive receives a salary supplement equal to 35% of base salary in lieu of pension entitlement The Chief Financial Officer ceased membership of the Group defined benefit pension scheme which is closed to new joiners and has elected to receive a salary supplement of 30% of salary effective 1 April 2006 The new Chief Financial Officer will either join the Invensys Stakeholder Plan or opt for a salary supplement equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of pension entitlement.
He will make this decision on joining the Company Company will bear no additional costs to the executive arising from changes to pensions legislation Shareholding To align the interests of executive Executive directors required to build Executives expected to retain shares acquired through the Guidelines directors and shareholders and maintain a shareholding of 200% vesting of shares under the Groups share incentive plans until salary the target holding is achieved.
Existing shareholdings and shares acquired in the market are also taken into account Service contracts To provide suitable protection Notice periods not to exceed The Chief Executives contract provides for 12 months notice to both the executive and the 12 months except, where necessary, from either side and permits any termination payment to be Company for a transitional period on joining made on a phased basis To provide for mitigation and or On leaving Invensys the current Chief Financial Officer will not phasing of any payment be entitled to any termination payment Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 39 Remuneration report continued The current remuneration arrangements are purposely weighted The pay-out levels for the plan remain the same as in 2005 06, towards variable pay given the ongoing turnaround nature of the being 5%, 50% and 100% of salary for achievement of threshold, business.
For the year under review, achievement of a target level target and stretch performance respectively.
The payment between of performance would result in around half of remuneration being target and stretch is calculated on a straight-line basis.
For maximum levels of performance, the proportion of remuneration delivered through variable pay Continuing the policy adopted in 2004 05, the Committee will set would increase to around 80%.
These proportions have been out in its Remuneration report the basis on which bonuses have calculated assuming a median level of vesting for long term been paid in relation to the targets set at the beginning of the incentive awards at a target level of performance and full vesting financial year under review and disclose the actual targets which for maximum levels of performance based on the share price at the were set.
This will ensure that shareholders will be able to assess date of award.
For 2006 07, variable pay will remain significant albeit the bonus targets and the link between bonuses payable and the at a slightly lower level than for the year under review, reflecting the performance of the business.
fact that, as approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM, awards of long term incentives will revert to a lower level as described above.
The bonuses paid to the executive directors in relation to the year under review are set out on page 44.
The targets set by the Individual elements of the remuneration package that will apply in Committee for executive directors for 2005 06 had two 2006 07 are set out below.
performance elements, with the objective of ensuring that cash from ongoing operations was effectively managed both to develop the Base salary ongoing operations and to manage legacy liabilities.
These factors The Committee determines the level of salary for each executive were considered to be critical as the basis for the Companys director annually.
Base salaries are set to take account of salary recovery plan.
levels in international comparator companies, personal performance, internal relativities, wage inflation elsewhere in the Group and The free cash inflow before legacy items in 2004 05 had been overall affordability.
In establishing individual salary levels, the 39 million and the Committee wanted to provide a clear focus to Committee is conscious that it should pay no more than is necessary executives on the need to move to a positive position on cash flow to retain the executive whilst ensuring business objectives are from ongoing operations.
Accordingly, it set the stretch target for fulfilled.
There is no automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
2005 06 100% bonus as requiring a positive free cash inflow before legacy items of 70 million.
The actual free cash inflow The Chief Executives salary is currently 600,000 rising to 668,000 before legacy items achieved in 2005 06 was 100 million, a yearfrom 1 June 2006 and the Chief Financial Officers salary is 416,000 on-year improvement of 61 million.
The second performance from 1 April 2006.
The new Chief Financial Officers salary will be element required the Committee to be satisfied that the legacy 400,000. liabilities of the Group had been managed effectively and in accordance with internal plans.
The next review date will be 1 April 2007.
Having rigorously reviewed the results achieved against these two With regard to the current salary levels of the executive directors strategic performance elements, the Committee is satisfied that the and their relationship with market data, the Committee considers performance elements it set upfront were challenging and that the them to be competitive when compared against other international bonuses awarded were earned by actual performance that was companies including companies engaged in business turnaround.
The Committee considers these salary levels are necessary to meet The Committee confirms that it is not its policy to pay executive its objective of retaining the executive team and maintaining salary directors transaction-related bonuses.
Annual bonus Turnaround Bonus Overlay Overlay The Executive Bonus Plan provides short-term incentives for the On a transitional basis, following consultation with the Companys executive directors in order to encourage the achievement of major shareholders and the ABI and RREV, the Committee defined annual financial objectives and focus on the most important introduced the Overlay in 2005 06.
The Overlay is subject to the measures of business success, whilst rewarding them for outstanding same performance targets as the Executive Bonus Plan but will only performance.
In this way, the Executive Bonus Plan seeks to align the commence payment where an above target level of performance is interests of shareholders and those participating in it.
At target, no payment will be due with the potential bonus increasing, on a straight-line basis, to 100% of salary if the In respect of the 2006 07 financial year, targets have been set maximum cash bonus is earned under the Executive Bonus Plan.
related to Group free cash flow before legacy items calculated on a per share basis accounting for 40%, Operating Profit Before Interest To align the interests of executive directors and shareholders, any and Tax also accounting for 40% and revenue accounting for 20%.
bonuses earned under the Overlay will be payable in shares with Bonus payments are also subject to the achievement of personal 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first objectives.
These targets reflect a change from last year when Group anniversary of those shares being awarded and the other 50% being free cash flow before legacy items calculated on a per share basis released following the second anniversary.
Release of the shares is was the sole financial target.
The Committee considers these revised generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date measures of performance to be more appropriate for the current although shares may be released early in defined good leaver cases stage of the businesses turnaround since the focus the executive or with the consent of the Committee.
Such shares will be subject directors have is both in relation to cash management from ongoing to the Shareholding Guidelines explained further below.
operations and the Groups profitability.
40 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 circumstances.
However, as detailed in last years report, to provide The Committee recognises that, while below practice in some additional lock-in for key executives and to ensure greater focus on international competitors, potential bonus levels are higher than achievement of the turnaround, grant levels in 2005 06 were, on a normal UK practice.
It is only intended to maintain bonus potential one-off basis, higher than this limit.
Consequently for 2005 06 only, at this level while the turnaround is ongoing and the Committee has certain award levels were up to three times salary with lower levels committed that the Overlay will not be operated in respect of years applying to below Board executives.
Award levels for 2006 07 will after 2007 08. revert to the limit of two times salary.
In relation to Mr Henriksson, Overlay bonus performance in 2005 06 The Committee recognises that it may be appropriate to continue to was in excess of the stretch target.
Details of the share award are set review the performance conditions for future LTIP grants to ensure out in note 5 of the remuneration table on page 44. that they complement the business strategy and will keep the targets, and especially any underpins, under review.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Invensys currently uses the LTIP as its sole long term incentive.
Under this plan, conditional awards of shares are granted, which Other share schemes vest after three years subject to the achievement of performance In addition to the LTIP, the Company has in the past operated its conditions.
50% of any shares vesting on completion of the Executive Share Option Scheme.
However the Company does not performance period are to be released at that time with the other propose using this in relation to executive directors save that it may 50% being deferred for one year subject to the same good leaver be used in exceptional cases where considered appropriate.
The Committee intends to continue to make awards under this plan in 2006 07 and subsequently.
The Company also operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme in the UK and Overseas although this has not been used in the last Awards are based on three-year total shareholder return TSR 12 months.
The Scheme enables employees to purchase shares in relative to a bespoke comparator group of successful international the Company at a favourable price, using the proceeds of a savings industrial companies including major competitors which each account to which they make monthly contributions for a three, five compete in at least one or other of the Groups core markets.
Executive directors are eligible to participate The companies are ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson in this Scheme, which operates in the UK within specific tax Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group legislation and is therefore not subject to performance conditions.
A resolution to renew the Scheme is being proposed at the AGM as the Scheme expires on 30 July 2006.
A sliding scale operates that would release 25% of shares at median rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100% of shares being released for Dilution limits upper decile performance.
The performance conditions set at the The Company has, at all times, complied with the dilution limits time of the consultation with shareholders were considered by the contained within its share plans principally a limit of 10% in 10 Committee to be robust and challenging given the need to effect a years and the Committee reviews the position before any proposed turnaround of the business.
In addition, the Committee keeps the grants to ensure that this remains the position.
It is envisaged that ongoing appropriateness of the performance targets under review the 2006 07 awards under the LTIP will involve maximum dilution and should the Committee consider it relevant to materially change of approximately 0.90% which, when aggregated with the current the performance conditions once the turnaround has been achieved, potential of approximately 5.14% under subsisting awards, is well any material changes to the current performance conditions will be within the Companys limit of 10% in any 10-year period.
Shares to fully discussed with major shareholders.
satisfy the Overlay will be purchased in the market.
In addition, the LTIP award made in 2005 will only vest if the Pension Committee is satisfied that two underpins have been met: the first Details of the individual executive directors pension arrangements relating to achievement of challenging internal free cash flow targets are set out on page 46.
Pensionable pay is defined as base salary and the second relating to satisfactory management of legacy only: bonuses are not pensionable.
Given the proposed refinancing, the Committee may review the underpin targets for the 2006 LTIP award and make Typical pension and life assurance benefits are provided to the appropriate adjustments to reflect the Companys changed financial executive directors, comprising either participation in the Companys position provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, such final salary pension scheme on salaries up to the Inland Revenues changed underpins shall be equally challenging.
earnings cap of 105,600 until 6 April 2006 and thereafter an internal scheme limit of 112,500 with appropriate top-up The TSR calculations will be undertaken by New Bridge Street arrangements, or money purchase arrangements or salary Consultants LLP on behalf of the Committee using the average TSR supplements.
of the Company and each comparator company over the threemonth period preceding the date of an award and the three-month The UK government has made significant changes to the operation average figures as at the end of the three-year performance period.
and taxation of UK pensions, effective from 6 April 2006.
As a result All figures will be converted into sterling using the then current of these changes the Company has reviewed the existing pension exchange rates.
It is not envisaged that, as a result of the changes, there will be any significant increase in the overall The Committee may, in circumstances where it is not practicable ongoing cost of pension provision for the directors.
for regulatory, taxation or other reasons to deliver shares, permit participants in the LTIP to be paid a cash amount equivalent to the Other benefits value of the shares to which they would otherwise have been entitled.
Other benefits provided for executive directors comprise the provision of a company car or cash allowance, the use of a pool car, The LTIP generally operates within an individual limit of two times and healthcare.
On appointment, and where circumstances so salary.
The Committee believes such a limit is appropriate in normal warrant, certain relocation costs are also met.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 41 Remuneration report continued Shareholding Guidelines subject to the successful completion of personal objectives during Shareholding Guidelines, requiring executives to build and maintain the period of his 2006 07 employment.
a shareholding over time, were introduced in 2004 05.
Under these Guidelines, executives will be required to build and maintain Richard Haythornthwaite shareholdings using, except as required to meet their tax obligations, As reported last year, following the end of financial year 2004 05, the entire share element of the Overlay and from the vesting of the Board accepted Mr Haythornthwaites request to stand down LTIP and other share awards until the minimum holding has been with effect from 22 July 2005.
No compensation was paid to reached.
Only when the following levels of shareholding have been Mr Haythornthwaite.
However, he was eligible to participate in the attained will executives be able to sell additional shares: 2005 06 Executive Bonus Plan as set out in the remuneration table Executive directors 200% of salary on page 44.
For information purposes, Mr Haythornthwaites Business Presidents 100% of salary contract was expressed to be terminable by either party giving the Other participants 25%-50% of salary other not less than one months written notice.
The deferral and holding periods under the LTIP and the Overlay Steve Hare will also focus management attention on medium-term share price Mr Hare will be employed under a service contract with the performance and therefore provide an appreciation that anything Company dated 20 April 2006 as from 21 July 2006 which will terminate automatically on his 70th birthday.
The contract can be less than sustained Company performance will decrease the value terminated by either party giving the other not less than 12 months of their awards.
written notice and without any enhanced notice provisions in the event of a change of control or otherwise.
The Company may elect Service contracts to pay a sum in lieu of notice equal to the basic salary which i Policy Mr Hare would have been entitled to receive under his service The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors contract during the notice period if notice had been given, and recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set the cost to the Company of the benefits provided to him which he as an objective for executive directors and that any payments to would have been entitled to receive during the remainder of the a departing executive director should be determined having full notice period.
Alternatively, the Company may continue to provide regard to the duty of mitigation.
It is the Companys policy to such benefits during that period.
achieve these objectives, wherever possible.
The Committee has agreed that Mr Hare will receive a one-off ii Specific contracts payment of 50,000 on joining the Company to cover transitional Set out below is a summary of the main provisions of the service costs and relocation.
contracts of those executive directors who served during the year or who have been appointed since the year end.
All of the contracts are expressed to terminate automatically on the executive directors Non-executive directors 60th birthday unless otherwise stated.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services save that Martin Jays letter of Ulf Henriksson appointment dated 28 May 2003 requires, except in the case of Mr Henriksson is employed under a service contract with the dismissal for cause, 12 months notice by either party: on early Company dated 28 April 2004 which can be terminated by either termination at the request of the Company any compensation will party giving the other not less than 12 months written notice and be subject to mitigation and offset.
They are appointed under the without any enhanced notice provisions in the event of a change of Companys Articles of Association, under which they are required control or otherwise and, at the Companys option, the choice of to seek re-election not later than the third annual general meeting pay in lieu of notice or phased payment the Company may elect to following their last election and are subject to review by the pay the amount due in lieu of notice as a single lump sum or pay Nominating Committee prior to being considered for election or the first six months worth on departure and then on a phased basis re-election by shareholders and serve the Company under at six-monthly intervals with appropriate reduction in the event that appointment letters that do not contain any notice period.
They he finds alternative employment.
do not participate in any bonus plan or any of the Groups share incentive, option or pension schemes.
Any director aged 70 or over Adrian Hennah there are none currently is required to be re-elected each year.
Mr Hennah is employed under a service contract with the Company dated 29 July 2002 and amended on 19 May 2004.
The Company Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are determined at that time that it was important that his services be determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman obtained for the Company on an immediate basis and that his and the executive directors.
Fee levels are determined taking service contract and benefits should adequately compensate him account of time commitments and responsibilities, together with for the benefits that he had forgone by leaving his previous comparative market rates and benchmarking data.
His contract reflected the practices applicable at do not receive any form of performance-related pay.
For information purposes, Mr Hennahs contract is Committee is responsible for reviewing the Chairmans fees.
The expressed to be terminable by either party giving the other not less fees currently paid to the Chairman and the other non-executive than 12 months written notice and does not contain any pay in lieu directors are subject to the limits set in the Articles of Association.
The Chairmans fee was set in 1999 at 250,000 per annum and has not been increased since that date.
The Chairman is not entitled to As announced in February 2006, Mr Hennah will stand down as any attendance fees.
During the year the basic fee for a nonChief Financial Officer in June 2006.
No compensation will be paid executive director was fixed at 28,000 per annum.
An additional to Mr Hennah on termination.
However, the Committee has fee of 5,000 was payable to the chairmen of the Audit and exercised its discretion and will pay in June 2007 a bonus of 75,000, Remuneration Committees, and all members of the Boards standing 42 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 committees received a fee of 750 for each meeting attended.
Total shareholder return It has been decided that with effect from 1 April 2006 the non- 200 executive director fee structure will be changed.
The previous fee FTSE 250 180 arrangement was set in 1999 and, based on benchmarking data, 160 the Chairman and executive directors determined that this was not 140 competitive against companies of comparable size and complexity.
120 The new fee structure is a basic fee of 50,000 per annum with 100 8,000 to be paid in shares.
The chairman of the Remuneration 80 Committee receives an additional 8,000 per annum and the 60 chairman of the Audit Committee receives an additional 10,000 per 40 annum.
The fees of each non-executive director for the year are set 20 Invensys out in the remuneration table on page 44.
0 31-Mar-01 31-Mar-02 31-Mar-03 31-Mar-04 31-Mar-05 31-Mar-06 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2006, of 100 invested in Invensys on 31 March 2001 compared with the value External directorships of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The executive directors are encouraged to hold not more than one Source: Thomson Financial external non-executive directorship in order to broaden their experience for the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are subject to approval by the Board and the director may retain any In addition to the above graph depicting total shareholder return fees paid in respect of such directorship: there are no fees to performance over the last five years, the following graph has been disclose for the year under review.
included to illustrate the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 250 for the period from the refinancing in February 2004 to Performance graph the present.
This graph highlights the improvement in total Companies are required to include a graph indicating their total shareholder return since the turnaround commenced.
shareholder return performance that is, share price growth assuming reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years relative to a Total shareholder return post 2004 refinancing recognised equity index.
Accordingly, the following graph shows the FTSE 250 Companys performance relative to the FTSE 250, which the Committee considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes OLD as the Company had been a constituent during most of that period.
Invensys 5-Feb-04 5-Feb-05 5-Feb-06 31-Mar-06 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2006, of 100 invested in Invensys on 5 February 2004 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at an intervening year end and 31 March 2006.
Invensys FTSE 250 Index Source: Thomson Financial Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006 43 OLD Value Value Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration The remuneration of the directors excluding defined benefit pension entitlements for the year ended 31 March 2006 was as follows: Supplementary Salary pension Other Total Total fees Benefits payment payments Bonuses 2006 2005 Notes Chairman MJay 250,000 250,000 250,000 Executive directors A N Hennah 1, 2 400,000 34,539 250,000 600,000 1,284,539 1,084,703 U C I Henriksson 3, 4, 5 575,385 147,913 200,898 575,385 1,499,581 2,183,760 Non-executive directors L E Farmer 6 42,250 42,250 59,250 M J B Green 7 34,000 34,000 8,500 J-C Guez 43,500 43,500 40,500 A E Macfarlane 46,500 46,500 44,250 Former directors S M Robertson 27,680 R N Haythornthwaite 8 203,077 1,197 32,492 203,077 439,843 1,446,343 Total remuneration 9 1,594,712 183,649 233,390 250,000 1,378,462 3,640,213 5,144,986 Notes award 50% of the shares will, subject to continued employment, be released 1.
The Other payments of 250,000 paid to Mr Hennah during the year ended after the first anniversary of the date of grant and the other 50% being released 31 March 2006 relate to the second and final tranche of a 500,000 payment following the second anniversary.
This share award will be adjusted to take which, as was agreed when Mr Hennah joined Invensys, was paid to him in account of the proposed rights issue: see note 10 on page 46. two instalments the first on 5 April 2004 and the second on 5 October 2005.
The comparator 2005 fee for Mr Farmer of 59,250 comprises his basic nonThis was in recognition of the value of entitlements from his previous employer executive director fee of 39,250 and further fees of 20,000 in respect of which he lost as a result of his joining the Company.
additional responsibilities he undertook, at the special request of the Board and 2.
As Mr Hennah is leaving the Company on 16 June 2006 he was not eligible for for a limited period, relating to additional non-executive review and advisory the Overlay.
However, the Committee has decided to pay a discretionary bonus responsibilities in relation to a review of the Process Systems business.
of 200,000 in recognition of his exceptional contribution during the year.
Mr Green was appointed to the Board of directors on 1 January 2005 and 3.
The emoluments of the highest paid director, Mr Henriksson, excluding pension therefore his fees for 2005 relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2005. rights were 1,499,581 2005: 2,183,760 paid to Mr Henriksson.
Mr Haythornthwaite retired from the Board of directors on 21 July 2005 and 4.
Mr Henriksson was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 21 July 2005.
From his emoluments relate to the period from 1 April 2005 to this date.
1 April 2005 to 21 July 2005, Mr Henrikssons salary was 525,000: on becoming Mr Haythornthwaite did not receive a compensation payment on leaving.
Chief Executive on 22 July 2005 his salary increased to 600,000.
The amount in For the period 1 April 2005 to the date of termination, Mr Haythornthwaite Benefits includes payment of unpaid costs of relocating his family and permanent remained eligible to participate in the Executive Bonus Plan: this bonus was home from the US to the UK.
He received a cash allowance in lieu of pension calculated pro rata based on time employed to date of termination and based provision equal to 35% of basic salary.
on actual performance achieved against the bonus score card.
In addition to the cash bonus amount for the year, Mr Henriksson will be 9.
The aggregate emoluments of all directors for the year ended 31 March 2006 awarded 575,385 in the form of shares under the 2005 06 Overlay.
Directors interests Ordinary shares The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are set Notes 1.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2006 was 23p.
Between out below: 1 April 2005 and 31 March 2006, the highest mid-market price was 23.75p and the lowest mid-market price was 10p.
All interests referred to are beneficial.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors in ordinary shares cessation if earlier appointment if later Ordinary shares Ordinary shares between 31 March 2006 and 24 May 2006.
As detailed on pages 42 and 43, of 1p each of 1p each with effect from 1 April 2006, the fee structure for the non-executive directors includes 8,000 per annum to be paid in shares.
These purchases will normally L E Farmer 3,250 3,250 be made on a quarterly basis.
Full details of the directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares are M J B Green 50,000 contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is kept by the Company J-C Guez 167,330 167,330 and is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies A N Hennah 182,776 182,776 Act 1985.
This includes rights granted under the Companys various share schemes as detailed in the following section.
The Sharesave options were granted under the Invensys Savings Related Share 1.
No options were exercised by directors or shares released under the LTIP during Option Scheme.
These options are not subject to a performance condition as the years ended 31 March 2005 and 31 March 2006. this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
The details of the share schemes, including performance conditions which apply 8.
The LTIP awards granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term if any, are set out in the following notes.
Incentive Plan are normally subject to a three-year performance period, 3.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors over share options or commencing on the date of award, followed by a retention period.
For awards LTIP awards between 31 March 2006 and 24 May 2006. granted prior to 2005 the retention period was two years: for awards made on 4.
As reported last year, the LTIP award granted to Mr Haythornthwaite in June or after 22 July 2005 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the 2003 did not lapse on cessation of employment but was preserved pro rata, and performance requirements will be released at the end of the performance remains subject to performance conditions measured over the entire three-year period with the other 50% being deferred for one year.
The normal subsequent holding period would be reduced performance requirements apply: to one month.
All other executive share options lapsed on cessation of TSR test: a awards granted prior to 28 May 2003: TSR ranked against a Peer employment in accordance with the rules of the relevant scheme.
Group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee with no 5.
The exercise of the option and release of the restricted shares is contingent on re-testing opportunities.
TSR must rank at the median position when the Peer continued employment until the relevant date or, at the discretion of the Group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 50% of the shares subject Committee, leaving in certain compassionate circumstances.
The restricted to the award to be available subject to the retention period, rising to 100% of the shares must be retained until the second anniversary of their vesting except as shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the necessary to meet tax liabilities.
Like the awards they replaced, the option and number of shares will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
If at least median restricted shares are not subject to performance conditions.
position is not achieved the whole award will lapse.
The Peer Group selected for Under the terms on which the restricted share award was made, the first two the award dated 4 December 2002 comprised the companies of the FTSE 100 million shares were expressed to vest on 21 November 2005, subject to an Index on the dealing day preceding the grant.
The performance requirement obligation to retain the shares except any necessary sale to meet tax liabilities was not achieved in respect of the LTIP award granted on 4 December 2002 to until 20 November 2007.
Following a delay in effecting the vesting and a Mr Hennah and accordingly his award over 444,697 shares lapsed.
subsequent dealing prohibition which prevented the vesting of these shares, it b awards granted after 28 May 2003: the same TSR performance test that has been agreed with Mr Henriksson that the shares will vest on 25 May 2006 applies to awards granted prior to this date, save that 25% of the shares subject subject to the original retention obligation stated and be transferred to him as to the award will be available subject to the retention period if TSR ranks at soon as practicable.
Mr Henriksson intends to take up his rights under the the median position when the peer group is ranked in descending order of proposed rights issue in respect of such shares.
TSR, rising to 100% of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved.
Other than that granted to Mr Henriksson, the Executive share options detailed Between these positions, the number of shares will be calculated on a straighton page 45 were granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share line basis.
If at least median position is not achieved the whole award will lapse.
Options granted under this Scheme are normally exercisable The Peer Groups selected for the relevant awards are as follows: between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant provided that the awards granted on 20 June 2003 and 24 June 2004: the companies that relevant performance condition has been met.
The performance condition comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on the date of grant: and which applies is TSR which is calculated as the percentage variance in the price award granted on 22 July 2005: ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, of shares and the value of reinvested net dividend payments over the Johnson Controls, Rockwell, Schlumberger, Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group performance period compared to that of a group of comparator companies & Yokagawa.
Peer Group selected at the discretion of the Committee.
The performance Overall performance test: a awards granted prior to 22 July 2005: the period will be the period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained grant of the option.
On the third anniversary of the date of grant, each delivery over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of constituent of the Peer Group will be ranked in descending order of TSR.
The continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group indebtedness: TSR ranking of Invensys against the TSR of the Peer Group will determine the and b for awards granted on or after 22 July 2005 that two underpins have number of shares awarded.
Invensys must rank at the median position in order been met: i achievement of stretching internal free cash flow targets: and for 40% of the shares under option to become exercisable, rising to all of the ii efficient management of legacy liability items.
shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 22 July 2005, the date of grant shares under option will vest on a straight-line basis.
If the Company does not of the LTIP awards to Mr Hennah and Mr Henriksson, was 13.25p.
meet the performance condition in full at the first measurement, then it will be 10.
In accordance with the rules of the various share schemes, all outstanding re-tested, from a fixed base, in years four and five.
If the median position has options and share awards including the award under the Overlay Bonus not been achieved by the end of the fifth year, the option will lapse.
The Peer described in note 5 of the remuneration table on page 44 will be adjusted to Group are the companies that comprise the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day take account of the proposed rights issue in such manner as the Board may preceding the date of grant.
Directors pension entitlements within the Company.
The amounts of cash allowances are specified For the year ended 31 March 2006 executive directors participated in the notes to the remuneration table on page 44. in defined benefit Mr Hennah, cash allowance Mr Henriksson and defined benefit cash Mr Haythornthwaite until his departure The following table gives details of the individual directors pension on 21 July 2005 pension arrangements sponsored by the Company.
values for the year ended 31 March 2006, including the disclosures The defined benefit schemes provide benefits based on salary at or required by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority: near retirement and are part externally funded and part reserved for Change in Transfer Transfer value transfer value Increase value of Accrued of accrued over year in accrued increase pension at Increase in Transfer value pension less any pension, a less any year ended accrued of accrued at end of contributions excluding contributions 31 March 2006 pension pension previous year made inflation a made Notes per annum per annum per annum 000 000 per annum 000 R N Haythornthwaite 1 14,051 1,522 181 142 39 1,184 15 A N Hennah 2 38,750 10,636 462 301 161 9,877 118 Notes 4.
All benefits are due at age 60.
The benefits shown for Mr Haythornthwaite relate to his participation in the 5.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the level of inflation subject approved pension scheme up to the Inland Revenue earnings limit.
With respect to a maximum increase of 5% per annum.
to his earnings above that limit, 48,738 was paid to an unapproved money 6.
For death before retirement a spouses pension of two thirds of the members purchase scheme together with the supplementary pension payment as set out prospective pension is payable, if applicable, plus a capital sum of four times the in the table headed Directors remuneration on page 44. members salary.
For death after retirement a spouses pension of two thirds of 2.
Mr Hennah chose to cease membership of the Invensys Pension Scheme IPS the members pension is payable plus the balance of a five year guarantee if with effect from 31 March 2006.
In place of participation in the IPS, Mr Hennah applicable.
In the event of death after leaving service but before commencement has elected to receive a salary supplement of 30% of salary effective from of pension a spouses pension of two thirds of the accrued preserved pension is 1 April 2006. payable plus a capital sum of five times the accrued preserved pension.
The changes in transfer values over the year reflect any changes in pensionable circumstances childrens allowances are also payable if applicable.
pay and the service of each director.
They also take into account changes in the actuarial assumptions, particularly those related to equity and bond returns.
46 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2006
