JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 14:58 Page 34 34 REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 7 [A] to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee the Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board: the Committees primary role is to review, agree and approve, or as required under the Combined Code to make recommendations to the Board, on: the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior management: service contracts of the Executive Directors: remuneration of the Executive Directors: remuneration of senior management identified by the Committee: and participation in, and operation of, the Companys share option plans.
The full terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is chaired by Mr J R Mapplebeck and comprises the two independent Non-executive Directors, Mr J R Mapplebeck and Viscount Asquith, and the Chairman, Lord Fraser, who is included to meet the Companys objective of the Committee comprising three members.
Dr P Davies, the Chief Executive, attends the Committee meetings by invitation but is not able to vote and is not present when his own remuneration arrangements are agreed.
None of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder as detailed in page 29, which given the level of holdings the Board accepts as not impairing independence, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
In 2006 the Committee met on 3 occasions to discuss, agree and make recommendations to the Board on the following issues:- January 23 to approve payments to be made under the Annual Bonus Scheme relating to performance in 2005 and to approve salary changes for 2006: March 13 to approve the strategic objectives, financial and share price targets for the 2006 Annual Bonus Scheme and to discuss and agree the performance conditions to be used in and agree the allocation of share options in 2006: and September 25 to approve the vesting of share options issued in September 2003.
Remuneration policy The Companys overall approach to pay and benefits is to reward employees competitively, taking into account Company and individual performance, market value and competitive pressures in the independent oil and gas sector.
The Company does not seek to maintain any strict market position but aims to ensure that pay is set at an appropriate level and is comparable with peer group companies.
The Committee has appointed Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer to provide general and technical advice on developments and market trends on remunerations matters, on how Directors remuneration packages are structured and to provide information on remuneration levels in comparator oil and gas companies.
Mercer provide no other services to the Group.
The comparator companies are all UK-based oil and gas companies and are primarily quoted on the LSE or AIM.
Most of these companies subscribe to a survey conducted by Mercer.
For comparator purposes the Committee requested Mercer to group them into 3 divisions: a first comparator group of 7 companies whose characteristics are considered to be as close to a peer group as can be obtained: a second comparator group which includes 11 companies and a final group of 43 companies in the UK oil and gas sector and which includes subsidiaries of non UK parent companies.
In early 2007, Mercer were also asked to review the role and job responsibilities of the Finance Director in more detail to ensure that his remuneration package continued to be correctly aligned with positions in comparator companies.
The Committee consulted Dr P Davies, the Chief Executive, about this review.
Mercer has also been asked to undertake a health check of the Companys remuneration practices and policies to ensure that the Company is continuing to apply a best practices approach.
Mercers report is expected in April 2007.
There are four main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors and senior management: Basic annual salary including Directors fees and benefits: Annual bonus payments: Long Term Incentive Plan i. e. Share Option Scheme: and Pension.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 35 35 The Board believes that the performance-related elements of remuneration which feature in the Annual Bonus Scheme and the Long Term Incentive Plan should form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package of Executive Directors, should be designed to align their interests with those of shareholders and structured to give Executive Directors keen incentives to perform at the highest levels.
The remuneration packages are prudently designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the high calibre needed to maintain the Groups position in the market and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
It is the Groups policy that service contracts, including the Chief Executives, be unlimited in term but capable in normal circumstances of termination on 12 months notice.
The Directors contracts of service that include details of remuneration will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors contracts are sterling denominated contracts and basic salaries, annual bonuses and other payments are paid in sterling.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is sought and fees in excess of 20,000 from all such appointments are accounted for to the Company.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Board within limits set out in the Articles of Association.
Basic salary An Executive Directors basic salary is determined by the Committee at the beginning of each year and when an individual changes position or responsibility.
In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers the Group as a whole and relies on independent and objective research that gives up-to-date information on a comparator group of UK companies operating in the independent oil and gas sector.
The individual salaries and benefits of Executive Directors are reviewed and adjusted taking into account individual performance and market factors.
No Executive Director plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally car allowance and private medical insurance.
The car allowance paid to Executive Directors in 2006 has been incorporated into basic salary as of 1 January 2007.
Details of the Executive Directors basic salary and benefits in 2006 are shown on page 39.
Following the most recent review the basic salaries of the Executive Directors, with effect from 1 January 2007 are: Chef Executive 310,000 2006 285,000] Finance Director & Company Secretary 210,000 [2006 175,000] Technical Director 155,000 [2006 137,500] Amongst those reporting to the Chief Executive are three senior managers with basic salaries ranging between 110,000 and 132,500 following increases with effect from 1 January 2007.
Annual bonus scheme The Annual Bonus Scheme, which is based on the achievement of relevant and stretching performance conditions determined by the Committee, was introduced in 2001 for Executive Directors and key senior management including key staff in Poltava Petroleum Company PPC.
The application of the scheme in any given year is discretionary and annual awards are not pensionable.
The Chief Executive may earn an annual performance related bonus payment of up to 100% of his basic salary Bonus Factor, the Finance Director & Company Secretary 70% and the Technical Director 50%.
Other senior managers can earn an annual bonus payment of up to a maximum of between 30% and 50% of their basic salary.
The Committee establishes the performance conditions objectives that must be met for each financial year.
The performance conditions, which are derived from the Companys Annual Budget and Strategic Plan approved by the Board, are divided into three segments: 1. financial: 2. increase in share price: and 3. strategic: as follows:- 1.
Financial objectives i Pre-Tax Profit and ii Return on Average Capital Employed: both of these measures include a target level, a minimum level of -10% of target below which no bonus element is earned, and a maximum level of 25% of the target.
Increase in share price i Average Annual Share Price and ii Spot Year End Share Price.
A strike price of Base Price 10% is established for each measurement before any bonus element is paid.
The Base Price for Average Annual Share Price movement is the Average Annual Share Price for the previous year, and the Base Price for the Spot Year End Share Price is the Spot Year Start Price.
For the maximum to be earned the Spot Year End Share price has to increase by 50% over the Strike Price and the Average Annual Share Price has to increase by 75% over the Strike Price.
A sliding scale operates between the base and maximum.
Strategic objectives This segment includes a variety of measures e. g. book new reserves, acquire new licences, increase production, drill exploration wells, develop permits etc: as far as possible these measures all contain quantifiable figures to reduce the subjective assessment of performance.
The table overleaf shows that the weighting applied to each performance condition varies slightly for each Executive Director and for senior management.
This is done so that the performance conditions are structured JKX Sect3 AWV6:JKX-report 17 4 07 15:03 Page 36 36 individually to reflect each Executive Directors area of responsibility and their ability to influence results although the need for the executive management to operate as a team is also recognised.
To earn the maximum level of bonus requires Pre-Tax Profit and Return on Average Capital targets to be exceeded by 25% and the average and spot share price to increase by 75% and 50% respectively and all of the strategic objectives to be met.
In 2006, the performance conditions established and the actual achievements for the financial and share price segments were as shown on inset table below.
Based on the 2006 results, the Chief Executive received a bonus payment of 238,000 83.5% of basic salary, the Finance Director & Company Secretary 98,500 56.25% and the Technical Services Director 41,500 30.18%.
Other senior management received bonus payments of between 22.9% and 41.4% of basic salary.
The relative achievement against the three performance conditions set for the three Executive Directors is as follows: Annual bonus payments Weighting % % Extent Weighting % of salary subject of performance of salary which Weighting to bonus condition achieved bonus achieved Chief Executive Financial objectives 35 35.00 Increase in share price 30 18.75 Strategic objectives 35 29.75 Total 100 83.50 100 83.50 Finance Director Financial objectives 40 40.00 Increase in share price 30 18.75 Strategic objectives 30 21.60 Total 100 80.35 70 56.25 Technical Services Director Financial objectives 30 30.00 Increase in share price 30 18.75 Strategic objectives 40 11.60 Total 100 60.35 50 30.18 The Bonus Scheme has been in existence for four years.
In March 2007 the Committee reviewed the overall performance of the Bonus Scheme and Target Achievement approved revised performance conditions to apply for 2007 although the basic criteria of measuring Financial performance against financial, strategic and share Pre Tax Profit $71.1m $109.2m price objectives have been retained.
Return on Average Capital Employed 29.4% 42.4% Long-term incentive plan Strike price Achievement Share Option Scheme 1.
Overview The Board believes that the attraction, Increase in share price motivation and retention of senior executives and Spot 272.2p 295p 8.4% employees is central to the Companys success Average 186.5p 334.2p 79.2% and is convinced that a long-term incentive plan is an important and effective means of achieving this objective.
The Inland Revenue Approved JKX Oil & Gas plc Discretionary Share Option Scheme 2001 and the Unapproved JKX Oil & Gas Discretionary Share Option Scheme 2001 collectively the New Share Option Schemes were introduced in 2001 and reflected the then best practice aspects recommended by the Association of British Insurers following the publication of their guidelines in March 2001 the ABI Guidelines.
At the time the New Share Option Schemes were developed a variety of alternative measurements to link remuneration to performance and align the interests of participating Directors and senior management with those of Shareholders were considered.
The ABI Guidelines suggested comparison of the Companys performance against an appropriate peer group.
At the time it was difficult to select sufficient quoted companies of similar size and profile in the independent oil and gas sector to form a meaningful peer group.
Consequently, it was felt that an increase in share price combined with a comparison to an external benchmark i. e. the Financial JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 37 37 Times Stock Exchange Fledgling Index FTSE FI, was the most appropriate structure.
As a result of an increase in share price in the second quarter of 2004 the Company moved up into the FTSE Smallcap Index FTSE SI and the benchmark was re-based.
Further increases in share price meant that in March 2006 the Company moved up into the FTSE 250 Index FTSE 250.
In March 2006, the Committee reviewed the operation and effectiveness of the New Share Option Schemes taking into account the Companys growth, progression out of the FTSE FI through the FTSE SI to the FTSE 250 and the relevance of the performance conditions after four years of operational experience.
The Committee concluded that a comparison of Total Shareholder Return TSR against the FTSE Index in which the Company is a constituent at the time of the grant was made Relevant FTSE Index remained an appropriate external benchmark but that, in view of the substantial changes in oil and gas prices over the past four years an oil & gas industry benchmark should also be introduced to provide a more demanding benchmark.
The Committee reviewed alternative comparator groups.
Many commentators and the Association of British Insurers acknowledge that it is particularly difficult to establish a bespoke and genuinely comparable group of companies as share price movements react in different ways to market factors and indeed industry analyst coverage etc.
The Committee concluded that the FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index was the most appropriate external oil & gas benchmark.
To introduce significantly more stretching performance criteria for share options awarded in March 2006 the Committee determined that after 3 years, in March 2009, the number of options that vest will be determined by comparing the actual increase in the Companys TSR to the higher of the change in the Relevant FTSE Index and the FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index.
The Rules of the New Share Option Schemes address eligibility, timing of grants and exercise of options etc, and require shareholders to be consulted if any substantive amendments to the Rules are required.
The Committee felt that the introduction last year of a more demanding performance measurement was Share price factor TSR a refinement of the scheme and not a substantive change that required shareholder consultation.
Companys TSR at exercise price or below 0 Companys TSR between exercise price The Committee has considered the new and simplified ABI Guidelines published in December 2006.
Recognising the and 150% of exercise price Up to 0.5 Companys current circumstances and prospects and Companys TSR in excess of 150% shareholder considerations the Committee has asked Mercer, as and up to 200% of exercise price 0.66 apart of its previously mentioned remuneration review, to Companys TSR price in excess of 200% examine the New Share Option Schemes.
With this advice, during of exercise price 1 2007, the Committee intends to review grant levels, performance criteria and benchmarks taking into account that the Company has needed to rebase its external benchmarks as it has progressed from the FTSE FI, through the FTSE SI and into FTSE Relevant FTSE FI SI factor 250.
Term of options, vesting arrangements and how the cost, Where the percentage increase in the Companys TSRs: potential and expected value of awards can be better disclosed to Shareholders in the future will also be reviewed.
in the lowest quartile of the percentage growth in the Relevant FTSE Index 0.25 2.
Grants, vesting and valuation The Committee has discretion as to the application of the Rules of the New Share Option Schemes, in the second quartile of the percentage particularly in the level of awards and the setting of the level of growth in the Relevant FTSE Index 0.5 Performance Conditions.
in the third quartile of the percentage The Committee has prepared internal guidelines to enable it to growth in the Relevant FTSE Index 0.75 administer the New Share Option Schemes.
In awarding share in the top quartile of the percentage options the Committee take into account the ABI Guidelines in growth in the Relevant FTSE Index 1 terms of individual and collective limits and other factors such as the performance of the Company and the individual in the Relevant FTSE Index FTSE FI, FTSE SI, FTSE 250, FTSE Oil Producers Index as appropriate, as re-based and by TSR previous 12 months, the effect of the vesting of grants awarded in previous years e. g. dilution, cost to the Company, the overall remuneration level annual salary, bonus award and benefits of the individual relative to the market and his her performance in the previous year.
Grants are made by reference to the market value mid Market price of the Companys shares under option at the time of grant.
Employees are not required to pay for the grant of share options.
Annual awards to the Executive Directors are limited to a maximum of 100% of basic salary in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, 100% for the Finance Director and 75% for the Technical Services Director calculated by reference to the face value of the shares under option at the time of grant.
Annual awards to senior management vary between 30% and 70% of basic salary.
After three years the number of options that can be exercised is determined by two factors: 1 the actual JKX Sect3 AW:JKX-report 11 4 07 11:24 Page 38 38 increase in the CompanysTSR : and 2 a comparison of the actual increase in the Companys TSR to the change in the FTSE FI until the end of June 2004 and the FTSE SI until the end of March 2005 and the FTSE 250 after that date as rebased.
For awards made in March 2006 the comparison will be made against the higher of the change in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE Oil & Gas Producers Index.
The Share Price and Relevant FTSE Index Factors are 2000 multiplied together and the JKX OIL & GAS 1800 resultant figure is applied FTSE FLEDGLING - PRICE INDEX 1600 FTSE SMALL CAP - PRICE INDEX to the number of options FTSE ALL SHARE OIL & GAS PROD - PRICE INDEX granted to an individual 1400 FTSE 250 - PRICE INDEX to determine the number 1200 of options to be vested.
1000 800 The structure has been 600 designed to introduce a 400 sliding scale as distinct from a 200 specific individual benchmark.
0 It requires the Companys TSR to double and this increase to be in the top quartile of the 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 growth in the Relevant FTSE Index for all of the awards granted to become vested.
For awards granted in 2006 onwards the Companys TSR must have doubled and for this increase to be in the top quartile of the growth in the higher of the Relevant FTSE Index and FTSE Oil Producers Index for all of the awards to become vested.
To encourage the retention of key staff, the Committee has determined that an option holder will only be able to exercise up to 50% of vested options at any one time and up to 50% after a period of 12 months, unless determined otherwise by the Committee.
The graph above shows the Companys TSR compared with the performance of the FTSE FI, the FTSE SI, the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Oil Producers Index measured by Total Shareholder Return.
As a consequence of the increase in the Companys TSR against the Relevant FTSE Index I, the options granted on 25 September 2003 and which matured on 25 September 2006, vested in full.
An actuary has certified this vesting.
Directors Share Options See page 40.
Pension arrangements The Company makes a contribution equivalent to 15% of basic salary to the pension scheme of the Directors choice.
Directors contracts It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term but with two-way notice periods.
All of the Executive Directors, Dr P Davies, Mr B J Burrows and Mr R N Dall have employment contracts dated 1 January 2004 and all the contracts are subject to one years notice by either party.
In the event of early termination, the Directors contracts provide for compensation up to a maximum of basic salary for the notice period.
Non-executive Directors All Non-executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Executive Directors within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to Non-executive Directors of similar companies.
The setting of the Chairmans remuneration is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and not the Committee, as recommended by the Combined Code.
The Board believes this is appropriate given the Board size.
All of the Non-executive Directors, Lord Fraser, Viscount Asquith and Mr J R Mapplebeck have service contracts dated 1 January 2002.
These service contracts are for an indefinite term, not a finite term as recommended by Section A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, subject to re-election on an as required basis.
However, all of the contracts are subject to three months notice by either party and as such, the Board continues to believe this is appropriate given the company size, the non-executive skill set, and the continuing evaluation of performance and independence.
In the event of early termination, the Non-executive Directors contracts provide for compensation of three times their Monthly Board Retention Fee.
The Non-executive Directors contracts specify the powers and duties of the Non-executive Directors and the time commitments anticipated and remuneration arrangements.
The Non-executive Directors are paid a Monthly Board Retention Fee for carrying out their duties and responsibilities.
This fee is based on a per diem rate in Sterling that is compared to published material concerning Non-executive fees in similar size companies.
JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX pp39:JKX-report 10 4 07 19:56 Page 1 39 In 2006 the Board Retention Fee paid to each Non-executive Director in the year was 30,000, $55,000 with the Chairman receiving 48,750 $90,000.
This includes compensation for performing the additional roles in respect of the Committee and Audit Committee.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share option schemes and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
In addition, the Non-executive Directors each have a consultancy arrangement with the Company to compensate them for other work undertaken specifically at the Companys request above the time required in their Directors service contracts.
This, as required, per diem fee is 1,250 plus 250 if that work is outside the UK.
The Nonexecutive contracts are subject to three months notice of termination by either party.
During 2006, Viscount Asquith spent substantial amounts of time in furthering the Companys business in Ukraine assisting the Managing Director of the Companys principal subsidiary, Poltava Petroleum Company including managing extensive relationships with the Ukrainian government and administration.
Viscount Asquiths experience, skills and knowledge of Ukraine and the FSU are a valuable resource to the Company as it seeks to expand its business activities.
The Board recognises the requirement of the Combined Code A.
3.1 to determine if Directors are independent in character and judgment and specifically in circumstances where, amongst other factors, additional fees are paid.
The Board recognises that consultancy fees could be viewed as potentially compromising independence but is convinced that Non-executive Directors should be compensated for additional days work which cannot be pre determined and factored into the Monthly Board Retention Fee.
Non-executive Directors fees have remained unchanged since January 2005.
The Board recognises that changes in company law and corporate governance are placing additional responsibilities and time requirements on Non executive directors.
The Board has examined a wide variety of publicly available information on Non-executive Directors fees in other and similar companies in the sector.
As a result Mercer have been asked to review existing Non-executive arrangements.
Mercers report is expected to be received in April 2007.
The Non-executive Directors can elect to take their Monthly Board Retention Fee and Consultancy Fee in the form of shares: no election was made in 2006.
The fees paid to Viscount Asquith were made to Dessna Company Limited in which he has a controlling interest.
2 Annual bonus payments are in respect of the 2006 Annual Bonus Awards paid in 2007.
3 Benefits includes car allowance and health cover.
These totals are shown in Sterling for information purposes only.
Sterling is the currency in which remuneration payments are made to the Directors.
The market price of a JKX share at 31 December 2006 was 295.00p, and the range during the year was 255.00p to 440.00p.
The report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by J R Mapplebeck.
J R Mapplebeck Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 March 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc Report and Accounts 2006 JKX Sect4 AW 11 4 07 13:40 Page 41 41 ACCOUNTS Directors responsibilities 42 Auditors report 43 Group income statement 45 Group balance sheet 46 Group cash flow statement 47 Notes 48 Parent company director responsibilities 75 Parent company auditors report 76 Parent company balance sheet 78 Parent company notes 79 Group five year financial record 84 Notice of Annual General Meeting 85 Glossary and advisors 88 Results
