Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in the Committee on the adoption of the new of termination, the Executive Directors accordance with Schedule 7A to the Performance Share Plan and amendments would be entitled to remuneration for the Companies Act 1985.
It also meets the to the Share Matching Plan as approved notice period, subject to mitigation.
relevant requirements of the Listing Rules by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, but did of the Financial Services Authority and not otherwise provide any services to the Executive Directors service contracts, describes how the Board has applied the Company in 2006.
NBSC also advised the which include details of remuneration, will Principles of Good Governance relating to Committee in connection with the be available for inspection at the Annual directors remuneration.
As required by the changes to be made in 2007.
The terms of General Meeting.
Act, a resolution to approve the report will engagement between the Company and be proposed at the Annual General NBSC are displayed on the Companys The appointments of Non-Executive Meeting of the Company at which the website in the Investor Relations section.
Directors of the Company are terminable financial statements will be approved.
at will, subject to a three month notice There is an ongoing training programme for period.
It is the Committees policy that The Remuneration Committee the Committee which consists of an annual any future Board appointments will be The Committee is chaired by Mr S J update on any changes in regulations and made on the same terms.
The NonWaugh, an independent Non-Executive also best practice.
In addition, each Executive Directors have letters of Director, and in 2006 comprised two other member of the Committee attends various appointment dated: independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr seminars throughout the year.
Other P E B Cawdron and Mrs M A King.
It is specific training is arranged as required.
Mr R G Parry 27 June 2003 required to meet at least annually and as Mr P E B Cawdron 25 January 2002 necessary.
During the period it met on six As explained on page 42, the Board Mr F P M Johnston 25 January 2002 occasions, four meetings being held by undertook an evaluation of its Mr H C M Johnston 25 January 2002 telephone.
All its members were present performance during the year.
This included Lord Gordon for each meeting.
a review of the effectiveness of this of Strathblane 25 January 2002 Committee considering its composition, Mrs M A King 25 April 2003 The Committee is charged with chairmanship, whether it fulfilled its role as Mr S J Waugh 25 April 2003 recommending the remuneration of the outlined in the terms of reference, its Mr L Hinton 16 March 2005 Chairman and Executive Directors as well reporting and overall performance.
This Mr I S M Russell 14 January 2007 as changes to employment conditions, the evaluation process was undertaken by the Executive Share Option Schemes, Share Committee itself as well as by all A copy of the standard letter of Incentive Plan, Long Term Incentive Plans members of the Board.
The results of this appointment for the Chairman and Nonand the Save as you Earn Scheme, process were positive and confirmed the Executive Directors is displayed on the together with the introduction of any new effectiveness of the Committee.
Companys website in the Investor incentive or remuneration schemes.
performance measurement of the The terms of reference of the Committee Executive Directors and the determination are displayed on the Companys website The Companys policy is that a substantial of their annual remuneration packages are in the Investor Relations Section.
proportion of the remuneration of the undertaken and approved by the Executive Directors should be Committee.
The Committee is consulted Remuneration Policy performance related.
As described below, on, and notified of, all senior management Executive remuneration packages are Executive Directors may earn annual appointments and related remuneration.
It prudently designed to attract, motivate incentive payments together with the is also consulted on major organisational and retain directors of the high calibre benefits of participation in share schemes.
needed to maintain the Groups strong market position and to reward them for Executive Directors are entitled to accept The remuneration of the Non-Executive enhancing long term value to shareholders.
up to two Non-Executive appointments Directors, other than the Chairman, is outside the Company providing the determined by the Executive Directors and Throughout 2006 there were five main Chairmans permission is obtained.
The ratified by the Board.
elements of the remuneration package for Remuneration Committee decides Executive Directors and senior management: whether any fees are retained by the None of the Committee has any personal director.
In addition, the Executive financial interest other than as Basic annual salary and benefits: Directors are entitled to accept any shareholders, conflicts of interest arising Performance related bonuses: positions connected with the newspaper from cross-directorships or day-to-day Performance Share Plan: industry or any businesses in which the involvement in running the business.
The Share Matching Plan: Company holds an investment.
Committee makes recommendations to Pension arrangements.
Other directors attend In 2006, Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R meetings when invited by the Committee As explained below, the Share Matching Paterson held external non-executive and the Company Secretary acts as Plan was suspended with effect from posts and received 73k and 29k in fees secretary to the Committee.
plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The Executive Directors have a one-year During 2005, with the assistance of NBSC, rolling contract.
The most recently executed the Committee conducted a full review of The Committee has appointed New contracts for Mr T J Bowdler, the remuneration of the Executive Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC Mr S R Paterson and Mr D Cammiade are Directors and of the incentive to provide advice on structuring directors dated 27 June 2003, 24 May 2001 and arrangements for all executives, taking remuneration packages.
In the event into account the Companys 52 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 circumstances and objectives, market Paterson and Mr D Cammiade were T J Bowdler 19.0% practice in both the media sector and in increased by 3% to 556,200, 350,208 S R Paterson 23.4% companies of similar market capitalisation, and 314,160 respectively.
D Cammiade 19.0% investor guidelines and changes in accounting standards.
Full details of the Performance Related Bonus The Board retains the discretion to review were provided in the Directors The Committee establishes the objectives recognise performance outside this Remuneration Report in the 2005 Report that must be met for each financial year if arrangement where exceptional and Accounts.
This Report was approved a cash bonus is to be paid.
In setting the circumstances apply, but any such at last years Annual General Meeting and appropriate bonus parameters the discretion is restricted to a total bonus, fully implemented.
Committee, having taken advice, takes including the performance related element, into account the Companys internal of 25% of salary.
No discretion was At the beginning of 2007 the Committee budgets and analysts expectations for the applied in 2006. met to review the remuneration policy in forthcoming year.
The Committee believes the light of the difficult trading conditions that this ties any incentive payments to Share Schemes facing regional newspaper groups due to the interests of shareholders.
The structure The Company operates a number of Share the downturn in advertising revenues and of the bonus scheme was revised from 1 Schemes and these are described below.
its impact on the existing arrangements, January 2006 to make the bonus potential which are largely based on EPS growth.
more comparable with companies of a a A Performance Share Plan PSP with The objective of this review was to ensure similar size, but with tougher targets than awards being shown below and in note that the Groups incentive policy will previously.
The maximum bonus level was 32 to the financial statements.
The first motivate, incentivise and retain Executives increased to 100% of salary.
Effective awards were made after shareholders going forward.
While there are no plans to from the same date, all Executive approved the Plan at the Annual change the terms of the outstanding Directors are required to invest at least General Meeting in April 2006.
The Plan awards, the Committee wished to 40% but no more than 60% of their bonus replaced an Executive Share Option recognise the difficult advertising in the Share Matching Plan.
Scheme which has a number of share environment, the transition that the options outstanding but it is not business needs to undertake in terms of For the 2006 calendar year, 75% of the proposed to approve any further grants investment in digital publishing whilst at the bonus was based on a profit target, which under this Scheme.
same time seeking to align the long term was set by the Board on the interests of the Executive with those of the recommendation of the Remuneration Under the rules of the PSP, Performance investors in terms of required returns.
The remaining 25% of the Shares may be granted over a three bonus was based on individual key year performance period to the The remuneration policy in 2006 is performance targets, which were specific Executive Directors and Senior outlined below after which there is a and clearly measurable.
Executives on an annual basis.
With section that details the changes that have regard to the Executive Directors, the been made for 2007.
It is important to Half the profit related bonus was payable initial maximum value of Performance stress that there will be no increase in the on achievement of a challenging target Shares awarded is 100% of salary, but expected or target value of the with additional sums payable on a sliding the scheme rules permit 125% as a remuneration packages of the Executive scale up to the maximum of 75% of normal maximum and 150% of salary in Directors.
The Committee is satisfied that salary.
If the target was not achieved, exceptional circumstances.
the revised targets are considered as bonus would be lost at twice the rate of demanding and challenging as the the sliding scale on the upside.
50% of the initial award of Performance previously EPS related conditions were Shares will vest based on compound when they were first introduced.
Given the projected difficult trading real growth in the Groups underlying conditions at the beginning of the year, the earnings per share EPS.
25% of this Basic Salary target was set by the Board to maximise allocation will vest on an EPS growth of An Executive Directors basic salary is cost savings that would not impact the RPI plus 3% per annum up to 100% of determined by the Committee prior to long term future of the Group.
An element the allocation for an EPS growth of RPI the beginning of each calendar year and of non-recurring costs was assumed and plus 8% per annum, with a sliding scale when an individual changes position or it was agreed that any additional costs of between the lower and upper limits.
In deciding appropriate this nature would be excluded in levels, the Committee considers the Group assessing performance.
The remaining 50% of the initial award as a whole and relies on objective of Performance Shares will vest based research carried out by its external A proportion of the profit based element on TSR performance relative to the consultants which gives up-to-date was paid, which amounted to 24.7% of FTSE 350 Media Companies.
The information on comparator groups of salary.
comparator group is specified in the companies.
As a benchmark, it aims to rules of the Scheme and comprises the pay broadly at the median level.
The individual key performance targets following companies, Aegis Group, varied by Executive Director.
These British Sky Broadcasting Group, Daily Mail, Emap, EMI Group, Euromoney In addition to basic salary, the Executive included revenue, circulation, digital Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, developments, performance of the Institutional Investor, GCap Media, principally a car or a cash buyout and acquired businesses, cost savings and Informa, ITV, Pearson, Reed Elsevier, private medical insurance.
cashflow, together with specific individual Reuters Group, Taylor Nelson Sofres, projects.
Of the maximum 25% of salary, Trinity Mirror, United Business Media, With effect from 1 January 2007 the the following percentages were achieved WPP Group and Yell Group.
25% of this salaries of Mr T J Bowdler, Mr S R by the Executives: allocation will vest if the Group achieves Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 53 Directors Remuneration Report - continued the median TSR performance of the index by more than 4% or 5% points shareholders dated 7 March 2007.
The comparator group over the three year per annum respectively.
The Committee terms of the new Scheme mirror the period with a 100% allocation if the has decided that there will be no existing scheme but updated to reflect Group achieves upper quartile retesting of performance on any options best practice and current regulation.
performance and a sliding scale granted after 1 January 2004 and between the two levels.
performance will be measured over a A Scheme was introduced during 2006 single three year period.
For options to provide employees in the Republic of Following the vesting of any awards, a granted prior to 31 December 2003, Ireland with a similar benefit.
payment in shares and or cash will be performance is always tested from a made equivalent to the dividend that fixed base over a period of at least three c A Share Matching Plan which applies would have been paid on the shares years and may not be retested after the to the Executive Directors and certain that vest during the performance period.
fifth anniversary of the option grant.
Participants must invest part of their annual bonus in When an award of Performance Shares The Companys policy has been to buying shares in the Company and they is approved, the Company ensures that grant options at the discretion of the have the prospect of receiving extra sufficient shares are purchased by the Committee taking into account the matching shares after three years, paid Johnston Press plc Employee Share Group and individual performance.
The matching ratio Trust, administered by Lloyds TSB grant of options to the Executive ranges from 0.5 times to 2 times the Offshore in Jersey, to meet the Directors and all participants in the number of shares that could have been projected number of shares required at Scheme in any year has been based on acquired with the pre-tax equivalent of the end of the performance period.
a percentage of salary for achieving the the annual bonus invested, subject to Group profit target and an individual achieving compound real growth in the The other shares held by the Trust relate profit target, with the allocation Groups underlying earnings per share to the grant of Matching Shares referred increasing for performance above target of between 3% to 8% per annum over to in c below and the award of up to a maximum level.
The maximum a fixed three year period.
The Executive Restricted Shares to Mr T J Bowdler annual grants previously approved in Directors are currently required by the referred to in the pension arrangements this scheme were 1.5 times salary for Committee to invest at least 40% but section below.
Mr T J Bowdler and 1.2 times salary for no more than 60% of their annual Mr S R Paterson and Mr D Cammiade.
The number of shares held by the Trust to meet the outstanding Matching Share The exercise price of the options Amendments to the Share Matching grants and awards of Performance Shares granted under the Executive Share Plan were approved by shareholders at on 31 December 2006 was 635,594.
In Option Scheme is equal to the market the 2006 AGM that permitted a addition, the shares held by the Trust value of the Companys shares at the payment to be made in cash or shares under the Restricted Share Award at 31 time when the options were granted.
on the vesting of an award equivalent to December 2006 amounted to 60,680. the dividends that would have been In the event of a change in control of paid on the shares that vest during the In the event of a change in control, all the Company, any options granted are performance period.
PSP awards will vest early to the extent exercisable within one month of the that the performance conditions have, option holders being notified of the When any grant of matching shares is or would have, in the opinion of the change in control.
In such approved, the Company ensures that Remuneration Committee, been satisfied circumstances the performance there are sufficient shares to cover the up to the date of the relevant event.
However, in projected number of shares required to Awards will also be pro-rated to reflect exceptional circumstances the meet the maximum match for the the reduced period of time between the Committee may, at its discretion, treat current year, together with the number commencement of the performance the performance condition as satisfied of shares required to cover previous period and the date of vesting relative to taking into account the underlying awards based on performance to date a period of three years, unless the performance of the Company up until within the vesting period and Committee determines that a pro-rata the relevant event.
projections for the coming year.
These reduction would be inappropriate in the shares are held in the Johnston Press circumstances.
b A SAYE Share Option Scheme for plc Employee Share Trust.
The number eligible employees under which options of shares held by the Trust relating to Options outstanding in the Executive may be granted at a discount of up to the Share Matching Plan on 31 Share Option Scheme are shown below 20% of market value.
Consistent with December 2006 was 235,594. and in note 32 to the financial the legislation and normal practice, the statements.
All options are granted for SAYE Option Scheme does not require d A Share Incentive Plan SIP for all nil consideration.
These options are only the imposition of performance eligible employees.
The SIP is in two capable of being exercised if the conditions.
parts: a Partnership Scheme, which compound real growth in the Groups allows employees to purchase shares in underlying earnings per share is The ten year term of the Johnston Press the Company on a monthly basis between 3% to 5% depending on the Group 1997 Savings-Related Share in a tax efficient manner.
The second level of the grant.
In order to exercise a Option Scheme has come to an end.
A element is a Free Shares Scheme, grant above 0.5 times or above 1 times proposal to introduce a new ten year which provides employees who have salary, the growth in the Groups Scheme will be considered at the joined the Scheme with free shares.
The underlying earnings per share must Annual General Meeting and full details shares are held in a Trust, administered exceed the growth in the retail price are outlined in the circular to by Halifax plc, and after a period of five 54 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 years the shares will be available to be a holding to the value of 100% of salary contribution which is a total cost to the held beneficially by employees free of has been achieved.
Company of 50% of salary per annum any tax and national insurance.
For Free including the tax cost.
For the first quarter Shares, the Committee sets a minimum At 31 December 2006 the total amount of of 2006 this contribution was paid to an Group profit target and a base fund to options granted, less lapsed, over new unapproved scheme, which after the tax be utilised to purchase shares in the issuable shares under all option schemes cost was equivalent to a contribution of Company.
Performance above the over the previous 10 years was 4.0% of 27% of salary per annum.
For the rest of target generates additional amounts the issued share capital with a maximum the year the contribution was paid to a payable into the fund on a sliding scale limit of 10%.
defined contribution scheme up to the up to a maximum payout.
The Free revised pension contribution cap effective Shares are allocated to employees Pension Arrangements from 6 April 2006 and as a salary based on hours worked and are not Throughout 2006, the Group operated one supplement for the contribution above that pro rata to salary.
In 2006, the profit main pension scheme for employees, the cap.
These pension provisions were achievement did not meet the maximum Johnston Press Pension Plan JPPP, with revised during 2002 and in order to target set by the Committee and defined benefit and defined contribution compensate Mr Bowdler for the changes therefore a restricted award was made.
The defined benefit section is to his detriment, the Annual General closed to new members.
Two schemes Meeting in that year approved an award of It is not possible to invite employees were transferred into the JPPP during the 169,896 Restricted Shares to Mr Bowdler.
based in the Republic of Ireland to year.
On 3 January 2006, following a He is entitled to acquire a proportion of participate in the SIP.
A proposal to change in regulations, the remainder of the these shares every six months for a cost of consider a scheme as close as Regional Independent Media Pension 1 until 2009.
No performance conditions possible to the Free Share Scheme will Plan, representing deferred and pensioner apply to the Restricted Shares as they be considered at the Annual General members, was merged into the JPPP and were granted to replace reduced pension Meeting.
Full details are outlined in on 1 November 2006 The Scotsman rights.
Mr Cammiade is a member of the the circular to shareholders dated Pension Plan was likewise merged.
This executive section of the JPPP.
Mr S R 7 March 2007. latter scheme was inherited by the Group Paterson does not participate in the JPPP when it purchased The Scotsman and the Company has agreed instead to The Company Secretary is responsible for Publications Ltd on 4 January 2006.
The make a contribution equivalent to 20% of ensuring the exercise criteria are met for assets of the JPPP are totally separate his basic salary into his private pension all the Share Schemes and this is verified from the assets of the Company and of scheme.
This contribution increases to by the Committee.
The EPS performance the Group, and are invested by 25% from his 50th birthday.
With effect criteria, which applies to all Executive independent fund managers.
from 1 January 2005, the Company has Directors to whom options have been also agreed to match any additional annual granted under the Schemes except the A professional independent trustee and contribution made by Mr S R Paterson, up SAYE Share Option Scheme and to member nominated trustees are appointed to a maximum of 5% of salary.
awards granted under the Share Matching to the pension scheme.
A firm of external Plan and one half of an award under the actuaries and consultants act as advisers.
The changes to the pension regime which Performance Share Plan, was chosen as it Pension scheme members receive a came into effect in April 2006 have not requires significant improvement in report from the trustees and a statement resulted in an increase in the overall cost of pension provision for the Group.
financial performance before options of their actuarial benefits each year.
The Committee will same was true of those schemes that ensure that EPS is calculated on as have now merged into JPPP.
Following the acquisitions in 2005, there consistent a basis as feasible.
The other are three final salary schemes in the half of an award granted to Executive Contributions to the JPPP defined benefit Republic of Ireland.
Two are industry wide Directors under the Performance Share section are at a rate of 17% for all schemes and the third is for a small Plan is subject to a TSR based members with the exception of the number of employees in Limerick.
There performance measure, which the members transferred from The Scotsman are no financial implications to the Group Committee considers align the interests of Pension Plan where a rate of 15.5% if these schemes are terminated.
The directors with shareholders by requiring applies.
The executive section of the Plan Groups obligation to these schemes is superior total shareholder return provides for a retirement age of 62, a included in Long Term Provisions in note performance compared to the companies maximum pension of two thirds of salary 26.
The Group also inherited a number of in the comparator group.
based on either a 45th accrual rate or a defined contribution schemes.
full 2 3rds at retirement date, a members Options under b above are satisfied by contribution of 10.5% of salary with a During 2006 the Group received approval the issue of new shares.
As indicated spouses pension of a third of pensionable for a new defined contribution scheme for above, the Companys Employee Share salary in the event of death in service.
the Republic of Ireland and all employees Trust currently holds shares purchased in There are no provisions for beneficial in that country were invited to join.
the open market sufficient to meet awards rights on early retirement.
The employee under a and c. Shares are purchased in and employer contributions were Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have the open market to satisfy the Free Shares increased in 2005 to increase the funding award within d. level of the scheme which is currently in specific terms of engagement and their deficit.
remuneration is determined by the Board Executive Directors are expected to retain within the limits set by the Articles of 50% of shares which vest under executive Mr T J Bowdler participates in the JPPP Association and based on independent share plans, after allowing for sufficient for a pension of two-thirds of the scheme surveys of fees paid to non-executive sales of shares to meet tax liabilities, until specific salary limit.
He also receives a directors of similar companies.
The basic Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 55 Directors Remuneration Report - continued annual fee paid to each Non-Executive 2007.
The first of the three changes is to over the six half years in 2007-2009, Director is 35,000.
The Non-Executives suspend the operation of the Share ROCE exceeds the Companys Weighted receive further fees for additional work Matching Plan, which is entirely EPS Average Cost of Capital WACC by 2%.
performed for the Company in respect of based and which the Committee For full vesting, average ROCE must the chairing of the Remuneration considers will not motivate Senior exceed WACC by 4%, with there being Committee and Audit Committee, Executives for the foreseeable future.
The pro rata vesting for intermediate together with the responsibilities as second is to increase the level of annual performance.
In 2006 the Companys Chairman and Senior Independent bonus potential for Executive Directors ROCE exceeded WACC by 2%.
Non-Executive Directors cannot with an increased deferral in shares.
participate in the bonus plans or in any Forfeiture provisions have been added for The Committee wishes to reserve the of the Companys Share Schemes and bad leavers.
The level of bonus and flexibility to change the ROCE targets for are not eligible to join the Companys compulsory deferral has been increased to subsequent awards but they must be pension schemes.
Of the 150% considered not materially less maximum bonus, for 2007, 35% of salary challenging in the circumstances than Senior Executives Below Board Level will be based on individual key the ones set out above and will only be The five elements of the remuneration performance targets.
The remaining bonus applied after consultation with major package are described on page 52.
The will be profit related and less than 50% of investors.
In addition, the Committee salaries are determined by the Executive this element will now be payable for may vary the targets applying to existing Directors after consultation with the achieving a target set by the Board on the awards to take account of exceptional Remuneration Committee based on recommendation of the Remuneration events, including changes to accounting individual roles and responsibilities.
The remaining 50% of the standards and significant acquisitions, targets for the performance related profit related bonus will be payable for provided that the Committee considers bonuses are primarily profit related but above target performance and the that the amended targets are fair and also include personal performance based Committee has stretched the targets for reasonable and that the targets are not targets.
The maximum bonus for 2006 achievement of full bonus.
In the current materially less challenging than the was 75% of salary.
Most of the Executives trading environment, the Committee original ones would have been but for are members of the defined benefit considers that it will be easier to set the event in question.
The Company meaningful relevant and robust annual contributes a maximum of 12% of salary targets rather than long term ones.
The structure of the ROCE based element to those who are members of the defined will also apply to certain key Senior contribution scheme.
The Performance The other change relates to the EPS target Executives and the maximum bonus and Share Plan and Share Matching Plan within the Performance Share Plan.
The deferral for these Executives has been benefits are as described for the Executive TSR element of the PSP described above increased to 100% and 30% but this will Directors except the maximum level of will remain.
The EPS related element of depend on the level of seniority.
PSP awards made in 2006 was 50% of the PSP will be replaced with a target salary.
The other difference applying to based on Return on Capital Employed Senior Executives is that a minimum of ROCE.
The Committee has chosen this 20% and maximum of 60% of the alternative to motivate the Executives to performance related bonus must be maximise the returns from the capital invested in the Share Matching Plan.
invested in the business and that the financial efficiency of the business is Changes in 2007 optimised.
ROCE is defined as profit net As explained on page 53, following of tax but before interest divided by consultation with major investors, the shareholders funds plus net debt.
For the Committee is making a number of 2007 award, 25% of the ROCE related changes to the remuneration policy for part of the award will vest if, on average 56 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector also measured by total shareholder return.
The FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector have been selected for this comparison because the former measures the performance of stocks in general and the latter measures the performance of companies operating in the same sector as the Group.
5 Year Return Index for Johnston Press as at 31 December 2006 200 Total Shareholder Return 180 Johnston Press 160 Total Shareholder Return 140 FTSE 350 120 Total Shareholder Return 100 FTSE Media Sector 80 60 40 20 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Directors Remuneration - Audited Section a The total amounts for Directors remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2006 2005 000 000 Emoluments 2,128 1,614 Gains on exercise of share options 722 658 Money purchase contributions 284 190 3,134 2,462 All of the gains on the exercise of share options were cashless with the gain, after taxation, being converted into increased shareholdings for the executive directors.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 57 Relative TSR Directors Remuneration Report - continued c Pension Benefits The following Directors had accrued pension benefits under the Groups defined benefit scheme: Total Increase in Total Transfer value of Increase in Years of accrued accrued Transfer accrued total accrued value of pensionable pension at pension value of pension at pension at pension service 31.12.05 during year increase 31.12.06 31.12.05 31.12.06 during year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 T J Bowdler 13 59 5 41 64 991 1,152 161 D Cammiade 16 103 18 196 121 1,426 1,712 286 H C M Johnston 12 17 1 4 18 285 299 14 Mr Cammiade and Mr H C M Johnston were members of the Group Pension Schemes before the introduction of the pensionable salary cap in May 1989.
The pension arrangements for Mr T J Bowdler were varied in 2002 and the above figures now only represent his total final salary benefit.
Further details of his pension provision are explained on page 55.
In addition to the above, the Group funded 199,000 and 85,000 into defined contribution schemes for Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R Paterson respectively.
All Executive Directors have life cover of four times basic salary.
The matching awards granted within the Share Matching Plan are exercisable for a nominal total payment of 1 as shown below.
The matching factor ranges from 0.5 times to 1.5 times the number of shares granted for awards made before 2006 and from 2006 onwards the matching factor ranges from 0.5 times to 2 times.
The exercises from this scheme during the year were matched at 1.5 times the number of shares granted.
54,258 between 22.03.2007 and 21.03.2014 - market price on grant 498.25p 37,296 between 21.03.2008 and 20.03.2015 - market price on grant 540.00p 17,988 between 30.05.2009 and 29.05.2016 - market price on grant 453.00p The awards within the Performance Share Plan are exercisable at nil cost at the end of the three year vesting period as shown below.
The options, matching awards and performance shares listed above, other than those in the Restricted Share Scheme, are only exercisable subject to the level of achievement of the performance criteria denoted in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The middle market price of the Ordinary Shares was as follows: On 1 January 2006 465.50p Highest price during year 496.25p On 31 December 2006 392.50p Lowest price during year 370.00p This Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Waugh Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 59
