M ME EG GG GI IT TT P T PL LC C R RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 13 3 8 8 Market review Civil aerospace Meggitts principal markets, civil aerospace 45% of revenue, military 38% and energy Civil aerospace accounts for 45% of Group revenue, with products and sub-systems 11%, are characterised by long life-cycles installed on almost every jet airliner, and the requirement for smart engineering regional aircraft and business jet in for extreme environments.
The global fleet of civil aircraft on which Meggitt has content continues to ranges from thermal management, condition grow, totalling over 41,000 aircraft today.
monitoring and wheel, brake and brake control New aircraft deliveries drive sales of systems to high-integrity electronics and fire original equipment, and aircraft utilisation protection systems.
Some of these capabilities generates demand for spare parts and repairs over many decades.
have applications beyond our core markets, making up the remaining 6% of Group revenues.
Original equipment Aircraft deliveries encompass large jets 100 seats, regional aircraft 100 seats and business jets.
Large jet deliveries in 2013 stood at a record 1,279, 8% higher than in 2012.
Continued growth is underpinned by an order book at the two major civil aircraft manufacturers, Boeing and Airbus, stretching out for seven years at current Revenue by market production levels, bolstered by new 1,637.3 millions aircraft manufacturers investing in the large jet market including Bombardier, Sukhoi and COMAC.
The high level of demand for new aircraft deliveries is driven primarily by high oil prices, the relatively low cost of debt and the wave of newer, more fuel-efficient aircraft coming Civil to market including Boeings 787 and 736.2 | 45% 737MAX and Airbus A350XWB and A320neo.
Military 616.4 | 38% Regional aircraft deliveries of 263 represented an 11% increase on 2012, with Energy & other growth driven by 70-plus seat aircraft.
284.7 | 17% Growth looks set to continue over the medium term, mirroring the growing internationalisation of the regional aircraft fleet beyond the US.
Business jet deliveries totalled 637, an 8% decrease on 2012.
Deliveries are still 50% below the peak of 2008.
However, inventories are continuing to decline and corporate profitability, historically a good driver of business jet demand, is forecast to rise in the coming years.
As with regional aircraft, the fleet is becoming more globalcustomers in the Americas comprise 76% of the global business jet fleet but order trends suggest this will move to less than 60% over the next decade.
Over the medium term, we see deliveries continuing to recover, driven by an improved economic growth outlook in developed economies and the large number of new aircraft models.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA ANC NCE E R RE EP POR ORT TS S F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S S SU UP PP PLE LEM ME ENT NTA AR RY Y I IN NF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N 9 9 Meggitt performance America.
Business jet utilisation in the Large jet delivery forecast Meggitts original equipment OE revenue US and Europe continued to exhibit the grew organically by 11% in 2013.
Large jet gradual improvement seen for the last two 1,800 deliveries drive the majority of our OE years, with take-offs and landings in 2013 1,537 1,507 1,462 revenues, involving the supply of products up 1% versus 2012.
We would normally 1,410 1,500 1,350 and sub-systems on engines and airframes expect our aftermarket revenues to follow 1,279 1,189 across thermal and fluid control, fire these leading indicators after a lag of a 1,200 protection, condition-monitoring and few months.
Our largest 900 exposure to regional aircraft and business Meggitt performance jets is through our wheels and brakes Meggitt's organic aftermarket revenue was 600 business, which provides most original flat for the year, but up 3% in the fourth equipment free of charge to civil aircraft quarter, which is below the growth rate we 300 manufacturers.
The strong OE performance would expect given the rise in aircraft is also driven in part by our high shipset utilisation over the course of the year.
This 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 values on new aircraft programmes, with is primarily due to a continuation of the Source: Meggitt management estimates order books and delivery forecasts for these destocking seen in 2012.
Also, the bulk of programmes giving us confidence in future ASK growth has been met by new aircraft, growth prospects with a medium term typically under warranty for three to five growth target of 7-8% per annum.
years after initial delivery, holding back Regional aircraft delivery forecast growth in aftermarket demand.
The rate of new aircraft deliveries has also driven a 400 Aftermarket higher than normal rate of older aircraft The civil aerospace aftermarket is driven cannibalisation and created a surplus of 307 292 278 primarily by aircraft utilisation which, in spare parts.
300 271 263 258 the case of large jets and regional aircraft, 237 Regional aircraft and business jets are is measured using available seat important contributors to the Groups 200 kilometres ASKs.
We use take-offs and aftermarket revenue and the recovery in landings as a proxy for business jet regional aircraft utilisation in 2013 helped performance.
offset the effects of destocking at a 100 significant large business jet customer.
ASKs in the commercial aircraft fleet grew modestly in the first half of 2013, Aircraft utilisation remains very accelerating to give a full-year growth encouraging, with ASKs now tracking 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 number of 4.5%, close to the 5% long term above the long term average.
This gives us Source: Meggitt management estimates average.
The Middle East and Africa saw confidence in our medium term view of particularly strong growth, with the US annual growth in aftermarket revenue of 8 market showing a steady recovery.
to 9%, after some of the current cyclical Regional aircraft utilisation picked up factors reduce in impact.
production, storage and offload FPSO and Military accounts for 38% of Group We expect to continue to do so over the floating liquefied natural gas FLNG revenue.
Meggitt has equipment on over medium term.
We have enjoyed vessels, markets which are set to grow 20,000 aircraft and a variety of ground considerable success, for example, further in the coming years.
vehicles, naval vessels and training securing retrofit programmes such as installations worldwide.
During 2013, 61% Meggitt performance blast-proof fuel tanks for the Bradley of our military revenue came from US Meggitts energy revenue grew 5% in 2013. fighting vehicle fleet and fuel bladders for customers, with 23% from Europe and 16% Sales to power generation customers the KC135 tanker aircraft.
While we have from the rest of the world.
were broadly flat and sales to oil and gas now completed the Bradley retrofit customers, principally through our Heatric contract and the KC135 contract is winding Defence budgets in some key markets printed circuit heat exchanger business, down, there are further opportunities for were under pressure in 2013, notably in grew 11%.
ground vehicle fuel tank retrofits and good the US where the effect of Continuing growth in platforms on which we have Resolution plus sequestration affected We saw good growth in our industrial content such as the A400M, P-8 Poseidon spending levels and the timing and size of valves business.
Growth in our energy and F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
However, European markets were condition-monitoring segment was, we are targeting 2% organic revenue stable and parts of the Middle East and however, hampered by a key raw material growth in the medium term, excluding the Asia saw budget growth.
The US defence shortage and some production issues impact of sequestration.
budget remains constrained, although the following the opening of our new facility Bipartisan Budget Act of December 2013 in Southern California in October.
These alleviated some pressure by reducing the Energy issues are now under control and we look proposed cuts in 2014 and 2015 by $22 forward to resuming growth in this Our energy business accounted for 11% of billion and $9 billion respectively.
business, augmented by the enhanced Group revenue in 2013.
We target power functionality of our VibroSight conditionGlobal defence spending is likely to remain generation and oil and gas markets with monitoring system which provides more restrained.
As the operational tempo in condition-monitoring hardware and information, better analysis and new Afghanistan slows down, this is likely to software, control valves and printed circuit decision support features to operators of reduce equipment utilisation levels, heat exchanger technology.
limiting the demand for spare parts and The market for condition monitoring and repairs.
However, opportunities remain for Our Heatric business continued to grow control valves has continued to grow, as reset and upgrade of repatriated nicely in 2013, with good progress made high input costs drive operators to extract equipment and supplying new products as against the significant contract wins we greater efficiency from their assets.
As a significant tranche of military assets have enjoyed in the last few years.
This newer, more capable monitoring reaches the end of their useful lives.
business is characterised by large, technologies come to market, operators infrequent orders resulting in uneven will maximise their asset utilisation and Meggitt performance growth.
We are confident, however, that minimise unplanned downtime by Meggitts military revenue declined heightened activity levels in the FPSO and retrofitting new condition-monitoring organically by 3% in 2013a very creditable FLNG markets will deliver further strong systems onto existing plant and machinery.
performance given the market backdrop.
growth over the next few years from the Within this, sales to the US declined by 6%, 600 million pipeline of opportunities in The oil and gas heat transfer market sales to Europe increased by 12% and sales which we are actively engaged.
Exploration and production to the rest of the world increased by 4%.
companies are increasingly turning to Our confidence in our positioning in extraction sites which are further offshore Our exposure to a broad range of fixed and this market is reflected in our medium and in deeper water, necessitating the rotary wing aircraft, ground vehicles, term growth target of greater than 10% commissioning of new equipment designed training facilities and naval vessels across per annum.
to operate in these increasingly harsh original equipment and aftermarket environments.
These factors have resulted spares and repairs, has enabled us to MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA ANC NCE E R RE EP POR ORT TS S F FI INAN NANC CI IAL AL S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S S SU UP PP PLE LEM ME ENT NTA AR RY Y I IN NF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N 11 11 I want to build a complete valve out of Strategy insight components made through 3-D printing, Deliver innovation strap it on a test engine and run it for 4,000 hours.
Stewart Chapman Engineering Director, Meggitt Control Systems, Dunstable, UK ted as the next disruptive technology in an ever-growing Over time, Meggitt believes the technology could be present in mound of press cuttings, Meggitt is already using 3-D many of its product lines, enabling more precise use of raw Fprinting additive layer manufacturingALM for materials, providing additional functionality and lowering aerospace components.
To ensure the approach is not dispersed inventory as small, complex products are printed on demand.
and shallow, the Groups research and technology team is For now, Meggitt is content to create a supply chain ready coordinating a project to ensure Meggitts in-house capability to design and certify a product for a military jet, on point to counts, creating its own powders, forging its own design respond to its customers as the technology processes mature methodology and, over the longer term, making its own and customers own ALM strategies coalesce.
