MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 68 Directors report The directors present their report together with the audited Directors consolidated financial statements of the Group prepared in The directors of the Company who were in office during the year accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as and up to the date of signing the financial statements were: adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU Sir Colin Terry Chairman, Mr T Twigger retired from the Board and the Companies Act 2006 and Company audited financial on 1 May 2013, Mr S G Young Chief Executive, Mr G S Berruyer, statements prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Mr P G Cox, Mr P E Green, Mr P Heiden, Ms B L Reichelderfer, Mr Accounting Practice UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006 D A Robins, Mr D R Webb appointed 6 June 2013 and Mr D M for the year ended 31 December 2013.
There have been no changes in directors since the end of the year up to the date of Incorporation by reference this Directors report.
Certain laws and regulations require that specific information All directors will be submitted for election or re-election at the should be included in the Directors report: the following Annual General Meeting AGM, except Mr D A Robins who is due information is incorporated into this Directors report by to retire at the AGM.
Details of any unexpired terms of the reference: directors service contracts are in the Directors remuneration L ikely future developments in the Groups business page 1 to report.
Membership of committees and biographical information 34. is disclosed on page 37 and in the notice of AGM.
The Corporate Governance Report page 35 to 46.
The directors have the benefit of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of Section 236 of the Companies Act Research and development activities page 28.
2006 pursuant to the Articles which were in effect throughout the Policies on financial risk management, including the extent to financial year and up to the date of this Directors report.
The which financial instruments are utilised to mitigate any Company also purchased and maintained throughout the year significant risks to which the Group is exposed are set out Directors and Officers liability insurance.
No indemnity is in note 3 of the Groups consolidated financial statements page provided for the Companys auditors.
Conflicts of interest Greenhouse gas emissions page 32.
The Company has a procedure for the disclosure, review, Employee information page 34 : authorisation and management of directors conflicts of interest employee involvement: and and potential conflicts of interest, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In deciding whether to employment of disabled persons.
authorise a conflict or potential conflict the directors must have Independent auditorsdisclosure of relevant audit regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006. information page 70.
The authorisation of any conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation, are regularly reviewed by the Board.
There are no significant events affecting the Group since the end of the year requiring disclosure.
Political donations Dividends No political donations were made during the year 2012: none.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of Share capital and control 8.80p net per ordinary 5p share 2012: 8.20p, to be paid on 9 May 2014 to those members on the register at close of business on The issued share capital of the Company at 31 December 2013 14 March 2014.
An interim dividend of 3.95p 2012: 3.60p was and details of shares issued during the financial year are shown paid on 4 October 2013.
If the final dividend as recommended in note 34 of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
On 31 is approved the total ordinary dividend for the year will amount December 2013 there were 797,045,208 ordinary shares in issue.
A further 379,202 ordinary shares were issued between 1 January 2014 and 25 February 2014, all of which were issued as a Dividends are paid to shareholders net of a non-refundable tax result of the exercise of share awards.
The ordinary shares are credit of 10%.
Shareholders liable to higher rates of income tax listed on the London Stock Exchange.
will have additional tax to pay.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Shareholders will be offered a scrip dividend alternative shares are set out in the Articles.
A copy of the Articles is under the share dividend plan in respect of the proposed final available for inspection at the registered office.
During 2013, the Company made the Meggitt PLC ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report share dividend plan available for the dividends paid in May 2013 and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the the final dividend for 2012 and in October 2013 the interim Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting rights and dividend for 2013.
The cash dividend necessary to give an to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
entitlement to one new ordinary share was fixed at 482.02p and 534.80p respectively.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 69 There are no restrictions on transfer, or limitations on holding Agreements providing compensation in the event of a takeover bid: ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any Director Contractual entitlement transfers.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by persons other than holders of the Mr S G Young None except that provisions in the Companys shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share share plans may cause options and or awards transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company granted to employees under such plans to vest share plans rank pari passu on an equal footing with the shares on a takeover.
in issue and have no special rights.
Mr D R Webb None except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards Rules about the appointment and replacement of Company granted to employees under such plans to vest directors are contained in the Articles which provide that a on a takeover.
director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the existing directors, either to fill a vacancy Mr P E Green Mr Green may terminate his employment within or as an additional director.
Changes to the Articles must be six months and would be entitled to submitted to the shareholders for approval by way of special compensation from the Company for loss of resolution.
The directors may exercise all the powers of the office.
The compensation would be annual Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the remuneration plus the value of benefits for the Articles and any directions given by the Company in general unexpired notice period less 5%.
provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and or awards granted to The powers of the directors include those in relation to the issue employees under such plans to vest on and buyback of shares.
At each AGM, the shareholders are a takeover.
requested to renew the directors powers to allot securities in the Company up to the value specified in the notice of meeting and to Non-executive None.
renew the directors powers to allot securities without the directors application of pre-emption rights up to the value specified in the All other There are no agreements that would provide notice of meeting in accordance with the Articles.
The Company employees compensation for loss of employment resulting can seek authority from the shareholders at the AGM to purchase from a takeover except that provisions in the its own shares.
Companys share plans may cause options and or awards granted to employees under such The Group has significant financing agreements which include plans to vest on a takeover.
change of control provisions which, should there be a change of ownership of the Company, could result in renegotiation, Substantial shareholdings withdrawal or early repayment of these financing agreements.
These are a USD 400 million revolving credit agreement dated At 25 February 2014, the Company had been notified under the July 2012, a USD 700 million revolving credit agreement dated Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the following April 2011, a USD 600 million note purchase agreement dated substantial interests in the issued ordinary shares of the June 2010 and a USD 250 million note purchase agreement dated Company requiring disclosure: Percentage of June 2003. total voting rights attaching There are a number of other long-term commercial agreements to the issued that may alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Indirect ordinary share Company following a successful takeover bid.
These Direct voting voting capital of the rights m rights m Company arrangements are commercially confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 119.5 15.02% FMR LLC 40.6 5.09% Standard Life Investments Ltd 22.2 3.8 3.25% Legal & General Group plc 23.7 2.97% One voting right per ordinary share.
These holdings are published on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 70 Directors report continued Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in Statement of directors responsibilities the Board of Directors on page 37, confirm that to the best of The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, their knowledge: the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to of the Group: and prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the Company financial statements in the strategic report and this Directors report include a fair accordance with UK GAAP.
Under company law, the directors review of the development and performance of the business must not approve the financial statements unless they are and the position of the Group, together with a description of the satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Each of the persons who is a director as at the date of this report Group for that period.
confirms that: In preparing these financial statements, the directors are s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit required to: information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and s elect suitable accounting policies and apply them t he director has taken all the necessary steps in order to make consistently: himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and m ake judgements and accounting estimates that are to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that reasonable and prudent: and information.
s tate whether IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the UK have This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies and explained in the Group and Company financial statements Act 2006. respectively.
Fair, balanced and understandable The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting The directors as at the date of this report consider that the records that are sufficient to: i show and explain the Groups Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and the Companys transactions: ii disclose with reasonable and understandable and provides the information necessary for accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business Company: and iii enable them to ensure that the financial model and strategy.
The Board has made this assessment on the statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with basis of a review of the accounts process, a discussion on the the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial content of the annual report assessing its fairness, balance and statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards understandability, together with the confirmation from executive Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the management that the report is fair, balanced and assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking understandable.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and By order of the Board other irregularities.
