Melrose Industries PLC 14 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Business strategy Melrose buys good manufacturing businesses with strong fundamentals, whose performance can be improved.
Melrose finances its acquisitions using a low level of leverage, improves the businesses by a mixture of investment and changed management focus, sells them and returns the proceeds to shareholders.
Melrose business strategy Buy Improve Good manufacturing businesses whose Set strategy and targets and sign off investments performance can be improved Drive operational improvements Use low public market leverage Invest in the business Change management focus, incentivise well Focus on operating cash generation p. 16 p. 18 Profit made by improved Capital realised acquisition performance from markets Melrose business principles Governance The Board of Directors remains committed to maintaining the GOV RES high standards of corporate governance required to ensure the Company can continue to deliver its long-term strategic goals for shareholders.
As part of this approach, the Board supports the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code as it applied to the year ended 31 December 2013.
Melrose areas of operation Elster Gas Elster Electricity Elster Water p. 22 p. 24 p. 26 Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 15 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Returns to shareholders Sell Identify the optimal time to sell, often between three to five years but flexible Melrose Return value to shareholders from Melrose management team significant disposals Group own a substantial Capital realised shareholding in Profit made the Company p. 20 Responsibility Operational and financial efficiency Melrose is not a passive investor in the businesses it acquires.
Through supporting the development of employees, developing and OFE maintaining close ties with stakeholders and minimising waste, Melrose Our Directors and senior management team have a hands-on relationship with each acquired company and work closely with believes good corporate social responsibility is not only desirable in its own right but also makes good business sense.
Group companies them to develop the long-term strategic plans of the business, as well as having regular input on restructuring decisions, work closely with their local communities, engaging with them and capital expenditure and working capital management.
building relationships with charities and environmental organisations.
