Melrose Industries PLC 58 Annual Report 2013 Governance Directors report The Directors of Melrose Industries PLC Pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Act and a special resolution passed at the AGM in 2013, the Company was authorised to theCompany present their Annual Report purchase its own shares, limited to an aggregate maximum number andaudited financial statements of the Group equal to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Following forthe year ended 31December 2013. the Share Capital Consolidation defined below, this authority ceased to be valid.
The Company did not purchase any Ordinary The Corporate Governance report set out on pages 62 to 65, the Shares pursuant to this authority.
The resolutions being proposed Finance Directors review on pages 40 to 47 and the Corporate at this years AGM include a resolution to renew this authority.
Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on pages 48 to 53, are each incorporated by reference into this Directors Insurance and indemnities report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report are crossThe Directors have the benefit of an indemnity from the Company referenced where appropriate: taken together, they fulfil the in respect of its liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
combined requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act This indemnity is provided under the Companys Articles and and of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing satisfies the indemnity provisions of the Act.
Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect of those Details of significant events since the Balance Sheet date are liabilities for which the Directors may not be indemnified.
Neither contained in note 29 to the financial statements.
An indication of the indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that likely future developments in Group businesses is included within a Director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
AGM Directors The AGM of the Company will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, The Directors of the Company as at the date of this report, Monkwell Square, Wood Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00am on together with their biographical details, are given on pages 56 and 13May 2014.
The notice convening the meeting is shown on pages 57.
There were no other persons who, at any time during the year 146 to 151 and includes full details of the resolutions to be proposed, ended 31December 2013, were Directors of the Company.
together with explanatory notes in relation to such resolutions.
Changes to the Board during the year are set out in the Post Balance Sheet events Corporate Governance report on pages 62 to 65.
Details of In the second half of the year ended 31December 2013, the Directors service contracts are set out in the Directors Company completed the disposals of five of its FKI businesses, remuneration report on page 83. namely Crosby, Acco, Marelli, Truth and Harris, for a total The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the consideration of approximately 950million see note 9 to the consolidated financial statements is set out on page 85. financial statements for further details.
In accordance with its strategy, the Board decided to use part of the net proceeds Appointment and removal of Directors and their powers ofthe disposals to return approximately 600million in cash The Companys articles of association Articles give the toshareholders the Return of Capital.
At the time of such Directors the power to appoint and replace other Directors.
decision, this return was equivalent to 47 pence per existing Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, Ordinary Share of 0.1 pence nominal value each in the capital of any appointment must be recommended by the Nomination the Company in issue at that time the Existing Ordinary Shares.
Committee for approval by the Board.
The Return of Capital was approved by shareholders at a general With effect from the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM, meeting of the Company held on 7February 2014, using a the Board determined that all Directors of the Company should redeemable share scheme in this case involving B Shares and or stand for re-election on an annual basis, in compliance with C Shares and was structured with the objective of enabling the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and this shareholders, subject to restrictions in respect of certain requirement is now contained in the Articles.
Therefore, all overseas shareholders, to elect to receive their cash proceeds Directors will offer themselves for election or re-election at the of47 pence per Existing Ordinary Share as: AGM to be held on 13May 2014. an immediate income payment the Income Option : or The Companys Senior non-executive Director, Miles Templeman, an immediate capital payment the Immediate Capital has confirmed that he will retire from the Board at the conclusion Option : or of the 2014 AGM and so will not stand for re-election.
Miles will be replaced in the position of Senior non-executive Director by a capital payment deferred until after 6April 2014 the Deferred Perry Crosthwaite.
Capital Option, collectively the Share Alternatives.
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Shareholders were also offered a mix and match facility, such Company and exercise their powers in accordance with the that they could choose to receive the cash proceeds through any Articles, directions given by special resolution and any relevant combination of the Share Alternatives.
Specific powers relating to the allotment Only shareholders who were on the register of members at and issuance of shares and the ability of the Company to 5.00p.
m. on 7February 2014 the B C Share Record Date purchase its own shares are also included within the Articles and were entitled to participate in the Return of Capital and the such authorities are submitted for approval by the shareholders deadline for shareholders making their elections in respect at the AGM each year.
of the Share Alternatives was 4.30 p. m. on 14February 2014.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 59 Annual Report 2013 Governance Further details of the Share Alternatives are listed in the table below, together with details of the number of Existing Ordinary Shares in respect of which each Share Alternative was chosen by shareholders.
Number of Existing Ordinary Shares in respect of which Share 1 Share Alternative Details of Share Alternative Alternative chosen Income Option Relevant shareholders received one C Share, with a nominal value of 0.00001 pence, for 757,503,886 every Existing Ordinary Share held at the B C Share Record Date and a single C Share dividend of 47 pence per C Share held.
The single C Share dividend became due and payable on 17February 2014 and, thereafter, the C Shares were automatically converted into C Deferred Shares with a nominal value of 0.00001 pence each.
Proceeds in respect of the Income Option were paid to relevant shareholders on 28February 2014 and the C Deferred Shares will be redeemed by the Company on 30April 2014 or such other date as the Directors may determine for an aggregate consideration of one penny.
Immediate Capital Option Relevant shareholders received one B Share, with a nominal value of 47 pence, for every 493,363,270 Existing Ordinary Share held at the B C Share Record Date and have such B Share s redeemed by the Company on 17February 2014.
Proceeds in respect of the Immediate Capital Option were paid to relevant shareholders on 28February 2014.
Deferred Capital Option Relevant shareholders received one B Share, with a nominal value of 47 pence, for every 15,759,880 Existing Ordinary Share held at the B C Share Record Date and have such B Share s redeemed by the Company on 30April 2014 or such other date as the Directors may determine.
Proceeds in respect of the Deferred Capital Option will be paid to relevant shareholders on 7May 2014 or such other date as the Directors may determine.
1 Neither the Immediate Capital Option, nor the Deferred Capital Option, were made available to any shareholders with a registered address in, or who were resident or located in, Australia, Canada, Japan, New Zealand, the Republic of South Africa, United States and any other territory where the invitation to participate in the Return of Capital proposals and any election for either the Immediate Capital Option and or the Deferred Capital Option in respect of all or some of such shareholders entitlement to the Return of Capital would violate the laws of that jurisdiction or would require the registration of the B Shares, C Shares and or C Deferred Shares and all such shareholders were automatically deemed to have elected for the Income Option.
Associated with the Return of Capital, a one-off Ordinary Share Capital structure capital consolidation was approved by shareholders at the The table below shows details of the Companys issued share general meeting of the Company held on 7February 2014, in capital as at 31December 2012, 31December 2013 and theratio of 11 for 13 the Share Capital Consolidation and the immediately following the Share Capital Consolidation becoming record date for the Share Capital Consolidation was 6.00pm on effective on 10February 2014. the same day the Share Capital Consolidation Record Date.
10February 2014 post the The aim of the Share Capital Consolidation was to ensure, 31December 31December Share Capital sofaras possible, that the market price of an Ordinary Share Share class 2012 2013 Consolidation remained approximately the same before and after the Return Existing Ordinary 1,266,627,036 1,266,627,036 Nil Shares of ofCapital and, so far as possible, to maintain comparability of 0.1penceeach historical and future per share data.
1 New Ordinary Shares Nil Nil 1,071,761,339 The Share Capital Consolidation was effected by the sub-division of 13 110 pence each of every Existing Ordinary Share into 11 shares of 1 110 pence 1 Fractional entitlements resulting from the Share Capital Consolidation were aggregated each in the capital of the Company and, forthwith upon such and sold in the market on shareholders behalf.
In order to ensure that the aggregate of all fractional entitlements to be sold in the market added up to a whole number of New sub-division, the consolidation of every 13 shares of 1 110 pence Ordinary Shares, between the B C Share Record Date and the Share Capital Consolidation each in the capital of the Company resulting from such subRecord Date, one Ordinary Share was allotted fully paid up for cash to Investec at a price division into one new ordinary share of 13 110 pence in the which was equal to the closing middle-market price of an Existing Ordinary Share on 7February 2014, less 47 pence.
This Ordinary Share was not entitled to participate in the capital of the Company the New Ordinary Shares.
Return of Capital, but was subject to the Share Capital Consolidation.
Details of the structure of the Companys share capital both Only the New Ordinary Shares are traded on the London before and after the Share Capital Consolidation, together with StockExchange.
the rights attached to each of the share classes in issue as at 31December 2012, 31December 2013 and immediately The Company is not aware of any agreements between following the Share Capital Consolidation on 7February 2014, shareholders that restrict the transfer of New Ordinary Shares or are set out within the following sections.
Shareholders continued that restrict voting rights attached to the New Ordinary Shares.
to own approximately the same proportion of the Company after Details of the 2012 Incentive Share Plan are set out on pages the Share Capital Consolidation as they did before, subject to 70to 84 of the Directors remuneration report and note 22 to the fractional entitlements.
Melrose Industries PLC 60 Annual Report 2013 Governance Directors report continued Shareholders voting rights Shareholder dividend Only the New Ordinary Shares have voting rights attached.
In a The Directors are pleased to recommend the payment of a final general meeting of the Company, subject to the provisions of the dividend of 5.0p per share 2012: 5.0p on 15May 2014 to current Articles and to any special rights or restrictions as to Ordinary shareholders on the register of members of the voting attached to any other class of shares in the Company from Company at the close of business on 22April 2014.
This dividend time to time: recommendation will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, to be held on 13May 2014.
Subject to on a show of hands, every member who is present in person shareholder approval being obtained at the AGM for the final or by proxy shall have one vote: and dividend, this will mean a full year 2013 dividend of 7.75p per on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy share 2012: 7.6p.
shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
In the second half of the year ended 31December 2013, the If any call or other sum payable by a holder of New Ordinary Company completed the disposals of five of its FKI businesses, Shares remains unpaid, they shall not be entitled to vote at a namely Crosby, Acco, Marelli, Truth and Harris, for a total general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held consideration of approximately 950million see note 9 to the by them.
Currently, all New Ordinary Shares are fully paid.
financial statements for further details.
In accordance with its strategy, the Board decided to use part of the net proceeds of Articles of association the disposals to return approximately 600million in cash to The Companys Articles were amended pursuant to a special shareholders, by way of the Return of Capital proposals resolution approved at the general meeting of the Company held described earlier in this Directors report.
The Return of Capital on 7February 2014, in order to reflect the rights and restrictions was approved by shareholders at the general meeting of the attaching to the B Shares, the C Shares and the C Deferred Company held on 7February 2014.
This return to shareholders is Shares and certain other changes required in relation to the not included in the full year dividend figure stated above.
The rights and restrictions attaching It is the intention of the Board to continue to pursue a progressive to the New Ordinary Shares following the Share Capital dividend policy, where appropriate.
Consolidation remained exactly the same as those attaching to the Existing Ordinary Shares immediately prior to the Share The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Capital Consolidation.
which gives shareholders the opportunity to use their dividend payments to purchase further Ordinary Shares in Substantial shareholdings Melrose Industries PLC.
Further details about the DRIP and its As at 31December 2013 and 4March 2014, the Company has terms and conditions can be found within the Investors section been advised of the following substantial interests in the New on the Companys website at www.
To the Ordinary Share capital of Melrose Industries PLC: extent that shareholders chose the Income Option in respect of all or some of their entitlement to the Return of Capital, the Holding as at Holding as at DRIP could not be used in relation to the single C Share dividend Shareholder 31December 2013 % 4March 2014 % paid to such shareholders in respect of their holdings of such BlackRock Inc. 164,027,614 12.95 137,308,187 12.81 CShares.
Schroders plc 104,406,194 8.24 87,730,453 8.19 Threadneedle Asset 74,255,412 5.86 62,152,083 5.80 Financial instruments Management Ltd The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial Legal & General 59,863,410 4.73 50,519,233 4.71 instruments by the Company, including the financial risk Investment management objectives and policies of the Company and the Management Ltd exposure of the Company to liquidity risk, exchange rate risk, Aviva Investors 57,576,569 4.55 48,543,369 4.53 contract and warranty risk and commodity cost risk, can be Scottish Widows 52,321,407 4.13 48,755,878 4.55 found in the Finance Directors review on pages 40 to 47, Investment Partnership whichisincorporated by reference into this Directors report andin note 24 to the financial statements.
Research and development activities Melrose Group businesses are encouraged to focus on research and development and to ensure that new and innovative product lines continue to be developed.
During 2013, investment continued and several new product launches were either realised during 2013, or planned for 2014.
This Group strategy helps to ensure that each business can remain at the forefront of technological advances within defined market sectors and be able to meet specific customer demands.
Some examples of the types of new products being launched within the various markets are discussed within the Chief Executives business reviews on pages 22 to 31 of the Strategic Report.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 61 Annual Report 2013 Governance Employees Auditor Further details in relation to employment policies, employee So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit involvement, consultation and development, together with information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and the details of some of the human resource improvement initiatives Directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have taken implemented during 2013 are shown on pages 48 and 49 of the as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Strategic Report, information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware which is incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of Environmental the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors of the Company fully understand the importance On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed of the Groups environmental responsibilities.
Each of the theeffectiveness, performance, independence and objectivity Companys businesses is committed to ensuring that their ofthe existing external auditor, Deloitte LLP, for the year ended operations have a minimum adverse effect on the environment 31December 2013 and concluded that the external auditor and that ongoing reductions in both energy usage and CO 2 wasin all respects effective.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its emissions are achieved, wherever practicable.
willingness to continue in office as auditor.
Accordingly, Further details in relation to the various environmental initiatives resolutions will be proposed at the AGM of the Company to that are ongoing within some of the Groups businesses and reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company and to statistics showing greenhouse gas emissions data are shown on authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
pages 52 and 53 of the Corporate Social Responsibility section Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: of the Strategic Report, which is incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Political donations The Companys policy is not to make any political donations and there were no political donations made during the year ended Adam Westley 31December 2013 2012: nil.
Company Secretary 5March 2014 Significant agreements and change of control With the exception of the Groups banking facilities, the 2012 Incentive Plan including the options over 2012 Incentive Shares and the divisional management long-term incentive plans, there are no other agreements that would have a significant effect upon a change of control of Melrose Industries PLC as at 5March 2014.
In June 2012, as part of the process to acquire Elster, the Group agreed a 1.5 billion five year multi-currency, committed bank facility, which states that in the event of a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, the Company and lenders under this facility are obliged to enter into negotiations to determine whether and, if so, how to continue with the facility.
There is no obligation for the lenders to continue to make the facility available for more than 30 days beyond any change of control.
Failure to reach agreement with parties on revised terms could require an acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, options over the 2012 Incentive Shares would be exercised and any 2012 Incentive Shares resulting from such exercise, or that have previously been issued, would convert into Ordinary Shares of 13 110 pence or an entitlement to a dividend paid in cash, the rate of conversion being based upon the offer price of the Companys Ordinary Shares as calculated on the date of the change of control of the Company.
If part or the entire offer price is not in cash, the Remuneration Committee will determine the value of the noncash element, having been advised by an investment bank of repute that such valuation is fair and reasonable.
