Melrose Industries PLC 06 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Market overview Businesses within the Melrose Group operate in diverse markets around the world.
In this section, current market trends and external factors affecting the growth of each Melrose business are considered, together with individual business responses to these trends and factors.
Elster Gas Elster Gas is a world leader in the The increasing global gas consumption Business response design and manufacture of gas and the growing demand for unconventional In response to the growth in gas measurement, process heat control gas sources such as shale and biogas, infrastructure, Elster is supplying the and gas safety control equipment, are driving an increase in infrastructure full scope of energy measurement supplying a global customer base projects, including Liquefied Natural solutions worldwide, with a strong in more than 110 countries.
focuson Asia, the Middle East and one of the most extensively installed theUS.
The international nature of utility measurement bases in the world External factors: competition thelarger infrastructure projects is with more than 75million gas metering andregulation matched byElsters international devices deployed in the last 10 years The EU directive to replace the majority of presenceand wide project experience.
Its complete range of end-toexisting meters with Smart meters by the end solutions enables customers to end of the decade has been implemented Increasing global gas efficiently manage and control natural in different ways across the EU.
The consumption and the gas resources.
UK, Italy, France and the Netherlands areleading the roll out.
The precise growing demand for Current market trends timingof the roll out is still uncertain.
unconventional gas sources Global energy consumption is continuing to increase.
Natural gas is increasing its The market is also governed by both are driving an increase in share, whilst reliance on coal and oil is national and international metrology and infrastructure projects.
New gas resources, such safety standards.
asshale gas in the US, are also helping tochange the energy mix.
International legislation is aimed at driving Elster has developed a range of down emission levels and increasing customer and market-specific integrated While environmental concerns are efficiency.
The ongoing global trend to technology solutions, covering residential, drivingEuropean Union EU targets harmonise all regional standards to one commercial and industrial applications.
onenergy consumption, the global global ISO standard is putting pressure on Elster is actively involved in major pilot economicsituation is, in certain areas, China to meet this global standard.
China projects in preparation for the large scale increasing competition.
accounts for almost 50% of global steel implementation of Smart meters and is production and steel applications are the working in close partnership with key most important drivers for growth within customers and technology providers in the process heat market.
Specific solutions for process heat and heating applications are being developed by Elster.
A dedicated Elster Gas service team is available around the world to support customers during the planning and start-up process.
Sales and application skills of the engineering team are key factors in continuing to deliver highquality products and solutions, withadded value thinking.
This is an important market differentiator for the Gas Utilisation business.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 07 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Elster Electricity Elster Water Elster Electricity is one of the Elster Water is a leading supplier Business response largest international Smart metering of water meters recognised globally There is a continued focus on the delivery solutions providers for residential, with sales revenue derived from of innovative, value added products in commercial, industrial, transmission more than 90 countries.
market segments that are responsive to and distribution markets.
Current market trends Recent innovations by the business Current market trends There is an increase in the adoption of include an award winning polymer-bodied Elster Electricitys primary markets are the communicating meters for Smart metering residential meter.
EU, US, the Middle East and Africa.
The EU, projects, particularly in Europe, the Middle which is its largest market, has experienced East and North America.
This trend is Smart meter technology significant growth during the last year alsopushing growth in electronic meters, allows extended meter and, following calls for a European wide equipped with standard communication roll out of Smart meter solutions by 2022, interfaces.
This technology allows extended lifein harsh water quality significant growth is expected during the meter life in harsh water quality conditions, conditions, for example coming years.
A regulatory framework is for example in the Middle East.
Elsewhere, now in place in parts of the Middle East to legislation on water quality is driving leadinthe Middle East.
upgrade the metering infrastructure, which free materials, resulting in an increase in is expected to result in substantial growth sales of polymer-bodied water meters in Elster Water continues to work with key over the coming years.
emerging, as well as established, markets.
water industry partners in several regions to address local requirements.
Strong External factors: competition customer relationships in major markets The global market and regulation will ensure that Water business can will continue to see a The global water industry continues to develop meter products and solutions seek innovative metering solutions to tailored to customer needs.
Over the shift from traditional support the objectives of water providers, medium term further growth is expected electricity metering to including water conservation, customer in strategic products, including polymer service and resource efficiency.
The meters, Smart meters and electronic meters.
competitive environment is comprised of External factors: competition afew large suppliers based in Europe and andregulation North America, together with many regional The global market will continue to see a shift companies.
Regulations are both regional from traditional metering to Smart meter and national, however most markets adopt solutions.
Whilst the North America market is international standards.
expected to remain constant at existing sales volumes, other markets are expected to see growth.
In Europe, further pilot projects are planned which will leadto significant tender activities from 2015 onwards.
Business response New products and technologies have been developed and successfully launched.
During 2014, further investment will be made in Meter Data Collection solutions and in partnerships with Smart Grid application providers.
Melrose Industries PLC 08 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Market overview continued Energy Brush is the worlds number one Power infrastructure, particularly in Business response independent supplier of turbogenerators themature economies, is ageing, which In 2014, Brush will begin delivering and a leading supplier of other isincreasing demand for both new turbogenerators to Chinese customers electricity generating machinery, equipment and aftermarket services as from its European factories.
These switchgear, transformers and power plant comes to the end of its useful life.
deliveries are expected to increase infrastructure equipment with strong in 2015. aftermarket service and product Although the medium-term outlook, support capabilities.
particularly for the aero derivative gas In addition, continued activity in the turbine sector, is encouraging, in the short MiddleEast power market is expected Current market trends term, the utility, oil & gas and industrial to increase demand for Brushs large There is a continuing trend towards market sectors have suffered from air-cooled generators in 2015. powergeneration through aero derivative investment stagnation as a result of the gas turbine packages.
Gas is cleaner than global financial crisis.
This has resulted There is a continuing trend coal fired generation and is an attractive inmany projects being delayed due to alternative, with a lower infrastructure aninability to complete financing.
towards powergeneration costand increasing availability of relatively through aero derivative gas low cost shale gas.
Emissions regulations External factors: competition andincreasing concerns about the and regulation turbine packages.
economics of renewals and safety of The Brush businesses have strong nuclear power means that gas will be UK revenue streams, which are preferred for the replacement of existing regulated by OFGEM Office of Gas coal fired power generation.
National content rules have also made direct access to the Brazilian oil & gas market difficult for non-indigenous manufacturers.
Gas is cleaner than coal fired generation and is an attractive alternative, with a lower infrastructure costand increasing availability of relatively low cost shale gas.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 09 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Rope demand in the oil & gas sector is likely to remain strong in the offshore sector with an increasing emphasis on the extraction of deep water reserves to meet growing global demand for oil.
Lifting Bridon designs and manufactures Demand for minerals appears to have Competition is increasing in the a comprehensive range of lifting and stabilised, although new supply sources industrialsector, particularly from Asian stabilising solutions for applications lead to uncertainty regarding the trends manufacturers in the bulk commodity end in wire rope, fibre rope, steel wire for commodity prices.
The global mining of the market, although the need for high and strand.
The company services companies remain largely positive on capacity crawler, port and marine cranes global customers in the oil & gas, growth for 2014.
However, this is based requires high performance solutions.
mining, industrial, marine and principally on the ability of miners to cut infrastructure sectors.
costs and drive productivity, rather than Business response asa result of any immediate increase in The Bridon Technology Centre has Current market trends demand.
Marginal projects are unlikely enhanced the technological capabilities Within the oil & gas sector, rope demand to be pursued, but essential maintenance of the business.
This, combined with is likely to remain strong in the short to will still have to be carried out.
Increased the new factory at Neptune Quay, UK, medium term in the offshore sector, with forecasts for coal consumption in China, provides a strong foundation to solve the an increasing emphasis on the extraction India and other developing countries are challenges of deeper water operations of deep water reserves to meet growing driven by urbanisation and higher and changing regulations.
The fast-track global demand for oil.
development of differentiated market-led exploration, construction, production technology solutions will deliver growth and decommissioning segments is As mines begin to undertake essential within the offshore construction market.
forecast toincrease in target territories maintenance work and more mines such as Brazil, West Africa, Australia are brought under the authority of Within the mining sector, Bridons and the Gulfof Mexico.
the Chinese government regulator, high performance ropes, coupled with businesses will seek suppliers who their technical applications support, The global mining sector weakened deliver value.
Reduced demand has enable mines to operate more safely significantly in 2013 owing to falling led to intense pricecompetition.
and consistently in order to achieve commodity prices, slowing demand in productivity gains.
China and a consequent restriction in External factors: competition capital and operating expenditure by the and regulation Within the industrial sector, Bridon global mining companies.
This impacted The offshore oil & gas industry is heavily will launch next generation products both new equipment orders and regulated by organisations such as this yearand it continues to work on maintenance expenditure.
TheAmerica Petroleum Institute, new developments to help extend the Lloydsof London and various industry service life of cranes.
Demand for ropes within the industrial and government bodies.
sector improved in 2013 and is likely to continue, as global economic growth increases.
The commercial construction market has improved in North America and the Middle East and there are tentative signs of recovery in other developed economies.
The Chinese domestic market has been subdued, although it will remain a significant driver of demand owing to its size.
In the medium term, global trade and the growing demand for energy and infrastructure are likely to drive crane activity and therefore demand for industrial ropes.
