Melrose Industries PLC 16 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Strategy in action Buy Improve Sell Buy Melrose aims to acquire good manufacturing businesses that are currently underperforming their potential.
Businesses are targeted that have During the 10 years since first strong headline fundamentals, such listing in 2003, there have been as high quality products, or a leading three major acquisitions.
market share, to generate sustainable cash flows, achieve profit growth Elster The largest and most recent of these was Elster and create value for shareholders.
Group SE, purchased for an enterprise value of 1.8billion in August 2012.
Elster is a world leading engineering business, established over 100 years ago, designing and making meters and gas utilisation products mainly for the energy market.
Thedeal was funded by a fully underwritten Rights Issue, which raised 1.2 billion.
FKI FKI plc was acquired in July 2008, for an enterprise value ofapproximately 1billion.
FKI was a major international diversified engineering group, including some businesses with very good market positions.
Bridon, Brush, Crosby, Marelli, Truth, Harris and Acco were all part of FKI.
However, now all but the first two of these businesses have been sold.
McKechnie and Dynacast The McKechnie and Dynacast businesses were acquired, in May 2005, for 429million.
The various individual businesses that were acquired at this time were subsequently sold between May 2007 and June 2012 and created considerable shareholder returns.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 17 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Image: Brush engineers in Loughborough, UK, making final checks and setting the exciter outboard shaft seal.
Melrose Industries PLC 18 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Strategy in action Buy Improve Sell Improve Melrose is actively involved within each of the businesses, to agree strategy and targets, drive operational improvements, invest in the businesses it purchases, oversee change management and ensure a focus on operational improvements.
3 billion of shareholder value created during the 10 years since first listing in 2003 Image: Reels of Bridon rope being lifted into position ready for delivery to the quayside at Bridons new Neptune Quay facility, near Newcastle, UK.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 19 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Elster FKI A business with strong fundamentals, FKI had a weak balance sheet and Elster fits the Melrose acquisition criteria.
borrowings which were due to be It is a high quality business with strong refinanced in the near term.
The financing end markets which has the potential for terms of Melroses acquisition enabled significant development and improvement thebalance sheet issues to be resolved under Melrose management.
and a more appropriate group borrowing structure with lower overall debt leverage.
Elster serves markets with attractive long-term demand drivers such as In addition to addressing the financial growing global energy demand, energy constraints facing FKI, Melrose identified efficiency and conservation and global a number of opportunities to improve gasification and is the global market the performance of FKIs businesses, leaderin gasmetering.
principally through an increased focus oncash generation and profitability.
Melrose sees opportunities to improve Melrose continues to invest in existing Elsters performance through expanding facilities andnew capacity within the margins and improving the quality of remaining businesses in order to continue thebusiness through investment and growing these businesses.
Following its acquisition recent investments include Bridons new inAugust 2012, a variety of restructuring 20million facility atNeptune Energy Park, projects have already been completed Newcastle upon Tyne, UK, which became within the Elster businesses.
operational in November 2012 and a 30million investment in a new production Dynacast McKechnie facility for Brush in China, which is due to Melrose successfully steered Dynacast commence production during 2015. through the global slowdown and the costsavings made during the downturn Since the acquisition of FKI, steps taken were retained as sales recovered.
by Melrose have resulted in an increase Melroseinvested fully in Dynacast to in operating margin from 10% to 17%, expand capacity, particularly in the Far which will result in substantial shareholder East and to improve efficiency.
Dynacast also successfully completed some bolt on acquisitions.
Under Melrose ownership, sales in all three of Dynacasts main geographic regions grew.
Within McKechnie, Melrose saw significantscope to invest in the business and improve its operational and financial performance by adopting a vigorous hands-on approach.
p. 22 p. 24 p. 26 p. 28 p. 30 Elster Gas Elster Electricity Elster Water Energy business review Lifting business review business review business review business review Melrose Industries PLC 20 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Strategy in action Buy Improve Sell Sell At the appropriate time, each business will be sold, in order to return value that has been created to shareholders.
The Directors are experienced in being able to recognise the appropriate time in the business cycle for disposal, in order to provide funding for acquisitions and return funds toinvestors.
600 million approximate return of capital to shareholders in February 2014 Image: McKechnie Plastic Components manufactures engineered plastic injection-moulded and extruded components and metal pressings for sectors including food and beverage packaging, automotive, construction and industrial.
This business was sold by Melrose in June 2012, for 30.7million.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 21 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report FKI Dynacast McKechnie In 2013, Melrose sold five FKI businesses: Following the acquisition of the McKechnie Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris, business in 2005, its Aerospace business which made up approximately half of the was subsequently sold for 428million FKI group.
On average these produced inMay 2007, two years after the initial areturn on the original shareholder value acquisition.
This resulted in acquisition of over three times.
debt being repaid and a return of capital toshareholders of 220million.
The combined sale price of these five businesses was approximately During the six years of ownership of 950million.
In accordance with the Dynacast, as a result of the improvement Melrose strategy, a return of capital in its performance, Melrose quadrupled was made to shareholders in February shareholders investment, selling the 2014 tothe value of approximately business for an enterprise value of 600million.
The balance of the net 377million in July 2011.
Consistent with proceeds has been used to pay down Melrose strategy, following the disposal Melroses existing borrowings.
approximately 373million was returned to shareholders in August 2011.
The final part of the McKechnie business, being McKechnie Plastic Components, was sold for 30.7million in June 2012.
The sale of Dynacast means that nearly 1billion in cash was generated from theoriginal 429million McKechnie and Dynacast acquisition.
