Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT We welcomed a record 59.8 million visitors across the Merlin Entertainments portfolio One Direction - one of our most successful touring exhibits ever Finally, we continued to add imaginative and highly appealing new The strength of the Merlin brands and the diversification of our accommodation to our theme parks, including a new 250 portfolio leaves the Company well placed to benefit from these bedroom hotel at LEGOLAND California and a Knights Castle attractive market trends and opportunities.
Given our long term vision to ultimately derive a third of our Taken together, the strong like for like performance and continuing revenue from each of Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific, the NBD expansion saw Group revenue rise 10.9 per cent.
from predominant focus of our NBD will continue to be in North 1,074 million to 1,192 million.
This in turn continued our long America and increasingly Asia Pacific, currently representing track record of high single digit or double digit growth in 21 per cent.
underlying EBITDA which totalled 12.8 per cent.
with an underlying operating profit growth of 12.3 per cent.
It is also Strategic developments pleasing that while welcoming a record 59.8 million visitors across Merlin has six highly complementary strategic growth drivers and the Merlin Entertainments portfolio, our visitor satisfaction scores we have exciting developments planned against each for 2014 remained well above our target of 90 per cent.
satisfied or very and beyond.
Moreover, health and safety remain a top priority and while this can never be taken for granted it was good to see Growing the existing estate through planned Business Related Incidents per 100,000 visits falling again in 2013. investment cycles Capital expenditure is a key driver of like for like growth and all of Market trends our attractions have preset capital investment cycles comprising Merlin operates in an attractive and growing marketplace.
three or four lower years followed by a high year.
These cycles are carefully managed so as to smooth capital expenditure across the Globally, leisure spending is expected to grow by approximately portfolio of attractions: to ensure the investments are funded out five per cent.
per annum from 2011-2016, driven by rising of operating free cash flow: and to provide attractions with the incomes and increasing leisure time.
The Company considers visibility and autonomy to plan effectively.
In each case the this to be a fundamental driver of its business.
investment over the cycle is broadly in line with depreciation and follows a pre-set r atio to revenue typically 8- 10 per cent.
A key focus for Merlin has been on developing its footprint in emerging markets, where a growing middle class, enjoying In 2014, high year investments in Heide Park and LEGOLAND improving wealth and living standards, expands the market California will be key contributors of growth in the Resort Theme opportunity.
Not only can Merlin reap this benefit in these local Parks and LEGOLAND Parks Operating Groups respectively.
In economies, but increasing wealth is driving international tourism, addition, Alton Towers will launch a new CBeebies Land as a particularly in key gateway cities such as London, New York and result of a partnership with BBC Worldwide.
Merlin currently operates in twelve of the cities listed whether in high or low years, will offer something new to see or in the worlds top 30 cities by tourist arrivals.
experience as this is a key component of driving repeat visitation.
The Company believes that there is a significant shift in demand Exploiting strategic synergies away from the typical two week family holiday, towards short As the Group expands and achieves critical mass in key markets, we breaks or staycations.
This has informed the strategy of are able to leverage buying economies of scale and particularly repositioning the theme park businesses as short break marketing activity through such things as third party promotions and resorts, which has the effect of increasing the catchment the Merlin Annual Pass loyalty programme.
These secure both area, and increasing visitor spend and satisfaction.
incremental sales and market share.
In 2014 we will continue to focus on ecommerce initiatives, pushing more transactions The marketplace remains highly fragmented with a significant through our own websites to both improve the customer proportion of independent, or non-natural owners of assets.
purchase journey and provide longer term opportunities for The estimated global market share held between Merlin and closer yield management.
Over the last two years, our major its largest competitor is less than five per cent.
initiatives in this area have led to online bookings increasing as a percentage of our admissions revenue, up from twelve per cent.
