Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT POLICY REPORT This part of the report sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy.
This Policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
This Policy will apply to payments made from 15 May 2014.
The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Policy table The following table sets out details of each component of the Executive Director remuneration package.
Our aim is to provide pay packages that will: Motivate and retain our industry leading employees.
Attract high quality individuals to join us.
Encourage and support a high performance culture.
Reward delivery of our business plan and key strategic goals.
Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders.
Purpose Performance 1 and link to strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity conditions Fixed pay Base salary Generally reviewed annually with any No absolute maximum has been set None To appropriately increase normally taking effect from for Executive Director base salaries.
recognise responsibilities 1 October although the Committee Current Executive Director salaries and attract and retain may award increases at other times of are set out in the Annual Report on talent by ensuring the year if it considers it appropriate.
Remuneration section of this salaries are market Remuneration Report.
The review takes into consideration a number of factors, including but not Any annual increase in salaries is at the limited to : discretion of the Committee taking into The individual Directors role, account the factors stated in this table experience and performance.
and the following principles: Business performance.
Salaries would typically be increased Market data for comparable roles in at a rate consistent with the average appropriate pay comparators.
salary increase in percentage of salary Pay and conditions elsewhere in terms for permanent employees.
Larger increases may be considered appropriate in certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typical salary.
Benefits Benefits are role specific and take into There is no overall maximum as the None To provide market account local market practice.
level of benefits depends on the competitive benefits.
annual cost of providing individual Benefits currently include company car items in the relevant local market or car allowance, phone costs, income and the individuals specific role.
protection insurance, annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
The Committee has discretion, in the event of the appointment of a Director based overseas or in exceptional circumstances, to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
62 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Purpose 1 and link to strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Performance conditions Pension Current policy is for the Company to Executive Directors receive a None To provide market either contribute to the Group contribution of up to 25 per competitive Pension Plan and or to provide a cash cent.
of salary to the Group retirement benefits.
allowance in lieu of pension.
Pension Plan and or as a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
Variable pay 2, 3 Annual bonus The Executive Directors are The maximum award that can The bonus is based on To link reward to key participants in the central bonus plan be made under the central performance assessed over one business targets for the which is reviewed annually to ensure bonus plan is 150 per cent.
year using appropriate financial, forthcoming year and to bonus opportunity, performance of salary.
strategic and individual individual contribution.
measures and targets are appropriate performance measures.
and supportive of the business Each year the Remuneration Additional alignment strategy.
Committee determines the The majority of the bonus will with shareholders maximum bonus opportunity be determined by measure s of interests through the Two thirds of an Executive Directors for individual Executive Group financial performance.
operation of bonus annual bonus is delivered in cash Directors within this limit.
The selected measure s for the deferral.
following the release of audited results next financial year are set out and the remaining third is deferred in the Annual Report on into an award over Company shares Remuneration section under The Merlin Entertainments plc of this Remuneration Report.
A sliding scale of targets is set Deferred awards are usually for each Group financial granted in the form of conditional measure with payout at zero for share awards or nil-cost options and threshold financial performance may also be settled in cash.
increasing to 50% for meeting Deferred awards usually vest three expectations and 100% for years after award although may vest maximum performance.
early on leaving employment or on a change of control see later sections.
The remainder of the bonus will An additional payment in the form be based on financial, strategic of cash or shares may be made in or operational measures respect of shares which vest under appropriate to the individual deferred awards to reflect the value of Director.
The selected measures dividends which would have been paid for the next financial year are on those shares during the vesting set out in the Annual Report on period this payment may assume that Remuneration section of this dividends had been reinvested in Remuneration Report.
Company shares on a cumulative basis.
Any bonus payout is ultimately Deferred awards will be subject to at the discretion of the withholding at the Remuneration Committee.
Committees discretion during the deferral period in exceptional circumstances where the Committee finds that the Executive Director has engaged in misconduct justifying summary dismissal or there has been a material misstatement of the financial accounts relating to the relevant bonus year which has led to an overpayment of bonus.
63 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Purpose 1 and link to strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Performance conditions Performance Share Plan Awards are usually granted annually The maximum annual award Vesting of PSP awards is 3, 4 PSP under the PSP to Executive Directors permitted under the PSP is dependent on measures of To link reward to key and other selected senior executives.
shares with a market value Group earnings and return on business targets for the as determined by the total investment with the longer term and to Individual award levels and Committee of 350 per cent.
precise measures and weighting retain executives.
performance conditions on which of salary.
of the measures determined by vesting will be dependent are the Committee ahead of each reviewed annually by the Each year the Remuneration award.
These details are Remuneration Committee.
Committee determines the disclosed in the Annual Report actual award level for on Remuneration section Awards may be granted as conditional individual Executive Directors of this Remuneration Report.
awards of shares, nil-cost options within this limit.
or forfeitable share awards Performance will usually be or, if appropriate, as measured over a three year cash-settled equivalents.
For achieving a threshold level of Awards normally vest at the end of a performance against a period of at least three years following performance measure, no more grant although may vest early on than 25 per cent.
of the portion leaving employment or on a change of of the PSP award determined by control see later sections.
Vesting then increases on a sliding scale An additional payment in the form to 100 per cent.
for achieving of cash or shares may be made in a stretching maximum respect of shares which vest under performance target.
PSP awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period this payment may assume that dividends had been reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
All Employee Share Tax-approved monthly savings scheme Monthly saving limit of 250 The Sharesave scheme is Plan UK Sharesave facilitating the purchase of shares prior to 6 April 2014, 500 structured in accordance with 3, 5 Scheme through share options at a discounted thereafter or such other limit HMRC requirements so has no To create staff exercise price by all eligible as may be approved from performance conditions but alignment with the UK employees.
time to time by HMRC under requires participants to make Group and promote a all savings contracts held by regular savings into a sense of ownership.
Executive Directors are eligible to an individual.
participate on the same basis as other employees.
The CSOP permits grants of share Annual awards of options over If CSOP awards were, in Company Share options with an exercise price of not shares worth up to 100 per exceptional circumstances, Option Plan 3 less than the market value of a share cent.
of salary at grant or, if granted to an Executive Director, CSOP as determined by the Committee at the Remuneration Committee they would be subject to an Executive Directors will the time of grant.
determines that special appropriate performance condition only receive CSOP circumstances exist, 200 per as determined by the Committee.
awards in exceptional Options are usually exercisable cent.
between three and ten years following An individual promoted to the Individuals who are grant although may have a different Board may have outstanding promoted to the Board exercise period on leaving CSOP awards granted prior to may have outstanding employment or on a change of their promotion that have no awards under this plan.
performance conditions attached to them.
Options that are HMRC unapproved may, if appropriate, be settled in cash or be net-settled.
