Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment other than Non-executive Directors whose appointment is in respect of their position as representatives of the pre-IPO major shareholders are summarised in the table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless otherwise stated in this Policy Report.
Provision Policy Notice period Executive Directors - twelve months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Non-executive Directors - three months notice by either the Company or the Non-executive Director or no notice period if terminated by shareholders.
Termination payment There is no payment in lieu of notice clause in the Executive Directors service agreements.
Any payments of compensation on termination would be subject to negotiation in line with general principles which include a duty for the individual to mitigate loss.
Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of their notice period.
Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling twelve months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
All Non-executive Directors have rolling three months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
Each of the Non-executive Directors nominated by the pre-IPO major shareholders, are appointed pursuant to the relevant Relationship Agreement with their nominating shareholder and do not have individual letters of appointment with the Company.
These Relationship Agreements provide for the aforementioned shareholders to maintain a Non-executive Director as a shareholder representative for so long as they hold ten per cent.
of the Companys share capital.
The Company has the right to remove these directors should the relevant shareholding fall below ten per cent.
and no fees or termination payments are payable.
Each Director will retire and put themselves forward for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company.
All Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset BH15 1NQ.
Policy on payment for loss of office As outlined above, there are no contractual obligations to make any payments to Executive Directors in relation to loss of office and any termination payment would be subject to negotiation although would not be expected in normal circumstances to exceed salary, pension and benefits in relation to the individuals outstanding notice period.
In relation to payments under non-contractual incentive schemes, the Committee would take the following factors into account: The Committee may determine that the Executive Director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the financial year in which they cease employment.
This bonus would usually be time apportioned.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, at its discretion, take into account performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
68 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Good leaver Treatment for Treatment on a change of control Plan categories Treatment for good leaver any other leaver voluntary winding-up Deferred Death.
Deferred bonus awards vest on Deferred Deferred bonus awards Bonus Plan Injury.
cessation of employment bonus vest in full.
Performance PSP awards will usually vest on a Awards lapse.
PSP awards will vest on a Retirement.
time-apportioned basis unless Share Plan time-apportioned basis on the Redundancy.
the performance period is normal vesting date subject to Transfer of complete or unless the any relevant performance employing company Committee determines condition s measured over the or business to which otherwise and subject to the full performance period.
an individuals Committees determination of employment relates the extent to which any relevant However, in the event of death, out of the Group.
performance conditions or special circumstances at the Any other are satisfied.
Remuneration Committees scenario in which discretion, awards may vest early the Remuneration based on the Committees Committee determination of the extent to determines that good which any relevant performance leaver treatment is conditions are satisfied.
appropriate other than circumstances The Committee has the justifying summary discretion, acting fairly and dismissal.
reasonably, to disapply time apportionment.
Company Options become exercisable for Options lapse.
Options will become exercisable Share Option Plan a period of six months after the on a time-apportioned basis Executive Directors date on which the Committee unless any performance period will only receive determines the extent to which is complete or unless the CSOP awards in the option becomes exercisable Committee determines exceptional or twelve months in the event otherwise and subject to the circumstances.
Committees determination of the extent to which any relevant Individuals who are Options will become performance conditions promoted to the exercisable subject to the are satisfied.
Board may have Committees determination outstanding awards of the extent to which any under this plan.
relevant performance conditions are satisfied and on a time-apportioned basis unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In relation to HMRC-unapproved options, options may become exercisable at the normal vesting date or earlier if the Committee determines.
UK Sharesave Options become exercisable immediately on death, ceasing employment due to injury, disability, retirement, Scheme Overseas redundancy, sale of the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates out of the Sharesave Scheme Group or on a change of control of the Company.
US Employee Stock Options become exercisable on death, ceasing employment due to injury, permanent disability, reaching normal Purchase Plan retirement age, sale of the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates or on a change of control of the Company.
