Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The value of the assets recognised and the associated sensitivity The Audit Committee reviewed managements calculations analysis required are material items and as such have been carefully in order to assess the appropriateness of the asset considered by the Audit Committee.
In particular, the Committee valuations in the financial statements.
As part of this process they considered managements assessment of the levels at which both specifically assessed the headroom in the Companys goodwill the availability of future taxable profits and the forecast future valuation and concluded that the valuations performed and the capital spend, would need to alter in order to substantially change accounting treatment adopted which resulted in no impairment the rate at which capital allowances are claimed, and so affect the charges being recorded, were appropriate.
recognition of the deferred tax assets.
The Committee reviewed and challenged managements sensitivity analysis of profit forecasts Misstatements and concurred that the results indicated the risk of the deferred Management reported to the Committee that they were not tax assets not being utilised is acceptably low.
aware of any material misstatements made intentionally to achieve a particular presentation.
The auditors reported to Carrying value of interest-bearing loans and borrowings the Committee any misstatements that they had found in the In 2013 two transactions have significantly affected the carrying course of their work and no material adjustments were required.
value of the Groups term debt, being: The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the auditors had fulfilled their responsibilities with diligence and The refinancing in July 2013 required assessment of and professional scepticism.
accounting for the changes of the debt terms, including an assessment of the likely future repayment date for the debt.
After reviewing the presentations and reports from management Accounting for the proceeds raised through the IPO, where a and consulting where necessary with the auditors, the Committee portion of the Groups term debt was repaid.
was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately addressed the critical judgements and key estimates both in respect to the A complex accounting standard makes financial instrument amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee was also accounting the standard under which interest-bearing loans and satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining the borrowings fall a highly judgemental area.
Such judgements can value of assets and liabilities had been appropriately scrutinised alter the carrying value of the Groups debt and both the current and challenged and were sufficiently robust.
and future finance costs of the Group.
The events of 2013 therefore required the completion and audit of complex Internal audit calculations and assumptions, particularly in relation to whether The Company has an internal audit function led by the Group previous issue costs should be carried forward or written off, Internal Audit Director who is a member of the Institute of and the impact of the expected future refinancing date on the Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, with twelve years carrying value of any such issue costs.
This subject represents a experience in both finance and operational roles within the Group.
significant area of judgement within the 2013 financial statements The internal audit function also comprises four in house auditors, as it is based on forward looking information that extends several all of whom hold professional accounting qualifications.
The years into the future.
The Committee has carefully considered internal audit function uses outsourced support where necessary: managements forecasts and the sensitivity to the assumptions for example  PwC have provided made, in particular in relation to the expected future repayment specialist support to aid coverage of the geographic spread of the date and the impact of such a date being earlier and are satisfied Groups attractions.
The Group Internal Audit Director reports with the appropriateness of the assumptions.
jointly to the Chair of the Audit Committee and the CFO.
Impairment charges During 2013, audits have been undertaken providing coverage in Merlins business involves opening new attractions in new and, to excess of 80 per cent.
of the Groups revenue, with the priority of some degree, unproven locations.
In addition the Group operates sites to visit determined by the audit function based primarily on existing businesses in geographically and politically diverse areas.
revenue generation and an assessment of business risk, following consultation with management.
This coverage is in line with Although the Group has attained knowledge derived from the the plan approved by the Audit Committee in March 2013. past performance of opening new attractions, inevitably the performance of new attractions, particularly in new markets, can Following consultation with the Audit Committee, the 2014 be difficult to accurately predict.
Similarly the exposure of certain audit plan will incorporate a wider range of risk factors into the attractions to macro-economic volatility can give rise to the need planning phase, with an increasing level of focus being placed for an impairment assessment.
on the audit of central functions.
These factors make forecasts in the existing estate and acquired The internal audit reports are reviewed by management with businesses similarly uncertain.
Valuations are performed by Merlin significant findings also reviewed by the Companys Executive based on discounted future cash forecasts and other market data.
Any such findings are also discussed at the Audit They are complex to perform, include judgemental information Committee, along with recommendations and regular updates such as market discount rates, and are based almost entirely on the progress made by relevant management.
upon forward looking estimates of future cash flows.
