CORPORATE GOVERNANCE MERLIN PEOPLE DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction Financial instruments This section of the Annual Report includes additional information Details of the financial instruments used by the Group and certain required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006, the risks associated therewith are set out within note 5.6 of the DTRs, the Code and the Listing Rules.
Certain information required to be included in the Directors Future developments Report is included in other sections of this Annual Report, including: Details of material proposed future developments in relation to the Company and its businesses are set out within the Strategic The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43.
The Corporate Governance Statement on page 44.
The section entitled Board of Directors on pages 45 to 47.
Research and development The Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 53.
Details of material research and development in relation to the The Audit Committee Report on pages 54 to 59. business of the Company and its subsidiaries are described in the The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60 to 75.
Merlin Magic Making section on pages 28 to 31.
The sections referred to above provide an overview of the Incorporation, listing and structure strategy, development and performance of the Companys Merlin Entertainments plc was incorporated on 20 September business in the year ended and as at 28 December 2013 together 2013 under the name Arthur Entertainments plc with registered with information on the approach of the Company to Corporate number 08700412.
Its name was changed to Merlin Governance and the constitution, work and effectiveness of the Entertainments plc on 30 September 2013.
Board and its principal Committees.
These sections are incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
On 12 November 2013 the Company acquired the entire issued share capital of Merlin Entertainments S. r. l. to become the Greenhouse gas emissions ultimate holding company of the Merlin Entertainments Group.
The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are considered in the Corporate Social Responsibility section On 13 November 2013 the share capital of the Company was on page 42. admitted to listing on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Employee diversity, engagement and disabled persons The operations of Merlin Entertainments are performed through its Details of the Companys activities relating to diversity and numerous subsidiary and associated undertakings around the world.
employee engagement are set out in the People section on Details of the Companys subsidiary and associated undertakings pages 32 to 33. are set out within the financial statements in note 6.8.
The Company makes no differentiation between able bodied and Prior to 13 November 2013 the Company was not subject to disabled persons in terms of recruitment, training and career the Code, the DTRs or the Listing Rules.
From its listing on 13 progression.
The Company will make every effort to continue the November 2013 the Company has complied with each of the employment and training of those persons who become disabled Code, the DTRs and the Listing Rules except, as disclosed on while employed by the Company.
page 44 of this Report, in relation to the composition of the Board.
The Board considers that its composition is such as to Internal controls ensure that no individual will dominate the Boards decision taking, Information on the Groups internal controls is set out on page 59. no undue reliance will be placed on particular individuals and the Board will continue to be capable of operating effectively.
In addition to the current Directors, Fru Hazlitt has agreed to join the Board as a further independent Non-executive Director with effect from 1 April 2014.
The Board is committed to becoming compliant with the Board composition recommendations of the Code during 2014.
