Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Details of these Relationship Agreements are set out below and Transactions with related parties in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 53.
Details of the transactions entered into by the Company with parties who are related to it are set out in note 6.3 of the As at 25 February 2014, the latest practicable date prior to the financial statements.
date of this Report, the Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in three per cent.
or more of the The only material transactions with related parties during the year are: Companys total voting rights: LEGOLAND Licence and Co-operation Agreement LCA.
This agreement sets out the rights granted to the Group in Nature of Holding connection with the development, operation and promotion Name of Number of % of Issued Direct of the Groups present and future LEGOLAND businesses.
Shareholder Ordinary Shares Share Capital Indirect It includes certain requirements for the Group to develop KIRKBI 302,971,529 29.89 Direct LEGOLAND attractions, certain operational requirements for Invest A S those attractions, and the nature of royalties due for the use Blackstone 213,517,421 21.06 Direct of the rights.
Merlin Holdings Blackstone Relationship Agreement CVC Relationship Limited Agreement KIRKBI Relationship Agreement.
These relationship agreements with the pre-IPO major shareholders describe the Lancelot 118,023,926 11.64 Direct relationship of the Company with each of those shareholders Holdings S. r. l. together with and subject to certain minimum shareholding CVC requirements, the right of each of those shareholders to be Blackrock 65,541,502 6.47 Indirect represented on the Board: appoint observers to each of the Investment Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees: and certain Management anti-dilution rights.
This agreement between, inter alios, Amendment to the companys articles the Company: the pre-IPO major shareholders: the IPO of association underwriters: and the Directors sets out the underwriting The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a arrangements for the Companys Listing on 13 November special resolution of its shareholders passed at a general meeting 2013.
As part of this agreement the pre-IPO major of its shareholders.
shareholders and the Directors became subject to certain lock-up arrangements whereby they agreed not to dispose of Acquisition and disposal of own shares any shares in the Company for a period of 180 days and 360 The Company has not acquired or disposed of any of its own days respectively.
shares during the year save as set out in note vi of the parent Company financial statements.
Change of control The only significant agreements to which the Company is a party Power of directors in respect of share capital that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, are including, subject to obtaining the required authority from the as follows: shareholders in general meeting, the power to authorise the issue of new shares and the purchase of the Companys shares.
The LCA includes rights for KIRKBI to terminate the LCA on a change of control of Merlin but only if this would result in a Since its shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange on 13 Licensee as defined in the LCA being controlled by a LEGO November 2013, the Directors have not exercised any of the competitor or an inappropriate party.
powers to issue or purchase shares in the Company.
