Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The principal duties of the Committee include the following: Health, safety and security committee The Health, Safety and Security Committee assists the Board in To review regularly the structure, size and composition of the ensuring that matters of all risk including health, safety and security Board including the skills, knowledge and experience and are managed effectively and proactively throughout the Group.
make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Duties of the Committee include reviewing the Groups risk register: risk and health and safety policy: compliance with To identify, nominate and recommend for the approval of the applicable health and safety directives and legislation: health and Board, appropriate candidates to fill Board vacancies as and safety statistics, including incident rates and near misses: health and when they arise.
safety audit findings: and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management team including the quality and numbers of engineers To evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and other relevant staff.
The Committee recommends to the on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a Board and Group companies the appropriate policies and description of the role and capabilities required for a procedures for ensuring the health, safety and security of visitors, particular appointment.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the adherence to such policies and procedures as To satisfy itself with regard to succession planning that well as for making recommendations for improvements.
processes and plans are in place with regard to both Board and senior management appointments.
The Committee is chaired by Sir John Sunderland.
The members of the committee are the Chairman of the Committee, the To review annually the time required to fulfil the role of Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Senior Chairman, Senior Independent Non-ex ecutive Director and Independent Non-executive Director, the Director of Health, each Nonexecutive Director and use performance evaluation Safety and Risk Management, and the Managing Director of the to assess whether the Nonexecutive Directors have devoted Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
Other individuals can be sufficient time to their duties.
invited to attend all or any part of any meeting of the Committee as and when appropriate.
To recommend the reelection or not by shareholders of any Director under the retirement and reelection provisions in The Committee meets formally at least four times a year the Companys Articles of Association.
and at such other times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
To make a statement in the Annual Report about its activities and the process used for appointments and explain if external The Committee has access to sufficient resources to carry out its advice or open advertising has not been used.
duties, including the services of the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and the Groups health and safety function.
To make its terms of reference publicly available.
Independent external legal and professional advice can also be taken by the Committee if it believes it is necessary to do so.
To ensure that on appointment to the Board, Nonexecutive Directors receive formal written terms of appointment.
