Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT We welcomed a record 59.8 million visitors across the Merlin Entertainments portfolio One Direction - one of our most successful touring exhibits ever Finally, we continued to add imaginative and highly appealing new The strength of the Merlin brands and the diversification of our accommodation to our theme parks, including a new 250 portfolio leaves the Company well placed to benefit from these bedroom hotel at LEGOLAND California and a Knights Castle attractive market trends and opportunities.
Given our long term vision to ultimately derive a third of our Taken together, the strong like for like performance and continuing revenue from each of Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific, the NBD expansion saw Group revenue rise 10.9 per cent.
from predominant focus of our NBD will continue to be in North 1,074 million to 1,192 million.
This in turn continued our long America and increasingly Asia Pacific, currently representing track record of high single digit or double digit growth in 21 per cent.
underlying EBITDA which totalled 12.8 per cent.
with an underlying operating profit growth of 12.3 per cent.
It is also Strategic developments pleasing that while welcoming a record 59.8 million visitors across Merlin has six highly complementary strategic growth drivers and the Merlin Entertainments portfolio, our visitor satisfaction scores we have exciting developments planned against each for 2014 remained well above our target of 90 per cent.
satisfied or very and beyond.
Moreover, health and safety remain a top priority and while this can never be taken for granted it was good to see Growing the existing estate through planned Business Related Incidents per 100,000 visits falling again in 2013. investment cycles Capital expenditure is a key driver of like for like growth and all of Market trends our attractions have preset capital investment cycles comprising Merlin operates in an attractive and growing marketplace.
three or four lower years followed by a high year.
These cycles are carefully managed so as to smooth capital expenditure across the Globally, leisure spending is expected to grow by approximately portfolio of attractions: to ensure the investments are funded out five per cent.
per annum from 2011-2016, driven by rising of operating free cash flow: and to provide attractions with the incomes and increasing leisure time.
The Company considers visibility and autonomy to plan effectively.
In each case the this to be a fundamental driver of its business.
investment over the cycle is broadly in line with depreciation and follows a pre-set r atio to revenue typically 8- 10 per cent.
A key focus for Merlin has been on developing its footprint in emerging markets, where a growing middle class, enjoying In 2014, high year investments in Heide Park and LEGOLAND improving wealth and living standards, expands the market California will be key contributors of growth in the Resort Theme opportunity.
Not only can Merlin reap this benefit in these local Parks and LEGOLAND Parks Operating Groups respectively.
In economies, but increasing wealth is driving international tourism, addition, Alton Towers will launch a new CBeebies Land as a particularly in key gateway cities such as London, New York and result of a partnership with BBC Worldwide.
Merlin currently operates in twelve of the cities listed whether in high or low years, will offer something new to see or in the worlds top 30 cities by tourist arrivals.
experience as this is a key component of driving repeat visitation.
The Company believes that there is a significant shift in demand Exploiting strategic synergies away from the typical two week family holiday, towards short As the Group expands and achieves critical mass in key markets, we breaks or staycations.
This has informed the strategy of are able to leverage buying economies of scale and particularly repositioning the theme park businesses as short break marketing activity through such things as third party promotions and resorts, which has the effect of increasing the catchment the Merlin Annual Pass loyalty programme.
These secure both area, and increasing visitor spend and satisfaction.
incremental sales and market share.
In 2014 we will continue to focus on ecommerce initiatives, pushing more transactions The marketplace remains highly fragmented with a significant through our own websites to both improve the customer proportion of independent, or non-natural owners of assets.
purchase journey and provide longer term opportunities for The estimated global market share held between Merlin and closer yield management.
Over the last two years, our major its largest competitor is less than five per cent.
initiatives in this area have led to online bookings increasing as a percentage of our admissions revenue, up from twelve per cent.
13 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Since 2004 we have launched nearly 40 midway attractions Transforming our theme parks into destination resorts In addition, the recent announcement of our agreement with By moving our theme parks from day trip venues to two or three day DreamWorks to launch a new midway brand, Shreks Far Far short break destinations we can expand market catchment and Away Adventure is a hugely exciting development and the start revenue opportunities.
The key driver of this is the presence of of what we hope will become a wider strategic partnership.
To date, all recent investments whether themed hotels or Holiday Villages have been highly Developing new LEGOLAND parks successful, comfortably delivering against our investment criteria We see significant potential for expansion of LEGOLAND parks due and driving multi-day stays.
to the LEGO brands worldwide popularity and the proven success of the six parks open to date.
Our aim is to open at least one new In 2014 a second hotel product the Azteca Hotel will be park every three years under one of three ownership models: added to the Chessington World of Adventures Resort, while operated and owned: operated and leased: and management LEGOLAND Deutschland will add a 68 bedroom extension contracts.
In the last three years we have opened both to the Knights Castle hotel.
The LEGOLAND Billund Resort LEGOLAND Florida owned and Malaysia contract and are continues to add further accommodation with a new wing to already engaged on a further park, Dubai contract, with opening the current hotel and standard rooms are being upgraded and targeted in 2016.
Beyond this, our focus is again very much on Asia themed across the existing hotel estate.
In addition, we will build and North America with projects currently under negotiation in on the successful pilots of Medieval Glamping at Warwick Castle Japan and South Korea and further preliminary discussions and of Crash Pad at Thorpe Park.
Going forward, we are seeking ongoing in China and the USA.
to add an average 200 keys to our estate each year across the portfolio and are also actively developing additional second gate attractions that are located next to the resort and give our guests even more to do during their visit.
Rolling out new midway attractions A key element of Merlins NBD programme is the roll out of our midway brands.
We are able to open new Madame Tussauds, SEA LIFE Centres, Dungeons and LEGOLAND Discovery Centres, typically for 5-8 million each, always with a target of 20 per cent.
Since 2004 we have launched nearly 40 midway attractions and are planning to open six or seven a year from 2014.
Increasingly, our focus is on opening multiple attractions in the same locations to form clusters from which we can derive operating cost, marketing and cross-selling advantages.
2014 has already seen us open our 100th site, a SEA LIFE Centre in Charlotte, USA.
Later this year we will also open a Madame Tussauds and our first North American Dungeon in San Francisco: Madame Tussauds attractions in Beijing and Singapore: and an LDC in Boston, USA.
Beyond this the pipeline for 2015 is also largely in place with the Orlando I-Drive cluster of the SEA LIFE Centre, Madame Tussauds and Orlando Eye already under construction in the USA and further projects secured in Asia.
