MERLIN MAGIC MAKING IS THE UNIQUE RESOURCE THAT SITS AT THE HEART OF EVERYTHING MERLIN DOES.
EMPLOYING OVER 300 PEOPLE, THIS SPECIALIST INHOUSE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT: CREATIVE: PRODUCTION: AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT GROUP CONSTANTLY RAISES THE BAR IN INNOVATIVE THINKING.
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING Finds new business opportunities all over the planet.
Creates the highest class visitor attractions and compelling propositions.
Takes those creative ideas and produces amazing content for our attractions.
Delivers them at market leading speed and value!
FINDING THE MAGIC ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR SECURING THE PIPELINE Another successful year within the Business Development team has seen us secure the pipeline in 2013 2014 and things are looking positive into 2015.
Asia, and China in particular, remain a priority, with the opening of Madame Tussauds Wuhan and attraction agreements already in place for Madame Tussauds attractions in Singapore and Beijing.
We also recently saw the successful opening of Madame Tussauds in Tokyo, creating our first Japanese cluster alongside the existing LEGOLAND Discovery Centre.
Our North American roll out also continues to progress well.
LEGOLAND Discovery Centre Toronto sees our first venture into Canada and we have continued our success in securing new attractions in the USA with confirmed locations in Orlando, Charlotte, Boston and San Francisco all progressing well for openings in 2014 15.
28 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CREATING THE MAGIC WE HAVE INTRODUCED A DEDICATED CREATIVE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT TEAM 2013 has been busier than ever in the existing portfolio, with the teams creating and designing hotels: new midway concepts: mobile features: new shows: and stunning roller coasters.
Particular attention should be drawn to the new concepts in SEA LIFE Manchester, with a ground breaking projection mapping introduction show and the UKs first underwater walking experience, SeaTrek, as well as the phenomenal marmalising roller coaster, The Smiler, at Alton Towers.
Intellectual Property relationships continue to strengthen with two DreamWorks shows in Heide Park and Gardaland opening during the year, as well as a further strengthening of our relationship with the LEGO Company through Star Wars and Ninjago.
This was also the year that saw the introduction of our dedicated creative research and development function.
Made up of a small group of in-house creative directors, they are complemented by a roster of external specialists from many different disciplines.
This allows us to develop some free thinking as we seek to extend the Merlin portfolio with new midway opportunities and second gates for our resorts.
PRODUCING THE MAGIC OUR BUSIEST EVER YEARNEW TECHNIQUESENHANCED QUALITY AND AMAZING LIKENESS We have had our most active ever year in the production of wax figures for our Madame Tussauds business.
We are now able to create over 200 figures per year, with the same quality and amazing likeness.
New techniques in the use of materials and digital scanning have allowed us to create more dynamic poses for our figures and ensure that quality is enhanced even further.
As well as launching two new Madame Tussauds attractions in Tokyo and Wuhan and supporting the other 13 existing Madame Tussauds attractions, we also produced one of our most successful touring exhibits ever, with the world number one boy band One Direction.
29 AN ACTIVE ROLE IN DELIVERING THE MAGIC CONSERVATION WELL PLACED TO MEET THE NEXT SET OF CHALLENGES Husbandry and the care of creatures remains the number one priority for our aquarium displays Another record breaking year in project management has seen us development team which works across all of our involved in 35 major projects, in ten countries, with the projects in total 44 worldwide SEA LIFE attractions.
representing a capital investment of over 190 million.
Research and development in this area has seen us Projects have been as diverse as hotels LEGOLAND California and increase our capacity to breed a wider variety and Holiday Villages LEGOLAND Deutschland, supporting our resort greater numbers of creatures in-house across the strategy: six midway roll outs: continuing our organic growth: an animal globe.
Notable successes have included our first ever Zufari: a mind bending roller coaster: and a fantastic Land of Chima.
squid breeding programme and a continuation of our Oh and in our spare time we moved the London Dungeon!
Innovative thinking across the whole of Merlin Magic Making, remains The team have played an active role out in the our number one philosophy.
This, along with delivering compelling wider world of marine aquariums and conservation, propositions that our customers just cant wait to come and visit, and our championing a number of outside think groups ability to drive great value from everything we produce, means that we and conferences.
The most noteworthy was the are well placed to meet the next set of challengesbring on the fun!
organisation and hosting of the 40th EUAC European Union of Aquarium Curators congress in LEGOLAND Billund, where SEA LIFE presentations were strong and numerous.
OUR FIVE MODEL SHOPS GO FROM STRENGTH TO STRENGTH We have continued to invest in our five LEGO model building facilities model shops.
This enables them to continue to grow and to produce ever more intricate and detailed designs and LEGO models to entertain our visitors.
During the year most demand has been driven by the expansion of our LEGOLAND hotels and Holiday Villages, as well as two new LEGOLAND Discovery Centres and Water Parks, alongside our existing estate attractions.
30 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 31 MADAME TUSSAUDS WUHAN WHAT DID WE DO?
We teamed up with one of the biggest companies in China, the Wanda Corporation, to deliver this important project as we continue our Chinese roll out programme.
We secured a prime space in their flagship mixed use development.
Forming close partnerships with both the main developer and the local authority helped to enable a successful fast track of the licences and approvals.
We were particularly pleased that we matched the capital cost to the market opportunity, continuing our core skill of delivering excellent value, whilst maintaining our compelling reasons to visit.
We worked closely with all partners to ensure a smooth build and launch, in an impressive time scale.
The attraction had a great mix of local and national Chinese figures, as well as the cornerstone international A list stars that make up every Madame Tussauds.
We recruited a local project management team, providing support through our national Chinese management team and our international experts, to develop something that we are all proud of.
A magnificent addition to our Madame Tussauds portfolio, opened ahead of time for the very important Chinese Golden Week.
Initial customer reaction and satisfaction have been hugely encouraging, underlining our ability to deliver the right attraction, at the right cost, with the right quality.
