Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Our central mission is to deliver memorable experiences to our millions of visitors Strategic acquisitions Merlin Entertainments operates in a fragmented market and has a highly successful track record of making and integrating acquisitions.
In 2011 and 2012 the acquisitions of Sydney Attractions Group and Living and Leisure Australia accelerated our expansion into Asia Pacific and have facilitated further new openings in this region.
Our primary focus going forward is on midway-type operations in Asia and North America where the assets can be rebranded to Merlins brands or provide new brand opportunities and complement our expansion strategy.
Merlins future growth is not dependent on acquisitions but we are in the favourable position of having the free cash flow to make them should suitable opportunities arise.
Merlin Magic Making Supporting our three Operating Groups and the six growth drivers is our unique inhouse creative and development resource: Merlin Magic Making MMM.
This is the part of Merlin responsible for finding new sites: creating new attractions: producing our core product of wax figures, marine displays and LEGO models: and project managing all major capital expenditure projects to bring them in on time and on budget.
What it gives Merlin, in a growing market, is the ability to cost effectively and imaginatively exploit opportunities on a global scale.
2013 was also the year that saw the introduction of our dedicated Delivering memorable experiences creative research and development team whose sole focus is to develop innovative concepts for extending the Merlin portfolio with new midway opportunities and second gates for our resorts.
Looking ahead As we embark on another year, our first as a public company, Allied with our unrivalled brand portfolio MMM represents a clear we regard the future with confidence.
While external events, competitive advantage over other operators and is consequently particularly the weather, are always capable of surprises, our a resource we will nurture and build on over the coming years.
continued diversification means that Merlin is increasingly resilient to the impact of these.
Our existing estate is well placed to Memorable experiences and our teams continue to deliver and our NBD programme extending out over At the heart of Merlin Entertainments is our central mission to the next three to five years gives cause for optimism.
We have deliver memorable experiences to our millions of visitors.
We achieve multiple levers to drive growth and a skilled management team this through the high quality of our attractions, constant to exploit them.
innovation and most of all through the passion of our teams.
As ever, it is our people that are the driving force behind Stand by for more Merlin magic ahead!
Merlins success and as such we will continue to focus on their recruitment, retention and training and development.
At its most fundamental level, happy and motivated staff mean happy and satisfied customers and as such there is, I believe, a very high correlation between the 95 per cent.
of staff who say they enjoy Nick Varney working here and the consistent 90% customer Chief Executive Officer satisfaction scores the Group receives.
