MERLIN BRANDS MERLINS MIDWAY BRANDS SEA LIFE is the worlds biggest aquarium brand.
There are 44 centres across the UK, Continental Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific region, all of which are built around the notion of Amazing Discoveries.
They are home to a variety of creatures from shrimps and starfish to seahorses, rays, sharks and seals.
SEA LIFE campaigns tirelessly on a variety of conservation issues prioritised around breeding, rescue and protection of the marine environment.
The SEA LIFE Marine Conservation Trust was established in 2013 and raises funding to support these crucial projects.
Madame Tussauds operates 15 attractions around the globe with five in Europe, four in the USA, five in Asia and one in Australia.
In 2011 the brand celebrated 250 years since the birth of Madame Tussaud.
Its authentic history and fascinating heritage as well as the breathtaking artistry of the figures differentiate it from other wax attractions.
Today, the red ropes are gone and Famous Fun is the heart of the experience, where visitors are encouraged to interact with all the figures from Napoleon to One Direction and everything in between.
There are currently ten LEGOLAND Discovery Centres LDCs across Europe, North America and Asia.
LDCs are the ultimate LEGO indoor playground, with over two million bricks under one roof.
They create a fun filled and interactive environment where children and parents are inspired to be creative and where children can learn through purposeful play.
As with the outdoor LEGOLAND resorts, Playful Learning is at the heart of the experience.
The Dungeons are a unique mix of dark, historical horror and irreverent humour delivered through set piece shows, rides, spine chillingly themed sets and professional actors.
Scary Fun is the goal, delivered daily in eight Dungeons across Europe to our market of families, teenagers and young adults.
The first Dungeon outside Europe will open in San Francisco in 2014.
There are currently three Eye attractions around the world: two in the UK being the iconic London Eye and Blackpool Tower Eye and one in Australia - the Sydney Tower Eye.
Each attraction offers the ultimate birds eye view, unparalleled and different every time, giving an Inspiring Perspective of the locations landscape and iconic landmarks.
6 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 MERLIN BRANDS MERLINS THEME PARK AND RESORT BRANDS Six LEGOLAND resorts across Europe, the USA and Asia offer a unique LEGO themed experience for families with children aged two to twelve years, based on interactivity, imagination, family fun and quality.
Playful Learning is at the heart of the experience with all family members playing their part for a whole day or longer, with LEGO themed hotels and overnight accommodation at most sites.
Alton Towers Resort is the UKs number one theme park.
Set in 500 acres of beautiful Staffordshire countryside and boasting two themed hotels and an indoor water park, it invites families, teenagers and young adults alike into a world of Fantastical Escapism.
Wild Adventure is at the heart of Chessington World of Adventures, with exotic themed lands and rides mixed with amazing creatures from around the world.
Guests can stay in the heart of the adventure at our African themed resort hotel.
Gardaland Resort is Italys leading theme park.
Located on the edge of Lake Garda between Milan and Venice, it boasts rides for all ages set in a beautifully landscaped and themed world.
Big Fantasy Adventure is all around, including at the Gardaland hotel and adjacent SEA LIFE.
Heide Park is Germanys third biggest theme park with rides and attractions appealing to all ages, set in four lands of Legendary Adventure.
The resort attracts visitors from all over Germany and beyond, who can stay in the Port Royale pirate themed hotel or adjacent Holiday Village.
Insane fun is on offer at Thorpe Park, the UKs second biggest theme park and acknowledged thrill capital for teenagers, young adults and older families.
Warwick is in every way the Ultimate Castle experience.
Jousting, knights, princesses, the Merlin Dragon Tower, falconry, tableaux by Madame Tussauds and a Dungeon all combine to make this an amazing day out for UK families and overseas tourists alike.
