BOARD OF DIRECTORS The members of the Board during the year and at the date of this Report are as follows: Sir John Sunderland, Nick Varney, Andrew Carr, Nonexecutive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Sir John was appointed Non-ex ecutive Nick has over 22 years experience in Andrew is a qualified chartered Chairman of Merlin Entertainments in the visitor attractions industry and was accountant and was appointed Chief December 2009 and was appointed appointed Chief Executive Officer of Financial Officer of Merlin Entertainments Non-executive Chairman of the Merlin Entertainments in 1999.
He was appointed a Director of Company on 20 October 2013. appointed a Director of the Company the Company on 20 October 2013. on 20 October 2013.
Sir John is currently a Non-ex ecutive Prior to that, Nick was Managing Director Prior to that, Andrew was Financial Director of Barclays Bank PLC and AFC of Vardon Attractions and a main board Director of Vardon Attractions and played Energy plc and an adviser to CVC, one director of Vardon plc.
In 1999 Nick led a key role in the management buyout of of the Companys major shareholders.
the management buyout of Vardon Vardon Attractions to form Merlin Previously, Sir John was Chairman of Attractions to form Merlin Entertainments Entertainments in 1999 and in the Cadbury Schweppes from 2003 to 2008 and, in 2005, initiated the process which subsequent business, including two and Chief Executive Officer from 1996 to led to its acquisition by Blackstone.
Before follow-on buyouts and the acquisitions of 2003.
Sir John was also President of the joining Vardon Attractions, Nick held senior LEGOLAND, Gardaland and The Tussauds CBI from 2004 to 2006, President of the positions within The Tussauds Group, Group.
Before joining Vardon Attractions, Chartered Management Institute from including Marketing Director of Alton Andrew trained, and was subsequently 2006 to 2007, President of the Food and Towers and Head of Group Marketing.
head of a regional Corporate Finance Drink Federation from 2002 to 2004, a Department, at KPMG.
Nonexecutive Director of the Rank Group from 1998 to 2006 and a Director of the Financial Reporting Council from 2004 to 2011.
Sir John is also the Chancellor of Aston University, a member of the Council of The University of Reading and an Associate Member of BUPA.
45 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Charles Gurassa, Ken Hydon, Miguel Ko, Senior Independent Non-executive Director Nonexecutive DirectorNonexecutive Director Charles was appointed Senior Ken was appointed a Non-executive Miguel was appointed a Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director of Director and Chairman of the Audit Director of Merlin Entertainments with Merlin Entertainments with effect from Committee of Merlin Entertainments with effect from 1 September 2013, conditional 1 September 2013 and Chairman of the effect from 1 October 2013, conditional on IPO taking place.
He was appointed a Remuneration Committee with effect on IPO taking place.
He was appointed a Non-executive Director of the Company from 1 October 2013, in both cases Non-executive Director and Chairman of on 20 October 2013. conditional on IPO taking place.
He was the Audit Committee of the Company on appointed a Director of the Company on 20 October 2013.
20 October 2013 whereupon he assumed the positions of Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Company.
Charles is currently the Senior Ken is currently a Non-executive Director Miguel is currently Non-executive Independent Director and Deputy of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Chairman of Starwood Hotels & Resorts Chairman of easyJet plc and the NonPearson Plc.
Previously, he was CFO of Worldwide, Asia Pacific Division.
He is also executive Chairman of Tragus, NetNames Vodafone Group Plc.
Ken was also a an Independent Non-executive Director and Genesis Housing Association.
Charles Non-executive Director of Tesco Plc from of Formula One Delta Topco Limited, has spent 35 years in the travel and 2004 to 2013 and a Non-executive Samsonite International S. A. Changi tourism industry where his roles included Director of Royal Berkshire NHS Airport Group and Surbana International Group Chief Executive of Thomson Travel Foundation Trust from 2005 to 2012.
From 2000 to 2012, Group plc, Director of Passenger and Miguel was Chairman and President of Cargo Business at British Airways, Starwood Hotels & Resorts, Asia Pacific.
Executive Chairman of TUI Northern Before joining Starwood, he was President, Europe and Airline Group and Board Asia Pacific of Pepsi-Cola International & Member of TUI AG.
He is Chairman of ITT Sheraton Corporation.
A. in Economics from University of Massachusetts, Boston and Master in Business Administration from Suffolk University, United States.
He is also a non-practising Certified Public Accountant CPA, licensed by the State Board of Accountancy in the State of New Hampshire, United States.
46 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sren Thorup Srensen, Dr. Gerry Murphy, Rob Lucas, Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director Sren was appointed a Non-ex ecutive Gerry was appointed a Non-ex ecutive Rob was appointed a Non-ex ecutive Director of the Company on 20 October Director of the Company on 20 October Director of the Company on 20 October 2013, representing KIRKBI.
Sren is currently the Chief Executive Gerry is a Senior Managing Director Rob is a Managing Partner of CVC.
An Officer of KIRKBI, following his in Blackstones private equity group in engineer by profession, he graduated from appointment in March 2010.
Sren London, Chairman of Blackstones Imperial College, London, and spent nearly was formerly a Partner, Chief Financial European holdings and a Director of ten years with 3i before joining CVC in Officer and member of the Group United Biscuits, Intertrust Group and Jack 1996.
He is a member of CVCs European Executive Board of A. P. Moller - Maersk Wolfskin.
Before joining Blackstone in Investment Committee and sits on the Group between 2006 and 2009.
Prior to 2008, Gerry was CEO of Kingfisher plc, board of both CVC and a number of this he was Managing Partner of KPMG a leading home improvement retailer in CVCs investee companies.
Denmark, having been a Partner at Europe and Asia.
He has previously been KPMG since 1997.
CEO of Carlton Communications plc, Exel plc and Greencore Group plc and Outside the KIRKBI Group, Sren is spent his earlier career with Grand currently Non-executive Vice-chairman of Metropolitan plc now Diageo plc.
Topdanmark A S and holds Non-executive He is a Non-ex ecutive Director of British Director positions at LEGO A S, TDC A S American Tobacco plc and has also served and Falck Holding A S. on the boards of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, Abbey National plc and Novar plc.
He received his BSc and PhD in food technology from University College Cork and MBS in marketing from University College Dublin.
