OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL OUR STRATEGY IS TO CREATE A HIGH OUR VISION IS TO BECOME THE GROWTH, HIGH RETURN, FAMILY WORLDWIDE LEADER IN BRANDED, ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY BASED LOCATION BASED ENTERTAINMENT.
ON STRONG BRANDS AND A GLOBAL Our history PORTFOLIO THAT IS NATURALLY Merlins business model has developed throughout our history.
BALANCED AGAINST THE IMPACT OF EXTERNAL FACTORS.
The Companys origins date back to 1979 when the first SEA LIFE Centre was opened in Oban, Scotland.
We believe that we achieve this objective largely thanks to the Merlin Entertainments was then formed in 1999 as a commitment and passion of our team and the strength of our management buyout from Vardon plc.
brands, which we always want to be distinctive, challenging and The acquisitions of LEGOLAND Parks 2005, Gardaland 2006 innovative.
Together they deliver some of the best financial and The Tussauds Group 2007 increased the scale of our returns in the sector and demonstrate an exceptional record of business more than tenfold in the three year period to 2007. growth in market share.
In every respect and to every group of 2010 saw the acquisition of Cypress Gardens Theme Park stakeholders, Merlin will always be an exciting company.
and Botanical Gardens in Florida, which was subsequently relaunched as LEGOLAND Florida in the following year.
Our passion In 2011 and 2012 Merlin expanded in the Asia Pacific region with the acquisitions of the Sydney Attractions Group WE ARE FIRST AND FOREMOST AN 2011 and Living and Leisure Australia LLA, 2012.
In 2013 LEGOLAND Malaysia completed its first full year of ENTERTAINMENT COMPANY.
trading as the first LEGOLAND park to be developed in Asia We love what we do, namely delivering memorable experiences Pacific: the LEGOLAND California hotel opened: Merlin that put smiles or screams on peoples faces.
We aim to opened six new midway attractions and acquired a seventh.
It immerse our visitors in our brands, constantly delighting them also completed an Initial Public Offering IPO, becoming a and often enlightening them through fun learning.
listed Company on the London Stock Exchange in November.
Following the major acquisitions in the With nearly 60 million visitors in 2013 Merlin years to 2007, from 2008 to 2012 the continues to be the clear market leader in Group delivered an average organic annual Europe and second only to Disney worldwide growth of 10 per cent.
in terms of visitor admissions.
Visitors by Sites by December Change December Operating Group 2012 2013 Growth % Operating Group 2012 2013 2013 Midway Attractions 33.0m 37.1m 12.3% Midway Attractions 81 5 86 LEGOLAND Parks 10.5m 11.5m 9.9% LEGOLAND Parks 6 - 6 Resor t Theme Parks 10.5m 11.2m 6.5% Resor t Theme Parks 7 - 7 Total 54.0m 59.8m 10.7% Total 94 5 99 4 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL Merlin Entertainments delivers two different types of visitor The Merlin business is driven forward by six highly experiences through its portfolio of midway attractions and complementary growth drivers.
Growing the existing estate through planned Midway attractions are predominantly indoor capital investment cycles appropriate to each attractions located in city centres or resorts providing visits Operating Group and broadly in line with depreciation overall.
of shorter duration typically up to two hours.
Exploiting strategic synergies, which leverage Theme park resorts are outdoor sites with rides Group marketing and buying strengths.
and shows as the main attractions, along with themed accommodation offerings: Transforming our theme parks into destination resorts via the addition of themed LEGOLAND Parks are aimed at families with accommodation and additional attractions.
younger children and have the LEGO product as their central theme.
Rolling out new midway attractions with an increasing focus on establishing clusters of our brands in Resort Theme Parks are standalone national brands the same city or resort location.
generally aimed at families, teenagers and young adults.
Developing new LEGOLAND parks, for which The management of the Merlin business is aligned directly to we hold the global, exclusive licence.
these two attraction types and organised into three Operating Groups, being Midway Attractions, LEGOLAND Parks and Strategic acquisitions, where they advance our Resor t Theme Parks.
strategic objectives in key regions and markets.
Alongside the three Operating Groups sits Merlin Magic Making, Merlins operations are currently divided into four regions being: the unique creative and production resource which sits at the UK where our business first began : Continental Europe: North heart of everything Merlin does.
Our long term vision is to see the Group derive a third of its revenues from each of Europe, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
2013 Revenue by Operating Group 2013 Revenue by Geography UK, 39% Midway Attractions, 44% Continental Europe, 26% LEGOLAND Parks, 30% North America, 21% Resort Theme Parks, 26% Asia Pacific, 14% 5
