Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors A Director may be removed by the Company in certain The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association or year, were Directors of the Company are: by a special resolution of the Company.
All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line Date of Date of with the recommendations of the Code.
Name appointment resignation Sir John Sunderland 20 October 2013 N A Pursuant to the Relationship Agreements entered into between Nick Varney 20 October 2013 N A the Company and each of the pre-IPO major shareholders KIRKBI, Andrew Carr 20 October 2013 N A Blackstone and CVC, each of these shareholders is entitled to appoint one Director to the Board.
In addition, KIRKBI is entitled to Charles Gurassa 20 October 2013 N A appoint one observer to attend but not vote at meetings of the Ken Hydon 20 October 2013 N A Board and each of the pre-IPO major shareholders is entitled to Miguel Ko 20 October 2013 N A appoint one observer to attend but not vote at meetings of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Sren Thorup Srensen 20 October 2013 N A Dr. Gerry Murphy 20 October 2013 N A Share capital and related matters Rob Lucas 20 October 2013 N A Details of the Companys share capital and movements therein since incorporation are set out on page 142 in note vi of the Colin Armstrong 20 September 2013 29 October 2013 parent Company financial statements.
Fiona Rose 20 September 2013 29 October 2013 The Articles of Association do not contain any restrictions on Directors indemnities and insurance the transfer of shares in the Company other than customary The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share indemnify the Directors of the Company or any Group company all the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of against liabilities arising from or in connection with the execution this Report is fully paid.
of their duties or powers to the extent permitted by law.
The Company has not given any specific indemnity in favour of the Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement entered into on Directors but the Company has purchased Directors and officers 30 October 2013 between the Company and the Global liability insurance as well as Prospectus liability insurance during Coordinators on the IPO: the year, which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors in the performance of their duties or powers and in connection The pre-IPO major shareholders agreed, subject to certain with the issue of the Prospectus in relation to the Listing of the customary exceptions, not to dispose of any shares in the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Company for a period of 180 days following Listing.
No amount was paid under any of these indemnities or Each of the Executive Directors, Non-executive Directors and insurances during the year other than the applicable Merlin Entertainments Share Plan Nominee Limited on behalf insurance premiums.
of the senior management shareholders agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, not to dispose of any shares in Appointment and removal of directors the Company for a period of 360 days following Listing.
A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Each ordinary share in the capital of the Company ranks equally in Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a all respects.
No shareholder holds shares carrying special rights meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director relating to the control of the Company.
However, the Company has chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the entered into Relationship Agreements with each of the pre-IPO Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an major shareholders in connection with the exercise of their rights additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the as major shareholders in the Company and their right to appoint next AGM.
