Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Approach to recruitment renumeration Components and approach The remuneration package offered to new appointments may Principles include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other In determining remuneration arrangements for new appointments element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the to the Board including internal promotions, the Committee particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of applies the following principles: shareholders subject to the limits on variable pay set out above.
The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, In considering which elements to include, and in determining the including the calibre of the individual, market data and existing approach for all relevant elements, the Committee will take into arrangements for other Executive Directors, with a view that account a number of different factors, including but not limited any arrangements should be in the best interests of Merlin and to market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary.
If appropriate, different targets Typically, the new appointment will have or be transitioned may be applied to a new appointments annual bonus in their year onto the same package structure as the other Executive of joining.
Directors, in line with the Policy Table presented above.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the The Committee would seek to structure buyout and variable pay organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any awards on recruitment to be in line with the Companys legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the remuneration framework so far as practical but, if necessary, the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director Committee may also grant such awards outside of that is appointed following the Companys acquisition of or merger framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 subject to the with another company or business, legacy terms and limits on variable pay set out above.
The exact terms of any such conditions would be honoured.
awards e. g. the form of the award, timeframe, performance Upon appointment, the Committee may consider it conditions, and leaver provisions would vary depending upon the appropriate to offer additional remuneration arrangements in specific commercial circumstances.
order to secure the appointment.
In particular, the Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out terms or remuneration Recruitment of Non-executive Directors arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive discussed below.
Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line The Committee may provide costs and support if the with the structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-executive recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
However the Committee or the Board as appropriate may include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any Maximum level of variable pay other element which the Committee considers is appropriate The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be given the particular circumstances, with due regard to the best granted to new Executive Directors in respect of recruitment interests of shareholders.
shall be limited to the maximum permitted in the Policy Table, namely 500 per cent.
This limit excludes any payments or awards that may be made to buy out the Director for terms, awards or other compensation forfeited from their previous employer discussed below.
Buy outs To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may make a one-off award to buy out terms, incentives and any other compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of all relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to incentive awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the form of the award e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding principle will be that any replacement buy out award should be of comparable commercial value to the terms, incentives and other compensation which have been forfeited.
However such awards would only be considered where there is a strong commercial rationale to do so.
