Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment other than Non-executive Directors whose appointment is in respect of their position as representatives of the pre-IPO major shareholders are summarised in the table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless otherwise stated in this Policy Report.
Provision Policy Notice period Executive Directors - twelve months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Non-executive Directors - three months notice by either the Company or the Non-executive Director or no notice period if terminated by shareholders.
Termination payment There is no payment in lieu of notice clause in the Executive Directors service agreements.
Any payments of compensation on termination would be subject to negotiation in line with general principles which include a duty for the individual to mitigate loss.
Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of their notice period.
Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling twelve months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
All Non-executive Directors have rolling three months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
Each of the Non-executive Directors nominated by the pre-IPO major shareholders, are appointed pursuant to the relevant Relationship Agreement with their nominating shareholder and do not have individual letters of appointment with the Company.
These Relationship Agreements provide for the aforementioned shareholders to maintain a Non-executive Director as a shareholder representative for so long as they hold ten per cent.
of the Companys share capital.
The Company has the right to remove these directors should the relevant shareholding fall below ten per cent.
and no fees or termination payments are payable.
Each Director will retire and put themselves forward for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company.
All Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office in 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset BH15 1NQ.
Policy on payment for loss of office As outlined above, there are no contractual obligations to make any payments to Executive Directors in relation to loss of office and any termination payment would be subject to negotiation although would not be expected in normal circumstances to exceed salary, pension and benefits in relation to the individuals outstanding notice period.
In relation to payments under non-contractual incentive schemes, the Committee would take the following factors into account: The Committee may determine that the Executive Director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the financial year in which they cease employment.
This bonus would usually be time apportioned.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, at its discretion, take into account performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
