Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT POLICY REPORT This part of the report sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy.
This Policy will be subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
This Policy will apply to payments made from 15 May 2014.
The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Policy table The following table sets out details of each component of the Executive Director remuneration package.
Our aim is to provide pay packages that will: Motivate and retain our industry leading employees.
Attract high quality individuals to join us.
Encourage and support a high performance culture.
Reward delivery of our business plan and key strategic goals.
Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders.
Purpose Performance 1 and link to strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity conditions Fixed pay Base salary Generally reviewed annually with any No absolute maximum has been set None To appropriately increase normally taking effect from for Executive Director base salaries.
recognise responsibilities 1 October although the Committee Current Executive Director salaries and attract and retain may award increases at other times of are set out in the Annual Report on talent by ensuring the year if it considers it appropriate.
Remuneration section of this salaries are market Remuneration Report.
The review takes into consideration a number of factors, including but not Any annual increase in salaries is at the limited to : discretion of the Committee taking into The individual Directors role, account the factors stated in this table experience and performance.
and the following principles: Business performance.
Salaries would typically be increased Market data for comparable roles in at a rate consistent with the average appropriate pay comparators.
salary increase in percentage of salary Pay and conditions elsewhere in terms for permanent employees.
Larger increases may be considered appropriate in certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typical salary.
Benefits Benefits are role specific and take into There is no overall maximum as the None To provide market account local market practice.
level of benefits depends on the competitive benefits.
annual cost of providing individual Benefits currently include company car items in the relevant local market or car allowance, phone costs, income and the individuals specific role.
protection insurance, annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
The Committee has discretion, in the event of the appointment of a Director based overseas or in exceptional circumstances, to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
