Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT At the first meeting of the new Audit Committee in December Fees for non-audit services during the year amounted to 4.2 2013, a review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit was million 2012 - 0.4 million representing 300 per cent.
Having considered comments made by the audit fees.
2.5 million of the non-audit work related to the management, external auditors and the quality of the internal external auditors due diligence and support in relation to the audit reporting and findings, the Committee concluded that the IPO process that resulted in the Listing.
KPMG were selected for internal audit function was effective.
The review will take place this project on the basis that they were able to apply knowledge annually and in 2014 will be based on a questionnaire.
gained from work undertaken towards a similar, aborted IPO process undertaken in 2010 as well as from their position as External audit auditors.
The Committee notes that it is entirely in line with The external auditors are appointed by shareholders to provide market practice for the audit firm to undertake the Reporting an opinion on the financial statements and certain other Accountant work associated with the Listing process.
1.0 million disclosures prepared by the Directors.
KPMG LLP acted as the of the fees for non-audit services related to the half year audit external auditors to Merlin Entertainments throughout the year.
and August review, also completed in relation to the IPO process.
The Committee is responsible for oversight of the external The other substantial non-audit work undertaken by KPMG, auditors, including approving the annual work plan and, on behalf amounting to 0.7 million, principally related to technical of the Board, approving the audit fee.
The auditors are eligible for accounting advice and tax advisory assignments.
Details of the selection to provide non-audit services only to the extent that fees paid for audit services, audit related services and non-audit their skills and experience make them a competitive and most services can be found in note 2.1 to the financial statements.
appropriate supplier of these services.
Non-audit services are subject to market tenders or tests and are awarded to the most On balance, the Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of appropriate provider.
Non-audit services are normally limited to audit-related and non-audit fees, and the nature of services assignments that are closely related to the annual provided, are not such as to compromise the objectivity and audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed independence of the external auditors.
understanding of the Group is necessary.
The principle followed with regard to non-audit services is that the auditors may not The Committee has evaluated the performance, independence provide a service which: and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors.
As a result of the relatively limited time period Places them in a position to audit their own work.
between the creation of the Merlin Entertainments plc Audit Creates a mutuality of interest.
Committee and the year end date, the new Committee gathered Results in the auditors developing close personal relationships feedback through discussion with relevant stakeholders.
following factors were also considered: Results in the auditors functioning as a manager or employee of Merlin.
The external auditors progress achieved against the agreed Puts the auditors in the role of advocate for Merlin.
audit plan and communication of any changes to the plan, including changes in perceived audit risks.
Management regularly provides the Committee with reports on audit, The competence with which the external auditors handled the audit-related and non-audit expenditure, together with proposals of key accounting and audit judgements and communication of any material non-audit related assignments.
The Committee regularly the same with management and the Committee.
reviews and, where necessary, challenges management to ensure that Feedback from the various attractions audited as to the auditor objectivity and independence is not impaired.
performance, competence and service levels of the external auditors work whilst at those sites.
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the The external auditors qualifications, expertise and resources Board the appointment, reappointment and removal of the and their internal quality procedures.
external auditors, including their remuneration and terms of their The managerial perspective on the role of KPMG during the engagement.
In doing so the Audit Committee has granted the audit and IPO processes.
CFO the right to approve the following without reference to the Audit Committee: After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee concluded that the external auditors were effective.
In future Work which a third party requires to be carried out by the years a survey facilitated by the secretary to the Committee will Companys auditors.
be used to assess the effectiveness of the external auditors.
Tax compliance work where the external auditor is most appropriate.
The Committee has considered the timing of the next formal Any other work up to a value of 100,000 where the external tender in light of the Code, the recent Competition Commission auditor is best placed to undertake the work.
and EU recommendations on audit tendering and rotation and, our current expectation is that the audit will be retendered no later than 2016 for the 2017 year end.
