CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR BUSINESS DIVERSIFICATION OF DISCIPLINES In order to provide an added-value specialist recruitment and Logistics rather than our traditional core business area of service to our clients, we organise our staff into specialist Finance.
The graph below demonstrates how the discipline mix teams, typically with consultants who were previously working has changed over the last five years.
We can assume that this within those specialist areas before moving into recruitment.
mix will continue to develop in the future.
OUR MARKETS We operate under four broad categories, which breakdown Given these trends, we expect in the future to be more into 15 sub-disciplines as shown in the key below.
dependent on the technical disciplines such as Engineering, macro-economic factors are weak and businesses and candidates While the global economy remains challenging Below this level we specialise further to ensure our specialist Technology and Marketing than we are today.
We believe have low confidence in the market, the market for recruitment recruitment services meet our clients requirements.
the more specialist we are, the greater leverage we will have we are optimistic about the long-term future of services will contract.
The key driver of growth in the recruitment For example, tax and treasury services within Finance, to counter internal or outsourced resource teams who will the recruitment market.
market is churn rather than the creation of new jobs.
and digital marketing within Marketing.
advertise and or use social media for more mainstream or commodity type roles.
Our markets are not just defined by the countries within which During 2013, the difficult market conditions stemming from the Each of the disciplines in which we operate respond differently we operate, but also the industry sectors.
We are impacted 2008 global financial crisis continued to have an impact and many to changes in market conditions and, therefore, diversification significantly by the changes in fortunes of different sectors as economies across the world remained weak, but with significant of discipline is key to reducing our risk in weak markets.
In Gross profit by discipline 2013 well as different countries.
This is particularly relevant to our business, addition, different disciplines tend to dominate in different since the provision of recruitment services is impacted strongly by geographic regions.
Therefore, as we expand geographically, Peaks and troughs in different sectors have a huge impact on our confidence in the wider economy.
new revenue opportunities arise from new disciplines.
For example, demand from China led to a huge boom in 20% the mining and natural resources sector in both Australia and Brazil Business confidence is a major factor in determining the number In the past, PageGroup has used its experience and track in 2010-2012 and our businesses in these countries grew rapidly of new job roles created and candidates levels of confidence are record to prioritise which disciplines it launches and grows.
as we fulfilled the crucial role of finding staff to satisfy the needs a key determinant of the number of candidates seeking new roles.
41% Historically, this has meant that we launched offices in new of this sector.
However, the mining and natural resources sector When the economy is strong the confidence of both businesses countries by focusing on the recruitment of Finance staff.
20% slowed in the second half of 2012 and our revenue was impacted and candidates leads to a high recruitment churn rate, which However, today, we take a more proactive business approach, strongly.
This has continued during 2013. is positive for the recruitment industry.
Conversely, when basing our decision on the size of the market, competitive landscape, fee rate potential, etc.
In Southern Greater China 19% for example, we are prioritising Engineering, Supply Chain PERMANENT TEMPORARY MIX Gross Profit by Discipline Our strategy is to achieve the same ratio of permanent to The ratio of permanent to temporary recruitment tends to be an 100 temporary recruitment as exists within the workforce of each of indicator of where we are in the economic cycle.
The proportion our geographic markets.
We use all three brands to maximise this of gross profit arising from permanent placements generally 80 balance at all salary levels.
varies between 70% and 80% depending on where we are in the economic cycle.
In 2013, 76% of our gross profit was derived from permanent placements and 24% from temporary placements.
60 The graph to the left shows the ratio over the last seven years.
Gross Profit Permanent Temporary Mix % In several of our core strategic markets, working in a temporary 40 role, or as a contractor or interim employee, is not currently 100 normal practice.
This is the case, for example, in Greater China, Singapore, Malaysia and Latin America.
The ratio of permanent 20 to temporary placements in the future will, therefore, be in part determined by our success in diversifying into these markets.
80 0 The ratio is also impacted by the salary level at which we recruit.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our Page Personnel brand typically recruits a higher proportion of temporary staff compared to our other brands.
Finance and Accounting Engineering, Property and Construction, Procurement and Supply Chain KEY: 60 Marketing, Sales & Retail Legal, Technology, HR, Secretarial, Healthcare Sales and Marketing Legal, Technology, HR and other Finance and Accounting Engineering and Supply Chain % Sales Engineering Legal Finance Retail Oil and Gas Technology Financial Services 40 Marketing Property and Construction Assistant Secretarial % Permanent %Temporary Procurement Supply Chain Logistics Human Resources Healthcare Life Sciences Hotel and Catering 20 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 15 16 Strategic Report Strategic Report
