CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR BRANDS OUR BUSINESS Page Executive provides a range of search and selection PageGroup is organised into three brands operating at different services for organisations looking for leadership talent at levels of the recruitment market.
senior management and board level.
Michael Page is the original PageGroup brand and is normally More details are provided on pages 13 and 14. established as the first business in each country we enter, operating at the qualified professional and management We are one of the worlds best known and most respected specialist level.
Page Personnel offers specialist recruitment services to organisations requiring technical and administrative support, recruitment consultancies.
We deliver recruitment services to clients professional clerical and junior management level staff.
through a network of 153 offices across 34 countries.
OUR OBJECTIVE EXECUTIVE SEARCH To deliver above market returns to our shareholders by: QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL Being the leading Delivering CLERICAL specialist recruitment profitable PROFESSIONAL consultancy in growth across each of our chosen the business GENERALIST STAFFING markets OUR SERVICE Over the last 38 years PageGroup has built a reputation for placements represents amounts billed to clients for the services excellence by placing skilled candidates into specialist job roles.
of temporary, contract or interim staff and, therefore, includes the We build strong relationships with employers, enabling us to fully salaries paid to those staff plus a margin.
The salaries are included understand the needs of their individual businesses and, through in cost of sales.
our large candidate database and the implementation of rigorous Gross profit growth is the key indicator which we monitor as gross candidate assessments, provide a best-in-class recruitment service profit represents total fee income for permanent placements after in terms of speed of search and choice of candidates.
advertising costs and the margin on temporary placements.
We call We provide recruitment services for permanent, contract and the ratio of operating profit to gross profit our conversion rate.
temporary staff at clerical professional, qualified professional This is also a key measure in our business.
Our revenue fee income from permanent With skill shortages around the world, we believe that there remains placements is based typically on a percentage of the candidates a significant need for specialist recruitment services and we are remuneration package and is mainly derived from contingent fee optimistic about our ability to grow our business in the long-term.
based assignments, but also includes some retained assignments.
There is no associated cost of sales with our permanent placements other than the cost of advertising so the majority of the revenue drops down to the gross margin net fee income line in our financial statements.
Revenue from temporary, contract and interim PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 11 12 Strategic Report Strategic Report TARGETED SECTORS CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Michael Page is the original PageGroup brand and is normally established as the first business in each new country that we enter.
Michael Page is comprised of 15 broad disciplines, each providing a service to a specialist area of the market.
Operating at the qualified professional and management level, Michael Page recruits on a permanent, temporary, contract or interim basis.
Michael Page operates in 34 countries worldwide, across Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, North and Latin America.
Our approach We focus on developing a thorough understanding of our clients businesses, from technical and soft skill requirements to future growth plans.
We are then able to partner effectively to manage their recruitment requirements to support expansion, diversification or change programmes.
How we reach our audience Michael Page utilises a variety of methods to source candidates from our industry-leading databases through social media, networking and managed advertising campaigns.
Opportunities for growth Michael Page aims to grow by organic expansion: by establishing new specialist disciplines in existing markets: by increasing operations geographically: and OUR BRANDS by moving into new market sectors in the geographic regions in which we currently operate.
The executive search business of PageGroup, Page Executive, offers a range of search, selection and management solutions for organisations to attract and retain their leadership talent.
The roles on which we focus typically sit at the sub-board and board levels.
Page Executive has a global presence, operating across Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe, North and Latin America.
Page Personnel offers specialist recruitment services to organisations requiring permanent employees or temporary or contract staff at the Our approach technical and administrative support, professional clerical and junior We have a flexible approach to talent attraction based on management levels.
Page Personnel operates in 21 countries across client requirements.
We offer global reach combined with local Asia Pacific, Europe, North and Latin America.
Our diverse shortlists are based on a thorough search of the market.
Results are delivered quickly and accurately.
Our approach Employers and candidates in a high activity, high volume market require How we reach our audience a responsive recruitment partner a service that Page Personnel is proud to provide.
Speed and accuracy define our proposition: we react quickly Page Executive has a developed network of senior contacts to ensure that organisations have access to the skills they require.
across our operating territories and markets.
This enables us to Page Personnel operates in the permanent, contract and temporary approach and attract the top talent in the market for organisations recruitment fields.
wishing to make a leadership hire.
We also run managed selection campaigns which can include high profile or niche advertising.
How we reach our audience Page Personnel supports employers needing to make hiring decisions Opportunities for growth quickly by maintaining and actively growing a pool of high quality candidates Page Executive aims to diversify by market sector and geography ready for their next opportunity.
Opportunities for growth Page Personnel is one of the fastest growing PageGroup businesses, diversifying by market and geography across our international network.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 13 14 Strategic Report Strategic Report
