CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Directors Interests Shares Held in the Employee Benefit Trust Details of the interests of the Directors and their connected The Trustee of the Michael Page International plc Employee persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are outlined Benefit Trust EBT has agreed not to vote at any general in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Steve Ingham, is also meeting in respect of any shares where the EBT has a deemed deemed to have an interest in the ordinary shares held in the beneficial interest.
Results and Dividends Share Capital The profit after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2013 The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 18 for the Group amounted to 42.6m 2012: 36.2m.
A final dividend for 2012 of 6.75 pence per ordinary share At the Annual General Meeting held on 6 June 2013 the was paid on 21 June 2013.
An interim dividend for 2013 of Company renewed its authority to make market purchases of 3.25 pence per ordinary share was paid on 4 October 2013. its own ordinary shares up to a maximum of 10% of the issued The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for share capital.
No shares were repurchased during the year.
the year ended 31 December 2013 of 7.25 pence per ordinary A further resolution in this respect will be put to shareholders share on 23 June 2014 to shareholders on the register of at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
members on 23 May 2014 which, if approved at the Annual There were 3.1m shares issued to satisfy share options General Meeting, will result in a total dividend for the year of exercised during the year.
10.5 pence per ordinary share 2012: 10.0 pence.
Share Capital, Restrictions on Transfer of Anti-Bribery and Business Ethics Shares and Other Additional Information Anti-bribery and corruption is, unfortunately, a feature of corporate and public life in many countries across the world.
To the extent not discussed in this Directors Report, Governments, businesses and non-governmental organisations information relating to the Companys share capital structure, such as Transparency International are working together to restrictions on the holding or transfer of its shares or on the DIRECTORS REPORT tackle the issue but, despite our collective efforts, eradicating exercise of voting rights attached to such securities required by all forms of bribery and corruption will take time.
PageGroup, the Companies Act 2006 is set out in the following sections of Elaine Marriner Company Secretary therefore, has a clear policy on Bribery and Business Ethics the Annual Report: and we support our employees to make decisions in line with Directors Remuneration Report our stated position.
Notes to the Accounts Note 18: Called-up share capital Our Group Code of Conduct can be found on our website The summary of the provisions of the Companys Articles www.
com and is based on our commitment to Other Statutory Information of Association acting professionally, fairly and with integrity.
PageGroup maintains a zero-tolerance approach against corruption.
The Directors present their Report together with the audited Each of the above sections is incorporated by reference into, Facilitation payments are also not permitted within consolidated financial statements for the year ended and forms part of, this Directors Report.
Certain information for disclosure in this Report is provided in Interest in voting rights Health and Safety other sections of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These include At 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified, We recognise that Health and Safety is an integral part of a fair review of the business, including its development and in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and our responsibilities.
The day-to-day services we provide do performance, during the year to 31 December 2013: the position Transparency Rules, of the following interests in its ordinary not pose a great risk to either our employees or our clients.
of the Group at the end of the financial year, together with a share capital: However, we endeavour to maintain a safe and active description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the environment.
Each office is responsible for its own fire risk Group: corporate governance and remuneration reports: the Group Shareholder Number % of assessment and emergency procedures and has an allocated financial statements and notes to those statements: whistleblowing of ordinary voting Facilities and Health and Safety Representative.
procedures: and disclosures concerning greenhouse gas shares rights emissions and accordingly these are incorporated into this Causeway Capital Management LLC 18,832,766 6.14 Employment Policy and Employee Report by reference.
Biographies of the currently serving directors are provided on pages 51 and 52 of this Report.
Involvement Sleep, Zakaria and Co Nomad 18,347,573 5.92 Composition of the Board The powers of the Directors and the rules governing their The Group continues to give full and fair consideration to appointment and replacement are set out in the Companys The Capital Group of Companies Inc 15,492,600 5.03 The following are Directors of the Company as at the date applications for employment made by disabled persons, Articles of Association which are summarised on pages 124 to 126. of the Report.
having regard to their respective aptitudes and abilities.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and in accordance with Franklin Templeton Institutional LLC 15,308,070 5.03 The policy includes, where practicable, the continued Robin Buchanan the UK Corporate Governance Code, Danuta Gray will offer herself employment of those who may become disabled during Steve Ingham for election and all other Directors will offer themselves for their employment and the provision of training and career FIL Limited 15,103,870 4.98 annual re-election.
Simon Boddie development and promotion, where appropriate.
The Group also remains committed to employee involvement throughout Danuta Gray appointed 10 December 2013 No Director, at any time during the period under review, had any The following notifications were received during the period the business.
Employees are kept well informed of the material interest in any contracts with the Company or any of its 1 January 2014 to 4 March 2014: David Lowden performance and strategy of the Group through personal subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive Directors who briefings, regular meetings, emails and other communications Ruby McGregor-Smith Holder Number % of had such an interest through their service agreements with the from the Chief Executive Officer and members of the Executive of ordinary voting Company, details of which are summarised on page 84.
Further details of employment policies and shares rights The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance employee involvement can be found in the Strategic Report Each of the above Directors, except Danuta Gray, served Sleep, Zakaria and Co Nomad 15,252,929 4.92 which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against on page 41. throughout the period under review.
Andrew Bracey resigned its Directors.
as Chief Financial Officer on 11 October 2013.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 87 88 Directors Report Directors Report
