CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR BRANDS OUR BUSINESS Page Executive provides a range of search and selection PageGroup is organised into three brands operating at different services for organisations looking for leadership talent at levels of the recruitment market.
senior management and board level.
Michael Page is the original PageGroup brand and is normally More details are provided on pages 13 and 14. established as the first business in each country we enter, operating at the qualified professional and management We are one of the worlds best known and most respected specialist level.
Page Personnel offers specialist recruitment services to organisations requiring technical and administrative support, recruitment consultancies.
We deliver recruitment services to clients professional clerical and junior management level staff.
through a network of 153 offices across 34 countries.
OUR OBJECTIVE EXECUTIVE SEARCH To deliver above market returns to our shareholders by: QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL Being the leading Delivering CLERICAL specialist recruitment profitable PROFESSIONAL consultancy in growth across each of our chosen the business GENERALIST STAFFING markets OUR SERVICE Over the last 38 years PageGroup has built a reputation for placements represents amounts billed to clients for the services excellence by placing skilled candidates into specialist job roles.
of temporary, contract or interim staff and, therefore, includes the We build strong relationships with employers, enabling us to fully salaries paid to those staff plus a margin.
The salaries are included understand the needs of their individual businesses and, through in cost of sales.
our large candidate database and the implementation of rigorous Gross profit growth is the key indicator which we monitor as gross candidate assessments, provide a best-in-class recruitment service profit represents total fee income for permanent placements after in terms of speed of search and choice of candidates.
advertising costs and the margin on temporary placements.
We call We provide recruitment services for permanent, contract and the ratio of operating profit to gross profit our conversion rate.
temporary staff at clerical professional, qualified professional This is also a key measure in our business.
Our revenue fee income from permanent With skill shortages around the world, we believe that there remains placements is based typically on a percentage of the candidates a significant need for specialist recruitment services and we are remuneration package and is mainly derived from contingent fee optimistic about our ability to grow our business in the long-term.
based assignments, but also includes some retained assignments.
There is no associated cost of sales with our permanent placements other than the cost of advertising so the majority of the revenue drops down to the gross margin net fee income line in our financial statements.
Revenue from temporary, contract and interim PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 11 12 Strategic Report Strategic Report TARGETED SECTORS
