CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR STRATEGY OUR STRATEGY IS CLEAR AND CONSISTENT ORGANIC GROWTH DIVERSIFICATION BY REGION BUILD FOR THE LONG-TERM RECRUIT THE BEST PEOPLE, AND DISCIPLINE DEVELOP THEIR TALENT AND Our strategy is to grow organically, achieved When we invest in a new business, be PROMOTE FROM WITHIN by drawing upon the skills and experiences it a new country, a new office or a new Our strategy is to expand and diversify the of proven PageGroup management, ensuring discipline, we do so for the long-term.
Group by industry sectors, professional We recognise that it is our people who are we have the best and most experienced, Downturns in the general economy of disciplines, geography and level of focus, at the heart of everything we do, particularly home-grown talent in each key role.
a country or in specific industries will be it Page Executive, Michael Page or as an organically grown business.
Investing Our team-based structure and profit share inevitably have a knock-on effect on the Page Personnel, with the objective of in them is, therefore, a vital element of business model is highly scalable.
However, it has been being the leading specialist recruitment our strategy.
Our strategy is to find the small size of our specialist teams means we our practice in the past, and remains our consultancy in each of our chosen markets.
highest calibre staff from a wide range of can increase headcount rapidly to achieve intention, to maintain our presence in our backgrounds and then do our very best As recruitment is a cyclical business, growth when market conditions are good.
chosen markets through these downturns, to retain them through a team-based impacted significantly by the strength of Conversely, when market conditions tighten, while closely controlling our cost base.
structure, a profit share business model economies, diversification is an important these entrepreneurial, profit sharing teams In this way, we are able to retain our highly and continuous career development, often element of our strategy in order to reduce reduce in size through natural attrition.
capable management teams in whom internationally.
Our strong track record of our dependency on individual businesses Consequently, our cost base contracts we have invested and, normally, we find internal career moves and promotion from or markets and to increase the resilience of during the lean times.
that we gain market share during downturns within means that people who join us know the Group.
which positions our business for marketthat one day they can be our future senior Our strategy for organic growth has This strategy is pursued entirely through the leading rates of growth when the managers and main Board directors.
Steve served the business well over the thirtyorganic growth of existing and new teams, economy improves.
Ingham, our Chief Executive Officer, joined eight years since its inception and we offices, disciplines and countries, maintaining PageGroup 27 years ago at recruitment believe it will continue to do so.
We have Pursuing this approach means that we a consistent team and meritocratic culture as consultant level.
Similarly, all of the grown from a small, single discipline carry spare capacity during the downturn, we grow.
operational members of our Executive management recruitment company operating which has a negative effect on profitability Committee started their PageGroup careers in one country to a large multidiscipline, in the short-term.
A strong balance sheet is, at consultant level and have a total of multinational business, operating in 34 therefore, essential to support the business 125 years of PageGroup experience countries represented by three key brands.
Current strategic priorities are highlighted on page 35.
The key performance indicators used to measure our progress against our strategy can be found on pages 19 and 20.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 33 34 Strategic Report Strategic Report CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM THE GROUP HAS TRANSFORMED OVER THE PAST THIRTEEN YEARS, WITH 50% OF OUR FEE EARNERS NOW POSITIONED IN THE LEAST COMPETITIVE MARKETS 2013 Fee earners: 3,810 Rest of EMEA OUR STRATEGY 11% Asia 15% 50% 1,909 Latin America 10% OUR PLAN FOR GROWTH 2000 Canada, Germany, Italy, Fee earners: 1,657 New Zealand, 14% Our Goal Spain 12% 196 Our strategic goal is to move back to and then exceed the peak gross profit performance achieved in each region in 2008 prior to the impact of the global financial crisis of late 2008.
The France, Holland achievement of this goal will be driven largely by consultant 30% 501 19% 731 and USA headcount and a return to higher levels of consultant productivity.
A focus on the improvement of overall operational efficiency will be used to increase conversion rates and profit before tax.
Current Strategic Priorities Positioned for Growth Increase the scale and diversification of PageGroup by Constant investment has transformed the shape of our business 58% 960 Australia and UK growing organically existing and new teams, offices, 31% 1,170 and will continue to transform it in the future.
disciplines and countries see pages 8, 16 and 33 We have identified Greater China, Germany, Latin America, South Scale the business with a team and meritocratic culture whilst East Asia and the USA as large, high potential markets in which we delivering a consistent and high quality client and candidate intend to focus our investment in the next few years.
In the main experience see pages 33, 34, 40 and 41 these are less developed recruitment markets where competition is limited.
Many of our new markets are emerging economies and Invest principally in identified large, high potential markets are growing more quickly than established markets.
Naturally our Greater China, Germany, Latin America, South East Asia and PROPORTION OF RECRUITMENT strongest opportunity to grow quickly is in markets which have the the USA see page 37 potential to develop and where competition is weak.
THAT IS OUTSOURCED Manage our fee earner headcount in other markets to reflect market conditions see page 34 In 2000, 58% of our fee earners were based in the UK and KEY: 30% 30-70% 70% Fee Earners Australia, the most developed and competitive recruitment Focus on operational support consistency and efficiency markets, and only 12% in the least developed and least including the rollout of our new operating system see page 39 competitive markets.
However, as shown in the diagram opposite, Austria, Belgium, Ireland, Luxembourg, Morocco, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Russia, South Africa, Focus on succession planning and international career paths to at the end of December 2013 half of our fee earners were based Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, UAE encourage retention and development of key staff see pages in these high potential markets.
We are now well positioned 34 and 41 for growth.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 35 36 Strategic Report Strategic Report CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR STRATEGY GREATER CHINA USA Approximate headcount: 450 Approximate headcount: 250 Offices: 10 Offices: 9 In Greater China we have had considerable success in recent Despite difficult trading conditions and poor performances SPOTLIGHT ON LARGE, HIGH POTENTIAL MARKETS years, principally as a result of our investment in management during 2008-2012, we have renewed confidence in the and by transferring proven managers from other established USA market and our USA business.
Our gross profit growth PageGroup offices.
As the market leader in Greater China by rate year-on-year was 31% in 2013.
In 2012, we made key The criteria are as follows: offices, headcount, gross profit and trading profit, we are management changes and over the last year we have Historically, when economic growth has slowed, we have reduced Criteria: Strength of management well positioned.
realigned our US business, transforming it back into a consultant headcount and not reinvested until the market typical PageGroup business and culture.
Several more key Factors: Ability to hire, train, retain, promote locals recovered.
However, in the five markets identified as large, high Our track record of growing headcount, training, retaining, managers have transferred into the US business and we Ability to adapt PageGroup culture to local culture potential markets Greater China, Germany, Latin America, South promoting locals, opening offices, strong conversion rates, expect there to be a steady flow of additional international Ability to roll out disciplines and open offices East Asia and USA we will now take a more proactive approach developing international and Chinese clients, leads us to be transfers to the USA which is an attractive market for many with increased and sustained investment through economic optimistic about future prospects in this territory.
Numerous of our current employees.
This will require setting targets for consultant remuneration Criteria: Conversion rates opportunities exist to expand existing offices and open new appropriate for the market conditions.
ones, launch and roll out disciplines, and, therefore, grow both The USA recruitment market is very competitive, though less Factors: High fee rates salaries headcount and gross profit.
so than the UK and Australia.
It is driven mostly by contingent High gross profit per fee earner The markets identified are substantial, high potential markets fees, but with higher salaries and fee rates than we see in the for recruitment.
In the main, they are under-developed, less UK.
In addition, the typical cut-off between what is contingent competitive recruitment markets where PageGroup has already Criteria: Size and prospects of economy and what is seen as the start of the head-hunter market is set met the criteria it uses to assess business potential and, therefore, GERMANY Factors: Competitor landscape at a higher level: the contingency market can reach as high we can have confidence that we can now successfully scale up Client candidate receptiveness as $250k.
As the worlds largest economy, the USA offers our success.
Employee employer legislation Approximate headcount: 250 PageGroup numerous opportunities for growth.
Offices: 7 Criteria: Track record To date, our main focus in Germany has been on permanent Factors: PageGroup growth rates LATIN AMERICA recruitment and we are widely regarded as the market leader Progress on gross profit operating profit in this area.
However, in weaker market conditions, Germanys strong employment legislation encourages clients to avoid Approximate headcount: 550 hiring permanent employees and to switch to hiring Offices: 20 temporary staff.
In Latin America, we are clear market leaders.
Our largest Our opportunity is to grow further our permanent recruitment presence is in Brazil and we also have offices across Mexico, business and to create a robust temporary business.
In 2013 Chile, Argentina and Colombia.
We plan to continue to invest we strengthened the management team with the transfer in the region and build on our clear market leadership.
Year End headcount and discipline track record in Greater China, Germany, in of two Senior Directors, both of whom have temporary Latin America, South East Asia and USA Latin America is a region where the recruitment of middle recruitment experience and, combined, have over 30 years management or professionally qualified staff is largely done of PageGroup experience.
in-house and the recruitment industry is very immature.
Germanys economy, based on GDP, is approximately The combined GDP of the five countries in which we operate KEY: Countries 10 40% larger than the UK economy, is more fide-centralised and would rank fourth in the world below Japan and above Country Disciplines has a far less developed recruitment market compared to the Germany.
The immaturity of these markets represents UK and other major European economies.
These factors make Directors a huge opportunity.
it a very attractive opportunity for PageGroup.
Headcount Strength of management has been consistently high and is improving further as management matures.
Given the 104 challenges experienced in the recruitment market in Spain SOUTH-EAST ASIA 7 and Portugal over the last few years, we have taken the opportunity to successfully transfer a number of Spanish Approximate headcount: 200 and Portuguese speaking staff to Latin America.
Offices: 2 The PageGroup LatAm culture is strong, encouraging the 63 retention of staff and we have proved we can roll out profitable 81 Of the five markets we have identified as high potential new offices and disciplines across the region.
Currently this 5 strategic markets, South East Asia is PageGroups least market is almost entirely driven by permanent recruitment developed market.
Currently our presence consists of a but we have successfully rolled out Page Personnel in 31 market-leading position in Singapore and a new but rapidly 27 preparation for when temporary recruitment becomes more growing business in Malaysia.
1,613 Outside of Singapore, South East Asias recruitment market is 9 9 Approximate headcount is based on February 2014 data.
We have proven that the region is capable 682 1 4 of high margins.
We are currently in the process of establishing 1 263 1 85 the necessary licences for an Indonesian operation we 10 have an Indonesian team with over 20 years of PageGroup experience operating from Kuala Lumpur.
Our depth of 1993 1999 2004 2009 2013 management experience is very strong and is overweight for the size of the operations we have today.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 37 38 Strategic Report Strategic Report CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM OUR STRATEGY OPERATIONAL SUPPORT STRATEGY The core operational support strategy is to have a consistent, Human Resources market-leading operational support on a highly cost-effective During the year we appointed a Group Human Resources Director basis.
We are targeting to improve the delivery of support services and are taking a co-ordinated global approach to recruitment, across the business while reducing costs as much as possible.
retention, training and development, promotion, international The actions being taken in each of the core areas are as follows: transfers, succession management and remuneration.
Finance and Administration Strategy Procurement and property strategy In order to improve efficiency we are reviewing the current We have appointed a Global Procurement Director with the aim of provision of these services and their delivery mechanisms.
moving to common procurement processes across the business in For example, the use of the shared service centre model will be order to improve operational efficiency and reduce costs.
used across a greater proportion of the Group.
Marketing Investor Relations In the Michael Page name we have a strong established brand We have appointed a Director of Investor Relations to focus on THE PEOPLE BEHIND in our major markets.
We still face challenges in achieving better communication with our shareholders.
awareness for Michael Page in our newer markets and across all markets for our other core brands, Page Executive and Page THE PLAN Information Technology Strategy Personnel.
In 2012, we re-branded to PageGroup, with clarity on We have recently made significant changes in the delivery of IT to brand hierarchy and consistency in brand deployment.
A new Chief Information Officer has been With the rise of digital media, the way customers become aware hired and substantial changes have been made to the senior IT of and interact with brands in the recruitment space has changed team.
In terms of delivery, we are moving away from an approach significantly and will continue to change.
We have established of building, owning and maintaining core IT infrastructure and significant presence in the digital space but we recognise the Our Employees applications, and are generally moving to a delivery that is based need to remain consistent in approach and agile in marketing our on a web applications model where the key applications and We never forget that the people who work at PageGroup will services in order to continue to be the recruitment brand of choice data are third-party hosted on a global industrial framework in always be our most valuable assets.
It is these individuals who in the business sectors in which we operate.
drive the Company forward and take it in the right direction.
We have appointed a Group Marketing Director who now has We, therefore, value their ideas and contribution, encourage In May, we piloted the new version of our operating system and global control of the marketing function and will ensure the key them to maximise their potential and invest heavily in learning related applications in our Boston office and these are planned to focus is towards activity that drives added value to the brand.
This means that every member of staff has be rolled out further in 2014.
Work on modifications to the system We will continue to empower the business with sales support a fair opportunity to excel and to develop a full and rewarding that were noted in the pilot is developing in line with expectations activity that is responsive to local and cultural factors but this career, potentially rising to Executive Director level.
The total system covers a wide range of our tactical activity can be delivered using technology based on a operating activities, being broadly: simple centralised approach.
Future strategy will be through a Our Clients CRM Customer Relationship Management system marketing function with fewer people but more expertise We have always treated our clients as our partners and recruitment process management in essential marketing skills with a bias towards online and recognise that we have a responsibility to represent them in the Search global search capability over all databases and social channels.
We spend time getting to know our clients social streams We will use our internal expertise, supplemented with external so that we understand their businesses.
In order to present the Reporting and analytics covering operational and financial advice in both marketing and technology, to monitor and evaluate widest possible pool of talent to our clients, we ensure diversity data Group-wide emerging trends, particularly in the digital space.
Our aim will in our candidate shortlists by conducting searches which reach be to build on our hard won brand reputation by maximising the CV parsing automatic coding and loading of CVs minority groups.
Job posting managing and tracking jobs and applications Our Candidates Our Investors Finance systems and interfaces full integration into finance Candidates can be assured that they will always be assessed We communicate regularly with our investors, keeping them systems for billing, temporary workers timesheets and payroll purely on their skill-set and presented to clients without bias, well informed of our activities.
Feedback from investors has Single global website responsive to any device.
to ensure competition for jobs is on a level playing field.
helped shape our clear business strategy.
More information on The systems are being delivered on the latest versions of the host We value our candidates and enjoy keeping in touch with how we communicate with our investors is shown on page 60 applications and have been developed to be agile, so that we can We have appointed a Director them yesterdays candidate is frequently tomorrows client.
in the Corporate Governance section.
always take advantage of the latest versions without significant of Investor Relations to focus upgrade costs or timelines.
They are also utilising Cloud based Our Community solutions, with the related improvements in scalability, cost on communication with Throughout the world we seek to work closely with local and flexibility.
communities, looking to give something back to the societies our shareholders.
Elements of our IT strategy have commenced roll-out elsewhere in which we operate.
Further details can be found in the in the Group, for example, the next generation website has been Corporate Responsibility section on page 43. launched in Asia Pacific.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 39 40 Strategic Report Strategic Report
