David Maloney, 57 Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-executive senior independent director and Deputy Chairman Kevin was previously non-executive Chairman Mike is a non-executive director of Parity David is a non-executive director of Cineworld of Morse plc, a non-executive director of Group plc.
Mike joined Micro Focus on Group plc and Enterprise Inns plc.
He is Nationwide Building Society and a non- 7 September 2010 and was previously also Chairman of the board of Trustees of executive director of the Big Food Group plc.
Chief Executive Officer at Morse plc, Make-a-Wish Foundation UK Limited, His most recent executive roles were as Chief following his initial role as Group Finance Brandon Hire Group Holdings Limited and Reed & Mackay, a business travel Operating Officer of Cable & Wireless plc, Director.
Mike left Morse plc in July 2010 President of Motorola Europe, Middle East following the turnaround and successful management company.
David was previously and Africa and before that, he was Chief corporate sale to 2e2 in June 2010.
From a non-executive director of Carillion plc and Executive of IBM UK Limited.
Kevin was 1998 to 2007, Mike was Group Finance Ludorum plc and Chairman of Hoseasons Director at Microgen plc and played a lead Holdings Ltd. His most recent executive role appointed non-executive Chairman of the Company in 2005 and Executive Chairman role in the transformation of the company was as Chief Financial Officer of the global in April 2011.
He has a degree in politics to an international software and services hotel group Le Meridien Hotels and Resorts.
and economics from Oxford University.
business with sustainable and profitable Prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer of growth.
Earlier roles include seven years Thomson Travel Group and Preussag Airlines corporate finance work at Smith & and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe Williamson, as well as two years at plc.
David was appointed non-executive senior  where he led independent director in 2005 and Deputy the UK technology team, reporting to the Chairman in April 2011.
David is a fellow global Head of Corporate Finance for the of the Chartered Institute of Management Technology Sector.
Mike began his career at Accountants and has a degree in economics Peat Marwick Mitchell & Co now KPMG.
Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information 4.
Tom Virden, 55 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Karen is Chair of Neverfail Group Limited, Tom is Chief Executive Officer of Foundation Tom is a non-executive director of Atari Inc publicly traded on the French stock the continuous availability firm, The Foundry, Radiology Group and a founding member a leading special effects software company of Confluence Medical Systems, a healthcare exchange and technology start-up and Featurespace Ltd, a data analytics and technology consulting partnership.
He began his career at Apple Inc software company.
Karen is also Deputy Previously, he served as Chief Executive and held a range of leadership roles in market Officer for Misys Healthcare Systems from development and product marketing, Chairman and non-executive director at Volex Group plc, the global supplier of components January 2002 until March 2007 and as a including the leadership of the companys and cables and Cambridge Broadband director of Misys plc.
Prior to that, he was introduction to Small Business and the Networks Ltd, a market leader in wireless Chief Executive Officer of Medic Computer Music industry.
More recently, Tom was Systems, a US-based software company International Business Development Director solutions.
Prior to her current board responsibilities, she has held various roles focused on the healthcare information at lastminute.
com with responsibility for at board level since 2001 at a range of technology market.
He earned his BSBA International Strategy for the company and technology companies, including Portwise from Robert Morris University, Pittsburgh, PA. launching subsidiaries and fully localised sites AB, Via Networks, Inc, Compel Group plc, in France, Germany, Sweden, Italy, Spain, HAL Knowledge Systems and Stepstone Netherlands, Australia and Ireland.
Karen began her career at ICL before that, he was Vice President, Marketing at spending 20 years at Hewlett Packard, Digidesign, a California company that brought where in 2000 she became Vice President digital multitrack recording and editing to and General Manager Worldwide Sales & personal computers.
Tom has also started Marketing for the Business Customer and led a number of technology companies Organisation, responsible for sales of all including Katz Media SARL, Virtual Hewlett Packards products, services and European Office VEO, and most recently, software to business customers globally.
com, the worlds largest Karen holds a BA Honours degree in online yacht charter site, with 8,000 yachts European Studies from Bath University worldwide.
Tom holds a Bachelor of Arts, and a Diploma in Marketing.
Double Major in Psychology and Economics from Stanford University in the US.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
