Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company Research and development All expenditure on research is expensed as incurred.
The Group present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2013. capitalizes development expenditure from the point that all the relevant criteria are met.
The capitalized cost is then amortized Principal activities over the useful life of the software.
During the year to 30 April 2013, The principal activity of the Company and its direct and indirect $52.6m was charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive subsidiaries the Group during the year was the making and selling income 2012: $58.3m in respect of research and development of software products.
This charge is after net capitalization of development expenditure of $1.7m 2012: $3.2m consisting of $20.0m The Company is limited by shares and is domiciled and incorporated 2012: $19.4m of capitalized development expenditure offset by in the United Kingdom.
The registered office of the Company is: $18.3m 2012: $16.2m of amortization of previously capitalized The Lawn, 2230 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 1QN.
Business review Donations The Group is required to produce a business review complying with The Groups policy is to make no donations or contributions to political the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The information that parties 2012: nil.
During the year reported on, the Group made fulfils these requirements can be found in this directors report and in charitable donations of $62,000 to a number of local and national the following sections: charities and other local organizations 2012: $53,000.
The Executive Chairmans statement on pages 3 to 6, the operational The Group has a gift programme that matches employee donations and financial review on pages 7 to 11 which include details of the and a give as you earn scheme to allow employees to donate to their Groups activity and the future focus of the Group, the statement on chosen charity through the Groups payroll.
It also has a policy in place corporate social responsibility set out on pages 12 to 13, the principal to encourage employees to volunteer a certain number of hours to risks and uncertainties set out on pages 14 and 15 and the key assist local organizations.
performance indicators KPIs on page 35, each of which are incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Directors and their interests The directors of the Company who served during the year reported on Corporate governance and up to the date of signing this report are as follows: The Group is required to produce a corporate governance statement pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Executive information that fulfils this requirement can be found in this directors Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman report and in the corporate governance section on pages 22 to 27 Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer which are incorporated into this directors report by reference.
Non-executive Dividends David Maloney Non-executive senior independent director and The board continues to adopt a progressive dividend policy reflecting Deputy Chairman the long-term earnings and cash flow potential of Micro Focus whilst Tom Skelton targeting a level of dividend cover for the year ended 30 April 2013 Karen Slatford of approximately 2 times on a pre-exceptional post-tax earnings basis.
Tom Virden The directors recommend payment of a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 April 2013 of 28.1 cents per share, which, Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary taken together with the interim dividend of 11.9 cents per share shares of the Company, as disclosed in the register of directors paid in January 2013, gives a total dividend in respect of 2013 of interests, are given in the remuneration report on pages 28 to 34.
40.0 cents per share which is 2.07 times covered on a pre-exceptional post-tax earnings basis.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of dividend will be paid on 2 October 2013 to shareholders on the significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party register on 6 September 2013.
Dividends will be paid in sterling based during the financial year, as disclosed in note 33 Related party on an exchange rate of 1 $1.57, equivalent to approximately transactions.
17.90p per share, being the rate applicable on 18 June 2013, the date on which the board resolved to propose the final dividend.
The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them while acting as directors and officers of Group companies.
During the financial year reported on and as at the date of this report qualifying third party indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors to the extent permitted by law and by the Articles of Association of the Company against liabilities they may incur in the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for review at the registered office of the Company.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Employment policy Share option schemes The directors remain committed to the principle that selected Equal opportunities employees should be able to participate in the Groups progress The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration through share based compensation schemes.
Details of the Groups is given to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital status, share based compensation schemes are given in note 29 to the disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin or financial statements.
any other conditions not relevant to the performance of the job, who can demonstrate that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
Payment of creditors The Company and the Group seeks the best possible terms from All employees accept the commitment within this policy that the suppliers appropriate to the business and in placing orders gives Group will not allow discrimination or harassment by employees or consideration to quality, delivery, price and terms of payment.
others acting on the Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital The Company and the Group do not follow a specific payment code status, race, nationality, disability or religious or political beliefs.
but have a policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the specific terms agreed with each supplier.
The average number of days Disabled employees credit provided by suppliers in the year to 30 April 2013 for the With regard to existing employees and those who may become Group was 28 days 2012: 20days and for the Company was nil disabled, the Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide days 2012: 55 days, based on the Company and Groups trade continuing employment under its existing terms and conditions and payables at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced during to provide training and career development, including promotion, the year by the Company and Groups trade suppliers.
Financial instruments Employee involvement The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use of The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure to Groups business strategy and the objectives which are in place to price, credit, cash flow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 21 to assist them to focus on working towards these goals.
at the time of key announcements, including presentations by directors to all employees, together with briefings throughout the Substantial shareholding year, are part of the communication and consultation programme.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, at 18 June 2013, the Company had been In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both advised of the following notifiable interests in its voting rights: to raise issues and to assist with the two-way flow of information.
Ordinary shares of Percentage of The Group also has an online process which enables employees to Name of holder 12 pence each issued capital express views and suggest improvements.
Standard Life Investments Limited 13,451,432 9.01% Further education and training Prudential Plc 15,277,963 8.23% Continuing education, training and development are important Artemis Investment Management LLP 9,378,513 5.05% to ensure the future success of the Group.
The Group supports Norges Bank 6,138,347 4.11% individuals who wish to obtain relevant and appropriate further Legal and General Group Plc 7,835,219 3.88% education qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
Training needs of all employees are also analyzed during the These interests were notified to the Company prior to the share consolidations annual and half yearly appraisal process, at which time a training which took place in January and October 2012. plan is agreed as part of each individuals ongoing development.
Future developments At appropriate times throughout the course of a year, the directors Further information regarding the Groups future development can be are briefed on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes of found in the Executive Chairmans statement on pages 3 to 6 and the practice which are relevant to their duties and the operations of the operational and financial review on pages 7 to 11.
Where appropriate the directors are provided with copies of the underlying documentation and or written summaries of Additional information for shareholders the principal changes.
Following the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into English law, the following description provides the required information for The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the shareholders where not already provided elsewhere in this report.
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and Thissummary is based on the Companys Articles of Association individual directors.
Further information with regard to the evaluation theArticles.
can be found in the corporate governance report on pages 22 to 27.
The evaluation included an assessment of directors training and development requirements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Directors report continued Share capital Transfer of shares Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 12 pence each.
In November 2012 a Return certified shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual form of Value was made to all shareholders amounting to $128.8m in or in any other form which the board may approve.
The board may, in cash after including a foreign exchange contract gain of $2.4m its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline to 50 pence per share, by way of a B and C share scheme, which register any instrument of transfer of a certified share which is not a gave shareholders other than certain overseas shareholders a choice fully paid share provided that, where any such shares are admitted to between receiving the cash in the form of income or capital.
The the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, such discretion Return of Value was accompanied by a 10 for 11 share consolidation may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the to maintain broad comparability of the share price and return per shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
share of the ordinary shares before and after the creation of the The board may decline to recognize any instrument of transfer relating B and C shares, further details of which can be found in note 25 to to shares in certificated form unless it is in respect of only one class of the financial statements.
Shares held in treasury were consolidated in share and is lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer Office the same way as all other shares.
During the year 506,717 shares were accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other transferred out of treasury to meet the Companys obligations under evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the its employee share plans.
transfer or to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that Rights and obligations attaching to shares person so to do.
In the case of a transfer of shares in certificated form Voting in a general meeting of the Company: by a recognized clearing house or a nominee of a recognized clearing house or of a recognized investment exchange the lodgement of share t 0O B TIPX PG IBOET FWFSZ NFNCFS QSFTFOU JO QFSTPO BOE FWFSZ certificates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certificates proxy duly appointed by a member shall have one vote: and have been issued in respect of the shares in question.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether t 0O B QPMM FWFSZ NFNCFS XIP JT QSFTFOU JO QFSTPO PS CZ QSPYZ TIBMM fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Subject have one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
to the Articles and the CREST Rules as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations, as amended, and apart from any class of No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class wholly dematerialized security, the board may permit any class of meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other sum shares in the Company to be held in uncertificated form and, subject then payable by him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares to be transferred by means Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
Deadlines for voting rights Repurchase of shares Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM held of the resolutions to be considered at the annual general meeting on 26 September 2012 to buy back up to 14.99% of issued share the AGM to be held on 26September 2013 are set out in the capital.
At that time this amounted to 24,552,297 ordinary shares, Notice of Meeting which accompanies thisreport.
and the authority remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next AGM on 26 September 2013.
The minimum price which must Dividends and distributions be paid for such shares is now 12 pence and the maximum price Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company which may be paid for each Ordinary Share is an amount equal may, by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market but no dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock The board may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate dividend Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately whenever the profits of the Company, in the opinion of the board, preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the shares justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be apportioned and paid concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
trade of any Ordinary Share and the highest current bid for an Ordinary Share as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buyback programmes and stabilization of financial instruments 2273 2003.
Following the Return of Value and associated share consolidation the limit on the number of shares to be purchased is 22,320,270.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Amendment to the Articles Branches The Group continues to operate overseas branches in Denmark, Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Finland, Hong Kong, Mexico, Portugal, Sweden, the Peoples Republic of China and Spain.
Appointment and replacement of directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than eleven in Annual General Meeting number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board holds the explanatory notes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM office only until the next AGM and is then eligible for election or accompanies this report.
The meeting will be held at The Lawn, re-election by the shareholders annually thereafter.
22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 1QN on 26 September 2013 at 3pm UK time.
The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Independent auditors and disclosure of information Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and to auditors may revoke or terminate any such employment.
So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report confirm that there is no relevant audit information that is, information The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their has been given remove and the board by unanimous decision may report of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that the remove any director before the expiration of his term of office and directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as the Company may elect or the board may appoint another person directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit in place of a director so removed from office.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The office of director shall be vacated if: i he or she in writing resigns or offers to resign and the directors accept such offer: ii an order is  LLP have indicated their willingness to made by any court claiming that he or she is or may be suffering from continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be a mental disorder: iii he or she is absent without permission of the proposed at the AGM.
board from meetings for six months and the board resolves that his or her office is vacated: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds Going concern with his or her creditors generally: v he or she is prohibited by law The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the Company from being a director: or vi he or she is removed from office pursuant and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational to the Articles.
existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore it is appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in preparing the financial Powers of the directors statements.
The business of the Company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions By order of the board, of the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee Benefit Trust Jane Smithard the Trust holds shares in the Company and the beneficial interest Company Secretary in those shares has not been transferred to a beneficiary of the Trust, 18 June 2013 the trustee may not vote in relation to those shares at any meeting of shareholders of the Company.
Significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: On 1 December 2011, the Company entered into a $275m credit facility provided through a syndicated loan consortium comprising Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Clydesdale Bank plc to assist with the funding of the Return of Value and for general corporate purposes.
The business review does not contain any information about persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company as, in the view of the directors, there are no such arrangements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
