2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information Key performance indicators The Company uses several key performance indicators internally to monitor the performance of the business against objectives.
A summary of some of the more important KPIs that are used with a brief description on how they are calculated and the results of the year are as follows: Description Metrics Performance Revenue growth 2013 Revenue comprises total revenues including the contribution of acquisitions and is compared with the 2.4% prior year at constant currency.
2012 1.7% Adjusted EBITDA 2013 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization of intangible fixed assets, exceptional margin 45.4% items and share based compensation charges.
The Adjusted EBITDA margin represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue for the year.
2012 41.4% Cash conversion 2013 This ratio is calculated using the cash flows generated from operating activities after exceptional 103.4% costs divided by Adjusted EBITDA the result indicates that the Group is generating cash from its ongoing business which can be used to reinvest in the development of the business including 2012 financing acquisitions, funding liabilities and paying dividends to shareholders.
108.0% Adjusted EPS 2013 Adjusted EPS is calculated by taking profit after tax, prior to exceptional items, amortization of 88.69c purchased intangibles and share based compensation charges, and tax attributable to these charges divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
This measure 2012 indicates the ability of the Company to continue to adopt a progressive dividend policy.
73.07c Renewal rates 2013 Customer retention is an important measure as it supports the maintenance revenue streams going on maintenance forward.
Renewal rates are calculated as the value of maintenance contracts which were renewed in contracts the period divided by the value of contracts which were potentially renewable in the period.
CDMS 91.0% Borland Niche 83.9% 2012 CDMS 88.9% Borland Niche 80.9% Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the the Group financial statements in accordance with International Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance legislation in other jurisdictions.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they in the directors report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group t UIF SPVQ OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT XIJDI IBWF CFFO QSFQBSFE for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give are required to: a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and t 4FMFDU TVJUBCMF BDDPVOUJOH QPMJDJFT BOE UIFO BQQMZ UIFN consistently: t UIF EJSFDUPST SFQPSU JODMVEFT B GBJS SFWJFX PG UIF EFWFMPQNFOU and performance of the business and the position of the Group, t. BLF KVEHFNFOUT BOE BDDPVOUJOH FTUJNBUFT UIBU BSF SFBTPOBCMF together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties andprudent: and that it faces.
t 4UBUF XIFUIFS '34T BT BEPQUFE CZ UIF &VSPQFBO 6OJPO By order of the board and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Jane Smithard position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure Company Secretary that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report 18 June 2013 comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 36
