Board of Directors Developments Limited, together with Mr Kwek beginning of a 30 year career in global finance, Leng Joo as Managing Director of City encompassing roles in Pakistan, Greece, United Developments Limited, emerged joint winners as States, United Kingdom, Malaysia, Philippines, Partners in the Office of the CEO in the Brendan Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Singapore.
As Executive Wood International SIAS TopGun CEO Vice President, he held several senior management Designation Award.
This award is accorded to positions in Citibank including head of institutional CEOs who are best in class rated by shareholders.
banking for Central Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa and later for Asia Pacific, followed by Chief Executive of the banks global wealth management business.
Having presided over impressive economic growth in his country, he offers an expert view and is a frequent speaker on the challenges facing the world including structural reforms, diplomacy, geopolitics 1 Kwek Leng Beng and security.
He is a member of several boards and advisory boards of various commercial and nonChairman and Chairman Committees: N profit entities around the world.
of the Nominations Committee Kwek Leng Beng has been the Chairman of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc since its incorporation.
2 Wong Hong Ren He is the Executive Chairman of the Hong Leong Group Chief Executive Group of companies in Singapore including City officer Developments Limited.
He is also Chairman and Wong Hong Ren joined Millennium & Copthorne Managing Director of Hong Leong Finance Limited Hotels plc as a Non-Executive Director at the and City e-Solutions Limited and the Chairman of Hong Leong Asia Limited.
flotation of the Group in 1996 and has been an Executive Director since April 2001.
He was Mr Kweks achievements have also captured the appointed Group Chief Executive Officer on attention of the academic institutions.
Mr Wong is Chairman of conferred: Millennium & Copthorne New Zealand Limited and 4 Ian Batey Honorary Doctorate of Business Administration in CDL Investments New Zealand Limited, both of Independent Hospitality from Johnson & Wales University which are listed on the New Zealand stock Non-Executive Director exchange.
He is also the non-executive Chairman Rhode Island, US, where students have an of M&C REIT Management Limited which opportunity to pursue career education in Ian Batey was appointed to the Board in August business, hospitality, culinary arts or technology: manages CDL Hospitality Real Estate Investment 2011.
An accomplished brand specialist, he Honorary Doctorate from Oxford Brookes Trust, which is part of the Singapore-listed CDL launched his advertising agency, Batey Ads, in University UK whose citation traced how Mr Hospitality Trusts.
Under his leadership, Batey Kwek, who joined the family business in the early Ads became South East Asias largest 1960s, had gone on to establish an international independent advertising group, responsible for the reputation for his leadership of the Hong Leong development of many iconic Asian brands Group, as well as being an active supporter of including Singapore Airlines, Tiger Beer and Raffles higher education in Singapore.
The agency has since become part of Grey Mr Kwek also serves as a Member of the INSEAD Singapore, a subsidiary of WPP Plc.
France-based INSEAD is one of He has been widely recognised for his contribution the worlds leading and largest graduate business to the advertising industry and to the wider schools which bring together people, cultures and community, culminating in 1999 with the first ideas from around the world.
Lifetime Achievement Award to be bestowed by Mr Kwek has distinguished himself in property the Institute of Advertising Singapore.
investment and development, hotel ownership He resigned from the Board on 20 February 2014. and management, financial services and industrial enterprises.
Today, he sits on the flagship of a multi-billion empire worth over US$20b in 3 His Excellency Shaukat Aziz diversified premium assets worldwide and stocks traded on six of the worlds stock markets.
He Independent Committees: R N currently heads a worldwide staff strength of over Non-Executive Director 40,000 across a range of businesses in AsiaPacific, the Middle East, Europe and North Shaukat Aziz was appointed to the Board in June America.
Mr Kwek also played a pivotal role in Las 2009.
He was elected as Prime Minister of Pakistan and served from 2004 2007, following five years Vegas Sands Corporations successful bid for as Finance Minister from 1999.
Singapores high profile Integrated Resorts project at Marina Bay.
After graduating from Gordon College, Rawalpindi in 1967, Mr. Aziz gained a MBA degree from the Committees At the Securities Investors Association Singapore A Member of the Audit Committee SIAS Investors Choice Awards in October Institute of Business Administration, University of R Member of the Remuneration Committee 2012, Mr Kwek as Executive Chairman of City Karachi.
An internship at Citibank marked the N Member of the Nominations Committee 32 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Overview Strategic report Board of Directors Group financial statements Further information range of organisations including Vauxhall Motors, of Science, Technology and Medicine and a MPhil the British Broadcasting Corporation and Thames in Finance from Judge Business School, Television.
She is a former Chair of The Marketing Cambridge University.
Society and the Marketing Group of Great Britain.
5 Sean Collins Senior Independent Committees: A R N Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the 9 Kwek Leng Peck 7 Nicholas George Audit Committee Non-Executive Committees: N Independent Committees: A R Director Sean Collins was appointed to the Board in Non-Executive Director September 2012.
A Chartered Accountant, he Kwek Leng Peck joined Millennium & Copthorne was formerly a senior audit and advisory partner Nicholas George was appointed to the Board in Hotels plc prior to the flotation of the Group.
He at KPMG, where he had worked since 1972.
A Chartered Accountant, Mr George is holds directorships on most of the listed 2009 to 2012, Mr Collins was Head of Markets, Chairman of Nutmeg Savings and Investments and companies within the Hong Leong Group of Asia Pacific, responsible for the firm's business is a Director of LGT Capital Partners UK Limited.
companies in Singapore, including City development in the Asia Pacific region.
He also Notably in 2003, Mr George was a founding Developments Limited, Hong Leong Finance led the Global Communications and Media partner of KGR Capital, a leading Asian Fund of Limited and China Yuchai International Limited.
He practice for over a decade.
Mr Collins has deep Funds Specialist that was sold to LGT in 2008. also serves as an Executive Director for Hong and extensive experience of corporate Other appointments include Chairman at Leong Asia Limited and is the non-executive governance, financial reporting and other euNetworks Limited and he also sits on the Board Chairman of Tasek Corporation Berhad.
corporate disciplines, gained during many years as of GK Goh Holdings Limited: both companies are lead partner for a large number of major listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange.
He is Non-Executive Director addition, Mr George is a Director of Aberdeen and Audit Committee Chairman of the JT Group New Dawn Investment Trust plc which is listed on formerly Jersey Telecom.
Other appointments the London Stock Exchange.
He has over 30 years include member of the Case Management of experience in investment banking and was a Committee of the Financial Reporting Council, Managing Director of JP Morgan Securities Council Member of the Royal Society for Asian previously Jardine Fleming in Asia from 1993 to Affairs, Governor and Deputy Chairman of More 2002 and a Managing Director of HSBC Securities House School in Surrey, England.
10 Alexander Waugh Independent NonCommittees: A R N Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Alexander Waugh was appointed to the Board in 6 Susan Farr June 2009.
He is a world renowned author, literary 8 Kwek Eik Sheng Independent Committees: R N critic and composer.
He is Honorary President of Non-Executive Non-Executive Director the Shakespeare Authorship Coalition, General Director Editor of a 42-volume scholarly edition for Oxford Susan Farr was appointed to the Board in December University Press and Senior Visiting Fellow at the Kwek Eik Sheng was appointed to the Board in 2013.
She is a specialist in business development University of Leicester.
He has been with the Hong Leong and marketing and currently serves on the executive experience in event management, the media Group of companies in Singapore since 2006, committee at Chime Communications.
She also industry and is the founder of a successful before joining City Developments Limited in 2009, currently serves as a Non-Executive Director of Dairy publishing business.
He was also founding director where he is currently Head of Corporate Crest and Motivcom.
and Chairman of Xebras Management Limited, a Development.
In the course of a distinguished career, Ms. Farr He holds a Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical has held senior management positions in a diverse and Electronics Engineering from Imperial College 33 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
