Directors Report The Directors submit their Report for Groups systems of internal controls and Risk management the financial year ended 31 December by the Audit Committee.
Significant short and long-term risks 2013 describing how we govern the have been identified and assessed and Company, who the Board are and what Corporate social responsibility the Board believes it has received the Board does.
In addition, the Details of the Groups wider approach to adequate information to ensure that the Corporate Governance Report on pages managing its corporate social Company has effective systems in place 37 to 40 and the Remuneration responsibility can be found on pages 22 for managing the Groups key risks.
The Committee Report on pages 45 to 58 to 25 including the Groups report on Groups significant risk factors are form part of this Report.
The Board included on pages 26 to 30. takes regular account of the significance Board of Directors of social, environmental and ethical Financial risk management Directors biographies are shown on matters to the business of the Group and An indication of the Groups financial pages 32 to 33, which identify the identifies value arising from those risk management objectives in respect Chairman, Senior Independent Director, matters as well as opportunities to of the use of financial instruments and the Chairmen of the Boards standing enhance value that may arise from them.
its exposures to credit risk, interest rate committees and other Directors To ensure the delivery of the Boards risk and foreign currency risk are set out considered by the Board to be policies in respect of health, safety, and in note 22 to the consolidated financial independent, having taken into the environment, Wong Hong Ren, in his statements.
consideration the factors set out in capacity as Chief Executive Officer, has Code provision B.
1.1. been identified as the Board member Going concern responsible for these areas.
All of the Directors will stand for election Information on the principal risks and at the forthcoming Annual General Employees uncertainties that the Group faces Meeting.
Details of the share interests throughout its global operations are of Directors are shown on page 58.
No We operate in over 20 countries and included in Our risks on pages 26 to 30. changes to these interests occurred value highly the rich ethnic and cultural The financial position of the Group, its diversity of our people by nurturing a between the year-end and the date of cash flows, liquidity position and debt this report.
working environment that recognises, facilities are described in Financial develops and values people with performance on pages 11 to 13.
In Ethics and business conduct different views, styles and approaches.
addition, note 22 to the consolidated The Group has in place policies which Our policy is to provide equality of financial statements sets out the outline the standards of behaviour opportunity for all employees without Groups policies and processes for measuring and managing risk from its required of all employees when acting on discrimination and continues to the Groups behalf which include acting encourage the employment, training use of financial instruments in relation to professionally, with honesty, integrity, and advancement of disabled persons in credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk both currency and interest rate-related.
objectivity and in compliance with all accordance with their abilities and applicable legal and regulatory aptitudes, provided that they can be Further details of the Groups cash requirements.
The Board of Directors employed in a safe working balances and borrowings are included in notes 20 and 21 to the consolidated has implemented an anti-bribery policy environment.
Suitable employment which prohibits the offering, the giving, would, if possible, be found for any financial statements.
the solicitation or the acceptance of any employee who becomes disabled In assessing whether the Group is a bribe, whether cash or other during the course of employment.
going concern, the Directors follow a inducement.
Whistle-blowing procedures The Group operates an approved Save review process which is consistent with are in place to enable employees to raise the principles set out in the guidance as You Earn Scheme in the UK to concerns about any activity they consider published by the Financial Reporting encourage the involvement of to be unlawful or a breach of authority or Council: Going Concern and Liquidity employees in the Groups performance.
which falls below accepted standards or Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK practice, amounts to improper conduct Further details on employee Companies 2009.
Cash flow forecasts or could damage the Groups reputation.
involvement are set out in note 23 to for the Group have been prepared for a These policies are monitored through the the consolidated financial statements.
34 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Governance Overview Strategic report Directors Report Group financial statements Further information period in excess of twelve months from Officers liability insurance policy, as The Companys Articles of Association the date of approval of these permitted by section 233 of the may only be amended by Special consolidated financial statements.
Companies Act 2006. resolution of the shareholders.
These forecasts reflect an assessment At the Companys annual general Shareholders and Annual of current market conditions.
The meeting in May 2013, the Directors General Meeting forecasts completed on this basis show were authorised to allot shares up to a that the Group will be able to operate Results and dividends nominal amount of 32,455,496 and to within the current committed debt allot such shares up to this nominal The profit on ordinary activities before facilities and show continued amount in connection with a rights issue taxation was 263.6m 2012: 171.3m.
compliance with the financial covenants.
and otherwise to allot shares for cash An interim dividend of 2.08p per share In addition, management has on a non pre-emptive basis up to a was paid on 4 October 2013.
The considered various mitigating actions nominal amount of 4,868,324.
In Directors are recommending a final that could be taken in the event that addition, the Company was authorised dividend of 11.51p per share 2012: market conditions are worse than their to make market purchases of up to 11.51p and a special dividend of 9.15p current assessment.
Such measures 10% of the Companys issued share per share 2012: nil, which, if approved include further reduction in costs and in capital.
All of these authorities remained at the annual general meeting, will be capital expenditure.
in effect as at 31 December 2013 and paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders on shareholders will be asked to renew the register on 21 March 2014.
On the basis of the exercise as them at the forthcoming annual general described above and the available The Directors will seek to maintain a meeting.
committed debt facilities, the Directors total dividend that equates to a dividend have a reasonable expectation that the The voting rights attached to the cover ratio of 3.1 Basic Earnings per Group and Company have adequate Companys ordinary shares are not share total dividend per share, subject resources to continue in operational restricted and there are no restrictions to extraordinary events and the cash existence for the foreseeable future.
on the transfer of the Companys needs of the Group.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt a shares.
None of the Companys Share capital going concern basis in preparing the shares carry special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Neither financial statements of the Group and The issued share capital of the the Company.
the Company nor its Directors are Company, together with details of the aware of any agreements between movements in the Companys share Indemnities shareholders that could result in capital during the year, are shown in restrictions on the transfer of shares note 29 to the consolidated financial The Company has provided each of its or on voting rights.
Directors with a qualifying third-party There is in place a co-operation indemnity, as defined in section 234 of Details of shares issued pursuant to the agreement between City Developments the Companies Act 2006.
In addition, Groups share-based incentive schemes Limited CDL and Millennium & the Company has provided qualifying are shown in the note 23 to the Copthorne Hotels plc which provides pension scheme indemnities to the consolidated financial statements.
that CDL may appoint up to 5 Directors Directors of Millennium & Copthorne Rights and obligations attaching to the to the Board.
As at the date of this Pension Trustee Limited which acts as Companys ordinary shares are set out report, CDL have appointed 3 Directors.
trustee to the Groups UK pension plan in the Companys Articles of The co-operation agreement is placed and to the directors of its UK subsidiary Association, a copy of which can be before shareholders annually.
These indemnities remain obtained from Companies House.
A in force as at the date of this report.
copy is also available on request from During the year, the Company has the Company Secretary and on the maintained cover for its Directors and Groups website at www.
Officers and those of its subsidiary millenniumhotels.
com corporate companies under a Directors and investors.
html 35 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report continued Substantial shareholdings Annual General Meeting As at 19 February 2014, the Company had received details of the following material The annual general meeting will be held shareholdings in its issued share capital: at 10.00am on Thursday, 1 May 2014 at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Substantial shareholders % Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP.
City Developments Ltd 59.35 A detailed explanation of each item of Aberdeen Asset Management plc 6.01 Held through: non-routine business to be considered Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 5.60 at the annual general meeting is Aberdeen Asset Management Inc US 0.38 included with the Notice of Meeting.
Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd. 0.02 By order of the Board Aberdeen Asset Management Edinburgh 0.01 Schroders plc 4.98 Jonathon Grech Held through: Company Secretary Schroder Investment Management Ltd. 4.39 20 February 2014 Cazenove Capital Management Limited 0.45 Schroder Investment Management North America Limited 0.14 International Value Advisers, LLC 4.36 Prudential plc 3.16 Held through: M & G Investment Management Ltd 3.16 Auditor Statement of the Directors as to disclosure of information to Our auditors, KPMG Audit Plc have the auditor advised that they are re-organising their business and will resign as auditor to be The Directors who held office at the replaced by KPMG LLP.
The Board will date of approval of this Directors report put KPMG LLP forward to be appointed confirm that, so far as they are each as auditors and a resolution concerning aware, there is no relevant audit their appointment will be put to the information of which the Companys forthcoming annual general meeting of auditor is unaware: and all of the the Company.
A resolution will also be Directors have taken all the steps that proposed authorising the Directors to they ought to have taken as Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
36 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2013
