Anite plc Our businesses 20 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements @com manages holidays for @comRes, our core system, handles bookings Travel continued for millions of passengers each year.
Our 7.5m passengers each year eBusiness Suite is an integrated set of components.
It serves the end-to-end sourcing, packaging and selling of leisure travel products.
Its comprehensive modules include client 7.5m relationships management CRM, content management, brochure pricing and contracting.
They enable operators to improve productivity and customer service by tailoring solutions to their particular needs: selling a range of products through call centres, travel agents or online: pricing by currency and market: managing their inventory: and connecting and integrating with other IT systems.
@com records sales, produces documentation, updates prices and availability, optimises inventory and produces comprehensive financial records that can be fed into an organisations financial and management information systems.
Recent geopolitical and economic pressures have forced leisure travel companies to focus on technology-driven strategies to improve Trends to co-exist.
It helps them to reduce costs by their cost bases.
They operate in a low-margin retiring legacy IT platforms and automating sector and @coms principal attribute is its The economic environment continues to have an impact on the industry.
It offers high-speed and accurate ability to reduce back-office costs substantially and rising costs are affecting tour operators holiday searching and helps operators to market through improved efficiency, flexibility and margins.
Competition is tough and customers differentiated products quickly and efficiently.
This, in turn, enables operators are demanding more flexible booking and to react quickly to market changes, to update differentiated products as well as traditional Travel solutions prices speedily, and to improve time-toand all-inclusive package holidays.
Reservation systems are at the core of leisure market for new offers or late deals.
The As a result, to maximise business opportunities, technology that underpins them is critical @com helps leisure travel companies overcome save costs and improve margins, leisureto driving performance and profitability.
their technology challenges, as the internet travel companies are being forced to focus on and mobile data continue to determine technology-driven strategies.
The boundaries Anites @com reservation system is consumer behaviour.
It blurs the boundaries that once existed between traditional tour considered to be the gold standard in the between traditional tour operators and operators and dynamic packaging online leisure travel industry.
A comprehensive dynamic packagers and satisfies the demand travel agents are beginning to disappear.
enterprise solution, it manages the key for faster and more accurate online data.
reservation and administration functions Our technology directly addresses the and enables companies to operate efficiently Growth industrys core issues by enabling them to: in todays economic environment.
Having implemented @com at TUI Central 1 adapt their business models to serve all Europe and Thomas Cook UK & Ireland, we market segments: Our leading position is well protected by high are in an excellent position to capture market 2 improve time-to-market by quickly barriers to entry.
The complexity of largeshare across Europe, where inflexible legacy implementing products and services online: scale travel businesses demands flexible and solutions still abound.
We also plan to benefit 3 drive cost savings by optimising business sophisticated reservation systems that require from an increasing interest beyond Europe.
processes: and highly specialised knowledge and resources We will work with existing major customers 4 react flexibly to unforeseen events to implement, maintain and upgrade.
In who are moving into those markets or sell and disasters.
addition, since reservation systems are critical to new, large customers.
As more customers to operations, the cost of changing them is convert to @com, we expect to earn a We are well positioned to succeed in this high.
This engenders a product life cycle that is greater proportion of support revenue.
Our inherently flexible @com commonly 15 years or more.
When companies should improve our long-term gross margin reservation system sits at the heart of travel decide to look for a new system, they want as we benefit from economies of scale.
By supporting the destination, high-performance solutions from companies pricing and inventory processes, it enables with strong implementation records.
New traditional and dynamic packaging operators players in the market are extremely rare.
Travel Assistant Anite plc 21 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Christian Zeller, Chief Information Officer, TUI Deutschland said: TUI Travel is one of the worlds leading leisure In December 2006, following the output from @com is core to the success travel companies, with over 240 trusted the test pilot, the @com project was approved of our business and has brands in 180 countries and more than with four main delivery phases between 2008 30 million customers.
Critical milestones were agreed and enabled us to become one the software delivered within the planned of the most efficient tour TUI Central Europe TUI CE covers their timescales, even as the overall implementation mainstream operations in Germany, Austria, scope increased significantly, with new operators in Europe.
requirements introduced into the release are able to run multiple programme to support key business initiatives.
In 2005, TUI CE initiated a project to replace its business models across our existing IT system.
The aim was to strengthen Following the systems successful its competitive position and reduce operational implementation, Anite Travel and TUI CE source markets, to easily costs by streamlining the contracting and agreed an overall strategic framework to switch surplus capacity and production process in order to create and provide ongoing development capacity to price product faster and more flexibly.
This framework enables change programs, and have TUI CE to strategically plan and develop new significantly reduced our At that time, an IBM mainframe hosted TUI CEs market opportunities and business models internally developed legacy application which in an ever-changing and dynamic industry.
operating costs through was integrated into a number of surrounding process standardisation systems to enable product distribution, supplier TUI UK is currently in the process of connectivity for flights and hotels, and finance.
implementing its own @com system and retiring our legacy configured specifically for its business needs.
Anite is more than In 2006, TUI CE evaluated Anites @com using a pilot version of the software.
A key part of just an IT supplier: being the evaluation was a six week performance able to rely on the expertise stress test that could emulate as closely as possible TUI CEs planned business of a reliable and strategic environment, together with the required partner is key to TUI operating capacity and operating volumes.
remaining at the forefront of the travel industry.
23 TUI Travel Anite plc The performance of our business 22 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Review of operations Divisional highlights Wireless Handset Testing Continued strong year-on-year growth Organic revenue growth led by LTE 4G and Conformance Testing Acquisition of Propsim product line expands addressable market Revenue by destination m Total 2013 2013 2012 19.9 87.0m 17.3 Total 2012 38.4 28.8 30.3 76.4m 28.7 EMEA The Americas Asia Pacic Order intake m Closing order book m 12% 8% 88.9 26.8 24.9 79.4 21.7 59.6 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Revenue m Operating profit m 14% 22% 87.0 26.3 76.4 21.5 49.6 10.0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Anite plc 23 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Performance The underlying revenue growth in Handset Maintaining our position at the forefront The adjusted results for the Handset Testing of the industry is critical to the continued Testing came from increased sales of LTE 4G business show continued strong year-on-year compatible products based on the Anite success of our business.
Order intake grew 12%, to 88.9m has continued to increase its investment 9000 LTE hardware platform.
Revenue from 2012: 79.4m, revenue increased by 14% LTE products grew 23% to 41.8m 2012: in R&D to extend its product offering and to 87.0m 2012: 76.4m and adjusted develop potential new opportunities for 33.9m, and represented 48% of Handset operating profit grew by 22%, to 26.3m Testing revenue in the year, compared with sustainable future revenue growth.
The closing order book in the 44% in the prior period.
Revenue from 2G 3G business increased 8%, from 24.9m at the products was flat compared to the prior year Enhancements to the Anite 9000 platform start of the year to 26.8m at 30 April 2013. in the year have included the launch of the at 42.5m, with the 2.7m revenue from Propsim channel emulators reflecting the dual cell version, the inclusion of baseband Part of the growth came from the inclusion fading to access certain performance testing balance.
The flat revenue profile for 2G 3G for the last three months of the year of was in line with expectations and reflected opportunities and continued work on LTE-A results from the acquisition of the Propsim the fact that, as anticipated, customers are functionality.
Conformance test script Channel Emulator product line Propsim focusing investment in developing their LTE 4G additions in the period have included further that we made on 31 January 2013.
Propsim capabilities alongside existing 2G 3G systems.
TD-LTE scripts plus scripts addressing LTE revenue in the period was 2.7m and voice functionality VoLTE.
Investment adjusted operating profit 0.5m, both From a market perspective, we continued also continued to be made on IOT scripts slightly ahead of our expectations for the to see strong growth for CT products with with work progressing on a number of period.
Order intake for Propsim product revenue increasing in line with our expectations new potential eco-systems, including with in the period was 4.7m and the closing for the business.
CT continues to represent China Mobile, the worlds largest mobile backlog at 30 April was 2.0m backlog at half of Handset Testing revenue.
These investments did not result acquisition: nil.
Extracting the impact of represents around 40% of Handset Testing in material revenue in the period.
the acquisition, the underlying organic growth revenue grew, albeit below our target of low to of the Handset Testing business was 10% in mid-teen percentage growth.
This was mainly The cash spent on R&D projects increased to revenue and 20% adjusted operating profit.
a consequence of a strong comparative year- 14.8m 2012: 13.0m, including 1.0m spent on-year growth in the prior year was nearly in Propsim in the period since acquisition.
Other revenue, mainly DT, which now planned increase in spend on writing LTE CT makes up just under 10% of Handset Testing and IOT scripts resulted in net capitalisation revenue, grew in line with our expectations.
There was no capitalisation or amortisation within On a regional basis, the Americas increased Propsim.
After adjusting for net capitalisation, 33% to 38.4m 2012: 28.8m, making the profit and loss charge for R&D increased it our largest region.
EMEA revenue in the period to 13.8m 2012: 12.3m.
increased 15%, to 19.9m 2012: 17.3m while Asia Pacific revenue decreased 5% Other fixed costs in Handset Testing increased to 28.7m 2012: 30.3m following the by 6.4m to 27.1m 2012: 20.7m, with postexceptional performance last year.
acquisition Propsim costs accounting for 0.7m of the increase.
Of the remainder, fixed cost Handset Testings net revenue margin revenue, of sales has increased by 3.2m, due mainly less third-party hardware costs as a percentage to the increased cost of supporting installed of revenue increased in the year, as predicted, customer systems plus costs of maintaining to 77% 2012: 71%.
This was the result of the growing library of test cases.
Overheads improved margins within product sales.
During also increased by 19% or 2.4m, partly due the year we have enhanced our hardware to increased sales costs and partly due to the offering so that a single hardware unit can be business taking on additional office space deployed in a dual cell configuration.
This has to accommodate the growing headcount.
allowed us to sell more software with each Handset Testing had 288 employees at the hardware unit, increasing the proportion of year-end 2012: 211 and 59 contractors 2012: software sold and hence the underlying margin.
Included in the year end number are the This, combined with a lack of material inventory 54 employees who joined us with Propsim.
provision movements this year 2012: increased provision of 2.4m has led to the recovery in Overall, as a result of the factors described net revenue percentage margin.
The proportion above, Handset Testings operating margin of overall revenue from maintenance services increased two percentage points to 30% increased slightly from 26% to 27% across the 2012: 28%.
year which also marginally assisted net revenue.
