Anite plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Project delivery risk Description The success of all Group businesses is Implications If a project fails to achieve its goals Mitigation Long-term projects are managed partially dependent on the successful completion within the budget and timeline expected then it could according to an internal project management standard.
of development projects within budget, timescale result in a number of adverse impacts.
These could Monthly progress reports are compiled and variances and specifications.
The risk of delivering such include additional costs of completion in the case of to plans investigated.
These reports are formally projects might be subject to certain technical, a fixed price development for a customer, or delays in presented to senior management on a monthly basis.
commercial, legal, customer-related or economic generating revenue where a product is being developed For the largest projects, periodic updates are also risks.
The risk has been particularly acute in via an internal development project.
Other adverse given to the Executive Directors and main Board.
Travel over the prior years, where we have had a impacts could include a loss of competitiveness or loss number of customer-funded implementations and of reputation that could impact future sales prospects.
developments such as @com however this risk is reducing now the product is reaching maturity.
In our Wireless division, this risk also exists for internal development projects, especially in the continuing development of our next generation of Handset Testing platforms.
Reliance on major customers Description The Group has relationships with Implications There are only two individual Mitigation Where possible the Group contracts with a number of significant customers.
Continuing customer groups that account for more than 5% of major customers through long-term agreements that sales to these are an important element of Group Group revenue, with none over 9%.
No customer provide certainty to both parties.
Additionally the Group is exposed to the accounted for more than 9% of the 37.4m of Group undertakes a number of customer support, credit risk associated with these customers.
trade receivables outstanding at 30 April 2013. business development and sales activities to foster continued strong relationships with major customers.
Despite that, given the high gross margin nature of most of the Groups revenue, the loss of one of the To mitigate credit risks, the Group monitors the major customers could result in a significant reduction credit reports of major customers.
It also uses other in profits, particularly if it were accompanied by the risk management strategies such as trade finance inability to collect outstanding receivable balances.
protection and the Handset Testing division now holds credit insurance on the majority of its customers.
Human resource and organisation risks Description The Groups performance and its ability Implications If the Group loses the services of key Mitigation The Group uses a variety of to mitigate significant risks within its control depend people or is unable to attract and retain employees techniques to attract, retain and motivate its on its employees and management teams.
Future with the right capabilities and experience, it would staff, with particular attention paid to those in success will depend to a large extent on the Groups be likely to have an effect on the Groups ability key roles.
Techniques include the regular review ability to attract, retain, and motivate its people.
to implement its strategies and business plans.
of remuneration packages, including long-term share incentive schemes, regular communication with all staff and annual performance reviews.
In addition a group-wide review of staff contingency plans we have in place for specific areas of risk.
Financial risks Description The Group is exposed to a number of Implications Details of these risks and the strategies Mitigation financial risks: in place to mitigate them are described in note 25 To mitigate counterparty credit risk, the Groups on pages 95 to 99. Credit risk treasury policy is to invest surplus cash with highly Our operations are exposed to the risk that customers The Groups credit risk in relation to cash and rated financial institutions only and to limit each and counterparties to our transactions that owe derivative financial instruments is explained further counterparty deposit to a maximum value of us money will not perform their obligations.
The credit risk of trade receivables is 10m.
The mitigation of credit risk is covered under detailed in note 19 and discussed further in the risk the reliance on major customers section above Liquidity risk of reliance on major customers section above and includes the adoption of credit guarantee The Groups business is financed through cash generated If the Group has insufficient liquid resources, insurance in the current period.
from ongoing operations and bank lending facilities.
it may not be able to react quickly enough to The Groups policy on liquidity risk is detailed in Foreign currency risk take advantage of market opportunities.
At 30 April 2013, the Group held 16.7m The Group has foreign currency denominated net The sensitivity of the overseas investments to of cash and cash equivalents and retained assets and earnings that are not hedged, therefore a exchange rate movements can be seen in note 25 f. headroom of 7.4m on its revolving credit facility, movement in the exchange rate will have an impact which is available to support the Groups on both reserves and the income statement.
The Group seeks to hedge foreign currency cash flows and translations of foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities by hedging a proportion of the forecast future cash flows.
Details of this policy can be found in note 25 h.
