Anite plc 59 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements minimising the consumption of energy and water used in its facilities: Employees are provided with information updates and the Group policies through myanite.
com, the Groups global intranet, road shows and other reducing waste and, wherever practicable, reusing and recycling internal communications.
The views and ideas of employees are sought consumables e. g. paper, toner cartridges and computer equipment through discussion, line management and focus groups.
and disposing of non-recyclable items in an environmentally acceptable manner: and Anite encourages employees to support their local communities and as where practicable, purchasing environmentally sound goods and a Group has supported the Princes Trust as its corporate charity since services.
The manufacturers of goods sold by the Group are 2010, making a difference to young peoples futures, as part of the principally based in the UK, USA and Finland, where employment Technology Leadership Group.
In our three years partnering with the conditions and standards are enforced by law.
Our Handset Testing Princes Trust so far, Anite has donated over 70,000 through a mixture business, where the majority of third party hardware product of corporate donations, staff fundraising events and by supporting supplies are made, looks for membership of EICC Electronic Industry Princes Trust events such as the Palace to Palace bike ride.
Citizen Coalition at a box build level and IPC 610 J Standards 13 for sub tier suppliers.
The Company operates a range of employee share schemes for Executive Directors and a small number of senior executives in the UK and In order to achieve these objectives, the Company is building overseas, as set out in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 46 awareness and promoting initiatives to encourage employees to to 56.
Since August 2005, the Company has offered all UK employees an become fully engaged.
enhanced Share Incentive Plan which currently matches on a one-for-one basis the number of shares purchased monthly by employees.
The Greenhouse gas emissions statement Company also operates the Anite UK Sharesave Plan.
These schemes Data is being collected to enable a greenhouse gas emissions statement provide for options to be granted over shares using new issue shares or to be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
treasury shares as well as market purchase shares.
Change of control Disabled employees All the Companys employee share schemes contain provisions relating Applications for employment by disabled employees are always fully to a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Under considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
these provisions, a change of control of the Company would normally be In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to a vesting event, facilitating the exercise or transfer of awards, subject to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that any relevant performance conditions being satisfied or waived at the appropriate training is arranged for them.
It is the policy of the Group discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
The Company is not party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a Environmental policy takeover bid other than with regard to the Companys revolving credit The Group supports the protection of a sustainable environment.
As facility agreement, which provides that, on a change of control, the a predominantly software and services business, the Groups activities, majority lenders have the ability to cancel and seek repayment of all which are mainly office-based, do not produce harmful waste or outstanding loans.
The Group is a constituent of the FTSE4Good index of ethically sustainable companies.
While our operations, by their nature, Payment of suppliers have minimal impact on the environment, we do recognise our Given the international nature of its operations, the Group does not responsibilities in this respect and the Group is therefore committed to: operate standard terms in respect of payments to suppliers.
Subsidiary complying with the relevant environmental legislation, regulations operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and and industry standards of the countries in which it conducts business: conditions and payment terms with their suppliers.
It is the Groups reducing the output of emissions that may have an adverse impact policy to agree with all suppliers, where practicable, appropriate terms on the environment: one aspect of this includes reducing air travel of trade and to operate within those terms.
where possible through the use of video conferencing facilities that have been set up in our principal offices: Anite plc 60 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Other disclosures continued Reappointment of auditors Going concern The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going concern.
The Board has considered and recommends the reappointment The Directors believe that the Group has a robust business model, as of Deloitte LLP as auditors.
evidenced by the trading of the business over the past 12 months, good free cash flow generation and is compliant with all its banking covenants.
Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors consider the as auditors, and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be budgets, including the Wireless R & D commitments, three-year plans proposed at the forthcoming AGM being held on 26 September 2013. and cash forecasts for the following 18 months together with the forecast covenant positions.
In addition, the Directors take into account the By Order of the Board and signed by: availability of additional banking facilities as set out in note 25j.
After considering the above, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Richard Amos the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for Company Secretary the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Anite continues to adopt the going 1 July 2013 concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors At the date of this report, as far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are not aware.
Each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Anite plc 61 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Responsibility statement Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings parent company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
By order of the Board In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: Christopher Humphrey properly select and apply accounting policies: Chief Executive present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that 1 July 2013 provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Richard Amos provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific Group Finance Director requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand 1 July 2013 the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Anite plc 62 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Anite plc We have audited the financial statements of Anite plc for the year ended Opinion on financial statements 30 April 2013 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group In our opinion: statement of comprehensive income, the Group and parent company the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the balance sheet, the Group and parent cash flow statement, the Group and Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 April 2013 and parent company statements of changes in equity and the related notes of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 1 to 32 and notes 1 to 17 respectively.
The financial reporting framework the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the parent company financial statements have been properly the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Companies Act 2006.
Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, In our opinion: we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, statements in accordance with applicable law and International in our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received for Auditors.
from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures with the accounting records and returns: or in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether not made: or caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the we have not received all the information and explanations we require accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent for our audit.
companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the the Directors statement, contained on page 60, in relation to financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nongoing concern: financial information in the Annual report to identify material the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we Governance Code specified for our review: and consider the implications for our report.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Peter ODonoghue Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 1 July 2013
