Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Our business model and strategy What we do How we do it How we create value Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of Our 40,000 employees and leading portfolio We run businesses that people love to restaurants and pubs in the UK with multiple of brands are focused on delighting our eat and drink in, and as a result grow brands spanning around 1,600 locations.
guests and delivering growth in the eating shareholder value.
Maintain a sound on the most attractive brand propositions develop engaged on investment through financial base market spaces within with high levels of people who deliver scale advantage eating and drinking-out consumer relevance excellent service for our guests 2013 progress See Chief Executives market and business review on pages 22 to 27 We completed a We aligned our Our Good to Great We have continued to We have long-term significant piece of operating strategies to programme continued refine our methods of debt financing research to update the market dynamics to reduce the level of site selection, making secured on our large, our understanding within each space.
administration within the use of our improved predominantly freehold of current and future business, freeing consumer insight.
We delivered further consumer trends, up our operational growth in food sales and We opened 16 new At the year end, our opportunities and teams to deliver margin in a challenging restaurants and pubs freehold property brand growth potential.
was revalued and This research included We redesigned our we conducted an interviews with 8,000 guest service and food impairment review on consumers, meetings capability training other assets.
together, this resulted commentators and a in an increase in value We actively support thorough review of of 31m.
apprenticeship schemes macro-economic and, at our year end, indicators and forecasts.
we were employing c. 1,600 apprentices.
2013 performance We focused the Total sales increased Staff turnover in our We made a 17% Net debt reduced to business on five 2.2% compared to restaurants and EBITDA return on 4.2 times EBITDA attractive market spaces 52 week revenue in pubs was down 4 the expansionary from 4.5 times at the within the 75bn eating FY 2012. percentage points investments made in last year end.
our brand portfolio over Our net promoter special, family, upmarket the last three years.
score increased by social, everyday social 4 percentage points and heartland.
2014 priorities We will open new We will focus on the We have launched a We will continue our We will continue to restaurants and pubs, execution of our People Strategy which focus on improving prioritise long-term especially in the family, brand strategies, aims to improve further the efficiency of our financial stability for upmarket social and based on strong our recruitment, investments.
induction, guest service We will further increase and food capability We will roll out new the clarity of our capital programmes across our tills, table and kitchen allocation, investing restaurants and pubs.
management systems where the returns are across our estate, which most attractive.
are designed to improve guest service significantly.
Key risks See Risks and uncertainties on pages 18 to 20 Failure to anticipate Failure to anticipate Failure to attract, retain, Cost of goods price The pension fund pricing and market pricing and market develop and motivate increases including deficit may increase, changes.
the best people with energy.
leading to increases in the right capabilities.
Failure to anticipate Failure to anticipate Failure to attract high changes in consumer changes in consumer quality teams to Failure to manage taste.
operate newly opened performance against restaurants and pubs.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
