Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Key performance indicators We measure our performance and progress against our strategy through five key performance indicators.
This year, we have included two additional non-financial KPIs, relating to our ability to retain our employees and to the extent that our guests would recommend our businesses to their friends and family.
These KPIs are reviewed at every Executive Committee meeting and are central to our understanding of our performance.
Our performance in the year was as follows: KPI KPI definitions Progress in FY 2013 1.
Staff turnover The number of leavers in our retail businesses, The eating and drinking-out industry has expressed as a percentage of average retail traditionally had a high level of staff turnover.
This measure excludes site We believe that reducing staff turnover will management as well as employees who leave improve guest service and drive profitability.
and rejoin the business within the same year.
Following significant management focus, staff turnover has reduced from 82% in FY 2012 to 78% in FY 2013.
Net promoter score The net promoter score for a pub is defined Net promoter score has increased from 55% as the percentage of responses where we in FY 2012 to 59% in FY 2013, indicating a score 9 or 10 out of 10 brand promoters higher level of guest recommendation of less the percentage of responses where we our businesses.
score 0 to 6 out of 10 brand detractors.
Responses scoring 7 or 8 passives are ignored in the calculation.
Same outlet like-for-like The sales this year compared to the sales in the Our like-for-like sales increased 0.4% in sales growth previous year of all UK managed sites that were FY 2013, lower than the increase of 2.1% trading in the two periods being compared, in FY 2012. expressed as a percentage.
Incremental return on Expansionary capital includes investments The performance in this area remains above expansionary capital made in new sites and investment in existing our cost of capital.
Blended freehold and assets that increases the trading area or leasehold pre-tax EBITDA returns of 17% materially changes the customer offer.
are being achieved on investments made Incremental return is the growth in annual since FY 2011, in line with last year.
site EBITDA, expressed as a percentage of expansionary capital.
EPS growth Adjusted earnings per share for the year 52 week adjusted operating profit and compared to last year, as reported in the adjusted EPS were up 5.1% and 17.1% financial statements, expressed as respectively as a result of sales growth, a percentage.
higher operating margins and lower interest charges FY 2012: adjusted operating profit up 1.0% and adjusted EPS up 6.4%.
As a key measure of overall profitability and shareholder value creation, EPS growth forms a key part of the Groups remuneration policies for Directors and other employees.
Full details of the various schemes in operation are shown on pages 50 to 64 in the Report on Directors remuneration.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
