Imelda Walsh Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 36 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 1.
Douglas McMahon, aged 48 bc Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed as Interim Non-Executive Chairman in July 2011, Bob became Appointed a Non-Executive Director in October 2010, Douglas is Senior Executive Chairman in October 2011 and reverted to Non-Executive Managing Director of Tavistock Group and is a nominated shareholder Chairman in November 2012 following the appointment of Alistair Darby.
He has 20 years of marketing experience, He has over 30 years of extensive food and beverage experience with previously serving as Chairman and CEO of Publicis New York, General a particular focus on food-led, managed restaurants and pubs.
He is Manager of J. Walter Thompson New York and Chief Marketing Officer currently Senior Independent Director of Britvic plc and Chairman of at Consumer News and Business Channel CNBC.
He was previously a main board director of S&N plc in the role of Chairman and Managing Director of the Scottish 7.
Ron Robson, aged 50 abc & Newcastle retail division.
He has also been Chairman of Regent Inns, Deputy Chairman Chairman of Park Resorts, Chairman of Next Generation Clubs, Appointed as Deputy Chairman in July 2011, Ron is a Managing Director Managing Director of Beefeater Restaurants, one of Whitbreads of Tavistock Group and is a nominated shareholder representative of pub restaurant brands and a director of The Restaurant Group.
He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Tamar Bob is Chair of the Nomination Committee.
Capital Partners and Group Finance Director of Kenmore, both property investment and management groups.
Alistair Darby, aged 47 Finance Director of The Belhaven Group plc, a listed pub retailing, d Chief Executive brewing and drink distribution group.
Prior to that he held a number Alistair was appointed Chief Executive in October 2012.
He has more of senior finance roles including Group Finance Director of a listed than 20 years experience working in some of the UKs best known shipping and logistics group, and trained as a Chartered Accountant brands in the pub, drinks and consumer sectors, including roles with with Arthur Andersen.
Mars Confectionery, Wolverhampton and Dudley Breweries and United Distillers.
He joined Marstons PLC in 1997 where he held senior 8.
Colin Rutherford, aged 54 abc operational and strategic roles, becoming a Board member in 2003 and Independent Non-Executive Director Chief Operating Officer in 2011.
Alistair is a director of Cask Marque, Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2013, an independent non-profit making organisation, set up to improve Colin is currently Chairman of Brookgate Limited, European Care Group the quality of cask ale in pubs by way of an accreditation scheme.
Limited and Teachers Media International Limited.
He was formerly Executive Chairman of MAM Funds plc and Euro Sales Finance plc 3.
Tim Jones, aged 50 amongst various other public and private companies in the UK and d Finance Director overseas.
Colin is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Tim was appointed Finance Director in October 2010.
Prior to joining the of Scotland and has both directly relevant and corporate finance Company, he held the position of Group Finance Director for Interserve experience in the leisure and hospitality industries.
Colin is Chair plc, a support services group.
Previously, he was Director of Financial of the Audit Committee.
Operations at Novar and held senior financial roles both in the UK and overseas in the logistics company, Exel plc.
Imelda Walsh, aged 49 abc Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and obtained Independent Non-Executive Director an MA in Economics at Cambridge University.
Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in April 2013, Imelda is a Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Remuneration 4.
Stewart Gilliland, aged 56 Committee, of both William Hill plc and Mothercare plc.
She was a abc Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, of Appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director in May 2013.
Sainsburys Bank plc from 2006 to 2010.
She has held senior executive Stewart was Chief Executive Officer of Muller Dairy UK Limited until roles at J Sainsbury plc, where she was Group HR Director from March 2010 and prior to that held senior management positions in InBev SA, 2004 to July 2010, Barclays Bank plc and Coca-Cola & Schweppes Interbrew UK Limited and Whitbread plc.
He is currently a NonBeverages Limited.
She is also a Director of the Mentoring Foundation Executive Director of Booker Group Plc, Sutton and East Surrey Water and is a Trustee of Charity Projects Limited Comic Relief and Now Co, Tulip Group Limited, Natures Way Foods Limited, C&C Group Pensions Limited.
Imelda is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee 5.
Member of the Remuneration Committee abc Non-Executive Director c. Member of the Nomination Committee Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2012, Eddie is a nominee d. Member of the Executive Committee of Elpida Limited, a significant shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers.
Eddie is Finance Director of Coolmore, a leading thoroughbred bloodstock breeder with operations in Ireland, the USA and Australia.
He is a Fellow of both the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37
