Directors report Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued share The Boards responsibilities in respect of the Company include: capital of the Company as at the year end are on page 62 of the Report on Directors remuneration.
Determining the overall business and commercial strategy Identifying the long-term objectives Dividends Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans No final dividend will be paid in respect of the year ended Determining the basis of allocation of capital 28 September 2013 2012 nil.
No interim dividend was paid Considering all matters relating to a major change of policy during the year 2012 nil.
For our latest financial information go to: www.
com investors Interests in voting rights As at the date of this report, the Company was aware of the following The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements significant holdings of voting rights 3% or more in its shares: for the year ended 28 September 2013.
The business review of the % of Shareholder Ordinary shares share capital Company and its subsidiaries is given on pages 7 to 34 which, together with the Corporate governance statement and Audit Committee report, Piedmont Inc. 109,970,613 26.73 Direct holding are incorporated by reference into this report and, accordingly, should Elpida Group Limited 92,090,885 22.39 Direct holding Smoothfield Holding be read as part of this report.
Limited 16,205,101 3.94 Direct holding Details of the Groups policy on addressing risks are given on pages Using the total voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange for 18 to 20 and 45 to 46 and details about financial instruments 31 October 2013 of 411,356,223 shares.
are shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
These sections include information about trends and factors likely to affect the future Directors development and performance of the Groups businesses.
The Company Details of the Directors as at 25 November 2013 and their biographies undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements.
The Directors at 28 September 2013 and their interests in shares are shown on page 62.
Changes to the Board of Key performance indicators for the Groups businesses are set out on Directors during the year are set out in full in the Corporate Governance page 21.
There were no changes to the Board of Directors subsequent to the year end, up to the date of this report.
This report has been prepared under current legislation and guidance in force at the year-end date.
In addition, the material contained on pages The powers of the Companys Directors are set out in the Companys 7 to 34 reflect the Directors understanding of the new requirement to Articles of Association.
In accordance with the best practice guidance of provide a Strategic Report which will apply to the Company in next the UK Corporate Governance Code and with the Companys Articles years report.
of Association, the Directors will retire at the AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
This report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its Directors, Under a Deed of Appointment between Piedmont Inc. and the Company, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to Piedmont Inc. has the right to appoint two shareholder Directors to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it the Board whilst it owns 22% or more of the issued share capital of the may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Company, and the right to appoint one shareholder Director to the Board whilst it owns more than 16% of the Company but less than 22%.
In the Principal activities event that Piedmont Inc. owns less than 16% of the Company any such Mitchells & Butlers is the UKs largest operator of managed restaurants shareholder directors would be required to resign immediately.
and pubs and, as at 28 September 2013, had an estate of 1,649 sites including 60 leased and franchised sites and 40 restaurants in Germany.
Directors indemnity As permitted by the Articles of Association, each of the Directors has Share capital the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third-party indemnity The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 28 September 2013 as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnity comprised a single class of ordinary shares of which 411,011,098 shares was in force throughout the respective period of Directorship during the were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange 29 September 2012 last financial year, and is currently in force.
The Company also purchased 409,923,805 shares.
Of the issued share capital, no shares were held in and maintained throughout the financial year Directors and Officers treasury and the Companys employee share trusts held 2,114,097 shares.
liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
No indemnity is Details of movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 22 provided for the Companys auditor.
to the financial statements on page 96.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Participants in the Share Conflicts of interest Incentive Plan SIP may complete a Form of Instruction which is used by The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider the SIP Trustee as the basis for voting on their behalf.
All issued shares are and, if it sees fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest fully paid up and carry no additional obligations or special rights.
There that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the are no restrictions on transfers of shares in the Company, or on the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in exercise of voting rights attached to them, other than those which may place for Directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered from time to time be applicable under existing laws and regulations.
for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational During the year, shares with a nominal value of 92,873 were allotted Conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way under all-employee schemes as permitted under Section 549 Companies they consider would be most likely to promote the success of the Act 2006.
No securities were issued in connection with a rights issue Company for the benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose during the year.
limits or conditions when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it has The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 38 Company overview 01 05 Strategic and business review 07 34 Governance 35 64 Financial statements 65 106 Shareholder information 107 108 Related party transactions Should any employee of the Group become disabled during their Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions time with it, the Group actively makes reasonable adjustments in involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an accordance with current legislation, including arranging appropriate arms length basis and are properly recorded.
There were no related training, to keep the employee with the Group.
Steps are taken which party transactions during the year, nor at the date of this report.
are designed both to increase the effectiveness of employees with disabilities and to ensure they are in a suitable role.
A more detailed Essential contracts or arrangements account can be found in the separately published Social Responsibility The Group has a number of contractual agreements with suppliers Review 2013 at www.
com responsibility in support of its business activities.
Whilst the loss of some of these arrangements may cause temporary disruption, none are individually Employee engagement considered to be essential to the business of Mitchells & Butlers.
Mitchells & Butlers engages with its employees continuously and in a number of ways to suit their different working patterns.
This includes: Change of control provisions There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling a dedicated intranet for the Retail Support Team: other parties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a a dedicated portal, OurHub, for retail employees: change of control of the Company.
email news alerts: focus groups: There are no provisions in the Directors or employees service agreements weekly bulletins specifically targeted at retail general managers providing for compensation for loss of office or employment occurring and mobile workers: because of a takeover.
employee social media groups: line manager briefings: The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Share Incentive Plan will invite an annual conference and awards for our operators: participants on whose behalf it holds shares to direct it how to vote in a monthly magazine poster, Frontline News for the retail estate: and respect of those shares, and if there is an offer for the shares or other communications forums and roadshows held by function or brand transaction which would lead to a change of control of the Company, across the Company.
participants may direct it to accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers Employee Benefit Trust may, Details of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance having consulted with the Company, vote or abstain from voting any of the Company are shared with all employees at the appropriate time shares it holds or accept or reject an offer relating to shares in any way using the methods listed above.
it sees fit, and it may take all or any of the following matters into account: the long-term interests of beneficiaries, the non-financial interests We provide opportunities for employees to give their feedback to the of beneficiaries, the interests of beneficiaries in their capacity as Company in a number of ways, from team or shift meetings in restaurants employees or former employees, the interests of future beneficiaries and pubs, discussion groups with Executive Committee members, pulse and considerations of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or surveys for all employees and the Mitchells & Butlers annual Business social nature.
Business Forum representatives collect questions from employees across the Company and put them to a special Executive Committee.
The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include provisions The questions and answers are published in Frontline News and online.
which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, as set out below.
is a company-wide initiative where employees are encouraged to submit their ideas for improving the business, Provisions which apply in the event of a takeover environmentally, financially or otherwise, via our dedicated or reconstruction employee website.
Our retail teams participate in e-learning, covering food, health and Share plan Provision in the event of a takeover fire safety, Challenge 21 and Intermediate Food Hygiene.
We also Performance Restricted Awards vest pro rata to performance and have a visual training library, which houses short training videos to Share Plan and 2013 time elapsed and lapse six months later share best practice tips, health and safety, kitchen and cooking skills.
Performance Restricted Share Plan Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee involvement Short Term Deferred Bonus shares may be released or in the Groups performance through share ownership.
It operates four Incentive Plan and 2013 exchanged for shares in the new HMRC approved all-employee plans, which are the Sharesave Plan, Short Term Deferred controlling company the 2013 Sharesave Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and the 2013 Share Incentive Plan Incentive Plan which include Partnership shares.
The Company also Executive Share Option Plan Options may be exercised within six operates five other plans on a selective basis, which are the Performance months of a change of control Restricted Share Plan, the 2013 Performance Restricted Share Plan, the Sharesave Plan and 2013 Options may be exercised within six Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan, the 2013 Short Term Deferred Sharesave Plan months of a change of control Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan.
Further details on Share Incentive Plan and Free shares may be released or exchanged the plans are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration.
Both the 2013 Share Incentive Plan for shares in the new controlling company all-employee share plans, the Performance Restricted Share Plan and the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan were renewed at the AGM in 2013 Employment policies so grants of awards under those plans can continue to be made see the The Group employed an average of 41,325 people in 2013 2012 41,178.
Report on Directors remuneration for further information.
Through its diversity and equal opportunities policy, the Company aims to provide an environment which enables people with disabilities to During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom limits perform better by reviewing any reasonable adjustments that could be for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the rules of the made to the duties, hours worked or working environment in respect above plans.
The Company uses an employee benefit trust to acquire of a disabled employee or potential employee.
Through the Groups shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy share awards in order online recruitment system, candidates can inform the Group direct to manage headroom under the plan rules.
A total of 1,250,000 shares about their disability, so that the Group can make such reasonable in the Company were purchased by the employee benefit trust during adjustments, enabling them to perform to the best of their ability the 2012 13 financial year.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 Directors report continued Policy on payment of suppliers Annual General Meeting Mitchells & Butlers plc is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
The notice convening the Annual General Meeting is contained in a circular sent to shareholders with this report and includes full details The policy of its principal operating subsidiaries is to agree specific terms of the resolutions proposed.
with major suppliers and to abide by those terms, subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Amounts owed to other suppliers are Auditor settled in the month following that in which the subsidiaries receive a Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor valid invoice.
The average number of days the Group takes to pay an of the Company and its reappointment will be put to shareholders at invoice is 31 days 2012 30 days.
Charitable donations and charitable activity Post-balance sheet events The Company continues to support community initiatives and charitable There are no post-balance sheet events to report.
causes, full details of which are given on pages 30 and 31 in the Corporate social responsibility section of this Annual Report.
Disclosure of information to auditor Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, Political donations there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the The Company made no political donations during the year and intends Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will, however, each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that seek shareholder authority at its 2014 AGM to make limited donations the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of using the authority.
By order of the Board Funding and liquidity risk Greg McMahon In order to ensure that the Groups long-term funding strategy is aligned Company Secretary and General Counsel with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly assesses 25 November 2013 the maturity profile of the Groups debt, alongside the prevailing financial projections and three-year plan.
This enables it to ensure that funding levels are appropriate to support the Groups plans.
The current funding arrangements of the Group consist primarily of the securitised notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc and associated liquidity facility.
Further information regarding these arrangements is included in note 18 to the financial statements on page 91.
The terms of the securitisation contain a number of financial and operational covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored by Group treasury.
The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six-week period and an annual cash forecast by period.
These forecasts are reviewed on a daily basis and used to manage the investment and borrowing requirements of the Group.
A combination of cash pooling and zero balancing agreements are in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position is maintained.
Committed facilities outside of the securitisation are sized to ensure that the Group can meet its mediumterm anticipated cash flow requirements.
Going concern The financial statements which appear on pages 68 to 106 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups financing is based on securitised debt and, within this context, a robust review has been undertaken of projected performance against the securitisation covenants.
As a result of this review the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
See note 1 to the financial statements on page 73.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 40
